Financial Accounts Corporate Governance The Group recognises, and is committed to, the highest review of the Compliance policies: standards of corporate governance.
Throughout the regular review of the investment portfolio and any areas of year ended 31 March 2008, the Group complied with the concern: provisions of the 2006 FRC Combined Code on Corporate communication of our financial results for the interim and Governance the Code issued by the Financial Reporting year end: Council FRC in June 2006, except for provision A.
3.2 which review of current compensation structures: provides that at least half the Board, excluding the Chairman, independence of Non-Executive Directors: and should comprise independent Non-Executive Directors.
The corporate responsibility initiatives and performance.
retirement of Andrew Phillips and the plans of the Group to appoint more Non-Executive Directors during the year will The Board has delegated the following responsibilities to the bring the Group into full compliance with the Code.
Any new Executive Directors: appointments will be referred to the Nominations Committee.
the development and recommendation of strategic plans The composition of the Board is kept under regular review by for consideration by the Board that reflect the longer term the Nominations Committee.
objectives and priorities established by the Board: implementation of the strategies and policies of the Group as determined by the Board: The Boards responsibilities and processes monitoring of operating and financial results against plans The Board is responsible to the shareholders for the overall and budgets: management of the Group.
The Boards main roles are to monitoring the quality of the investment process: and provide leadership of the Group within a framework of prudent developing and implementing risk management systems.
and effective controls which enable risk to be assessed and managed and to ensure that the necessary financial and human resources are in place for the Company to meet its The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive objectives and thus increase shareholder value.
The Chairman of the Board John Manser leads the Board in the determination of its strategy and in achieving its There is a formal schedule of matters reserved for Board objectives.
The Chairman is responsible for organising the approval, which include: business of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness and setting its approval of the Groups overall business strategy, planning agenda.
The Chairman has no involvement in the day to day and annual budget: business of the Group.
The Chairman facilitates the effective assessment of internal controls and risk management: contribution of Non-Executive Directors and ensures that there approval of the Groups interim and annual financial is effective communication with the Groups shareholders.
statements and dividend policies: presenting a balanced and understandable assessment of The Chief Executive Tom Attwood has direct charge of the the Companys position and prospects to the shareholders Group on a day to day basis and is accountable to the through the Chairmans Statement, the Managing Board for the financial and operational performance of the Directors Review, the Business Review, the Financial Review Group.
The Chief Executive has formed a committee called and the financial statements: the Executive Committee to enable him to carry out the appointments to the Board and Executive Committee: responsibilities delegated to him by the Board.
The Committee capital expenditure decisions: and comprises the five Executive Directors.
The Committee meets changes in employee incentive schemes.
on a regular basis to consider operational matters and the implementation of the Groups strategy with no one Director At each Board meeting there is a full financial and business being able to significantly affect the running of the Company review which includes the comparison of performance to date without consulting his colleagues.
against the Boards previously approved annual budget.
Senior Independent Director Each Board member receives a comprehensive Board pack The Board has appointed Justin Dowley as the Senior at least five days prior to each meeting which incorporates a Independent Director, to whom, in accordance with the formal agenda together with supporting papers for items to Combined Code, any shareholder concerns not resolved be discussed at the meeting.
Further information is obtained through the existing mechanisms for investor communication by the Board from the Executive Directors and other relevant can be conveyed.
members of senior management, as the Board, particularly its Non-Executive Directors, considers appropriate.
Board of Directors As at 31 March 2008, the Board comprised five Executive The principal matters considered by the Board during the year Directors, an independent Non-Executive Chairman and four included: Non-Executive Directors of whom three are independent.
The the Group strategic plan, budget and financial resources: Non-Executive Directors are as follows: initial proposal for a Rights Issue and ongoing discussions until the Issue closed in February 2008 raising 175m by the John Manser was appointed a Non-Executive Director in issue of new equity: January 2001 and Non-Executive Chairman in May 2001.
54 Intermediate Capital Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Financial Accounts Tom Bartlam was appointed a Non-Executive Director in April 2005.
Jean-Daniel Camus was appointed a Non-Executive Director in March 2007.
Justin Dowley was appointed a Non-Executive Director in February 2006.
James Nelson was appointed a Non-Executive Director in May 2001.
The Non-Executive Directors are considered to be of sufficient calibre and experience to bring significant influence to bear on the decision making process.
The Board meets at least six times a year with additional meetings being held as required.
The table below shows the number of Board and committee meetings held during the year and the attendance record of individual Directors.
Audit Remuneration Nominations Board Committee Committee Committee meetings meetings meetings meetings Total meetings held 7 2 3 Tom Attwood 7 Tom Bartlam 7 Jean-Daniel Camus 6 2 Justin Dowley 7 2 3 Christophe Evain 6 Eric Licoys 2 1 1 Philip Keller 7 John Manser 7 2 3 Francois fide Mitry 7 James Nelson 7 2 3 Andrew Phillips 6 Paul Piper 7 Peter Stone 2 1 1 Appointed 20 November 2007.
Eric Licoys and Peter Stone resigned from the Board and all its committees on 18 July 2007.
John Manser attended these meetings but he is not on the Committee.
Andrew Phillips resigned from the Board on 13 March 2008.
Board performance In line with the requirements of the Combined Code, the Board reviews its own performance annually using a predetermined template designed as a tool to facilitate the evaluation process.
The assessment covers the functioning of the Board as a whole and includes a review of the effectiveness of the Board committees.
The Board considers the results of the performance evaluation when making its recommendations regarding the re election of Directors.
The Board does not consider it necessary to employ the services of an external third party to conduct the evaluation process.
A review was performed in July 2007 and the Board concluded that its performance and that of its Committees, Chairman and Directors were satisfactory.
Election and re-election of Directors One third of the Directors retire by rotation each year in accordance with the Articles of Association and all Directors are re-elected at least once every three years.
Any Director appointed during the year must offer himself for election at the next Annual General Meeting.
Details of Directors for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting are shown on page 49.
The terms and conditions of appointment of the Directors and terms of reference for the committees are available for inspection at the Companys registered office during normal business hours, until the close of the Annual General Meeting.
The Board recommends that Justin Dowley, Christophe Evain and Tom Attwood should be re-elected to the Board because, based upon a formal performance evaluation during the year, their performance continues to be effective.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and may take independent professional advice at the Companys expense in the furtherance of their duties.
The Board is supported in its decisions by three principal committees, which are described below: Audit Committee The Audit Committee, chaired by Justin Dowley, consists of three 2007: four independent Non-Executive Directors, these being Jean-Daniel Camus, Justin Dowley and James Nelson.
Jean-Daniel Camus was appointed to the Audit Committee on 20 November 2007.
Eric Licoys and Peter Stone resigned from the Audit Committee on 18 July 2007 having served their maximum nine years of service as recommended by the Code.
Two Non-Executive Directors, Tom Bartlam and Intermediate Capital Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 55 Financial Accounts Corporate Governance continued John Manser, are not members of the Audit Committee but Remuneration Committee The Committee, chaired by are invited to attend the meetings.
The Executive Directors are James Nelson, consists of three 2007: five independent not members of the Audit Committee but are invited to attend.
Non-Executive Directors, these being Jean-Daniel Camus, Deloitte & Touche LLP, the Companys auditors, are also invited Justin Dowley and James Nelson.
Eric Licoys and Peter Stone to attend and have direct access to committee members.
The resigned from the Remuneration Committee on 18 July Board is satisfied that the Chairman has recent and relevant 2007 having served their maximum nine years of service as financial experience as do other members of the Committee.
Two Non-Executive Directors, Tom Bartlam and John Manser, are not members of the The Committee meets regularly, at least twice a year, and is Remuneration Committee but are invited to attend the responsible for: meetings.
The Committee supports the Board in determining selecting and recommending the appointment of the the level of remuneration of the Chairman and reviews the external auditors to the Board, approving their terms of remuneration policy applicable to senior management.
reference and fees: Further details regarding remuneration policy and payments reviewing the performance of the external auditors and made can be found in the Report of the Remuneration ensuring appropriate rotation of audit partner: Committee on pages 58 to 64. acting as a forum for discussion of internal control issues and giving input to the Boards review of the Companys Nominations Committee The Committee, chaired by John internal control and risk management systems and Manser, consists of four 2007: six independent Non-Executive procedures: Directors, these being Jean-Daniel Camus, Justin Dowley, reviewing the independence of the external auditors James Nelson and John Manser.
Eric Licoys and Peter and the relationship between audit and non audit work Stone resigned from the Nominations Committee on 18 July performed by the external auditors.
Procedures are in place 2007 having served their maximum nine years of service as to ensure that all significant non audit work performed by recommended by the Code.
The Committee is responsible for the auditors is approved in advance by the Committee and considering the composition of the Board to ensure that the they assess whether such appointments impair, or appear balance of its membership as between executive and Nonto impair, the auditors judgement or independence.
The Executive Directors is appropriate.
Appointments of Executive Audit Committee also undertakes an annual evaluation to and Non-Executive Directors are made as necessary as a assess the independence and objectivity of the external result of discussions by the Committee and are subject to auditors and the effectiveness of the audit process, taking full Board approval and election or re election at a general into consideration relevant professional and regulatory meeting of the shareholders.
The results of the evaluation were last reported to the Board in May 2008.
An analysis of fees paid Relationships with shareholders The Company recognises to Deloitte & Touche LLP is shown in note 10 on page 78: the importance of communication with its shareholders, reviewing the annual and interim accounts before being which it achieves through interim and annual reports and the presented to the Board, in particular any significant issues Annual General Meeting.
At the Meeting the Chief Executive, arising from the audit: accounting policies and clarity of Finance Director, the Chairman of the Remuneration, Audit disclosures: compliance with applicable accounting and and Nominations Committees are available to answer legal standards: issues regarding a significant element of shareholders questions.
judgement: and the statements on internal controls and business risk assessment: The Board is willing to enter into a dialogue with institutional reviewing the provisioning policy for the investment portfolio shareholders based on a mutual understanding of objectives, on a six monthly basis: and subject to its duties regarding equal treatment of shareholders reviewing and approving the Companys whistleblowing and the dissemination of inside information.
whole is kept fully informed of the views and concerns of the major shareholders.
When requested to do so, Non-Executive During the year the Audit Committee: Directors will attend meetings with major shareholders.
reviewed and recommended to the Board the accounting disclosures comprised in the interim and annual financial Internal control The Board has overall responsibility for statements of the Group and reviewed the scope of the the Companys internal control system and reviews its external audit plan and audit findings: effectiveness at least annually.
Such a system of control is in worked with the external auditors to identify a successor place to give reasonable, but not absolute, assurance that audit partner due to mandatory partner rotation: assets are safeguarded, transactions are authorised and evaluated the independence and objectivity of the recorded properly and that material errors and irregularities external auditors and the effectiveness of the audit process: are prevented or would be detected within a timely period.
met with the external auditors in the absence of management: Through the regular meetings of the Board and the schedule reviewed the effectiveness of the internal control of matters reserved to the Board or its duly authorised environment of the Group: and Committees, the Board aims to maintain full and effective reviewed the policy on handling allegations from control over appropriate strategic, financial, operational whistleblowers.
The Board has put in place an 56 Intermediate Capital Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Financial Accounts organisational structure with clearly defined lines of A detailed financial plan is developed for the year ahead responsibility and delegation of authority.
and comprehensive monthly reports covering actual and planned performance are provided to the Board by the The Board annually considers and approves a strategic plan Groups finance function.
In addition there are established procedures Regular treasury reports are made to the Board which and processes in place for the making of investments and analyse the funding requirements of the Company, track the planning and controlling of expenditure.
The Board also liquidity and monitor the Companys compliance to its receives regular reports from the Executive Committee on interest and exchange rate policies.
the Companys operational and financial performance, A compliance function whose role is to monitor and report measured against the annual budget as well as regulatory to the Board on the Companys regulatory compliance.
The Company has in place A well defined procedures governing the approval, arrangements whereby employees may raise matters of monitoring and sale of investments incorporating concern in confidence about possible improprieties in matters appropriate levels of authority and post investment reviews.
of financial reporting or other matters.
Regular reports are made on the Companys fund management activities including new fundraising, conflicts The Board has considered the need for an internal audit of interest and portfolio performance.
function, but has decided that because of the nature of the current internal control system and size of the Company Going concern statement Based upon the review of the it cannot be justified at present.
The Board will review Groups budgets and outline business plans for the next two this decision next year.
The Board undertook a formal years, the Directors believe that the Company has adequate annual assessment of the risk management and control resources to continue in operational existence for the arrangements in July 2007 in order to form a view on the foreseeable future and accordingly they continue to adopt overall effectiveness of the system of internal control.
the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
The rationale for the system of internal control is to maximise effectiveness for the commercial management of the business and to provide the Board with regular and effective reporting on the identified significant risk factors.
The Board is responsible for determining strategies and policies for risk control, and management is responsible for implementing such strategies and policies.
The Board confirms that an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the Groups significant risks has operated throughout the year and that, up to the date of approval of the Directors Report and financial statements, the Board continues to apply the procedures necessary to comply with the requirements of the Turnbull Committee guidelines Internal Control Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code.
The key elements of this process are: Core values, Company standards and controls together comprise the Companys high level principals and controls, with which all staff are expected to comply.
Manuals of procedures, compliance and policies applicable to all business units.
The identification of the major business risks facing the Company and the development of appropriate policies for the management of those risks.
The Board recognises that the internal control system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
The employment of experienced and professional staff of the highest calibre both by recruitment and promotion to fulfil allotted responsibilities.
Strategic risks are considered by both the Board and the Executive Committee in the context of an agreed strategic framework.
A strategy paper and plan are produced annually to address the strategic challenges of the Group and these are approved by the Board.
Intermediate Capital Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 57
