co. uk Directors report and business review 47 Company Secretary and independent advice to review and monitor the objectivity of the external All directors are able to consult with the Company Secretary.
auditors and the effectiveness of the audit process, taking The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a into consideration relevant UK professional and regulatory matter for the board.
The Company Secretary is secretary to the requirements: five principal board committees.
There is a formal procedure by to develop and implement policy on the engagement which any director may take independent professional advice at of the external auditors to supply non-audit services: the Companys expense relating to the performance of his duties.
to monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the Meetings Company and the formal announcements relating to the Seven board meetings and a strategy retreat are scheduled Companys financial performance, reviewing significant for 2009.
A detailed agenda and a pack of board papers are financial reporting judgments contained in them: sent to each director a week before each meeting so he has to keep under review the effectiveness of the Groups sufficient time to review them.
Additional meetings are system of internal controls, including operational and convened if required and there is contact between meetings compliance controls and risk management: where necessary.
The Chairman has held sessions with the to keep under review the Group risk register and to non-executive directors without executive directors present, consider the most important risks facing the Group and the non-executive directors have met without the Chairman.
and their mitigation: and Training to keep under review the Groups whistle-blowing policy.
The Companys policy is to provide appropriate training to Work in 2008 directors, taking into account their individual qualifications and During 2008 the committee: experience, including environmental, social and governance training as appropriate.
reviewed an internal audit activity report at each meeting and considered 13 reports on specific areas of the business: Report on the audit and risk committee Members and attendance considered a report by PwC on the results of its audit work The members and their attendance at committee meetings February and considered a review by PwC of the financial in 2008 were as follows: information in the half-year report July : Number of Number received a presentation from PwC on the audit strategy Name meetings attended for 2009 and agreed this October : Nick Page Chairman 6 6 agreed the internal audit plan for 2009 this provides Tony Hales 6 6 broad coverage of the business activities and includes Ray Miles 6 5 reviews in each of the countries, together with the key In addition to the members, at the invitation of the committee, corporate functions in the UK December : meetings are attended by both the internal and external auditors reviewed the Group risk register and considered the top as required and by the Finance Director and the director of risk risks facing the Group and their mitigation: and compliance.
The committee has a session at meetings with received presentations on different areas of the business the internal and external auditors without an executive director from senior managers and considered the internal or member of the Companys senior management being present.
controls risks: and Remit decided to establish internal audit functions in all the Its remit is: businesses under the direction of the director of risk to make recommendations to the board, for the board to put to and compliance.
shareholders in general meeting, in relation to the appointment Independence of auditors of the external auditors,  PwC, The committee is conscious of the need to ensure that the and the internal auditors, Ernst & Young, and to approve their external auditors are, and are perceived to be, independent terms of appointment: and has taken various steps to seek to ensure that this is and remains the case.
