co. uk Directors report and business review 33 Established markets We use a rigorous In addition to further geographical expansion, we believe that there process of research and will be opportunities to grow customer numbers and revenues in our due diligence to evaluate established markets.
Our research Attracting new customers team adopts seven key We want to recruit new customers with whom we can build a long-term viability tests to identify relationship.
We typically use leaflets, radio and local press to advertise and in established markets we also use TV advertising.
Once we are established, many of our customers will come through word of mouth.
Number of potential customers contacting our call centre in In recent years, we have invested in developing our internet marketing Poland through the internet capability and the internet is now an increasingly important channel for the business.
We have customer facing websites in all our markets, and in Poland last year around 25% of all new contacts at our call centres came 25% through the internet.
Building long-term customer relationships Our aim is to maximise the lifetime value of customers, building profitability through developing long-term relationships with quality customers who want to take further loans with us.
In setting loan offers, we offer small loans initially and then gradually larger loans as time goes by.
The approach is cautious because we want to preserve these relationships and have no interest in burdening customers with debts they cannot repay.
Our research shows that of the customers who are eligible to come back to us for a second loan, around 70% of them actually do so a very high level of repeat lending.
34 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 Well financed Our Treasurer Nick We have secured new finance to fund Dahlgreen, and Krzysztof Adamski, a member of our treasury team, work our operations through to October 2011. to secure funding for the business.
The fact that we were able to do this during a global liquidity crisis underlines the strength of our business model and our track record.
We also have a strong balance sheet with an equity to receivables ratio of 45.1%.
