co. uk Directors report and business review 49 The risk advisory group, which consists of the Chairman, the Relations with shareholders executive directors, the director of risk and compliance and The executive directors meet with institutional shareholders the Company Secretary, meets four times a year.
Twice a year on a regular basis.
The Chairman is responsible for ensuring it considers the risk assessments and risk registers produced that appropriate channels of communication are established by the subsidiaries and updates the Group risk register and top between the executive directors and shareholders and for risks.
It considers areas of specific risk and particular issues.
ensuring that the views of shareholders are made known to It reports to the audit and risk committee.
Independent reviews of shareholder views are commissioned and the board receives regular updates The audit and risk committee considers the Group risk on investor relations.
register and the nature and extent of the risks facing the Group.
It reviews the top risks and the framework to mitigate The board seeks to present the Companys position and prospects such risks and reports to the board on a regular basis.
Annual reports, circulars, and announcements made by the Company to the London Stock Exchange are posted on the The audit and risk committee keeps under review the adequacy Companys website www.
of internal financial controls in conjunction with the internal auditors and reports to the board regularly.
An annual programme The Company gives at least 20 working days notice of the AGM.
of work is carried out by the internal auditors.
The operation of Its policy is that the Chairman of each of the board committees internal financial controls is monitored by regular management will be available to answer questions from shareholders and reviews, including a procedure by which operating companies there is an opportunity for shareholders to ask questions on certify compliance quarterly.
Details of proxy votes are made available to shareholders and other interested parties by The consolidated financial statements for the Group are prepared means of an announcement to the London Stock Exchange by aggregating submissions from each statutory entity.
Prior to and on the Companys website.
submission to the Group reporting team the individual country submissions are reviewed and approved by the finance director Statement of compliance with the Combined Code of the relevant country.
Once the submissions have been The Company complied with all the provisions in Section 1 aggregated and consolidation adjustments made to remove the of the Combined Code throughout 2008 with the following intercompany transactions, the consolidated result is reviewed two exceptions.
The results are compared to the budget Code provision A.
2.1: From 1 January to 22 October 2008, and prior year figures and any significant variances are clarified.
the Company had an Executive Chairman who carried out, Checklists are completed by each statutory entity and by the in part, Chief Executive responsibilities.
The arrangement Group reporting team to confirm that all required controls, of an Executive Chairman Chief Operating Officer was chosen such as key reconciliations, have been performed and reviewed.
initially in order to ensure that the Group had the necessary The financial statements, which are agreed directly to depth of management resource to support its development in the consolidation of the Group results, are prepared by the the immediate period following the demerger from Provident Group reporting team and reviewed by the Finance Director.
The Financial plc in July 2007.
However, some time after the supporting notes to the financial statements which cannot be demerger, the board took the view that it was now appropriate agreed directly to the consolidation are prepared by aggregating to move to a more conventional board structure and on submission templates from each market and combining this with 22 October 2008 the Chairman became non-executive and central information where applicable.
The financial statements the Chief Operating Officer became Chief Executive Officer.
and all supporting notes are reviewed and approved by the Code provision B.
1.1: The International Personal Finance plc senior manager responsible for corporate reporting and the Incentive Plan provides a one-off rather than phased incentive Finance Director.
to the senior executive team in the three-year period following Review of effectiveness the demerger.
This is designed to incentivise them to achieve In accordance with the Turnbull guidance 2005, the board has the Companys plans and strategic targets during this critical reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups framework of internal period in the development of the Company.
controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management systems, during 2008.
The process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by Approved by the board on 23 March 2009. the Group was in place throughout 2008 and up to 23 March 2009.
Rosamond Marshall Smith The board also, where appropriate, ensures that necessary General Counsel & Company Secretary actions have been or are being taken to remedy significant failings or weaknesses identified from the review of the 23 March 2009 effectiveness of internal control.
