Corporate Governance Introduction The Company is committed to high standards of corporate governance and supports the principles laid down in the revised Combined Code on Corporate Governance as issued by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2006 the Code.
This statement describes how the principles of the Code are applied and reports on the Companys compliance with the Codes provisions.
The Directors consider that the Company has been in compliance with the provisions of the Code throughout the 52 weeks ended 28 September 2008 and to the date of this report.
Board of Directors The Board of Directors the Board currently has seven members, comprising the Non-Executive Chairman, Chief Executive, Finance Director, three further independent Non-Executive Directors and the PepsiCo nominated Non-Executive Director.
All of the Directors bring strong judgement to the Boards deliberations.
The Board is of sufficient size and diversity that the balance of skills and experience is considered to be appropriate for the requirements of the business.
With the exception of the PepsiCo nominated Non-Executive Director, Joanne Averiss, the Non-Executive Directors are all independent of management and free from any business or other relationship, including those relationships and circumstances referred to in provision A.
3.1 of the Code that could materially interfere with the exercise of independent and objective judgement.
In addition to her fiduciary obligations to act in the best interests of the Company, Joanne Averiss is required under her letter of appointment to discharge her duties in the interests of the Company notwithstanding her connection with PepsiCo.
The Company considers that, on appointment, the Chairman was independent for the purposes of provision A.
The Non-Executive Directors have all been appointed for a three-year term.
The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, Bob Ivell, is available to shareholders if they have concerns which are not resolved through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive or Finance Director: or for which such contact is inappropriate.
At all times since listing there has been a majority of independent Non-Executive Directors on the Board, in compliance with Code provision A.
The biographical details of the Board members are set out on pages 30 and 31.
The Directors have all occupied, or occupy, senior positions in UK and or non-UK listed companies and have substantial experience in business.
The Non-Executive Directors do not participate in any of the Groups pension schemes or in any of the Groups bonus, share option or other incentive schemes.
All Directors must stand for election at the first AGM after they are appointed.
The Articles of Association Articles provide that all Directors will stand for re-election at least every three years.
The Board is collectively responsible for the proper management of the Company.
The Board normally meets ten times each financial year and has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it for decision making, including the approval of annual and interim results, annual budgets, material acquisitions and disposals, material agreements and major capital commitments.
The Company Secretary maintains a record of attendance at Board meetings and Committee meetings, further details of which are set out on page 40.
During the year the Chairman met with the Non-Executive Directors without the Executive Directors present.
Board members are given appropriate documentation in advance of each Board or Committee meeting.
This normally includes a detailed report on current trading and full papers on matters where the Board will be required to make a decision or give its approval.
Specific business-related presentations are given when appropriate.
There is an established procedure for the preparation and review, at least annually, by the Board of medium-term plans and the annual budget.
The business reports monthly on its performance against its agreed budget.
The Board receives a monthly update on performance and reviews any significant variances on a monthly basis.
All major investment decisions are subject to postcompletion reviews.
In line with agreed procedures, the Chairman has conducted interviews with each Director and assessed their individual performance.
The Chairman has carried out an evaluation of the performance of the Board as a whole and of each Committee and, led by the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, the Non-Executive Directors have assessed the performance of the Chairman taking into account the views of the Executive Directors.
The conclusions of those assessments have been presented to the Board by the Chairman and the senior independent Non-Executive Director.
The evaluation process is designed to cover Board processes, the structure and capability of the Board, strategic alignment, Board dynamics and the skills brought to the Board by each Director.
The Board has approved a procedure for Directors to take independent professional advice at the Companys expense, if necessary.
In addition, the Directors have direct access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, who is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are followed.
Both the appointment and removal of the Company Secretary are matters for the Board as a whole.
The Company Secretary is responsible for preparing and implementing an induction programme for Board appointees, including guidance as to their duties, responsibilities and liabilities as a Director of the Company and business familiarisation.
Business familiarisation involves Directors visiting sites in the UK and Ireland and giving the Directors the opportunity to meet senior managers from around the business.
During the year under review, the Directors carried out visits of the Norwich and Dublin sites.
They also have the opportunity to discuss organisational, operational and administrative matters.
Every Director has access to appropriate training as required subsequent to appointment.
The Company provides Directors and Officers insurance cover, in line with normal market practice, for the benefit of Directors in respect of claims arising in the performance of their duties.
38 Britvic plc Annual Report 2008 The different roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are acknowledged.
A responsibility statement for each of those roles has been agreed with the Chairman and Chief Executive, respectively, and adopted by the Board.
The Chairman is primarily responsible for the workings of the Board and ensuring that its strategic and supervisory role is achieved and for ensuring effective communication with shareholders.
The Board has delegated appropriate responsibilities to the Executive Committee which comprises in addition to the Executive Directors, the Marketing Director, Customer Management Director, Supply Chain Director, Strategy Director and Human Resources Director who are responsible for the day-to-day running of the business, carrying out agreed strategy and implementing specific Board decisions relating to the operation of the Group.
Conflicts of interest Following the changes made to the Companys Articles at the 2008 AGM and the subsequent introduction of Section 175 of the Companies Act, 2006 on 1 October 2008 which gave boards the statutory power to authorise conflicts of interest, formal conflict management procedures have been prepared and approved by the Board.
Going forward, the Nomination Committee will be responsible for reviewing annually any conflict authorisations granted by the Board and will make recommendations to the Board as to their continuation, and any changes to any terms or conditions or other limitations which may have been applied.
It is the Boards intention to report annually on the Companys procedures for ensuring that the Boards powers of authorisation of conflicts are operated effectively and that the procedures have been followed.
Board Committees There are a number of standing Committees of the Board to which various matters are delegated.
The Committees all have formal Terms of Reference that have been approved by the Board which are available on the Groups website www.
Details are set out below: The Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee comprises Ben Gordon and prior to his appointment, Chris Bulmer, Bob Ivell and Michael Shallow and is chaired by Gerald Corbett.
The Committee meets as necessary and is responsible for considering and recommending to the Board persons who are appropriate for appointment as Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
There is a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of new Directors to the Board.
This process involves the Nomination Committee interviewing suitable candidates who are proposed by either existing Board members or by an external search company.
Careful consideration is given to ensure appointees have enough time available to devote to the role and that the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board is maintained.
When dealing with the appointment of a successor to the Chairman, the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director will chair the Committee instead of the Chairman.
When the Committee has found a suitable candidate, the Chairman of the Committee will make a proposal to the whole Board and the appointment is the responsibility of the whole Board following recommendation from the Committee.
During the year the Committee met to consider the appointment of a replacement for Chris Bulmer who stepped down as a Non-Executive Director with effect from 15 April 2008.
In order to ensure that an appropriate balance of skills and knowledge was maintained on the Board, a description of the role and capabilities required was prepared and an external search consultancy engaged to identify suitable candidates.
Following compilation of a shortlist of candidates and after meeting with Committee members, Ben Gordon was appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Director on 15 April 2008.
This appointment brings significant experience of the retail sector to the existing range of skills and experience on the Board.
The Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee comprises Gerald Corbett, Ben Gordon and prior to his appointment, Chris Bulmer and Michael Shallow, and is chaired by Bob Ivell.
It is responsible for: i making recommendations to the Board on the Groups policy on the remuneration of the Companys Chief Executive, Chairman, the Executive Directors, the Company Secretary and other members of the Executive Committee: ii the determination, within agreed terms of reference, of the remuneration of the Chairman and of specific remuneration packages for each of the Executive Directors and other members of the Executive Committee, including pension rights, any compensation payments and benefits: and iii the determination of awards under the Companys employee share plans to the Executive Directors, the Company Secretary and other members of the Executive Committee.
It meets at least three times a year.
Full details of its activities and of Directors remuneration are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 42 to 49.
Those pages detail compliance with the legal requirements with regard to remuneration matters.
The Chairman of the Committee reports the outcome of meetings to the Board.
Britvic plc Annual Report 2008 39 Corporate Governance continued The Audit Committee The Audit Committee comprises Ben Gordon and prior to his appointment, Chris Bulmer and Bob Ivell and is chaired by Michael Shallow.
The Board is satisfied that Michael Shallow, who is a Chartered Accountant and was formerly Finance Director of Greene King plc, has recent and relevant financial experience as required by the Code.
The role of the Audit Committee is to monitor the integrity of the Groups interim and annual financial statements prior to their submission to the Board.
It is also responsible for reviewing the Groups internal financial control and risk management systems, advising the Board on the appointment of external auditors, overseeing the relationship with the external auditors, approving auditor remuneration, reviewing the Groups whistle-blowing procedures, reviewing accounting policies and compliance and monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups full internal audit function.
The Committee had three meetings in the year during which it discharged it responsibilities as set out in its terms of reference and schedule of business for the year.
On each occasion the Finance Director and the Head of Internal Audit and Risk attended through invitation.
The external auditors attended all three of the meetings.
Significant areas of review during the year included the review and improvement of Britvic Irelands internal control framework to align it with the existing framework within Great Britain.
Outputs from this process were also reviewed at each of the Committees meetings.
The Committee also received comprehensive reports from the Head of Internal Audit and Risk on the results and progress of the internal audit plan.
The Audit Committee regularly monitors the relationship with the auditors and assesses their performance, cost-effectiveness, objectivity and independence.
It agrees the scope of the audit work and discusses the results of the full year audit and interim review each year.
At each Audit Committee meeting the external auditors were able to meet with the Committee without management being present.
It is a specific responsibility of the Audit Committee to ensure that an appropriate relationship is maintained between the Group and its auditors.
The Group has a policy of controlling the provision of non-audit services by the external auditors in order to maintain their independence and ensure that their objectivity and independence are safeguarded.
This control is exercised by ensuring non-audit projects, where fees are expected to exceed 50,000, are subject to the prior approval of the Chairman of the Audit Committee and the Finance Director.
If non-audit project fees are expected to exceed 150,000 the prior approval of the Audit Committee is required.
The Committee has scrutinised the internal procedures of Ernst & Young LLP and satisfied itself that the independence and objectivity of the auditors are not affected by the non-audit work undertaken.
Attendance at meetings The attendance of Directors at Board and Committee meetings during the 52 weeks ended 28 September 2008 was as follows: Nomination Remuneration Audit Board Committee Committee Committee Gerald Corbett 9 3 2 Paul Moody 9 Joanne Averiss 9 Chris Bulmer 5 2 3 1 John Gibney 9 Bob Ivell 9 3 5 3 Michael Shallow 8 2 4 3 Ben Gordon 3 1 2 1 Total number of meetings 9 3 5 3 Chris Bulmer resigned on 15 April 2008.
Ben Gordon was appointed on the same date.
Appointed as a member of the Remuneration Committee on 18 June 2008.
40 Britvic plc Annual Report 2008 Shareholder relations The Company is committed to maintaining good communications with shareholders.
Senior executives, including the Chairman, Chief Executive and Finance Director, have dialogue with individual institutional shareholders in order to develop an understanding of their views which is fed back to the Board.
General presentations are given to analysts and investors covering the annual and interim results.
The Business Review set out on pages 12 to 25 details the financial performance of the Company as well as setting out the risks it faces and plans for the future.
The Company Secretary generally deals with questions from individual shareholders.
All shareholders will have the opportunity to ask questions at the Companys AGM on 28 January 2009.
At the AGM, the Chairman will give a statement on current trading conditions.
The Chairmen of the Nomination, Remuneration and Audit Committees will be available to answer questions at the AGM.
The Chairman will advise shareholders on proxy voting details.
In addition, the Groups website containing published information and press releases can be found at www.
com Internal control The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control and risk management and for reviewing its effectiveness.
In discharging that responsibility, the Board confirms that it has established the procedures necessary to apply the Code, including clear operating procedures, lines of responsibility and delegated authority.
These procedures have been in place since the Company listed and are regularly reviewed by the Board.
Business performance is managed closely and the Board and the Executive Committee have established processes, as part of the normal good management of the business, to monitor: Strategic plan achievement, through a regular review of progress towards strategic objectives.
Financial performance, within a comprehensive financial planning and accounting framework, including budgeting and forecasting, financial reporting, analysing variances against plan and taking appropriate management action.
Capital investment and asset management performance, with detailed appraisal, authorisation and post investment reviews.
Principal risks and risk management processes, which accords with the Turnbull guidance and is supported by reports from the Head of Internal Audit and Risk that the significant risks faced by the Group are being identified, evaluated and appropriately managed, having regard to the balance of risk, cost and opportunity.
The Executive Committee review the Group risk register on at least a quarterly basis, with the Board reviewing on at least a semi-annual basis.
In addition, the Audit Committee received: Reports from the Head of Internal Audit and Risk on the work carried out under the annual internal audit plan.
Reports from the external auditors.
Through the monitoring processes set out above, the Board conducted a review of the effectiveness of the system of internal control during the 52 weeks ended 28 September 2008.
The system of internal control is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and it must be recognised that it can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
In that context, the review, in the opinion of the Board, did not indicate that the system was ineffective or unsatisfactory and the Board is not aware of any change to this status up to the approval of this report.
Statement of Directors responsibilities pursuant to DTR 4.1.
12 The Directors confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: a The Financial Statements, which are prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Commission, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation as a whole: and b The Business Review includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
Neither the Company nor the Directors accept any liability to any person in relation to the Annual Report and Financial Statements except to the extent that such liability could arise under English law.
Accordingly, any liability to a person who has demonstrated reliance on any untrue or misleading statement or omission shall be determined in accordance with section 90A of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
The names and functions of the Directors of the Company are listed on page 31 of this document.
