Risk and governance Credit ratings In general, we were assigned strong ratings for credit quality, capacity for timely repayment and financial strength.
In terms of our Dual Listed Companies structure, Investec plc and Investec Limited are treated separately from a credit point of view.
As a result, the rating agencies have assigned ratings to the significant banking entities within the group, namely Investec Bank UK Limited, Investec Bank Limited and Investec Bank Australia Limited.
Certain rating agencies have assigned ratings to the holding companies, namely, Investec plc and Investec Limited.
Ratings for Investec plc Moody's Short-term deposit rating Prime-2 Long-term deposit rating Baa2 negative outlook Ratings for Investec Bank UK Limited - a subsidiary of Investec plc Fitch Individual rating B C Support rating 5 Foreign currency short-term rating F2 Foreign currency long-term rating BBB Global Credit Rating Co. Short-term rating A2 Long-term rating AMoody's Financial strength rating CShort-term deposit rating Prime-2 Long-term deposit rating Baa1 negative outlook Ratings for Investec Bank Australia Limited - a subsidiary of Investec Bank UK Limited Moody's Financial strength rating CShort-term deposit rating Prime-1 Long-term deposit rating A3 Fitch Individual rating C Support rating 2 Foreign currency short-term rating F2 Foreign currency long-term rating BBB 2008 Investec Annual Report 146 Risk and governance Credit ratings Ratings for Investec Limited Fitch Individual rating B C Support rating 5 Foreign currency short-term rating F2 Foreign currency long-term rating BBB Ratings for Investec Bank Limited - a subsidiary of Investec Limited Fitch Individual rating B C Support rating 2 Foreign currency short-term rating F2 Foreign currency long-term rating BBB National short-term rating F1 zaf National long-term rating AAzaf Global Credit Rating Co. Local currency short-term rating A1 za Local currency long-term rating AAza Moody's Financial strength rating C Global local currency deposit long-term rating A2 Foreign currency deposit long-term rating Baa1 positive outlook Foreign currency deposit short-term rating Prime-2 National scale long-term rating Aa2.
za National scale short-term rating P1.
za 2008 Investec Annual Report 147 Risk and governance Corporate governance Introduction We are committed to promoting sustainable stakeholder confidence in our conduct as a business and as a corporate citizen.
While the board oversees the overall process and structure of corporate governance, each business area and every employee worldwide is responsible for acting in accordance with good corporate governance practices.
In formulating our governance framework, we apply recognised corporate governance practices pragmatically so as to: Identify and mitigate significant risks, including reputational risk.
Exercise effective review and monitoring of our activities.
Promote informed and sound decision making.
Enable effectiveness, efficiency, responsibility and accountability.
Enhance the capital market's perception of us.
Facilitate legal and regulatory compliance.
Secure trust and confidence of all stakeholders.
Protect our brand and reputation.
Ensure sustainable business practices, including social and environmental activities.
Disclose the necessary group information to enable all stakeholders to make a meaningful analysis of our financial position and actions.
Our values and philosophies are the framework against which we measure behaviour and practices so as to assess the characteristics of good governance.
Our values require that directors and employees behave with integrity, displaying consistent and uncompromising moral strength and conduct in order to promote trust.
Sound corporate governance is implicit in our values, culture, processes, functions and organisational structure.
Structures are designed to ensure that the values remain embedded in all businesses and processes.
We continually refine these structures and a written Statement of Values serves as our Code of Ethics.
We operate under a Dual Listed Company DLC structure, and we adhere to the corporate governance regulations of the UK and South Africa.
All international business units operate in accordance with the corporate governance recommendations of their jurisdictions, but with clear reference at all times to group values and culture.
2008 Investec Annual Report 148 Risk and governance Corporate governance Governance framework Our governance framework can be depicted as follows: Investec plc and Investec Limited - Board of Directors DLC Nomination and Directors Affairs Audit Committees Board Risk and Capital Committee Committee Audit DLC Capital Executive Risk DLC Remuneration Committee Sub-Committees Committee Review Forum Audit and Compliance Group Credit Committees Implementation Forums Group Investment Committee Group Deal Forum Group Market Risk Forum Asset and Liability Committees Operational Risk Committees Forums Group Legal Risk Forum Internal Audit Compliance Group Risk Management Stakeholders employees, shareholders, government, regulatory bodies, clients, suppliers, communities 2008 Investec Annual Report 149 Risk and governance Corporate governance Board statement The board, management and employees of Investec are in full support of and committed to complying with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules and Listing Rules of the United Kingdom Listing Authority UKLA, the JSE Limited JSE Listings Requirements, regulatory requirements in the countries in which we operate, the London Combined Code 2006 and the King Code of Corporate Practices and Conduct King II, whereby all stakeholders are assured that we are being managed ethically and in compliance with the latest legislation, regulations and best practices.
The board is of the opinion that Investec has complied with the Principles of Good Governance and Code of Best Practice contained in section 1 of the London Combined Code 2006 as well as King II, during the period under review, except as outlined below.
3.1. and King II - Independence of the Chairman The Chairman, Hugh Herman, is not considered to be independent.
At the time of his appointment, his duties included promoting the group and introducing clients but excluded day-to-day executive decisions.
His role was full time and he sat on certain management forums.
He was also included in various management incentive and share ownership schemes.
For these reasons, he is not considered by the board to be independent in accordance with the London Combined Code and King II.
However, since 2005 Hugh has distanced himself from executive responsibilities.
This opinion of the board is based on the practices below which were in operation during the period under review.
Financial reporting and going concern The directors are responsible for monitoring and reviewing the preparation, integrity and reliability of the Investec plc and Investec Limited combined financial statements, accounting policies and the information contained in the annual report.
In undertaking this responsibility, the directors are supported by an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks we face in preparing the financial and other information contained in this annual report.
This process was in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of the annual report and financial statements.
The process is implemented by management and independently monitored for effectiveness by the Audit, Risk and other sub-committees of the board, which are referred to below.
Our financial statements were prepared on a going concern basis, taking into consideration: Corporate governance practices.
The desire to provide relevant and clear disclosures The nature and complexity of our business The risks we assume, and their management and mitigation.
Key business and control processes in operation.
The operation of board committee support structures.
Our credit rating and access to capital.
The needs of all our stakeholders.
The board is of the opinion, based on its knowledge of the group, key processes in operation and specific enquiries, that there are adequate resources to support the group as a going concern over the next year.
Board of directors Role and responsibilities The board is accountable for the performance and affairs of Investec.
It provides entrepreneurial leadership for the company within a framework of prudent and effective controls which allows risk to be assessed and managed.
Specifically, it is responsible for the adoption of strategic plans, monitoring of operational performance and management, ensuring an effective risk management strategy, compliance with applicable legislation, upholding corporate governance standards and succession.
The board meets its objectives by reviewing and guiding corporate strategy, setting the company's values and standards, approving key policies and objectives, ensuring that obligations to its shareholders and other stakeholders are understood and met, understanding the key risks we face, determining our risk tolerance and approving and reviewing the processes in operation to mitigate risk from materialising, including the approval of the terms of reference of key supporting board committees.
2008 Investec Annual Report 150 Risk and governance Corporate governance The board has defined the limits of delegated authority.
It is responsible for assessing and managing risk policies and philosophies: ensuring appropriate internal controls: overseeing major capital expenditure, acquisitions and disposals: approving the establishment of businesses: and approving the introduction of new products and services.
In fulfilling its responsibilities, the board is supported by management in implementing the plans and strategies approved by the board.
The board monitors and evaluates management's progress on an ongoing basis.
Furthermore, the board, directly or through its sub-committees: Assesses the quantitative and qualitative aspects of our performance through a comprehensive system of financial and nonfinancial monitoring involving an annual budget process, detailed monthly reporting, regular review of forecasts and regular management strategic and operational updates.
Approves annual budgets, capital projections and business plans.
Monitors our compliance with relevant laws, regulations and codes of business practice.
Monitors our communication with all stakeholders.
Identifies and monitors key risk areas and key performance indicators.
Reviews processes and procedures to ensure the effectiveness of our internal systems of control.
Ensures we adopt sustainable business practices, including our social and environmental activities.
Evaluates the performance of senior management and considers succession planning.
The board seeks to exercise leadership, integrity and judgement in pursuit of strategic goals and objectives, to achieve long-term sustainable growth and prosperity.
Composition, structure and process Membership In terms of the DLC arrangements, the boards of Investec plc and Investec Limited are identical and Investec is managed as a unified economic enterprise.
At the end of the period under review, the board, excluding the Chairman, comprised four executive directors and eleven non-executive directors.
As set out below, the board concluded that the majority i. e. eight of the non-executive directors are independent in terms of the London Combined Code and King II.
Biographical details of the directors are set out on pages 189 to 192.
The names of the directors, the year of their appointment, their independence status and whether they will retire and seek re-election at the 2008 Annual General Meeting, are set out in the table below.
Date of appointment Independent Last Retiring Investec Investec elected and seeking plc Limited re-election in 2008 Executive directors S Koseff Chief Executive Officer 26 Jun 02 06 Oct 86 - 2006 No B Kantor Managing Director 26 Jun 02 08 Jun 87 - 2006 Yes GR Burger Group Risk and Finance Director 03 Jul 02 03 Jul 02 - 2007 No A Tapnack 01 Jul 02 01 Jul 02 - 2007 No Non-executive directors HS Herman Chairman 26 Jun 02 01 Jan 94 No 2007 Yes SE Abrahams 26 Jun 02 21 Oct 96 Yes 2007 Yes GFO Alford 26 Jun 02 26 Jun 02 Yes 2007 No CA Carolus 18 Mar 05 18 Mar 05 Yes 2005 Yes H Fukuda OBE 21 Jul 03 21 Jul 03 Yes 2005 Yes GMT Howe 21 Jul 03 21 Jul 03 Yes 2005 Yes IR Kantor 26 Jun 02 30 Jul 80 No 2007 Yes Sir C Keswick Senior Independent Director 26 Jun 02 26 Jun 02 Yes 2005 Yes MP Malungani 26 Jun 02 26 Jun 02 No 2005 Yes Sir D Prosser 23 Mar 06 23 Mar 06 Yes 2006 No PRS Thomas 26 Jun 02 29 Jun 81 Yes 2007 Yes F Titi 30 Jan 04 30 Jan 04 No 2007 No Donn Jowell resigned from the boards with effect 30 September 2007.
2008 Investec Annual Report 151 Risk and governance Corporate governance Independence In accordance with the London Combined Code, more than half the board excluding the Chairman comprised non-executive directors considered by the board to be independent within the meaning of and with regard to the criteria set out in the London Combined Code and King II.
A summary of the factors the board has taken into account in determining the independence of directors is detailed below.
Chairman The Chairman of the board is not considered to be independent as described in the board statement on page 150.
Relationships and associations Peter Malungani is the chairman of Peu Group Proprietary Limited and Fani Titi was until recently Chairman of Tiso Group Limited.
Both companies have a material relationship with Investec Limited as a result of the empowerment transaction concluded in 2003 in light of South Africa's Financial Sector Charter.
Accordingly, the board concluded that Peter and Fani could not be considered independent under the London Combined Code and King II.
Ian Kantor is the brother of Bernard Kantor, Investec's Managing Director and a previous CEO of Investec.
Accordingly, the board concluded that Ian could not be considered independent under the London Combined Code and King II.
Despite the board concluding that Ian, Peter and Fani cannot be considered independent, the board is of the view that their skills, knowledge, experience and attributes are nonetheless valuable to the organisation and believe that they will use their independent judgement when making decisions that effect the organisation and stakeholders.
Attendance at risk management meetings Sam Abrahams regularly attends, by invitation, certain risk management committees of Investec Limited.
The board considers his attendance at these committees to be desirable in terms of developing an understanding of the day-to-day issues facing the business.
This allows him to discharge his responsibilities more effectively as a member of the board and Chairman of the Investec plc and Investec Limited Audit Committees.
The board therefore concluded that Sam retains independence of character and judgement.
Tenure The board does not believe that any current non-executive director has served on the board for a period which could materially interfere with the director's ability to act in our best interests.
The board has concluded that Peter Thomas and Sam Abrahams, despite having been directors of Investec for more than nine years, retain both financial independence and independence of character and judgement.
The board does not believe that any current director, who has served for more than nine years, is not independent.
In the spirit of complying with the highest standards of corporate governance, each such director stands for annual re-election.
Notwithstanding the guidelines set out in the London Combined Code and King ll, the board is of the view that most of the nonexecutive directors are independent of management and promote the interests of stakeholders.
The balance of executive and nonexecutive directors is such that there is a clear division of responsibility to ensure a balance of power, such that no one individual or group can dominate board processes or have unfettered powers of decision making.
The board believes that it functions effectively and evaluates its performance annually.
Skills, knowledge, experience and attributes of directors The board considers that the skills, knowledge, experience and attributes of the directors as a whole are appropriate for their responsibilities and our activities.
The directors bring a range of skills to the board, including: International business and operational experience.
Understanding of the economics of the sectors in which we operate.
Knowledge of the regulatory environments in which we operate.
Financial, accounting, legal and banking experience and knowledge.
The skills and experience profile of the board is reviewed regularly by the DLC Nomination and Directors Affairs Committee, to ensure an appropriate and relevant board composition from a governance, succession and effectiveness perspective.
2008 Investec Annual Report 152 Risk and governance Corporate governance Board and directors' performance evaluation The board and directors' performance is evaluated annually based on recognised codes of corporate governance and covers areas of the board's processes and responsibilities, according to leading practice.
The performance evaluation process takes place both informally through personal observations and discussions and regularly in the form of a detailed questionnaire.
The results, including additional comments in such questionnaires, are incorporated into a matrix which is considered and discussed by the board.
The Chairman holds regular one-on-one meetings with each director to discuss the results of the formal and informal evaluations, and in particular to seek comments on strengths and developmental areas of the members, the chairman and the board as a whole.
Individual training and development needs are discussed with each board member and any requests for training are communicated with the Company Secretary for implementation.
The Chairman reports the results of these evaluations to the boards and matters identified during the course of the review are scheduled for appropriate action and later reviewed to ensure implementation.
Terms of appointment On appointment, non-executive directors are provided with a letter of appointment.
The letter sets out, among other things, the duties and responsibilities and the expected time commitment of non-executive directors, details of our policy on obtaining independent advice and, where appropriate, details of the board committees of which the non-executive director is a member.
We have a policy that insures directors against certain liabilities they may incur in carrying out their duties.
Ongoing training and development On appointment, directors are provided with an induction pack and participate in an induction programme tailored to their needs, including meeting with business unit and central services' heads to ensure that they become familiar with our business operations, senior management, our business environment and internal controls, policies, processes and systems for managing risk.
The board recently adopted an updated directors' ongoing training and development programme.
Board members receive regular formal presentations on regulatory and governance matters as well as on the business and support functions.
Directors have unfettered access to the heads of risk management, control functions and business units.
The Company Secretary liaises with the directors to source relevant seminars and conferences which directors attend, funded by us.
Following the board's and directors' performance evaluation process, any training needs are communicated to the Company Secretary who ensures that these needs are addressed.
Independent advice Through the Senior Independent Director or the Company Secretary, individual directors are entitled to seek professional independent advice on matters related to the exercise of their duties and responsibilities at the expense of Investec.
No such advice was sought during the 2008 financial year.
Remuneration Details of the directors' remuneration and remuneration process are set out in the remuneration report on pages 166 to 182.
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer The respective responsibilities of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are set out in writing, are clearly defined and have board approval.
The Chairman leads the board and is responsible for ensuring that the board receives accurate, timely and clear information to ensure that directors can perform their duties effectively.
Details of the Chairman's external directorships are set out on page 190.
The board does not consider that the Chairman's external commitments interfere with his performance and responsibilities to Investec.
The board is satisfied that the Chairman makes sufficient time available to serve Investec effectively.
The board has not appointed a Deputy Chairman.
2008 Investec Annual Report 153 Risk and governance Corporate governance Senior Independent Director Sir Chips Keswick was appointed Senior Independent Director on 7 July 2004.
He is available to address any concerns or questions from shareholders and non-executive directors.
Company Secretaries David Miller is the Company Secretary of Investec plc and Benita Coetsee is the Company Secretary of Investec Limited.
They are responsible for the flow of information to the board and its committees and for ensuring compliance with board procedures.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretaries whose appointment and removal are a board matter.
Les Penfold is Global Head of Company Secretarial and co-ordinates and drives the secretarial functions.
Board meetings The combined boards of Investec plc and Investec Limited met six times during the year.
Three board meetings were held in the UK and three in South Africa, in line with the requirements of our DLC structure.
Furthermore, the boards of Investec plc and Investec Limited held one additional meeting each in the UK and South Africa respectively.
The Chairman is responsible for setting the agenda for each meeting, in consultation with the Chief Executive Officer and the Company Secretaries.
Comprehensive information packs on matters to be considered by the board are provided to directors in advance.
The non-executive directors met during the period under review in the absence of the executive directors.
Details of directors' attendance at board meetings are shown in the table below.
Investec plc and Investec Limited board Number of meetings Number of meetings Independent held during the year attended during the year Executive directors S Koseff Chief Executive Officer 6 6 - B Kantor Managing Director 6 6 - GR Burger Group Risk and Finance Director 6 6 - A Tapnack 6 6 - Non-executive directors H Herman Chairman 6 6 No SE Abrahams 6 6 Yes GFO Alford 6 5 Yes CA Carolus 6 6 Yes H Fukuda OBE 6 6 Yes GMT Howe 6 4 Yes fide Jowell 6 3 No IR Kantor 6 2 No Sir C Keswick Senior Independent Director 6 2 Yes MP Malungani 6 6 No Sir D Prosser 6 6 Yes PRS Thomas 6 6 Yes F Titi 6 6 No Donn Jowell, who resigned from the boards with effect 30 September 2007, attended all three board meetings prior to his retirement.
Ian Kantor was excused from attending four board meetings between 1 April 2007 and 30 November 2007 due to health reasons.
Sir Chips Keswick was excused from attending two board meetings between 1 January 2008 and 31 March 2008 due to health reasons.
2008 Investec Annual Report 154 Risk and governance Corporate governance Re-election of board members All directors are subject to re-election at the first Annual General Meeting following their appointment.
Thereafter, in accordance with the Articles of Association of Investec plc and Investec Limited, at least one third of the directors will retire at each Annual General Meeting.
In compliance with the London Combined Code A.
7.2. non-executive directors who have served on the board for more than nine years from the date of their first election are re-elected annually.
Retiring directors are subject to an assessment of their performance by the Chairman and Nominations and Directors Affairs Committee before nomination for re-election and re-appointment.
Biographical details of the directors standing for re-election at the 2008 Annual General Meeting are on pages 189 to 192.
Board committees The board is supported by key committees, as follows: DLC Audit Committee Investec plc Audit Committee - Audit Sub-Committees - Audit and Compliance Implementation Forums Investec Limited Audit Committee - Audit Sub-Committees - Audit and Compliance Implementation Forums Board Risk and Capital Committee - DLC Capital Committee - Executive Risk Review Forum - Various specialist risk committees and forums as described in the risk management section on pages 76 to 147.
DLC Nomination and Directors Affairs Committee DLC Remuneration Committee These committees have specific terms of reference, appropriately skilled members, independent non-executive director membership, senior management participation and access to specialist advice when necessary.
Audit Committees In terms of our DLC structure, the board has mandated authority to the Investec plc Audit Committee and the Investec Limited Audit Committee to be the audit committees for those respective companies.
A DLC Audit Committee also assists the board with matters common to Investec plc and Investec Limited.
Role and responsibilities The responsibilities of the Audit Committees include: Reviewing and making recommendations for the board's approval of our combined and individual company reports and financial statements and other published or released financial reporting documents or statements.
Reviewing the appropriateness of the combined group's and individual companies' accounting policies and their application.
Overseeing the external audit process in the review of reports and accounts.
Considering the external audit scope, fees and audit findings.
Reviewing internal audit plans, reports, capacity and capability, and the reliance by the external auditors on the work and findings of Internal Audit.
Reviewing non-audit services provided by the external auditors.
Focusing on our compliance with legal requirements, accounting standards and the relevant listing requirements.
Implementing measures to maintain effective systems of internal financial control and for reporting non-financial operating data.
We believe that the Audit Committee has the necessary expertise to discharge its responsibilities effectively.
The committee's terms of reference are available on our website.
2008 Investec Annual Report 155 Risk and governance Corporate governance Membership and attendance Details of membership, relevant qualifications and experience, as well as attendance at Audit Committee meetings, are shown below and on the opposite page.
DLC Audit Committee Number of Number of Independent Qualifications and experience meetings held meetings during the attended year during the year SE Abrahams Chairman 4 4 Yes FCA CA SA - Sam is a former international partner and South African Managing Partner of Arthur Andersen GFO Alford 4 4 Yes BSc Econ FCIS FIPD MSI - George is a former Head of Private Banking and Personnel at Kleinwort Benson Group and was a senior advisor to the UK Financial Services Authority GMT Howe 4 4 Yes MA Hons - Geoffrey is a former Managing Partner at Clifford Chance LLP and Director and Group General Counsel of Robert Fleming Holdings Ltd Sir C Keswick 4 4 Yes Sir Chips is a former Chairman of Hambros Bank Limited and Hambros PLC and former director of Anglo American plc fide Jowell 4 2 No B Com LLB - Donn was previously Chairman of and a consultant to Jowell Glyn & Marais Inc, the South African legal advisors to Investec Limited.
He was also a director of Werksmans Attorneys.
Sir D Prosser 4 4 Yes BSc Hons FIA - Sir David was previously Chief Executive of Legal & General Group PLC and Chairman of the Financial Services Skills Council PRS Thomas 4 4 Yes CA SA - Peter was the former Managing Director of The Unisec Group Limited Donn Jowell, who resigned from the boards with effect 30 September 2007, attended both meetings prior to his retirement.
Investec plc Number of Number of Independent Qualifications and experience Audit Committee meetings held meetings during the attended year during the year SE Abrahams Chairman 5 5 Yes Refer as above GFO Alford 5 5 Yes Refer as above GMT Howe 5 4 Yes Refer as above Sir C Keswick 5 3 Yes Refer as above Sir D Prosser 5 5 Yes Refer as above PRS Thomas 5 5 Yes Refer as above Sir Chips Keswick was excused from attending two Investec Audit Committee meetings between 1 January 2008 and 31 March 2008 due to health reasons.
2008 Investec Annual Report 156 Risk and governance Corporate governance Investec Limited Number of Number of Independent Qualifications and experience Audit Committee meetings held meetings during the attended year during the year SE Abrahams Chairman 5 5 Yes Refer as above GFO Alford 5 5 Yes Refer as above GMT Howe 5 4 Yes Refer as above fide Jowell 5 2 No Refer as above Sir C Keswick 5 3 Yes Refer as above Sir D Prosser 5 5 Yes Refer as above PRS Thomas 5 5 Yes Refer as above CB Tshili 5 2 No CA SA - Busi is Group Finance Director of Peu Group Pty Ltd Donn Jowell, who resigned from the boards with effect 30 September 2007, attended both meetings prior to his retirement.
Sir Chips Keswick was excused from attending two Investec Limited Audit Committee meetings between 1 January 2008 and 31 March 2008 due to health reasons.
Busi Tshili is a non-executive director of Investec Bank Limited, a major subsidiary of Investec Limited, and represents its interest on this committee.
Busi was appointed to the committee in October 2007, and attended both meetings held since her appointment.
Audit Sub-Committees Audit Sub-Committees for Investec plc and Investec Limited and other regulated subsidiaries have been established to allow senior managers of the business units, who do not attend the main Investec plc and Investec Limited Audit Committee meetings, to meet with the risk and control functions and to provide input on the risk and control environment of the business units.
The members of the Investec plc and Investec Limited Audit Committees are entitled to attend these meetings and, as a matter of practice, at least one non-executive member generally does.
Audit and Compliance Implementation Forums Audit and Compliance Implementation Forums have been established for Investec plc and Investec Limited and their principal operating subsidiaries.
Each Audit and Compliance Implementation Forum is attended by key executives and heads of risk and control functions.
Non-executive directors have an open invitation to attend.
These forums monitor and report on the implementation of recommendations and other matters that the relevant Audit Committee or Audit Sub-Committee consider important and facilitate the timely escalation, response and understanding of risk and control matters that require a response from management.
The forums are key to enhancing risk and control consciousness and the associated control environment of the group.
The forums also support and provide important insight to the Audit Committees.
Essentially, the forums act as a filter, enabling the Audit Committees to concentrate their efforts on matters of appropriate materiality.
DLC Remuneration Committee Role and responsibilities Details of the role and responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee are set out in the remuneration report on page 167.
Membership and attendance Details of membership and attendance at Remuneration Committee meetings are shown below.
DLC Remuneration Committee Number of meetings Number of meetings Independent held during the year attended during the year GFO Alford Chairman 8 8 Yes GMT Howe 8 8 Yes Sir C Keswick 8 7 Yes Additional meetings are held throughout the year when necessary.
2008 Investec Annual Report 157 Risk and governance Corporate governance DLC Nomination and Directors' Affairs Committee The boards of Investec plc and Investec Limited had previously established a Nominations Committee as a sub-committee of the boards.
The boards resolved to amend the duties and responsibilities of the Nomination Committee to reflect the requirements of the South African Banks Amendment Act 2007 the SA Banks Act.
Specifically, the Nomination Committee's duties were amended to reflect the requirements of section 64B of the SA Banks Act being the establishment of a directors' affairs committee as a sub-committee of Investec Limited as a bank controlling company.
We are currently awaiting formal approval from the Registrar of Banks.
Accordingly, the Nominations Committee, which retains all previous duties and responsibilities, was renamed the Nomination and Directors' Affairs Committee.
This committee also assumed the responsibilities of the Directors' Affairs Committee for Investec Bank Limited, which had previously been in existence as required by the SA Banks Act.
Role and responsibilities The Nomination and Directors' Affairs Committee is responsible for, among other things: Identifying and nominating the approval of the boards' candidates to fill board vacancies as and when they arise.
Determining and evaluating the adequacy, efficiency and appropriateness of the corporate governance structure and practices of the group.
Establishing and maintaining a board directorship continuity programme.
Regularly reviewing the structure, size and composition including the skills, knowledge and experience of the boards compared to their current positions and make recommendations to the boards regarding any changes.
The nomination of successors to the key positions in Investec Limited or Investec Bank Limited, its major subsidiary, in order to ensure that a management succession plan is in place.
Membership and attendance Details of attendance and membership are shown below.
DLC Nomination and Directors' Number of meetings Number of meetings Independent Affairs Committee held during the year attended during the year HS Herman Chairman 2 2 No SE Abrahams 2 2 Yes Sir C Keswick 2 2 Yes F Titi 2 - No PRS Thomas 2 - Yes Fani Titi was appointed to the committee on 26 March 2008, and no meetings were held in the current year subsequent to his appointment.
Peter Thomas was appointed to the committee on 14 May 2008, and no meetings were held in the current year subsequent to his appointment.
Board Risk and Capital Committee This committee's terms of reference were changed during the year under review in response to regulatory developments.
They now include responsibility to review our capital requirements, including receiving and reviewing appropriate reports.
Role and responsibilities The purpose of the committee is to ensure that: All decisions of the board on risk management policies and procedures are implemented and monitored throughout Investec.
The risk management structure is adequate, with sufficient resources and budget, and exceptions are reported to the board.
Exposure limits for market, counterparty and credit risk are ratified.
Liquidity and operational risk are also monitored.
There is an ongoing process of risk and control identification, particularly for any changes to business objectives and the bases of measuring risk.
The Board Risk and Capital Committee defines the processes by which internal financial control, risk and capital management are assumed and monitored.
The Group Risk Management division provides the expertise, processes and techniques from which the processes can be built and monitored daily.
A number of committees are dedicated to aspects of risk management and report directly to the Board Risk and Capital Committee and the board.
These include the Capital Committee, the Executive Risk Review Forum, Asset and Liability Committees, Group Credit Committees, Group Market Risk Forum, Group Deal Forum, Operational Risk Committees Forums, Group Investment Committee and Group Legal Risk Forum.
2008 Investec Annual Report 158 Risk and governance Corporate governance Membership and attendance Board Risk and Capital Committee Number of meetings Number of meetings Independent held during the year attended during the year S Koseff Chairman 6 5 No SE Abrahams 6 6 Yes GFO Alford 6 6 Yes GR Burger Group Risk and Finance Director 6 5 No GMT Howe 6 5 Yes B Kantor Managing Director 6 6 No Sir C Keswick 6 2 Yes fide Jowell 6 3 No MP Malungani 6 3 No K Socikwa 6 3 Yes A Tapnack 6 5 No PRS Thomas 6 5 Yes F Titi 6 6 No Donn Jowell, who resigned from the boards with effect 30 September 2007, attended all three meetings prior to his retirement.
Sir Chips Keswick was excused from attending two Board Risk and Capital Committee meetings between 1 January 2008 and 31 March 2008 due to health reasons.
Karl Socikwa is a non-executive director of Investec Bank Limited, a major subsidiary of Investec Limited and represents its interests on this committee.
He was appointed to the committee in October 2007 and attended all three meetings since his appointment.
Executive Risk Review Forum Role and responsibilities The Executive Risk Review Forum supplements the Board Risk and Capital Committee and its purpose is to: Evaluate the most significant risks we face in the ordinary course of business.
Ensure that limits are adhered to and that agreed recommendations to mitigate risk are implemented.
Act as agents of the board to ensure that all decisions of the board on risk management policies and procedures are implemented and monitored throughout the group.
Ensure the group-wide risk management structure is adequately resourced and has an appropriate budget.
Provide regular reports to the board focusing on effectiveness of the control framework.
Provide regular reports on group-wide adherence to regulatory requirements and advise on how changes to regulatory requirements will affect us.
Ensure that there is an ongoing process of risk and control identification, particularly in line with any changes to business objectives, such as the commencement of a new trading area or product stream.
2008 Investec Annual Report 159 Risk and governance Corporate governance Membership Chairman S Koseff Chief Executive Officer Membership Executive directors GR Burger Group Risk and Finance Director B Kantor Managing Director A Tapnack Senior management B Fried C Daleski RJ Cowley PR Jacobson DM Lawrence B Tapnack M Trollip DM van der Walt RJ Wainwright JKC Whelan IR Wohlman Meeting frequency Every Friday except on Board Risk and Capital Committee dates DLC Capital Committee Role and responsibilities During the year under review, the Board Risk and Capital Committee's terms of reference were amended to include the responsibility for reviewing the group's capital requirements.
Accordingly, amendments were made to the DLC Capital Committee's terms of reference and this committee's role is therefore to make recommendations as appropriate to the Board Risk and Capital Committee to ensure that there is effective capital management governance and that the capital management structure is optimised.
The DLC Capital Committee is responsible for: Determining the DLC group's capital requirements.
Reviewing capital adequacy submissions to be made to regulators.
Considering the ongoing requirements and consequences of Basel II and other regulatory requirements and their impacts on regulatory capital requirements.
Consider, determine and approve capital issues relating to any corporate structuring for acquisitions.
Monitoring the capital positions and returns on internal capital of each business unit.
Submission of capital recommendations to the Board Risk and Capital Committee.
2008 Investec Annual Report 160 Risk and governance Corporate governance Membership Chairman S Koseff Chief Executive Officer Membership Non-executive directors SE Abrahams Executive directors GR Burger Group Risk and Finance Director B Kantor Managing Director A Tapnack B Tapnack Senior management SM Burgess B Fried RJ Jacobson L Penfold N Samujh DM van der Walt JKC Whelan IR Wohlman Meeting frequency At least quarterly Management and succession planning Global business unit heads, geographic management, and the heads of central and group service functions are appointed by executive management and are endorsed by the board, based on the skills and experience deemed necessary to perform the required function.
In general, managers do not have fixed term employment contracts and there are no employment contracts with managers for a term of more than three years.
Our management structure, reporting lines and the division of responsibilities are built around a geographic, divisional and functional network, as depicted on page 34.
Each strategic business unit has an executive management committee and is responsible for taking and implementing operational decisions, managing risk and aligning divisional objectives with the group strategy and vision.
Matters of succession are considered regularly.
Decision making is spread to encourage and develop an experienced pool of talent.
Internal control We have adopted the Turnbull guidance Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of England and Wales in 1999 and revised in 2005, and continued to embed the principles throughout the group during the year under review.
Cognisance has also been taken of the King ll requirements in South Africa.
Risks and controls are reviewed and monitored regularly for relevance and effectiveness.
The Board Risk and Capital Committee and Audit Committees assist the board in this regard.
Sound risk management practices are promoted by the Group Risk Management function, which is independent of operational management.
The board recognises its responsibility for the overall risk and control framework and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The overall system of internal control is designed to mitigate, not eliminate, significant risks we face and was in place for the year under review.
It is recognised that such a system provides reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material error, omission, misstatement or loss.
This is achieved within the group through a combination of risk identification, evaluation and monitoring processes, appropriate decision and oversight forums, and assurance and control functions such as Group Risk Management, Internal Audit and Compliance.
These ongoing processes were in place throughout the year under review.
Internal Audit reports any control recommendations to senior management, Group Risk Management and the relevant Audit Committee.
Appropriate processes, including review by the Audit and Compliance Implementation Forums, ensure that timely corrective action is taken on matters raised by Internal Audit.
Significant risks are reviewed weekly by the Executive Risk Review Forum and regularly by the Board Risk and Capital Committee.
Material incidents and losses and significant breaches of systems and controls are reported to the Board Risk and Capital Committee and the Audit Committees.
Reports from the Audit Committees, Board Risk and Capital Committee and Risk and Control functions are reviewed at each board meeting.
2008 Investec Annual Report 161 Risk and governance Corporate governance Internal financial controls Internal financial controls are based on established policies and procedures.
Management is responsible for implementing internal financial controls, ensuring that personnel are suitably qualified and that appropriate segregation exists between duties and independent review.
These areas are monitored by the board through the Audit Committees and independently assessed by Internal Audit and Compliance.
Processes are in place to monitor internal control effectiveness, identify and report material breakdowns, and ensure that timely and appropriate corrective action is taken.
Group Finance and Investor Relations coordinate, review and comment on the monthly financial and regulatory reports, and facilitate the interim and annual financial reporting process, including independent audit.
The directors consider that our system of internal control is appropriately designed to: Provide reasonable, although not absolute, assurance of both the integrity and reliability of financial information.
Identify and appropriately mitigate significant risks.
Safeguard, verify and maintain accountability of assets.
Mitigate risk exposure to fraud and misappropriation.
Support business objectives and sustainability under normal and adverse operating conditions.
Ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
Risk management The board is responsible for the total process of risk management and the system of internal control.
A number of committees and forums assist in this regard.
Senior management is responsible for identifying risks and implementing appropriate mitigation and controls within their businesses.
An independent Group Risk Management division, which is accountable to the board, is responsible for designing and reviewing the process of risk management.
Group Risk Management reports regularly to the Board Risk and Capital Committee and the Executive Risk Review Forum.
Risk management is discussed in more detail on pages 76 to 147.
Internal Audit Each significant jurisdiction has an Internal Audit presence that is appropriate for the size, nature and extent of business conducted.
Smaller geographies are supported by the Internal Audit teams of the Investec plc and Investec Limited groups.
A risk based audit approach is followed and the Audit Committee approves annual audit plans.
Heads of Internal Audit report to the Chairmen of the relevant Audit Committees and to the Head of Corporate Governance and Compliance.
For further details on the Internal Audit function, see page 142.
External audit Our external auditors are Ernst & Young LLP and Ernst & Young Inc.
The independence of the external auditors is reviewed with the auditors by the Audit Committees each year.
The Audit Committees meet with the external auditors to review the scope of the external audit, budgets the extent of non-audit services rendered and any other audit matters.
The external auditors are invited to attend Audit Committee meetings and have access to the Chairman of each Audit Committee.
Recommendations on the rotation of auditors, as laid out in the UK Auditing Practices Board Ethical Standard 3 as well as circular 16 2004 of the South African Banks Act, were adhered to during the period under review.
2008 Investec Annual Report 162 Risk and governance Corporate governance Non-audit services are dealt with in terms of an agreed policy which states that: External audit firms will have internal standards and processes to monitor and maintain their independence and these must be presented to the Audit Committees on an annual basis.
These will be considered based on the explicit exclusions contained in existing rules and guidelines.
Safeguards must be in place to ensure that there is no threat to the objectivity and independence in the conduct of the audit, resulting from the provision of non-audit services by the external auditors.
Total audit fees paid to all auditors for the year were 7.1 million 2007: 5.8 million, of which 1.4 million 2007: 0.4 million related to the provision of non-audit services.
Compliance The Compliance function ensures that we continuously comply with existing and emerging regulation impacting on our operations.
We recognise our responsibility to conduct business in accordance with the laws and regulations in the countries and areas in which we operate.
The Compliance function is supported by Group Compliance and compliance officers in the business units.
For further details on the Compliance function, see pages 143 to 145.
Regulation and supervision We are subject to external regulation and supervision by various supervisory authorities, the main ones being the South African Reserve Bank SARB, the UK Financial Services Authority FSA and the Australian Prudential Regulatory Authority APRA.
Some of our businesses are subject to supervision by the South African Financial Services Board, South African National Credit Regulator and the South African Financial Intelligence Centre.
In terms of the DLC structure, the SARB Banking Supervision Department is the lead supervisor of the combined Investec group, comprising Investec plc and Investec Limited.
SARB is the supervisor of Investec Limited, while the FSA is the supervisor of Investec plc.
We strive to establish and maintain open and active dialogue with regulators and supervisors.
Processes are in place to respond proactively and pragmatically to emerging issues and we report to regulators and supervisory bodies regularly.
Where appropriate, we participate in industry committees and discussion groups to maintain and enhance the regulatory environment in which we operate.
Communication, public disclosure obligations and stakeholder relations The board recognises that effective communication is integral in building stakeholder value and is committed to providing meaningful, transparent, timely and accurate financial and non-financial information to primary stakeholders, as defined below.
The purpose is to help these stakeholders make meaningful assessments and informed investment decisions about the group.
We endeavour to present a balanced and understandable assessment of our position by addressing material matters of significant interest and concern.
We also seek to highlight the key risks to which we consider ourselves exposed and our responses to minimise the impact of these risks.
Another objective is to show a balance between the positive and negative aspects of our activities in order to achieve a comprehensive and fair account of our performance.
Our primary stakeholders include employees, shareholders, government, regulatory bodies, clients, suppliers, rating agencies, the media, communities and industry equity and debt analysts.
The board appreciates the importance of ensuring an appropriate balance in meeting the diverse needs and expectations of all our stakeholders and building lasting relationships with them.
As a requirement of our DLC structure, we comply with the disclosure obligations contained in the applicable listing rules of the UKLA and JSE and other exchanges on which our shares are listed and with any public disclosure obligations as required by the FSA and SARB.
We also recognise that from time to time we may be required to adhere to public disclosure obligations in other countries where we have operations, for example Australia.
The board is committed to adopting the better and or stricter of the existing governance and regulatory standards between the UK and South Africa.
The Investor Relations' division has day-to-day responsibility for ensuring appropriate communication with stakeholders and, together with the Company Secretarial division, ensures that we meet our public disclosure obligations.
We have a board approved policy statement in place to ensure that we comply with all relevant public disclosure obligations and uphold the board's communication and disclosure philosophy.
