The Combined Code Principles of Good Governance Back row left to right The Company is committed to the principles The Board considers the Chairman Anthony Smith Birchwood Products MD of corporate governance contained in the independent.
In the Boards view his Kelvin Stevens F & P Wholesale MD Combined Code on Corporate Governance objectivity and ability to advise and question Jonathan Jennings Group Central Services Director that was issued in 2003 and updated in 2006 the Executive Directors, particularly in respect Roddy Murray Group Finance Director by the Financial Reporting Council.
of financial affairs is not affected.
His wise Alan Ball PTS MD counsel has contributed signicantly to the Kelvin Liscombe Buck & Hickman MD The Board is committed to high standards of Groups success and as a consequence he Front row left to right Corporate Governance and acknowledges remains a member of the Audit Committee.
Frank Elkins BSS Industrial MD the importance of good governance as being Ute Ball Group Company Secretary in the best interests of the Company, its The Board is satisfied that no individual or Gavin Slark Group Chief Executive shareholders and employees.
group of Directors has unfettered powers Sandra Smith Group HR Director Mike Spalding Group IT Director of discretion and that an appropriate Statement of Compliance balance exists between the Executive and In line with the Financial Reporting Councils Non-Executive members of the Board.
recommendation, the Group has adopted the 2006 Combined Code and considers that it has complied throughout the financial year Audit ended 31 March 2008 with the provisions Committee set out in section 1 of the Combined Code, Executive Committee except in respect of the independence of the Board A3.2.
We recognise that with three Gavin Slark, Roddy Murray, Executive Directors and three independent Alan Ball, Frank Elkins, Non-Executive Directors including the Kelvin Stevens, Kelvin Group Remuneration Chairman, the Board does not fully comply Liscombe, Anthony Smith, Committee Board with the Combined Code regarding the Jonathan Jennings, Mike balance of the Board.
However, the Board Spalding, Sandra Smith, unanimously believes that the current Ute Ball composition of the Board remains suitable for the nature and size of the Group.
Nomination Experience and independent judgement Committee of our Non-Executive Directors are more important than absolute numbers.
We Divisional believe that the collective skills, experience Boards and approach to running the business is appropriate for driving the Group forward and achieving the Groups goals.
The BSS Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 25 The Combined Code Principles of Good Governance cont Application of the Code To enable them to do this, all the Directors The Board meets 10 times a year.
Individual The Board has conducted a review of the have full and timely access to all relevant attendance at Board meetings and Board Groups Corporate Governance practice and information and can take independent Committee meetings is set out in the table the following statement describes how the professional advice at the Groups expense at below for the year ended 31 March 2008. principles of good governance in section 1 any time should it be necessary.
All Directors of the Combined Code have been applied.
have access to the advice and services of In addition, there is frequent contact between the Company Secretary whose responsibility meetings and Directors visit trading locations The Board it is for ensuring that Board procedures are in order to progress the Groups business.
The Company is controlled through the followed.
The appointment and removal of Board which currently consists of three the Company Secretary is a matter reserved There is an agreed Schedule of Matters Executive and three Non-Executive Directors.
Appropriate training is available reserved for the Board for collective decision Biographical details of all Directors are given to all Directors on appointment and on an making, which was reviewed in April 2008. on page 22. ongoing basis as a consequence of the Board These matters include setting long term appraisal process.
Group objectives and the strategies to be The Board considers that all of the Nonemployed in achieving them, setting policies Executive Directors including the Chairman The Board uses an annual process timetable in the areas of health, safety and the are independent of management within the to ensure that relevant matters are given due environment, recruitment and employment, meaning of the Combined Code and are free consideration: risk management, treasury and, subject to from any business or other relationships materiality thresholds, decisions on the raising which could materially interfere with the Strategy of capital, financial commitments, acquisitions exercise of their independent judgement.
The Executive Committee held an annual off and disposals and the prosecution, defence They bring to the Board a wide range of site meeting at which the Companys strategy and settlement of litigation.
experience of senior management in other was reviewed in the context of the macro areas of commerce and industry and and micro economic environment, competitor The Board has delegated to the Group Chief represent a source of strong independent strategies and the need for the Group to Executive responsibility for the development advice and judgement.
The Non-Executive create competitive advantage.
The outcome and preparation of the business plan for the Directors meet at least once a year without was reported to and approved by the Board.
Group and annual Group budget for the Executive Directors present.
As the Senior Business Plan Executive Director, the Group Chief Executive The Non-Executive Directors are appointed The Board reviewed the three year rolling is responsible for all aspects of day to day for a three year term of ofce.
The Executive Business Plan and yearly budgets forecasts operational control of the Group and Directors have one year service contracts.
are updated quarterly to support the Groups execution of the Group strategy.
The Group Details of all payments to Directors are strategy.
Progress reporting: a detailed Chief Executive has established and chairs an included in the Remuneration Report on monthly board report is circulated to the Board Executive Committee whose other members pages 30 to 35. and at each regular Board meeting the Group are the Managing Directors of Principal Chief Executive and Group Finance Director Operating Businesses, the Group Finance One third of the Directors are required to provide an update on progress within all areas.
Director, Function Heads and the Group stand for re election each year on a rotational In addition, the interim and final results as well Company Secretary to assist him in the basis.
New Directors are subject to election as the risk register were reviewed.
performance of his duties which meets once at the first opportunity following appointment a month.
There is a clear division between the and all names submitted to shareholders for Compliance and External Relationships roles and responsibilities of the Chairman and election are accompanied by biographies.
All Divisional Managing Directors and the Group Chief Executive and both have Functions Heads present to the Board been set out in writing.
Health and Safety is reviewed at All Directors are equally accountable under each Board meeting and is the first item on The Terms of Reference for the Board and the law for the proper stewardship of the the Board agenda.
each of its Committees are available on Groups affairs.
The Non-Executive Directors request from the Group Company Secretary, have a particular responsibility to ensure that the strategies proposed by the Executive Directors are fully discussed and critically Committee attendance examined to ensure that they take proper Board Audit Remuneration Nomination account of the best long term interests of Committee Committee Committee Committee the shareholders, employees, customers, P T Warry 10 24 1 suppliers and the community.
R Murray 10 N A N A N A G Slark 10 N A N A 1 A Ball 10 N A N A N A R J Harrison OBE 10 24 1 T Osbaldiston 92 41 Number of meetings in the year 10 24 1 Non-Executive Directors three Where N A appears in the table the Director listed is not a member of the Committee The BSS Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 26 for inspection at the Annual General Meeting The Remuneration Committee discharge its functions.
Executive Directors, and are also available on the Company's The Remuneration Committee comprises the external auditors and the internal auditors website www.
The Business Non-Executive Directors only and is chaired also attend by invitation as required.
Conduct Policy is also available on this by Mr R J Harrison OBE.
The Remuneration The Committee monitors the integrity of website.
Committee has access to external research the financial statements of the Company on market data and trends provided by an and reviews significant financial reporting Information and Professional independent experienced consultant.
The effectiveness of internal controls Development Bridge Street Consultants LLP, who have and risk management systems are kept The Board is supplied with information in a no other connection with the Company, under review.
The Groups Whistle Blowing form and quality to enable it to take informed continued to be the Companys advisers during Policy is supported by a clear process that decisions and to discharge its duties.
The Report of the Remuneration includes an externally facilitated hotline All Directors are encouraged to make further Committee is shown on pages 30 to 35. through which employees of the Group, may, enquiries to the Executive Directors or in confidence, raise concerns about possible management, as considered appropriate.
The Committee decides on all aspects of the improprieties in financial reporting, other Directors were provided with the opportunity remuneration of the Executive Directors and operational matters or inappropriate personal to update their skills and knowledge, including, the Chairman including basic salaries, behaviours in the work place.
Whistle blowing in the year under review, updates on the performance related elements like short and incidents and their outcome are reported to Companies Act 2006 and the Fraud Act 2006. long term bonuses, share options and other the Audit Committee.
It advises the Board on matters In the case of newly appointed Directors, an relating to the remuneration of the Group as The Committee ensures that an adequate, induction programme which includes training a whole such as pay rises, Group wide SAYE properly resourced and supported internal on the responsibilities of a Director occurred schemes, Executive Share Options or grants audit function is in place and monitors and prior to or immediately following the for Executives other than main Board Directors.
The effectiveness appointment to the Board.
Non-Executive of the external audit is also reviewed and the Directors are encouraged to visit the Groups The Nomination Committee Committee ensures that recommendations major sites to enable them to gain a greater The Nomination Committee comprises the are acted upon by management.
understanding of the Groups activities.
In Non-Executive Directors and the Group Chief addition, several Board meetings a year are held Executive and is chaired by Mr P T Warry.
The external auditors have direct access to at Company locations other than Head Ofce.
Appointments to Executive Director are fully the Chairman of the Audit Committee and discussed by the Chairman and Group Chief meet with him without management present.
Board Effectiveness Executive with the Remuneration and The Audit Committee meets at least twice The evaluation of effectiveness of the Board Nomination Committees before a proposal is a year and has overall responsibility for and its committees focused on a number of formally made to the Board by the Chairman monitoring the Groups systems of internal areas, including those concerned with best of the Nomination Committee.
Possible new financial control, the external and internal practice based on the principles of good Non-Executive Directors are chosen from a reporting processes and the financial control governance.
Our evaluation was carried out shortlist supplied by external consultants in environment of the Group.
The Audit internally by the Chairman through a detailed light of the requirements of the Groups Committee reviews the scope and results questionnaire and formal appraisals of the business and the need to have a balanced of the audit, its cost effectiveness, and the individual performance of the Non-Executive Board.
Recruitment consultants are used to independence and objectivity of the auditors.
Directors were conducted by the Chairman assist the process.
by holding a meeting with each Director.
 LLP are engaged All Executive Directors are appraised annually Following the appointment of a new Director, as the external auditors to the Company.
by the Group Chief Executive and the Group the Chairman, in conjunction with the Group Details of audit and non-audit fees are set Chief Executive is appraised by the Chairman.
Company Secretary and the Group Chief out in note 2 to the accounts on page 45.
The Executive and the Non-Executive Executive, is responsible for ensuring that Non-audit fees principally relate to due Directors assess the performance of a full, formal and tailored induction to the diligence and taxation advice.
performed by  LLP are carried out in accordance with the The Directors assessed the findings of the The Nomination Committee meets at least requirements of the UK Auditing Practices appraisal in February 2008 and concurred annually and reviews the structure, size Boards Ethical Standard 5, relating to with the conclusion that the Board members and composition of the Board and makes non-audit services performed by the demonstrate commitment, give sound recommendations for any changes.
guidance and direction to the business It discusses and gives full consideration to and that the Board committees operate succession planning at both Group level and effectively.
Each Director continues to make the management level immediately below.
an effective contribution to the work of the Candidates are identied and nominated Board, is well prepared and informed and to ll Group vacancies both Executive and has a good understanding of the Groups Non-Executive, as and when they arise.
Points raised during the previous years have been satisfactorily addressed.
The Audit Committee The Audit Committee comprises the NonThe quality of papers presented by the Executive Directors only and has been executive management is excellent and chaired by Mr T Osbaldiston since his plans brought to the Board by the executive appointment on 1 January 2004, who as a management are challenged robustly and Finance Director of Raymarine PLC, has critically.
However, once the debate is recent and relevant financial expertise.
The summarised and a way forward agreed, Board considers that the membership of the the Executive Committee have total support Audit Committee as a whole has sufficient with a strong sense of consensus and recent and relevant financial experience to collective ownership.
The BSS Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 27 The Combined Code Principles of Good Governance cont Executive Committee The processes by which the Board review All members of the Board, including the The Executive Committee is responsible the effectiveness of the internal control Non-Executive Directors, receive a report on for implementing the strategies and policies system include the following: any significant discussions with shareholders determined by the Board, managing the and the feedback that follows the half yearly business and affairs of the Company, An established framework of internal and yearly presentations to investment prioritising the allocation of capital, human financial control which includes a clearly analysts and shareholders.
resources and establishing best management dened management structure and practices.
The Executive Committee is also comprehensive systems of budgeting and All Directors are expected to attend the responsible for monitoring the Divisional financial reporting which are reviewed by Annual General Meeting and the Board Boards performance.
The Executive successive levels of management encourages shareholders to attend its Annual Committee is currently comprised of G Slark General Meeting.
Directors, including the Chairman Group Chief Executive, R Murray Guidelines for capital expenditure Chairmen of the Committees, are present to Group Finance Director, A Ball Executive which include budgets, appraisal and answer any questions from shareholders.
Director and MD of PTS, F Elkins MD of review procedures and successive The Notice of Meeting is sent to shareholders BSS Industrial, K Stevens MD of F & P authorisation levels at least 20 working days before the meeting.
Wholesale, K Liscombe MD of Buck & The results of proxy voting by shareholders Hickman, Anthony Smith MD of Birchwood Internal financial controls and procedures will be disclosed for each separate resolution appointed 1 March 2008, S Smith Group for branches are included in branch and will be posted on the Companys website Human Resources Director, J Jennings operating manuals as well as disclosed upon request.
Group Central Services Director, M Spalding Group IT Director and All trading locations are reviewed regularly Mr R J Harrison OBE, has held the post of U Ball Group Company Secretary.
by the Internal Audit department, and Senior Independent Director since 3 August the Audit Committee receives reports 2006 and is the Director whom shareholders Internal Control from the internal and external auditors may contact if they feel their concerns are not The Board is responsible for the Groups on a regular basis being addressed.
system of internal control and has reviewed its effectiveness during the year.
The The Executive Management Committee The Group will implement the ICSA Guidance Combined Code requires that the Directors receives a monthly summary of financial on Proxies and Corporate Representatives review the effectiveness of the Groups results and the Groups published biannual at General Meetings at this years Annual system of internal control which includes financial information is based on a General Meeting and going forward.
financial, operational, compliance and risk standardised reporting process management controls.
Going Concern The Directors have also reviewed the The Directors have a reasonable expectation The system of internal control is designed effectiveness of the system of internal financial that the Company and the Group have to ensure effective and efficient operations control during the period in conjunction with adequate resources to continue to operate and compliance with laws and regulations.
the work of the internal audit department in for the foreseeable future and, accordingly, In establishing this system, the Directors relation to the safeguarding of assets, the the going concern basis continues to be considered the nature of the Groups maintenance of proper accounting records adopted in preparing the accounts.
In forming business, including the materiality of the and the reliability of financial information used this view, the Directors have reviewed the risks being run, the likelihood of a loss being within the business and for publication.
Companys and the Groups budgets for incurred and the costs of control and the current year and outline plans for future mitigation of likely losses.
It therefore follows Investor Relations periods including capital expenditure plans that the system of internal control can only Communication with all shareholders is and cash ow forecasts.
provide reasonable and not absolute given a high priority.
accounting for the Companys performance and strategy are principally through the Annual An ongoing process for identifying, evaluating Report and Accounts and announcements and managing the significant risks faced by made through the Stock Exchange and the Group was in place from the beginning at the Annual General Meeting.
In addition, of the financial year to the date of approval of corporate information is made available to the Annual Report and Accounts.
The process investors on the Companys website is regularly reviewed by the Board and accords www.
with the Internal Control Guidance for Directors and the Combined Code produced by the Presentations are made to institutional Turnbull Guidance 2005. shareholders following the announcement of the Companys full year and interim results, and regular meetings are held between these investors and the Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director.
In addition, institutional shareholders have visited some of the Group locations.
The Chairman attends some of the meetings with investors and is available to meet with institutional investors upon request.
The BSS Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 28
