37 JPMorgan European Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Corporate Governance concluded that, as the Board comprises entirely of nonCompliance executive directors, this is unnecessary at present.
However, the The Company is committed to high standards of corporate governance.
This statement, together with the Statement of Chairman of the Audit Committee leads the evaluation of the performance of the Chairman and is available to shareholders Directors Responsibilities on page 41, indicates how the if they have concerns that cannot be resolved through Company has applied the principles of good governance of the discussion with the Chairman.
Financial Reporting Council Combined Code the Combined Code and the AICs Code of Corporate Governance, the AIC Tenure Code, which complements the Combined Code and provides Directors are initially appointed until the following Annual a framework of best practice for investment trusts.
General Meeting when, under the Companys Articles of Association, it is required that they be elected by shareholders.
The Board is responsible for ensuring the appropriate level of corporate governance and considers that the Company has Thereafter, a Directors appointment will run for a term of three years.
Subject to the performance evaluation carried out complied with the best practice provisions of the Combined each year, the Board will agree whether it is appropriate for the Code, insofar as they are relevant to the Companys business, Director to seek an additional term.
The Board does not and the AIC Code throughout the year under review.
believe that length of service in itself necessarily disqualifies a Role of the Board Director from seeking re-election but, when making a A management agreement between the Company and JPMAM recommendation, the Board will take into account the ongoing sets out the matters over which the Manager has authority.
requirements of the Combined Code, including the need to This includes management of the Companys assets and the refresh the Board and its Committees.
The Companys Articles provision of accounting, company secretarial, administrative, of Association require that Directors stand for re-election at and some marketing services.
All other matters are reserved for least every three years.
Any Director who has served for a the approval of the Board.
A formal schedule of matters period of more than nine years will stand for annual rereserved to the Board for decision has been approved.
includes determination and monitoring of the Companys investment objectives and policy and its future strategic The terms and conditions of Directors appointments are set direction, gearing policy, management of the capital structure, out in formal letters of appointment, copies of which are available for inspection on request at the Companys registered appointment and removal of third party service providers, office and at the AGM.
review of key investment and financial data and the Companys corporate governance and risk control arrangements.
The Board recommends the re-election of Stephen Russell, Ferdinand Verdonck and Alexander Zagoreos, who retire by The Board meets at least quarterly during the year and rotation at this years AGM.
additional meetings are arranged as necessary.
Full and timely information is provided to the Board to enable it to Meetings and Committees function effectively and to allow Directors to discharge The Board delegates certain responsibilities and functions to their responsibilities.
Details of membership of committees are shown with the Directors profiles on page 29.
Directors who are There is an agreed procedure for Directors to take independent not members of Committees may attend at the invitation of professional advice if necessary and at the Companys expense.
This is in addition to the access that every Director has to the the Chairman.
advice and services of the Company Secretary, JPMAM, which The table below details the number of Board and Committee is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures meetings attended by each Director.
During the year there were are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are five full Board meetings, including a private meeting of the complied with.
Directors to evaluate the Manager, and a separate meeting devoted to strategy.
There were also a number of ad hoc Board Board Composition meetings, two Audit Committee meetings and one meeting of The Board, chaired by Andrew Murison, consists of five nonthe Nomination Committee during the year.
executive Directors, all of whom are regarded by the Board as independent of the Companys Manager, including the Audit Nomination Chairman.
The Directors have a breadth of investment Board Committee Committee knowledge, business and financial skills and experience meetings meetings meetings relevant to the Companys business and brief biographical Director attended attended attended details of each Director are set out on page 29.
Andrew Murison 5 2 1 A review of Board composition and balance is included as part Robin Faber 4 2 1 Stephen Russell 5 1 of the annual performance evaluation of the Board, details of Ferdinand Verdonck 5 2 1 which may be found below.
The Board has considered whether Alexander Zagoreos 4 1 1 a senior independent director should be appointed and has T H E C O M P A N Y JPMorgan European Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 38 The Directors statement on the Companys system of internal Training and Appraisal control is set out below.
On appointment, the Manager and Company Secretary provide all Directors with induction training.
Thereafter, Both the Nomination Committee and the Audit Committee regular briefings are provided on changes in regulatory have written terms of reference which define clearly their requirements that affect the Company and Directors.
respective responsibilities, copies of which are available for Directors are encouraged to attend industry and other inspection at the Companys website, on request at the seminars covering issues and developments relevant to Companys registered office and at the Companys Annual investment trusts.
The Board conducts a formal evaluation of the Manager, its Relations with Shareholders own performance and of that of its committees and The Board regularly monitors the shareholder profile of the individual Directors.
Questionnaires, drawn up by the Board, Company.
It aims to provide shareholders with a full are completed by each Director.
The responses are collated understanding of the Companys activities and performance and then discussed at a private meeting.
The evaluation of and reports formally to shareholders twice a year by way of individual Directors is led by the Chairman, and the the annual report and accounts and the half year Report.
Chairman of the Audit Committee leads the evaluation of the This is supplemented by the daily publication, through the Chairmans performance.
The Board as a whole evaluates the London Stock Exchange, of the net asset value of the Manager, its own performance and that of its committees.
Board Committees All shareholders are encouraged to attend the Companys Nomination Committee Annual General Meeting at which the Directors and The Nomination Committee, chaired by Andrew Murison, representatives of the Managers are available in person to consists of all of the Directors and meets at least annually to meet with shareholders and answer their questions.
In ensure that the Board has an appropriate balance of skills and addition, a presentation is given by the Investment Managers experience to carry out its fiduciary duties and to select and who review the Companys performance.
During the year the propose suitable candidates for appointment when necessary.
Companys brokers, the Investment Managers and JPMAM A variety of sources, including the use of external search hold regular discussions with larger shareholders.
The consultants, may be used to ensure that a wide range of Directors are made fully aware of their views.
The Chairman candidates is considered.
and Directors make themselves available as and when required to address shareholder queries.
The Directors may be The Committee undertakes an annual performance contacted through the Company Secretary whose details are evaluation to ensure that all members of the Board have shown on page 68. devoted sufficient time and contributed adequately to the work of the Board.
The Committee also reviews Directors The Companys Annual Report and Accounts is published in fees and makes recommendations to the Board as and when time to give shareholders at least 20 working days notice of appropriate.
Shareholders wishing to raise questions in advance of the meeting are encouraged to write Audit Committee to the Company Secretary at the address shown on page 68.
The Audit Committee, chaired by Robin Faber and whose Details of the Proxy voting position on each resolution will be membership is set out on page 29, meets at least twice each published on the Companys website shortly after the Annual year.
The members of the Audit Committee consider that they General Meeting.
have the requisite skills and experience to fulfil the responsibilities of the Committee.
Internal Control The Combined Code requires the Directors, at least annually, The Committee reviews the actions and judgements of the to review the effectiveness of the Companys system of Manager in relation to the interim and annual accounts and internal control and to report to shareholders that they have the Companys compliance with the Combined Code.
This encompasses a review of all controls, which the reviews the terms of the management agreement and Board has identified as including business, financial, examines the effectiveness of the Companys internal control operational, compliance and risk management.
systems, receives information from the Managers Compliance department and reviews the scope and results of the external The Directors are responsible for the Companys system of audit, its cost effectiveness and the independence and internal control which is designed to safeguard the objectivity of the external auditors: in the Directors opinion, Companys assets, maintain proper accounting records and the auditors are considered independent.
Representatives of ensure that financial information used within the business, or the Companys auditors attend the Audit Committee meeting published, is reliable.
However, such a system can only be at which the draft annual report and accounts are considered.
designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to T H E C O M P A N Y 39 JPMorgan European Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Corporate Governance continued achieve business objectives and therefore can only provide Corporate Governance and Voting Policy reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against fraud, material The Company delegates responsibility for voting to JPMAM.
The following is a summary of JPMAMs policy statement on corporate governance and voting policy which has been noted Since investment management, custody of assets and all by the Board.
The full policy is available from JPMAM on administrative services are provided to the Company by request, or can be downloaded from the internet as follows: JPMAM and its associates, the Companys system of internal go to www.
co. uk institutional control mainly comprises monitoring the services provided and within the Commentary & Analysis tab you will find a by JPMAM and its associates, including the operating section on Corporate Governance.
controls established by them, to ensure they meet the Companys business objectives.
The Company does not have JPMAM is committed to delivering superior investment an internal audit function of its own, but relies on the performance to its clients worldwide.
We believe that one of internal audit department of JPMAM.
The key elements the drivers of investment performance is an assessment of the designed to provide effective internal control are as follows: corporate governance principles and practices of the companies in which we invest our clients assets and we Financial Reporting Regular and comprehensive review by expect those companies to demonstrate high standards of the Board of key investment and financial data, including governance in the management of their business.
management accounts, revenue projections, analysis of transactions and performance comparisons.
Proxy voting is an important part of the corporate governance process, and we view seriously our obligation to Management Agreement Appointment of a manager and manage the voting rights of the shares entrusted to us as we custodian regulated by the Financial Services Authority would manage any other asset.
It is the policy of JPMAM to FSA, whose responsibilities are clearly defined in a written vote in a prudent and diligent manner, based exclusively on agreement.
our reasonable judgement of what will best serve the Management Systems The Managers system of internal financial interests of our clients.
So far as is practicable we control includes organisational agreements which clearly will vote at all of the meetings called by companies in which define the lines of responsibility, delegated authority, control we are invested.
These are monitored by JPMAMs In order to do this we have formulated detailed guidelines for Compliance department which regularly monitors each region, which set out our stance on a variety of key compliance with FSA rules.
corporate governance issues, including disclosure and Investment Strategy Authorisation and monitoring of transparency, board composition and independence, control the Companys investment strategy and exposure limits by structures, remuneration, as well as social and environmental the Board.
These guidelines form the basis of our proxy voting decisions, although it should be noted that The Board, either directly or through the Audit Committee, JPMAM makes all of its voting decisions on a case by case keeps under review the effectiveness of the Companys basis, taking into account the individual circumstances of system of internal control by monitoring the operation of each vote.
the key operating controls of the Managers and its associates as follows: Corporate Social Responsibility the Board, through the Audit Committee, reviews the The following is a summary of JPMAMs policy statement terms of the management agreement and receives regular on corporate social responsibility which has been noted by reports from JPMAMs Compliance department: the Board: the Board reviews the report on the internal controls and We believe it is our primary duty to act in the best financial the operations of its custodian, JPMorgan Chase Bank, interests of our clients and to achieve good financial returns which is itself independently reviewed: and consistent with an acceptable level of risk.
We recognise that non-financial issues, such as social and environmental issues, the Directors review every six months an independent can have an economic impact and that any company run in report on the internal controls and the operations the long-term interests of its shareholders will need to of JPMAM.
manage effectively relationships with its employees, suppliers By the means of the procedures set out above, the Board and customers, to behave ethically and to have regard to the confirms that in accordance with the Turnball guidance, it has environment and society as a whole.
Our investment reviewed the effectiveness of the Companys system of managers take these factors into account as part of any internal control for the year ended 31st March 2008, and to investment decision.
the date of approval of this Annual Report and Accounts.
