22 JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Corporate Governance independent of the Companys Manager.
The Directors have Compliance a breadth of investment, business and financial skills and The Company is committed to high standards of corporate experience relevant to the Companys business and brief governance.
This statement, together with the Statement of biographical details of each Director are set out on page 16.
Directors Responsibilities on page 27, indicates how the Company has applied the principles of good governance of A review of Board composition and balance is included as the Financial Reporting Council Combined Code the part of the annual performance evaluation of the Board, Combined Code and the AICs Code of Corporate details of which may be found below.
The Board has Governance the AIC Code, which complements the considered whether a senior independent director should be Combined Code and provides a framework of best practice appointed and has concluded that, as the Board is comprised for investment trusts.
entirely of non-executive directors, this is unnecessary.
However, the Chairman of the Audit Committee, James Fox, The Board is responsible for ensuring the appropriate level of is available to shareholders if they have concerns that cannot corporate governance and considers that the Company has be resolved through discussion with the Chairman.
complied with the best practice provisions of the Combined Code, insofar as they are relevant to the Companys business, Tenure and the AIC Code throughout the year under review.
Directors are initially appointed until the following Annual General Meeting when, under the Companys Articles of Role of the Board Association, it is required that they be elected by A management agreement between the Company and shareholders.
Thereafter, a Directors appointment will run JPMAM sets out the matters over which the Manager has for a maximum term of three years.
This includes management of the Companys assets performance evaluation carried out each year, the Board will within the guidelines established by the Board from time to agree whether it is appropriate for the Director to seek an time and the provision of accounting, company secretarial, additional term.
The Board does not believe that length of administration and some marketing services.
All other service in itself necessarily disqualifies a Director from matters are reserved for the approval of the Board.
A formal seeking re-election but, when making a recommendation, the schedule of matters reserved to the Board for decision has Board will take into account the ongoing requirements of the been approved.
This includes determination and monitoring Combined Code, including the need to refresh the Board and of the Companys investment objectives and policy and its its Committees.
Any Director who has served for a period of future strategic direction, gearing policy, management of the more than nine years will stand for annual re-election capital structure, appointment and removal of third party thereafter.
service providers, review of key investment and financial data and the Companys corporate governance and risk control The terms and conditions of Directors appointments are set arrangements.
out in formal letters of appointment, copies of which are available for inspection on request at the Companys The Board meets at least quarterly during the year and registered office and at the AGM.
additional meetings are arranged as necessary.
Full and timely information is provided to the Board to enable it to function As a result of the Boards evaluation process described below, effectively and to allow Directors to discharge their it confirms that Kate Bolsover and Hamish Buchan, who responsibilities.
retire by rotation at this years AGM, continue to be very effective as Directors and demonstrate commitment to their There is an agreed procedure for Directors to take role, and thus the Board recommends their re-election.
independent professional advice in the furtherance of their duties and at the Companys expense.
This is in addition to Meetings and Committees the access that every Director has to the advice and services of The Board delegates certain responsibilities and functions to the Company Secretary, JPMAM, which is responsible to the committees.
Details of membership of committees are shown Board for ensuring that applicable rules and regulations are with the Directors profiles on page 16. complied with and that Board procedures are followed.
The table below details the number of Board and Committee Board Composition meetings attended by each Director.
During the year there The Board consists of five non-executive Directors, chaired were five Board meetings, including a private meeting of the by Hamish Buchan, all of whom are considered to be Directors to evaluate the Manager.
In addition, two Audit JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 23 Committee meetings and a meeting of the Nomination Audit Committee Committee were held.
The Audit Committee, chaired by James Fox and comprising all of the Directors, meets at least twice each year.
The Director Board Audit Nomination members of the Committee consider that they have the Meetings Committee Committee Attended Meetings Meetings requisite skills and experience to fulfil the responsibilities of Attended Attended the Committee.
Hamish Buchan 5 2 1 The Committee reviews the actions and judgements of the Sarah Bates 5 2 1 Manager in relation to the half year and annual accounts and Kate Bolsover 5 2 1 the Companys compliance with the Combined Code.
It James Fox 5 2 1 James Williams 5 2 1 reviews the terms of the management agreement, examines the effectiveness of the Companys internal control systems and receives information from the Managers compliance Training and Appraisal department.
It also reviews the scope and results of the On appointment, the Manager and Company Secretary external audit, its cost effectiveness and the independence and provide all Directors with induction training.
Thereafter objectivity of the external auditors, including the provision of regular briefings are provided on changes in regulatory non-audit services.
Representatives of the Companys requirements that affect the Company and Directors.
auditors attend the Committee meeting at which the draft Directors are encouraged to attend industry and other annual report and accounts are considered.
The Directors seminars covering issues and developments relevant to statement on the Companys system of internal control is set investment trusts.
The Board has agreed procedures for the formal evaluation of the Manager, its own performance and that of its committees Terms of Reference and individual Directors.
Questionnaires, drawn up by the Both the Nomination Committee and the Audit Committee Board, are completed by each Director.
The responses are have written terms of reference which define clearly their collated and then discussed at a private meeting.
The respective responsibilities, copies of which are available on evaluation of individual Directors is led by the Chairman, the Companys website and for inspection on request at the whilst the other Directors evaluate the performance of the Companys registered office and at the AGM.
The Board as a whole evaluates the Manager, its own performance and that of its committees.
Relations with Shareholders The Board regularly monitors the shareholder profile of the Board Committees Company.
It aims to provide shareholders with a full Nomination Committee understanding of the Companys activities and performance The Nomination Committee, chaired by Hamish Buchan and and reports formally to shareholders four times a year by way comprising all of the Directors, meets at least annually to of the Annual Report and Accounts, the Half Year Report and ensure that the Board has an appropriate balance of skills to two Interim Management Statements.
This is supplemented carry out its fiduciary duties and to select and propose by the daily publication, through the London Stock suitable candidates, when necessary, for appointment.
A Exchange, of the net asset value of the Companys shares.
variety of sources, including the use of external search All shareholders have the opportunity, and are encouraged, to consultants, are used to ensure that a wide range of attend the Companys Annual General Meeting at which the candidates are considered.
Directors and representatives of the Manager are available in The Committee undertakes an annual performance person to meet with shareholders and answer questions.
In evaluation, as described above, to ensure that all members of addition, a presentation is given by one of the New York the Board have devoted sufficient time and contributed based members of the investment management team who adequately to the work of the Board.
The Committee also reviews the Companys performance.
During the year the reviews Directors fees and makes recommendations to the investment management team, JPMAM and the Companys Board as and when required.
brokers hold regular discussions with larger shareholders.
24 JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Corporate Governance continued The Directors are made fully aware of their views.
The Management Agreement Evaluation and appointment of a Chairman and Directors make themselves available as and manager and custodian regulated by the Financial Services when required to address shareholder queries.
The Directors Authority FSA, whose responsibilities are clearly defined in may be contacted through the Company Secretary whose a written agreement.
details are shown on page 48.
Management Systems The Managers system of internal The Companys Annual Report and Accounts is published in control includes organisational agreements which clearly time to give shareholders at least 20 working days notice of define the lines of responsibility, delegated authority, control the Annual General Meeting.
Shareholders wishing to raise procedures and systems.
These are monitored by JPMAMs questions in advance of the meeting are encouraged to write Compliance department which regularly monitors to the Company Secretary at the address shown on page 48. compliance with FSA rules and reports to the Board.
Details of the proxy voting position on each resolution will Investment Strategy Authorisation and monitoring of the be published on the Company website shortly after the Companys investment strategy and exposure limits by the Annual General Meeting.
The Board keeps under review the effectiveness of the Internal Control Companys system of internal control by monitoring the The Combined Code requires the Directors, at least annually, operation of the key operating controls of the Manager and to review the effectiveness of the Companys system of its associates as follows: internal control and to report to shareholders that they have done so.
This encompasses a review of all controls, which the the Board, through the Audit Committee, reviews the Board has identified to include business, financial, terms of the management agreement and receives regular operational, compliance and risk management.
reports from JPMAMs Compliance department: The Directors are responsible for the Companys system of the Board reviews a report, which is also independently internal control which is designed to safeguard the reviewed, on the internal controls and the operations of Companys assets, maintain proper accounting records and its custodian, JPMorgan Chase Bank: and ensure that financial information used within the business, or the Directors review every six months an independent published, is reliable.
However, such a system can only be report on the internal controls and the operations of designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure JPMAM.
to achieve business objectives and therefore can only provide By means of the procedures set out above, the Board reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against fraud, confirms that it has reviewed the effectiveness of the material misstatement or loss.
Companys system of internal control for the year ended Since investment management, custody of assets and all 31st December 2008, and to the date of approval of this administrative services are provided to the Company by Annual Report and Accounts.
JPMAM and its associates, the Companys system of internal During the course of its review of the system of internal control mainly comprises monitoring the services provided control, the Board has not identified nor been advised of any by JPMAM and its associates, including the operating failings or weaknesses which it has determined to be controls established by them, to ensure they meet the significant.
Therefore a confirmation in respect of necessary Companys business objectives.
The Company does not have actions has not been considered appropriate.
an internal audit function of its own, but relies on the internal audit department of JPMAM which reports any Corporate Governance and Voting Policy material failings or weaknesses.
This arrangement is kept The Company delegates responsibility for voting to under annual review.
The key elements designed to provide JPMAM.
The following is a summary of JPMAMs policy effective internal control are as follows: statement on corporate governance and voting policy which Financial Reporting Regular and comprehensive review by has been noted by the Board.
The full policy is available the Board of key investment and financial data, including from JPMAM on request, or can be downloaded from the management accounts, revenue projections, analysis of internet as follows: transactions and performance comparisons.
JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 25 go to www.
co. uk institutional and within the Commentary & Analysis tab you will find a section on Corporate Governance.
JPMAM is committed to delivering superior investment performance to its clients worldwide.
We believe that one of the drivers of investment performance is an assessment of the corporate governance principles and practices of the companies in which we invest our clients assets and we expect those companies to demonstrate high standards of governance in the management of their business.
Proxy voting is an important part of the corporate governance process, and we view seriously our obligation to manage the voting rights of the shares entrusted to us as we would manage any other asset.
It is the policy of JPMAM to vote in a prudent and diligent manner, based exclusively on our reasonable judgement of what will best serve the financial interests of our clients.
So far as is practicable we will vote at all of the meetings called by companies in which we are invested.
In order to do this we have formulated detailed guidelines for each region, which set out our stance on a variety of key corporate governance issues, including disclosure and transparency, board composition and independence, control structures, remuneration, as well as social and environmental issues.
These guidelines form the basis of our proxy voting decisions, although it should be noted that JPMAM makes all of its voting decisions on a case by case basis, taking into account the individual circumstances of each vote.
JPMAMs voting policies have been discussed in some detail with the Manager in New York.
All votes cast against resolutions are reported to the Board.
Corporate Social Responsibility The following is a summary of JPMAMs policy statement on corporate social responsibility which has been noted by the Board: We believe it is our primary duty to act in the best financial interests of our clients and to achieve good financial returns consistent with an acceptable level of risk.
We recognise that non financial issues, such as social and environmental issues, can have an economic impact and that any company run in the long-term interests of its shareholders will need to manage effectively relationships with its employees, suppliers and customers, to behave ethically and to have regard to the environment and society as a whole.
Our investment managers take these factors into account as part of any investment decision.
