22 JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Corporate Governance investment knowledge, business and financial skills and Compliance experience relevant to the Companys business and brief The Company is committed to high standards of corporate biographical details of each Director are set out on page 15. governance.
This statement, together with the Statement of Directors Responsibilities on page 27, indicates how the A review of Board composition and balance is included as Company has applied the principles of good governance of part of the annual performance evaluation of the Board, the Financial Reporting Council Combined Code the details of which may be found below.
The Senior Combined Code and the AICs Code of Corporate Independent Director leads the evaluation of the Governance, the AIC Code, which complements the performance of the Chairman and is available to shareholders Combined Code and provides a framework of best practice if they have concerns that cannot be resolved through for investment trusts.
The Board is responsible for ensuring the appropriate level of Anatole Kaletsky is founding partner and Chief Economist corporate governance and considers that the Company has of Gavekal Research, whose clients include JPMorgans complied with the best practice provisions of the Combined Treasury Division.
The Board does not believe this Code, insofar as they are relevant to the Companys business, connection influences Mr Kaletskys independence as a and of the AIC Code throughout the year under review.
Role of the Board Tenure A management agreement between the Company and Directors are initially appointed until the following Annual JPMAM sets out the matters over which the Manager has General Meeting when, under the Companys Articles of authority.
This includes management of the Companys assets Association, it is required that they be re-elected by and the provision of accounting, company secretarial, shareholders.
Thereafter, a Directors appointment will run administration and some marketing services.
All other for a term of three years.
Subject to the performance matters are reserved for the approval of the Board.
A formal evaluation carried out each year, the Board will agree whether schedule of matters reserved to the Board for decision has it is appropriate for the Director to seek an additional term.
This includes determination and monitoring The Board does not believe that length of service in itself of the Companys investment objectives and policy and its necessarily disqualifies a Director from seeking re-election future strategic direction, gearing policy, management of the but, when making a recommendation, the Board will take capital structure, appointment and removal of third party into account the ongoing requirements of the Combined service providers, review of key investment and financial data Code, including the need to refresh the Board and its and the Companys corporate governance and risk control Committees.
The Companys Articles of Association require arrangements.
that Directors stand for re-election at least every three years.
Any Director who has served for a period of more than nine The Board meets at least quarterly during the year and years will stand for annual re-election thereafter.
additional meetings are arranged as necessary.
Full and timely information is provided to the Board to enable it to function The terms and conditions of Directors appointments are set effectively and to allow Directors to discharge their out in formal letters of appointment, copies of which are responsibilities.
available for inspection on request at the Companys registered office and at the Annual General Meeting.
There is an agreed procedure for Directors to take independent professional advice if necessary and at the As a result of the Boards evaluation process described on the Companys expense.
This is in addition to the access that following page, it confirms that David Gamble and Roy every Director has to the advice and services of the Company Reynolds, who retire by rotation at this years Annual General Secretary, JPMAM, which is responsible to the Board for Meeting, continue to be effective Directors and the Board ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that recommends their re-election.
applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
Meetings and Committees Board Composition The Board delegates certain responsibilities and functions to The Board, chaired by Roy Reynolds, consists of between five committees.
All Directors are members of the committees, and seven non-executive Directors, all of whom are regarded with the exception of the Chairman who attends the Audit by the Board as independent of the Companys Manager, Committee by invitation.
The Directors have a breadth of JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 23 The table below details the number of Board and Committee Remuneration Committee meetings attended by each Director.
During the year, there The Remuneration Committee, chaired by Roy Reynolds, were five Board meetings, plus a meeting of the Directors to consists of all of the Directors and meets annually to review evaluate the Manager and a separate meeting devoted to the levels of remuneration of the Chairman, the Chairman of strategy, two Audit Committee meetings, a Nomination the Audit Committee and other Directors, taking into Committee meeting and a Remuneration Committee meeting.
account both boards of other investment trusts and corporate salaries generally to ensure that high quality people are Director Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Meetings Committee Committee Committee attracted and retained.
Attended Meetings Meetings Meetings Attended Attended Attended Audit Committee David Gamble 5 2 1 1 The Audit Committee, chaired by Alan Saunders and whose Anatole Kaletsky 4 1 1 1 membership is set out on page 15, meets at least twice each Valentine Powell 5 2 1 1 year.
The members of the Audit Committee consider that Roy Reynolds 5 1 1 1 they have the requisite skills and experience to fulfill the Alan Saunders 5 2 1 1 responsibilities of the Committee.
At least one member of the Ceased to be a member of the Audit Committee on 12th September 2007, Mr. Reynolds now attends Committee has recent and relevant financial experience.
The Committee reviews the actions and judgements of the Training and Appraisal Manager in relation to the half year and annual accounts and The Manager and Company Secretary provide all Directors the Companys compliance with the Combined Code.
It with induction training on appointment.
Thereafter, regular reviews the terms of the management agreement and briefings are provided on changes in regulatory requirements examines the effectiveness of the Companys internal control that affect the Company and Directors.
Directors are systems, receives information from the Managers encouraged to attend industry and other seminars covering Compliance department and also reviews the scope and issues and developments relevant to investment trusts.
results of the external audit, its cost effectiveness and the The Board has agreed procedures for the formal evaluation of independence and objectivity of the external auditors.
the Manager, its own performance and of that of its Representatives of the Companys auditors attend the Audit committees and individual Directors.
Questionnaires, drawn Committee meeting at which the draft annual report and up by the Board, are completed by each Director.
The Directors statement on the responses are collated and then discussed at a private Companys system of internal control is set out below.
The evaluation of individual Directors is led by the Terms of Reference Chairman and the Senior Independent Director leads the The Nomination, Remuneration and Audit Committees all evaluation of the Chairmans performance.
The Board as a have written terms of reference which define clearly their whole evaluates the Manager, its own performance and that respective responsibilities, copies of which are available on of its Committees.
the Companys website and for inspection on request at the Companys registered office and at the Companys Annual Board Committees General Meeting.
Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee, chaired by Roy Reynolds, Relations with Shareholders consists of all of the Directors and meets at least annually to The Board regularly monitors the shareholder profile of the ensure that the Board has an appropriate balance of skills and Company.
It aims to provide shareholders with a full experience to carry out its fiduciary duties and to select and understanding of the Companys activities and performance propose suitable candidates for appointment when necessary.
and reports formally to shareholders quarterly each year by A variety of sources, including the use of external search way of the annual report and accounts, the half year report consultants, may be used to ensure that a wide range of and two interim management statements.
This is candidates are considered.
Search consultants were used in supplemented by the daily publication, through the London the recruitment of Nigel Kenny and Percy Mistry.
Stock Exchange, of the net asset value of the Companys The Committee undertakes an annual performance shares.
evaluation to ensure that all members of the Board have All shareholders have the opportunity, and are encouraged, to devoted sufficient time and contributed adequately to the attend the Companys Annual General Meeting at which the work of the Board.
24 JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Corporate Governance continued Directors and representatives of the Manager are available in The key elements designed to provide effective internal person to meet shareholders and answer their questions.
In control are as follows: addition, a presentation is given by the Investment Manager Financial Reporting Regular and comprehensive review by who reviews the Companys performance.
The Companys the Board of key investment and financial data, including brokers, the Investment Manager and JPMAM hold regular management accounts, revenue projections, analysis of discussions with larger shareholders.
The Directors are made transactions and performance comparisons.
fully aware of their views.
The Chairman and Directors make Management Agreement Appointment of a manager and themselves available as and when required to address custodian regulated by the Financial Services Authority shareholder queries.
The Directors may be contacted through FSA, whose responsibilities are clearly defined in a the Secretary whose details are shown on page 48. written agreement.
The Companys Annual Report and Accounts is published in Management Systems The Managers system of internal time to give shareholders at least 20 working days notice of control includes organisational agreements which clearly the Annual General Meeting.
Shareholders wishing to raise define the lines of responsibility, delegated authority, questions in advance of the meeting are encouraged to control procedures and systems.
These are monitored by submit questions via the Companys website or write to the JPMAMs Compliance department which regularly Company Secretary at the address shown on page 48. monitors compliance with FSA rules.
Details of the proxy voting position on each resolution will Investment Strategy Authorisation and monitoring of the be published on the Companys website shortly after the Companys investment strategy and exposure limits by the Annual General Meeting.
Internal Control The Board, either directly or through the Audit Committee, The Combined Code requires the Directors, at least annually, keeps under review the effectiveness of the Companys to review the effectiveness of the Companys system of system of internal control by monitoring the operation of internal control and to report to shareholders that they have the key operating controls of the Manager and its associates done so.
This encompasses a review of all controls, which the as follows: Board has identified as including business, financial, reviews the terms of the management agreement and operational, compliance and risk management.
receives regular reports from JPMAMs Compliance The Directors are responsible for the Companys system of department: internal control which is designed to safeguard the reviews reports on the internal controls and the Companys assets, maintain proper accounting records and operations of its custodian, JPMorgan Chase Bank, ensure that financial information used within the business, or which is itself independently reviewed: and published, is reliable.
However, such a system can only be reviews every six months an independent report on the designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure internal controls and the operations of JPMAM.
to achieve business objectives and therefore can only provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against fraud, By the means of the procedures set out above, the Board material misstatement or loss.
confirms that it has reviewed the effectiveness of the Companys system of internal control for the year ended Since investment management, custody of assets and all 30th June 2008 and to the date of approval of this Annual administrative services are provided to the Company by Report and Accounts.
JPMAM and its associates, the Companys system of internal control mainly comprises monitoring the services provided During the course of its review of the system of internal by JPMAM and its associates, including the operating control, the Board has not identified or been advised of any controls established by them, to ensure that they meet the failings or weaknesses which it has determined to be Companys business objectives.
The Company does not have significant.
an internal audit function of its own, but relies on the internal audit department of JPMAM.
This arrangement is kept under review.
JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 25 JPMAM makes all of its voting decisions on a case by case Corporate Governance and Voting Policy basis, taking into account the individual circumstances of The Company delegates responsibility for voting to each vote.
The text below is a summary of JPMAMs policy statement on corporate governance and voting policy Corporate Social Responsibility which has been noted by the Board.
The full policy is The following is a summary of JPMAMs policy statement on available from JPMAM on request, or can be downloaded corporate social responsibility which has been noted by the from the internet as follows: go to Board: www.
co. uk institutional and within the Commentary & Analysis tab you will find a We believe it is our primary duty to act in the best financial section on Corporate Governance.
interests of our clients and to achieve good financial returns consistent with an acceptable level of risk.
We recognise that JPMAM is committed to delivering superior investment nonfinancial issues, such as social and environmental issues, performance to its clients worldwide.
We believe that one of can have an economic impact and that any company run in the drivers of investment performance is an assessment of the the long term interests of its shareholders will need to corporate governance principles and practices of the manage effectively relationships with its employees, suppliers companies in which we invest our clients assets and we and customers, to behave ethically and to have regard to the expect those companies to demonstrate high standards of environment and society as a whole.
Our investment governance in the management of their business.
managers take these factors into account as part of any Proxy voting is an important part of the corporate investment decision.
governance process, and we view seriously our obligation to manage the voting rights of the shares entrusted to us as we would manage any other asset.
It is the policy of JPMAM to vote in a prudent and diligent manner, based exclusively on our reasonable judgement of what will best serve the financial interests of our clients.
So far as is practicable we will vote at all of the meetings called by companies in which we are invested.
In order to do this we have formulated detailed guidelines for each region, which set out our stance on a variety of key corporate governance issues, including disclosure and transparency, board composition and independence, control structures, remuneration, as well as social and environmental issues see below.
These guidelines form the basis of our proxy voting decisions, although it should be noted that
