22 JPMorgan Fleming Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Corporate Governance Compliance Board Composition The Company is committed to high standards of corporate The Board consists of six non-executive Directors, all of governance.
This statement, together with the Statement of whom are regarded by the Board as independent, including Directors Responsibilities on page 26, indicates how the the Chairman.
The Directors have a breadth of investment, Company has applied the principles of good governance of business and financial skills and experience relevant to the the Financial Reporting Council Combined Code the Companys business and brief biographical details of each Combined Code and the AICs Code of Corporate Director are set out on page 16.
Governance, the AIC Code, which complements the A review of Board composition and balance is included as part Combined Code and provides a framework of best practice of the annual performance evaluation of the Board.
The Board for investment trusts.
has considered whether a senior independent director should The Board is responsible for ensuring the appropriate level of be appointed and has concluded that, as the Board consists Corporate Governance and considers that the Company has entirely of non-executive directors, this is unnecessary.
complied with the best practice provisions of the Combined Tenure Code, other than in respect of the provision relating to the Directors are initially appointed until the following Annual appointment of a senior independent director, and the AIC General Meeting when, under the Companys Articles of Code throughout the year under review.
Association, it is required that they be elected by shareholders.
Role of the Board Thereafter, a Directors appointment will run for a term of A management agreement between the Company and three years.
Subject to the performance evaluation carried out JPMAM sets out the matters over which the Manager has each year, the Board will agree whether it is appropriate for authority.
This includes management of the Companys assets the Director to seek an additional term.
Any Director who has and the provision of accounting, company secretarial, served for a period of more than nine years will submit administration, and some marketing services.
All other himself for annual re-election thereafter.
matters are reserved for the approval of the Board.
A formal The terms and conditions of Directors appointments are set schedule of matters reserved to the Board for decision has out in formal letters of appointment, copies of which are been approved.
This includes determination and monitoring available for inspection on request at the Companys of the Companys investment objectives and policy and its registered office and at the AGM.
future strategic direction, gearing policy, management of the The Board recommends the re-election of Lord Halifax, who capital structure, appointment and removal of third party was appointed since the last AGM, and of Charles Peel and service providers, review of key investment and financial Hamish Leslie Melville who retire by rotation at this data and the Companys corporate governance and risk years AGM.
The Board meets at least quarterly during the year and Meetings and Committees additional meetings are arranged as necessary.
Full and The Board delegates certain responsibilities and functions to timely information is provided to the Board to enable it to committees.
Details of membership of committees are function effectively and to allow Directors to discharge shown with the Directors profiles on page 16.
who are not members of Committees may attend at the There is an agreed procedure for Directors to take invitation of the Chairman.
independent professional advice if necessary and at the In line with corporate governance guidance, the Chairman Companys expense.
This is in addition to the access that decided to stand down fom the Audit Committee with effect every Director has to the advice and services of the Company from 19th March 2008.
Secretary, JPMAM, which is responsible to the Board for ensuring that applicable rules and regulations are complied with and that Board procedures are followed.
JPMorgan Fleming Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 23 The table below details the number of Board, Audit The Committee undertakes an annual performance Committee and Nomination Committee meetings attended evaluation, as described above, to ensure that all members of by each Director.
During the year there were five Board the Board have devoted sufficient time and contributed meetings, two Audit Committee meetings and two adequately to the work of the Board.
The Committee also Nomination Committee Meetings.
reviews Directors fees and makes recommendations to the Board as and when appropriate.
Director Board Audit Nomination Meetings Committee Committee Audit Committee Attended Meetings Meetings The Audit Committee, chaired by Ian Russell, consists of all Attended Attended the Directors other than the Chairman from 19th March 2008 and meets at least twice each year.
The members of the Hamish Leslie Melville 5 2 2 Committee consider that they have the requisite skills and 1 Nicholas Berry 20 1 experience to fulfil the responsibilities of the Committee.
2 Lord Halifax 1 n a n a The Committee reviews the actions and judgements of the Richard Hambro 4 2 1 1 Manager in relation to the half year and annual accounts and Simon Keswick 210 the Companys compliance with the Combined Code.
It Sandy Nairn 4 1 2 reviews the terms of the management agreement and Charles Peel 5 2 2 1 examines the effectiveness of the Companys internal control Lord Rothermere 0 0 0 systems, receives information from the Managers Compliance Ian Russell 522 department and reviews the scope and results of the external 1 Retired as a Director on 16th May 2007. audit, its cost effectiveness, the balance of audit and non-audit 2 Appointed a Director on 5th December 2007. services, and the independence and objectivity of the external auditors.
In order to safeguard the Auditors objectivity and Training and Appraisal independence, non-audit services are carried out through a On appointment, the Manager and Company Secretary partner other than the audit engagement partner.
provide all Directors with induction training.
Thereafter Representatives of the Companys auditors attend the regular briefings are provided on changes in regulatory Committee meeting at which the draft annual report and requirements that affect the Company and Directors.
The Directors statement on the Directors are encouraged to attend industry and other Companys system of internal control is set out on page 24. seminars covering issues and developments relevant to investment trusts.
Both the Nomination Committee and the Audit Committee have written terms of reference which define clearly their The Board has undertaken an evaluation of the Manager, its respective responsibilities, copies of which are available for own performance and that of its committees and individual inspection on request at the Companys registered office and Directors.
The evaluation of individual Directors is led by the at the Companys AGM.
Chairman and another Director leads the evaluation of the Chairmans performance.
The Board as a whole evaluates the Relations with Shareholders Manager, its own performance and that of its committees.
The Board regularly monitors the shareholder profile of the Company.
It aims to provide shareholders with a full Board Committees understanding of the Companys activities and performance Nomination Committee and reports formally to shareholders four times a year by way The Nomination Committee, chaired by Hamish Leslie of the Annual Report and Accounts, Half Year Financial Melville, consists of all the Directors and meets at least Report and two Interim Management Statements.
This is annually to ensure that the Board has an appropriate balance supplemented by the daily publication, through the London of skills to carry out its fiduciary duties and to select and Stock Exchange, of the net asset value of the Companys propose suitable candidates when necessary for appointment.
External search consultants were not used in connection with the appointment of the one Director during the year.
All shareholders have the opportunity, and are encouraged, to attend the Companys Annual General Meeting at which the Directors and representatives of the Manager are available in person to meet with shareholders and answer questions.
In addition, a presentation is given by the Investment Managers 24 JPMorgan Fleming Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Corporate Governance continued who review the Companys performance.
During the year the Financial Reporting Regular and comprehensive review by Companys brokers and the Investment Managers hold the Board of key investment and financial data, including regular discussions with larger shareholders.
The Directors are management accounts, revenue projections, analysis of made fully aware of their views.
The Chairman and Directors transactions and performance comparisons.
make themselves available as and when required to address Management Agreement Appointment of a manager and shareholder queries.
The Directors may be contacted through custodian regulated by the Financial Services Authority the Company Secretary whose details are shown on page 47.
FSA, whose responsibilities are clearly defined in a The Companys Annual Report and Accounts is published in written agreement.
time to give shareholders at least 20 working days notice of Management Systems The Managers system of internal the Annual General Meeting.
Shareholders wishing to raise control includes organisational agreements which clearly questions in advance of the meeting are encouraged to write define the lines of responsibility, delegated authority, control to the Company Secretary at the address shown on page 47 or procedures and systems.
These are monitored by JPMAMs via the website.
Compliance department which regularly monitors Details of the proxy voting position on each resolution will be compliance with FSA rules.
published on the Companys website shortly after the Annual Investment Strategy Authorisation and monitoring of the General Meeting.
Companys investment strategy and exposure limits by the Board.
Internal Control The Combined Code requires the Directors, at least annually, The Board, either directly or through the Audit Committee, to review the effectiveness of the Companys system of keeps under review the effectiveness of the Companys internal control and to report to shareholders that they have system of internal control by monitoring the operation of done so.
This encompasses a review of all controls, which the the key operating controls of the Manager and its associates Board has identified as including business, financial, as follows: operational, compliance and risk management.
reviews the terms of the management agreement The Directors are responsible for the Companys system of and receives regular reports from JPMAMs internal control which is designed to safeguard the Compliance department: Companys assets, maintain proper accounting records and reviews reports on the internal controls and the operations ensure that financial information used within the business, or of its custodian, JPMorgan Chase Bank, which is itself published, is reliable.
However, such a system can only be independently reviewed: and designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and therefore can only provide the Directors review on a regular basis an independent reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against fraud, material report on the internal controls and the operations mis-statement or loss.
Since investment management, custody of assets and all By the means of the procedures set out above, the Board administrative services are provided to the Company by confirms that it has reviewed the effectiveness of the JPMAM and its associates, the Companys system of internal Companys system of internal control for the year ended control mainly consists of monitoring the services provided 31st January 2008, and to the date of approval of this Annual by JPMAM and its associates, including the operating Report and Accounts.
controls established by them, to ensure they meet the During the course of its review of the system of internal Companys business objectives.
The Company does not have control, the Board has not identified nor been advised of any an internal audit function of its own, but relies on the failings or weaknesses which it has determined to be internal audit department of JPMAM.
The key elements designed to provide effective internal control are as follows:
