J JPMor PMorgan R gan Russian Securities plc ussian Securities plc Annual R Annual Repor eport & Accounts 2008 t & Accounts 2008 19 19 Corporate Governance Compliance Board Composition The Company is committed to high standards of corporate The Board consists of six non-executive Directors, chaired by governance.
This statement, together with the Statement Pamela Idelson Smith, all of whom are regarded by the Board of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the Accounts on as independent of the Companys Manager.
The Chairmans page 24, indicates how the Company has applied the independence was assessed upon her appointment and is principles of good governance of the Financial Reporting re-assessed on an annual basis.
Council Combined Code the Combined Code and the The Directors have a breadth of investment knowledge, AICs Code of Corporate Governance, the AIC Code, business and financial skills and experience relevant to the which complements the Combined Code and provides a Companys business and brief biographical details of each framework of best practice for investment trusts.
Director are set out on page 13.
The Board is responsible for ensuring the appropriate level of A review of Board composition and balance is included as corporate governance and considers that, apart from certain part of the annual performance evaluation of the Board, matters noted below the Company has complied with the best details of which may be found below.
The Board has practice provisions of the Combined Code, insofar as they are considered whether a senior independent director should be relevant to the Companys business, and the AIC Code appointed and has concluded that, as the Board consists throughout the year under review.
entirely of non-executive directors, this is unnecessary at present.
However, the Audit Committee Chairman leads the Role of the Board evaluation of the performance of the Chairman and is A management agreement between the Company and available to shareholders if they have concerns that cannot be JPMAM sets out the matters over which the Manager has resolved through discussion with the Chairman.
This includes management of the Companys assets and the provision of accounting, company secretarial, Tenure administration, and some marketing services.
All other Directors are initially appointed until the following Annual matters are reserved for the approval of the Board.
A formal General Meeting when, under the Companys Articles of schedule of matters reserved to the Board for decision has Association, it is required that they be elected by shareholders.
This includes determination and Thereafter, a Directors appointment will run for a term of monitoring of the Companys investment objectives and three years.
Subject to the performance evaluation carried out policy and its future strategic direction, gearing policy, each year, the Board will agree whether it is appropriate for management of the capital structure, appointment and the Director to seek an additional term.
The Board does not removal of third party service providers, review of key believe that length of service in itself necessarily disqualifies a investment and financial data and the Companys corporate Director from seeking re-election but, when making a governance and risk control arrangements.
recommendation, the Board will take into account the The Board meets at least quarterly during the year and requirements of the Combined Code, including the need to additional meetings are arranged as necessary.
Full and timely refresh the Board and its sub-Committees.
The Companys information is provided to the Board to enable it to function Articles of Association require that Directors stand for effectively and to allow Directors to discharge their re-election at least every three years.
Any Director who has responsibilities.
served for a period of more than nine years will stand for annual re-election thereafter.
There is an agreed procedure for Directors to take independent professional advice if necessary and at the The terms and conditions of Directors appointments are set Companys expense.
This is in addition to the access that out in formal letters of appointment, copies of which are every Director has to the advice and services of the Company available for inspection on request at the Companys Secretary, JPMAM, which is responsible to the Board for registered office and at the AGM.
ensuring that the Board procedures are followed and that As a result of the evaluation process described below, the applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
Board confirms that Paul Teleki, who retires by rotation at this years Annual General Meeting, continues to be effective as a Director and demonstrates commitment to his role.
Accordingly, the Board recommends the re-election of Paul Teleki.
Furthermore, having appointed George Nianias during the year, he will retire and stand for election.
20 JPMorgan Russian Securities plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Corporate Governance continued Meetings and Committees Board Committees The Board delegates certain responsibilities and functions to Nomination Committee committees.
Details of membership of committees are shown The Nomination Committee, chaired by Patrick Gifford, with the Directors profiles on page 13.
Directors who are not consists of all Directors and meets at least annually to ensure members of Committees may attend at the invitation of the that the Board has a balance of skills and experience to carry Chairman.
out its fiduciary duties and to select and propose suitable candidates, for appointment when necessary.
A variety of The table below details the number of Board and Audit sources, including the use of external recruitment consultants, Committee meetings attended by each Director.
During the may be used to ensure that a wide range of candidates are year there were five Board meetings, one of which included considered.
the evaluation of the Manager and another was largely devoted to strategy, two Audit Committee meetings and a The Nomination Committee undertakes an annual Nomination Committee meeting.
performance evaluation to ensure that all members of the Board have devoted sufficient time and contributed Audit Nomination adequately to the work of the Board.
The Committee also Board Committee Committee reviews Directors fees and makes recommendations to the Meetings Meetings Meetings Board as and when required.
Director Attended Attended Attended Audit Committee Pamela Idelson Smith 5 2 1 The Audit Committee, chaired by Paul Teleki, consists of all Patrick Gifford 5 2 1 the Directors and meets at least twice each year.
The members of the Audit Committee consider that they have the requisite George Nianias 2 1 1 skills and experience to fulfil the responsibilities of the James Nicholson 5 2 1 Committee.
Paul Teleki 5 2 1 The Audit Committee reviews the actions and judgements of management in relation to the half year and annual accounts Lysander Tennant 5 2 1 of the Company and the Companys compliance with the Combined Code.
It reviews the terms of the management Training and Appraisal agreement and examines the effectiveness of the Companys On appointment, the Manager and Company Secretary internal control systems, receives information from the provide all Directors with induction training.
Thereafter Managers Compliance department and also reviews the regular briefings are provided on changes in regulatory scope and results of the external audit, its cost effectiveness requirements that affect the Company and the Directors.
and the independence and objectivity of the external auditors.
Directors are encouraged to attend industry and other No non-audit work was undertaken by the auditors in the seminars covering issues and developments relevant to year under review and the Directors remain satisfied as to investment trusts.
Representatives of the Companys The Board conducts a formal evaluation of the Manager, its auditors attend the Audit Commitee meeting at which the own performance and that of its committees and individual draft annual report and accounts are considered.
Questionnaires, drawn up by the Board, are The Directors statement on the Companys system of completed by each Director, the responses are collated and internal control is set out on page 21. then discussed at a private meeting.
The evaluation of individual Directors is led by the Chairman, and the Terms of Reference Chairman of the Audit Committee leads the evaluation of the Both the Nomination Committee and the Audit Committee Chairmans performance.
The Board as a whole evaluates the have written terms of reference which define clearly their Manager, its own performance and that of its Committees.
respective responsibilities, copies of which are available for inspection on request at the Companys registered office, on the Companys website, on request at the Companys registered office and at the Annual General Meeting.
J JPMor PMorgan R gan Russian Securities plc ussian Securities plc Annual R Annual Repor eport & Accounts 2008 t & Accounts 2008 21 21 Since investment management, custody of assets and all Relations with Shareholders administrative services are provided to the Company by The Board regularly monitors the shareholder profile of the JPMAM and its associates, the Companys system of internal Company.
It aims to provide shareholders with a full control mainly comprises monitoring the services provided understanding of the Companys activities and performance by JPMAM and its associates, including the operating and reports formally to shareholders quarterly each year by controls established by them, to ensure they meet the way of the annual report and accounts, the half year report Companys business objectives.
Whilst the Company does not and two interim management statements.
This is have an internal audit function of its own, the Board supplemented by the daily publication, through the London considers that it is sufficient to rely on the internal audit Stock Exchange, of the net asset value of the Companys department of JPMAM.
This arrangement is reviewed on an shares.
The key elements designed to provide effective All shareholders are encouraged, to attend the Companys internal control are as follows: Annual General Meeting at which the Directors and representatives of the Manager are available in person to meet Financial Reporting Regular and comprehensive review by with shareholders and answer their questions.
In addition, a the Board of key investment and financial data, including presentation is given by the investment managers who review management accounts, revenue projections, analysis of the Companys performance.
During the year the Companys transactions and performance comparisons.
broker, the investment managers and JPMAM hold regular Management Agreement Appointment of a manager and discussions with larger shareholders.
The Directors are made custodian regulated by the Financial Services Authority fully aware of their views.
The Chairman and Directors make FSA, whose responsibilities are clearly defined in a written themselves available as and when required to address agreement.
The Directors may be contacted through Management Systems The Managers system of internal the Company Secretary whose details are shown on page 45. control includes organisational agreements which clearly The Companys Annual Report and Accounts is published in define the lines of responsibility, delegated authority, control time to give shareholders at least 20 working days notice of procedures and systems.
These are monitored by JPMAMs the Annual General Meeting.
Shareholders wishing to raise compliance department which regularly monitors compliance questions in advance of the meeting are encouraged to write with FSA rules and reports to the Board.
to the Company Secretary at the address shown on page 45.
Investment Strategy Authorisation and monitoring of the Details of the proxy voting on each resolution will be Companys investment strategy and exposure limits by the published on the Company website shortly after the Annual Board.
The Board, either directly or through the Audit Committee, keeps under review the effectiveness of the Companys system Internal Control of internal control by monitoring the operation of the key The Combined Code requires the Directors, at least annually, operating controls of the Manager and its associates as follows: to review the effectiveness of the Companys system of internal control and to report to shareholders that they have Reviews the terms of the management agreement and done so.
This encompasses a review of all controls, which the receives regular reports from JPMAMs compliance Board has identified as including business, financial, department: operational, compliance and risk management.
Reviews the reports on the internal controls and the The Directors are responsible for the Companys system of operations of its custodian, JPMorgan Chase Bank, which internal control which is designed to safeguard the is itself independently reviewed: and Companys assets, maintain proper accounting records and Reviews every six months an independent report on the ensure that financial information used within the business, or internal controls and the operations of JPMAM.
However, such a system can only be designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to By means of the procedures set out above, the Board confirms achieve business objectives and therefore can only provide that it has reviewed the effectiveness of the Companys system reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against fraud, material of internal control for the year ended 31st October 2008, and mis-statement or loss.
to the date of approval of this Annual Report and Accounts.
During the course of its reviews of the system of internal control, the Board has not identified, nor been advised of any failings or weaknesses which it has determined to be significant.
22 JPMorgan Russian Securities plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Corporate Governance continued Corporate Governance and Voting Policy Corporate Social Responsibility The Company delegates responsibility for voting to JPMAM.
The following is a summary of JPMAMs policy statement on The following is a summary of JPMAMs policy statement on corporate social responsibility which has been noted by the corporate governance and voting policy which has been noted Board: by the Board.
The full policy is available from JPMAM on We believe it is our primary duty to act in the best financial request, or can be downloaded from the internet as follows: interests of our clients and to achieve good financial returns Go to www.
co. uk institutional consistent with an acceptable level of risk.
We recognise that and within the Commentary Analysis tab you will find a non financial issues, such as social and environmental issues, section on Corporate Governance.
can have an economic impact and that any company run in the long term interests of its shareholders will need to manage JPMAM is committed to delivering superior investment effectively relationships with its employees, suppliers and performance to its clients worldwide.
We believe that one of customers, to behave ethically and to have regard to the the drivers of investment performance is an assessment of the environment and society as a whole.
Our investment corporate governance principles and practices of the managers take these factors into account as part of any companies in which we invest our clients assets and we investment decision.
expect those companies to demonstrate high standards of governance in the management of their business.
Proxy voting is an important part of the corporate governance process, and we view seriously our obligation to manage the voting rights of the shares entrusted to us as we would manage any other asset.
It is the policy of JPMAM to vote in a prudent and diligent manner, based exclusively on our reasonable judgement of what will best serve the financial interests of our clients.
So far as is practicable we will vote at all of the meetings called by companies in which we are invested.
In order to do this we have formulated detailed guidelines for each region, which set out our stance on a variety of key corporate governance issues, including disclosure and transparency, board composition and independence, control structures, remuneration, as well as social and environmental issues.
These guidelines form the basis of our proxy voting decisions, although it should be noted that JPMAM makes all of its voting decisions on a case by case basis, taking into account the individual circumstances of each vote.
