Corporate governance Corporate governance The Committee believes that given the external auditors detailed The Company is committed to high standards of corporate governance.
knowledge of the Groups operations, its structure and accounting This statement describes how the principles of corporate governance policies and the importance of carrying out detailed due diligence as set out in the revised Combined Code issued by the Financial part of the acquisition process, it is appropriate for this additional work Reporting Council the Code have been applied by the Company to be carried out by the Companys auditors.
The Committees terms during the year ended 31 December 2008.
The Company confirms of reference are available on the Companys website, www.
it has complied throughout 2008 with the provisions of the Code.
Remuneration Committee The Board The Remuneration Committee comprises all of the independent The Board currently comprises a Chairman, a Chief Executive, two non-executive directors and is chaired by Mr C A Banks.
While neither other executive directors and five non-executive directors who have the Chairman of the Company, Mr A J Habgood, nor the Chief Executive, wide experience and are considered by both the Board and the criteria Mr M J Roney, are members of the Committee, they normally attend set out in the Code to be independent.
One of these, Mr J F Harris, meetings by invitation except when the Committee is considering matters has been designated as the senior independent director.
None of the concerning themselves.
Further details of the Remuneration Committee, Companys non-executive directors had any previous connection with the Companys remuneration policy and how it is applied are set out in the Company or its executive directors on appointment to the Board.
the Directors remuneration report on pages 50 to 59.
The terms of Brief biographical details of the directors are given on page 16 of the reference of the Committee are available on the Companys website.
Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement.
Information relating Nomination Committee to the conduct of Board meetings and the procedures implemented The Nomination Committee comprises Mr A J Habgood, who to ensure that the Board retains overall control and accountability chairs the Committee, and two independent non-executive directors, for all strategic, financial, operational and compliance issues are set Mr J F Harris and Mr C A Banks.
The Committee meets as necessary out in the internal control section below and in the Financial review to enable it to make recommendations to the Board on new appointments on pages 17 to 19 of the Annual Review and Summary Financial of executive and non-executive directors.
An external search consultancy Statement.
The Board has Audit, Remuneration and Nomination is retained by the Company to assess potential candidates to be Committees which comply with the provisions of the Code.
The considered as prospective non-executive directors and, when appropriate, Company has a formal performance evaluation process for the Board, executive directors.
Candidates are then interviewed by members of its Committees and individual directors overseen by the Chairman, the Committee before an appropriate recommendation is made to the Mr A J Habgood.
This includes completion of self-assessment forms Board.
On joining the Board, new directors are given an induction into by, and individual discussions with, each director.
Led by Mr J F Harris, the business of the Company and training as necessary.
The Committee the senior independent director, the non-executive directors also meet also oversees the process for reviewing, and making recommendations without the Chairman present at least annually to appraise the Chairmans to the Board concerning, any potential conflicts of interest which may performance.
These processes were carried out satisfactorily during arise in relation to each member of the Board and this process was the year.
The Chairman periodically holds meetings with the noncarried out satisfactorily during the year.
The terms of reference of the executive directors without the executive directors present.
Finally, the Committee are set out on the Companys website.
Chief Executive, Mr M J Roney, annually presents a management succession plan which is discussed with the Chairman and the nonMeetings attendance executive directors.
Detailed information concerning the directors The following table shows the attendance in 2008 of directors at remuneration is given in the Directors remuneration report on pages Board meetings and at meetings of the Board Committees of which 50 to 59. they are members: Audit Committee Audit Remuneration Nomination The Audit Committee comprises all of the independent non-executive Board Committee Committee Committee directors and is chaired by Mr D J R Sleath who is considered by the Number of meetings 8 3 6 3 Board to have recent and relevant financial experience.
While the Chairman of the Company, Mr A J Habgood, the Finance Director, A J Habgood 8 3 Mr B M May, and the Chief Executive, Mr M J Roney, are not members M J Roney 8 of the Committee, they normally attend meetings of the Committee by J F Harris 8 3 6 3 invitation.
It receives and considers reports from the external auditors C A Banks 6 1 6 3 and the internal audit function, monitors the integrity of the annual and U Wolters 8 3 6 interim financial statements and any formal announcements relating P L Larmon 8 thereto and also reviews the Companys internal financial controls, the B M May 8 arrangements by which staff may, in confidence, raise concerns about P W Johnson 8 3 6 possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters D J R Sleath 7 3 5 and the Committees terms of reference.
During the year the Committee reviewed the effectiveness of both the external auditors and the internal Relations with shareholders audit function following completion of detailed questionnaires by The Company reports formally to shareholders twice a year with both the Board and senior management within the Company.
The the interim results announced normally at the end of August and Committee also has responsibility for making recommendations to the the annual results announced normally at the end of February.
Board concerning the appointment of the external auditors and for In addition the Company publishes two interim management statements approving the remuneration and terms of engagement of the auditors.
a year as required by the Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
The Committee reviews and approves the level and type of non-audit work which the external auditors perform, including the fees paid for The Chief Executive and Finance Director have regular meetings with such work, thus ensuring that the objectivity and independence of the representatives of institutional shareholders and report to the Board external auditors is not compromised.
Such non-audit work principally the views of major shareholders.
Additional forms of communication comprises further assurance services relating to due diligence and include presentations of the interim and annual results.
The Chairman other duties carried out in respect of acquisitions and disposals of and the senior independent director and the other non-executive businesses and tax services.
Bunzl plc Directors Report and Accounts 2008 Corporate governance 05 Corporate governance continued directors are available to meet with major shareholders on request Some of the procedures carried out in order to monitor the and the Chairman will at such meetings engage in discussions relating effectiveness of the internal control system and to identify, manage to matters of governance and strategy as appropriate.
Notice of the and mitigate business risk are listed below: Annual General Meeting is sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the Meeting.
All shareholders are encouraged to participate central management holds regular meetings with business area in the Annual General Meeting, are invited to ask questions at the management to discuss strategic, operational and financial issues Meeting and are given the opportunity to meet all of the directors including a review of the significant risks affecting each of the informally.
Shareholders are given the option to withhold their vote on business areas and the policies and procedures by which these the proxy form and the level of proxy votes cast and the balance for risks are managed: and against each resolution, together with the level of abstentions, if any, are announced to the meeting following a vote by a show of an Executive Committee, consisting of the Chief Executive, hands.
The details of the proxies lodged are also publicly announced Finance Director and other functional managers, meets twice per and placed on the Companys website.
The Board also periodically month and reviews the outcome of the discussions held at business reviews and discusses analysts and brokers reports and surveys area meetings on internal control issues: of shareholder opinions conducted by the Companys own brokers.
the Board in turn reviews the outcome of the Executive Committee Internal control and risk management discussions on internal control issues which ensures a documented The directors acknowledge that they have overall responsibility for the and auditable trail of accountability: Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
However, such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate both the Executive Committee and the Board carry out an annual the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide fraud risk assessment: reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
In accordance with the Turnbull guidance the Company has actual results are reviewed monthly against budget, forecasts and the established the procedures necessary to ensure that there is an previous year and explanations obtained for all significant variances: ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks to the Group.
The directors confirm that such procedures have the Groups bank balances around the world are monitored on a been in place for the year ended 31 December 2008 and up to the weekly basis and significant movements are reviewed centrally: date of approval of these financial statements and have been reviewed during the year.
the internal audit department periodically reviews individual businesses and procedures, makes recommendations to improve The Board meets regularly throughout the year and has formally controls and follows up to ensure that management implement the adopted a schedule of matters which are required to be brought to recommendations made.
The internal audit departments work it for decision.
These include the approval of the annual and interim is determined on a risk assessment basis and their findings are results of the Company, the Companys strategic plans, annual budget, reported to Group and business area management as well as larger capital expenditure and acquisition divestment proposals, to the Audit Committee: material increases to borrowing and loan facilities, treasury policies and the terms of reference for the Board Committees.
This ensures every six months the Audit Committee, which is chaired by that the directors maintain overall control over all significant strategic, Mr D J R Sleath, reviews the findings of the external and internal financial, operational and compliance issues.
The Board has delegated auditors and approves the future work plans of the internal to management the responsibility for establishing a system of internal audit function: control appropriate to the business environments in which the Group operates.
The principal features of this system include: regular meetings are held with insurance and risk advisers to assess the risks throughout the Group: a procedure for monitoring the effectiveness of the internal control system through a tiered management structure with clearly defined the Group Environment, Health and Safety Committee sets relevant lines of responsibility and delegation of authority: policies and practices and monitors their implementation: clearly defined authorisation procedures for capital investment risk assessments, safety audits and a regular review of progress and acquisitions: against objectives established by each business area are periodically carried out: and strategic plans and comprehensive budgets which are prepared annually by the business areas and approved by the Board: developments in tax, treasury and accounting are continually monitored by Group management in association with external advisers.
formal standards of business conduct including a code of ethics and whistleblowing procedure based on honesty, integrity and The directors confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness fair dealing: of the system of internal control in operation during 2008. a well-established consolidation and reporting system for the The external auditors are engaged to express an opinion on the statutory accounts and monthly management accounts: financial statements.
The audit includes the review and test of the system of internal financial control and the data contained in the continual investment in IT systems to ensure the production financial statements to the extent necessary for expressing an audit of timely and accurate management information relating to the opinion on the truth and fairness of the financial statements.
operation of the Groups businesses: and a detailed procedures manual covering treasury operations.
06 Corporate governance Bunzl plc Directors Report and Accounts 2008
