CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Combined Code Statement which provides information on operational and financial performance and the Groups business plans.
Directors The Board is committed to high standards of Corporate may obtain, in the furtherance of their duties, independent Governance and has complied in full throughout the year professional advice, if necessary, at the Groups expense.
with the applicable code provisions of the Combined Code In addition, all directors have direct access to the advice on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial and services of the Company Secretary.
Reporting Council in June 2006 the Code.
As an ongoing process, directors are briefed and provided The Board with information concerning major developments affecting The Board is collectively responsible to shareholders for their roles and responsibilities.
In particular, the directors the success of the Group and concentrates its efforts on knowledge of the Groups worldwide operations is regularly strategy, management performance, governance and updated by arranging presentations from local internal control.
As at the date of this report, the Board management and visits to key locations.
has seven members: the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer and four independent The Board plans to meet at least five times a year and may non-executive directors.
The names and biographical meet more frequently as required.
During the year under details of each of the directors and details of their review the Board held five meetings, with one meeting membership of the Boards committees are set out on being held in the US.
The Board considers that it met page 75.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters sufficiently often to enable the directors to discharge reserved to it for decision and approval which include, their duties effectively.
Where there are occasions where but are not limited to: circumstances arise to prevent a director attending a meeting they will receive papers for consideration and the approval of the interim and annual financial have the opportunity to submit comments to the Chairman.
statements any interim dividend and the recommendation of At the request of any non-executive director, the Chairman the final dividend will arrange meetings consisting of only the non-executive the Groups business strategy directors to allow the opportunity for any concerns to be annual budget and operating plans expressed.
During the year, the Chairman maintained major capital expenditure, acquisitions or divestments regular contact and met with the Senior Independent the systems of corporate governance, internal control Director and other non-executive directors.
and risk management The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary The Chairman works closely with the Company Secretary is a matter reserved for the Board as a whole.
to ensure that the Board is supplied in a timely manner with The table below gives details of directors attendance information in a form and of a quality appropriate to enable at meetings of the Board, Audit Committee, Nomination it to effectively discharge its duties.
In addition, directors Committee and Remuneration Committee during the are also supplied with a monthly management report, financial year ended 31 March 2008.
Remuneration Board Audit Committee Committee Nomination Committee Attended Possible Attended Possible Attended Possible Attended Possible John Peace 5 5 4 4 2 2 Angela Ahrendts 5 5 2 2 Philip Bowman 4 5 3 3 3 4 2 2 Rose Marie Bravo 1 1 1 1 Ian Carter 4 5 2 2 3 4 2 2 Stacey Cartwright 5 5 Stephanie George 5 5 2 3 4 4 2 2 David Tyler 5 5 3 3 4 4 2 2 1 Rose Marie Bravo ceased to serve as a director on 1 July 2007.
2 Ian Carter was appointed a member of all committees on 18 May 2007.
79 BURBERRY GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 08 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Directors development There is a clear division of the roles and responsibilities of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer which are set On appointment, directors are furnished with an induction out in writing and agreed by the Board.
The Chairman is pack of information, which includes key Group policies, responsible for leading the Board in reviewing the Groups guidance notes and information on corporate governance strategy and monitoring high-level progress.
In addition, visits to key locations, meetings management and performance of the Groups business is with members of the management team and updates on the responsibility of the Chief Executive Officer.
particular issues are arranged for directors as appropriate.
The Board has appointed Philip Bowman as the Senior Board performance evaluation Independent Director.
The principle role of the Senior In 2007, a review of the Board and its committees was Independent Director is to support the Chairman in his undertaken using an external facilitator.
The findings role and to lead the non-executive directors in the oversight of that review led to the appointment of an additional of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.
The Senior independent non-executive director and appointments Independent Director is also available to the shareholders to the Boards committees.
for concerns which the normal channels have failed to In 2008, an evaluation of the effectiveness of the Board, resolve or are inappropriate.
its committees and of the individual directors was carried Rose Marie Bravo ceased to serve as a director on out.
The evaluation was led by the Chairman and involved 1 July 2007.
She had held the position of Vice-Chairman holding a series of structured one-to-one interviews with from 1 July 2006 and was previously Chief Executive each of the directors.
The effectiveness of the changes between 1997 and 2006. made to the Board and its committees following the review in 2007 were considered and evaluated.
The directors also The Group has operated independently since the IPO in considered the current composition and responsibilities of 2002 and fully demerged from its former shareholder the Board and each of its committees, together with the GUS plc in 2005.
The Board considers John Peace and frequency and structure of meetings.
David Tyler to be independent since the former shareholder relationship does not affect their judgement.
If there The directors concluded that the Board and its committees are specific matters relating to the Groups previous operate efficiently and effectively.
As a result of this review, relationship with GUS plc that may cause a conflict of it was agreed that additional non-executive directors interest to arise, in accordance with the Companys Articles briefings would be held to further increase their knowledge of Association, the relevant director will not participate in and understanding of the business.
the determination of the matter concerned.
The Audit and Remuneration committees each also John Peace, Philip Bowman, Ian Carter, Stephanie undertook an evaluation of their performance and George and David Tyler are, in the opinion of the Board, effectiveness during the year by way of a detailed independent of management and free from any business questionnaire.
The results of these evaluations were relationship which could materially interfere with the reported to the Board by the respective committee exercise of their independent judgement.
The results of the reviews concluded that year under review the majority of the Board excluding the each of the committees was functioning appropriately.
Chairman comprised independent non-executive directors.
A formal meeting of the non-executive directors, without Board appointments the Chairman present, was held during the year, led by Board nominations are recommended to the Board by the Senior Independent Director.
the Nomination Committee under its terms of reference.
Committees All directors are subject to election by shareholders at the The Board is supported by a number of committees Annual General Meeting following their appointment and including the following principal committees: Audit thereafter to re-election at least once every three years Committee, Remuneration Committee and Nomination in line with the Companys Articles of Association and Committee.
All the non-executive directors are members provision A.
The biographical details of each of the principal committees of the Board.
of those directors seeking re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting can be found on page 75 of this The terms of reference of each of the principal committees Annual Report.
are available on request and can be viewed on the Companys website www.
110 80 BURBERRY GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 08 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED The committees, if they consider it necessary, can engage The Committee is responsible for reviewing and monitoring with third-party consultants and independent professional the effectiveness of the Groups internal control procedures advisors and can call upon other resources of the Group and risk management systems.
During the year, the to assist them in developing their respective roles.
In Committee reviewed the Groups internal audit plan and addition to the relevant committee members and the approved the internal audit plan for the financial year to Company Secretary, external advisors and, on occasion, 31 March 2009.
In addition, the Committee reviewed the other directors attend committee meetings but only at adequacy of the whistle-blowing arrangements in place the invitation of the chairmen of the committees.
to enable employees to raise, in confidence, any concerns they may have.
Audit Committee During the financial year, the Committee reviewed the The Audit Committee comprises four independent effectiveness of the external audit process and the non-executive directors: qualification, expertise, resources and independence Philip Bowman Chairman of the external auditors.
The Committee also reviewed Ian Carter appointed 18 May 2007 the proposed audit fee and terms of engagement for the Stephanie George financial year to 31 March 2008 and has recommended David Tyler to the Board that it propose to shareholders that The main roles and responsibilities of the Audit Committee  LLP be re-appointed as the Groups external auditor.
are set out in written terms of reference.
The Committee recognises that the independence of the The Audit Committee is responsible for: auditors is an essential part of the audit framework and the monitoring the integrity of the Groups financial assurance that it provides.
The Committee monitors the statements and any formal announcements relating types of non-audit work that are undertaken by the external to the Groups performance auditors to ensure that their objectivity and independence reviewing the Groups internal financial controls and is not compromised.
Any proposed non-audit assignments risk management systems require prior approval and the Committee receives a report monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the at each meeting providing details of non-audit assignments carried out by the external auditors in addition to their Groups internal audit function normal work.
assessing the independence, objectivity and effectiveness of the external auditors Details of the fees paid to the external auditors during developing and implementing policies on the the financial year can be found in note 5 in the financial statements.
engagement of the external auditors for the supply of non-audit services Remuneration Committee making recommendations for the appointment, The report of the Remuneration Committee is set out on re-appointment and removal of the external auditors and pages 84 to 93. approving their remuneration and terms of engagement Nomination Committee reviewing arrangements by which employees may, in The Nomination Committee comprises: confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting and other matters John Peace Chairman Angela Ahrendts The Board is satisfied, in accordance with the provisions Philip Bowman of the Code, that at least one member of the Audit Rose Marie Bravo resigned 1 July 2007 Committee has recent and relevant financial experience Ian Carter appointed 18 May 2007 given the nature of the senior management positions held Stephanie George by Philip Bowman and David Tyler see biographical details David Tyler on page 75.
The Nomination Committee met twice during the year The Committee met three times during the year.
attendance record of Committee members is recorded in the table on page 79.
At the invitation of the Committee, The Nomination Committee is responsible for reviewing the the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Financial Officer, balance and composition of the Board and its committees the Director of Audit and Risk Assurance and the external and for identifying and recommending appointments or auditors regularly attend meetings.
In addition, the renewal of appointments to the Board.
These regular Committee met during the year with the external reviews ensure that the Group and the Board are able auditors without management present.
to draw from a complementary balance of skills and experience and that there is in place an appropriate plan 81 BURBERRY GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 08 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Corporate Responsibility for orderly succession to the Board.
The procedure for appointments is set out in its terms of reference.
Details on the Groups approach to Corporate Responsibility are given on pages 69 to 73.
Relations with shareholders The Board recognises the importance of maintaining Accountability and audit good communications with its shareholders and does this The Board acknowledges that it should present a balanced through its Annual and Interim Reports, interim and understandable assessment of the Companys position management statements, the Annual General Meeting and and prospects.
In this context, reference should be made through the additional processes described below.
to the Statement of Directors Responsibilities on page 94, which includes a statement in compliance with the Code The Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer regarding the Groups status as a going concern, and to make presentations to institutional shareholders and the Report of the Auditors on page 95 which includes a analysts immediately following the release of the preliminary statement by the auditors about their reporting responsibilities.
and interim results: these presentations are made available The Board recognises that its responsibility to present a on the Companys website www.
balanced and understandable assessment extends to The Company communicates with its institutional investors interim and other price sensitive public reports and frequently and regularly through a combination of formal reports to regulators as well as information required and informal meetings, participation at investor to be presented by law.
conferences and ad-hoc briefings with management.
Internal control The Board is kept abreast of the views of major The Board acknowledges that it is responsible for the shareholders by briefings from the Director of Investor Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its Relations.
During the year, the Board obtained an effectiveness.
Such a system is designed to manage independent insight into the views of major shareholders rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business through research commissioned with an external advisor.
objectives and can provide only reasonable and not The outcomes of that research were presented and absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
In addition, analysts notes and The Audit Committee has reviewed the effectiveness of brokers briefings are also used to achieve a wide the key procedures, which have been established to understanding of investors views.
As part of the process that the The non-executive directors, including the Senior Group has in place to review the effectiveness of the Independent Director, are available to meet with major internal control system there are procedures designed to shareholders to discuss issues of importance to them, capture and evaluate failings and weaknesses, and in the should a meeting be requested.
case of those categorised by the Board as significant, procedures exist to ensure that necessary action is taken In accordance with the provisions of the Code, the to remedy the failings.
Notice of the 2007 Annual General Meeting was sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the In accordance with the revised guidance for directors Meeting.
A poll vote was taken on each of the on internal control the Revised Turnbull Guidance, resolutions put before shareholders.
the Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks Voting at the 2008 Annual General Meeting will be by faced by the Group.
These include those relating to social, way of poll.
The results of the voting at the Annual General environmental and ethical matters.
This process was in Meeting will be announced and details of the votes place throughout the year under review and up to the will be available to view on the Companys website date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
com as soon as possible after process is regularly reviewed by the Audit Committee the meeting.
which reports its findings for consideration by the Board, It is the intention that all directors, including the chairmen and is in accordance with the Revised Turnbull Guidance.
of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination committees will attend the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and will be available to answer shareholders questions.
110 82 BURBERRY GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 08 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED The key procedures operating within the Group are Information and communication as follows: The Group has a comprehensive system of budgetary control, focused on monthly performance reporting which Risk assessment is at an appropriately detailed level.
A summary of results The Groups business objectives are incorporated into supported by commentary and performance measures the annual budgeting and planning cycle.
Progress is provided to the Board each month.
The performance towards the achievement of such objectives is monitored measures are subject to review to ensure that they provide by a variety of financial measures and non-financial relevant and reliable indications of business performance.
A summary of the key business risks and relevant control The Risk Committee of executive management meets measures is submitted by the executive directors to the formally at least every six months to re-evaluate risk Audit Committee at the end of the financial year.
The Audit and to consider the work of the Internal Audit and Risk Committee meets with both external and internal auditors.
During the year the Committee met on three occasions.
The Director of Audit and Risk Monitoring Assurance attends these meetings.
A range of procedures is used to monitor the effective application of internal control within the Group.
These The Board has delegated responsibility for considering include management review, management confirmations operational, financial, compliance and other risks to the of compliance with standards and procedures as well as Audit Committee.
internal audit and other specialist reviews.
The Internal Control environment and control activities Audit department is responsible for reporting to the Audit The Group consists of a number of business regions, each Committee on the effectiveness of internal control systems.
with its own management structure which forms part of the overall management structure of the Group.
The senior executives of these units report to the executive directors.
The Group has established procedures for the delegation of authorities for matters that are considered significant, either because of their value or the impact on the Group, to ensure that approval is considered at an appropriate level.
The Groups trading units operate within a framework of policies and procedures which are either already laid down or are being established in organisation or authority manuals.
Policies and procedures cover key issues such as authorisation levels, compliance with legislation and physical security.
The Group has implemented various strategies to deal with the risk factors that have been identified.
Such strategies include a framework of internal control and the use of third-party services to assist in monitoring specific issues.
In addition, other approaches are taken, such as insurance.
BURBERRY GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 08 83
