Corporate governance 25 The directors are required to report on how the be taken and the views of a dissenting director Corporation has applied the main and supporting recorded in the minutes.
principles in the Combined Code on Corporate Procedures are in place to enable independent Governance the Code, and to confirm that it has professional advice to be taken by individual complied with the Codes provisions or, where this directors at the Corporations expense, and has not been the case, to provide an explanation.
appropriate insurance cover is in place in respect The Corporation was a constituent of the FTSE 250 of legal action against the directors.
during the period of the review, so all of the provisions of the Code apply to it.
However, the Code The board meets regularly throughout the year.
recognises that investment companies such as Law The attendance records of the directors both at Debenture may have board structures which might meetings of the board and, where relevant, affect the relevance of particular provisions of the meetings of board committees are set out in the Code.
Where Law Debenture has departed from any table below.
There was also a strategy day during provisions of the Code, this will be explained below.
the year attended only by the directors.
Board Remuneration Audit Nominations The board role, modus operandi and Number of meetings appraisal in the year 9 3 4 1 The board includes a majority of non-executive Meetings attended by: directors.
The names of the directors, all of whom C. J. Banszky 9 served through the year, along with biographies, are A. C. Cates 9 3 4 1 on page 5 of the annual report.
A. Kay 8 3 4 1 The board is responsible for the overall strategy and D. C. P. McDougall 8 3 4 1 management of the group, setting investment policy R. J. Williams 9 and strategy and ensuring that the Corporation is One of these was held at short notice to take routine decisions.
operating in compliance with statutory and legal obligations.
There is a formal schedule of matters The board keeps under review the performance of specifically reserved for board decision, and this the executive director, and the chairman formally document is published on the Corporations website appraises all the directors each year.
com under investment trust investor executive directors meet once each year without information.
Matters connected with strategy and the presence of the chairman to review the management, structure and capital, financial chairmans performance, the results of the review reporting and control, investment trust portfolio, being discussed with the chairman by the senior contracts, shareholder communication, board independent director.
membership and other appointments, remuneration Mr Cates is the senior independent director.
He is and corporate governance are reserved for the available to shareholders who have concerns that board.
There is a separate schedule setting out the cannot be addressed through the chairman, division of responsibility between the chairman and managing director or chief financial officer.
The chairman takes personal responsibility for The board independence leadership of the board and ensures that directors At least half of the board, excluding the Chairman, receive accurate, timely and clear information.
He must be independent non-executive directors.
The reviews the provision of information with the board has concluded that as at the date of this company secretary at least annually.
report, excluding the chairman, two of the four other directors are independent non-executives.
In judging The board operates as a collective decision independence, the board takes into account whether making forum.
Individual directors are required to or not a director is independent of management and scrutinise reports produced by the executive, and any material business or other relationship that are encouraged to debate issues in an open and could affect or interfere with the exercise of constructive manner.
If one or more directors objective judgement by the director, or his her cannot support a consensus decision, a vote will www.
com The Law Debenture Corporation p. l. c. 26 Corporate governance continued ability to act in the best interests of the Corporation non-executive director is appointed without first being and its subsidiaries.
interviewed by each existing non-executive director.
The chairman, Mr McDougall, was independent at All new directors undergo an induction process, appointment and continues to be independent in the involving presentations by the managing director view of the board, notwithstanding the fact that he and each business head and meetings with the has served as a director for more than nine years investment manager.
and that he is not taken into account in assessing the independence of the board as a whole.
Commencing at the 2009 AGM, all directors will be Assessment of independence should be about submitted for annual re-election, subject to conduct, not an arbitrary time limit.
continued satisfactory performance, which is assessed as described above.
There is no maximum The board is satisfied that Mr McDougalls other number of terms that a director may serve.
commitments do not interfere with the discharge of his responsibilities to Law Debenture, and is Directors remuneration satisfied that he makes sufficient time available to Details of the directors remuneration appear in the discharge his duties as chairman of Law Debenture.
Mr Cates was until 30 April 2002 a partner of Clifford Chance LLP, a firm that has provided advice Board committees to certain of the independent fiduciary services The board has established a nominations committee, subsidiaries from time to time.
The board has an audit committee and a remuneration committee, concluded that this does not affect the assessment to which it has delegated certain responsibilities.
of Mr Cates as independent for two reasons.
Firstly, Each committee has terms of reference, which are the Corporations independent fiduciary services published on the Corporations website businesses obtain legal advice from many leading www.
com investment-trust investorlaw firms during the course of a year.
many instances, external factors rather than Law All members of board committees are independent Debentures preference dictate the choice of legal non-executive directors.
The Smith guidance, which adviser, or conflicts of interest dictate that one firm forms part of the Code, says that the chairman must be chosen ahead of another.
should not be a member of the audit committee.
Professor Kay was independent at appointment in The Corporations board, which is small, has September 2004 and remains so, having had no concluded that given the range and complexity of previous connections with the Corporation or any of issues considered by the committee, it is its subsidiaries.
appropriate to have three members including the chairman.
The board notes that following a review On 1 January 2005, Mr Williams became a nonof the Code by the Financial Reporting Council, for executive director, having previously spent 11 years smaller companies the proscription on the as an executive director.
He is not considered by the chairman serving on an audit committee has been board to be independent because of his period as removed.
Although during 2008 the Corporation an executive.
was not a smaller company, nevertheless for the The board re-election and renewal reasons given above, non-compliance with this part The nominations committee described in more detail of the Code is in the shareholders best interests.
elsewhere in this report ensures that the board has The Code provides that the chairman may be a in place arrangements for orderly and transparent member of the remuneration committee the earlier appointments to the board.
There are job descriptions Code proscribed this but that he should not be its in place for non-executive directors roles, and the chairman.
The Corporations board has concluded that board has written terms and conditions of appointment it is appropriate, given the size of the board, for the for non-executive directors, which are available for chairman to be on the remuneration committee and, inspection at the AGM.
Particular care is taken to given his experience and knowledge, that he is best ensure that non-executive directors have sufficient time placed of the three committee members to chair it.
to commit to the duties expected of them.
No new The Law Debenture Corporation p. l. c. www.
com 27 A summary of each committee is set out below.
A. Kay chairman The number of meetings held during the year, and D. C. P. McDougall the attendance record of committee members is set A. C. Cates out in the table on page 25.
The board is satisfied that all members have the necessary recent and relevant financial experience Nominations committee to serve.
Role To keep under review the structure, size and composition of the board and make recommendations Remuneration committee about adjustments that are deemed necessary, and to Role ensure effective succession planning in accordance To develop the Corporations remuneration policy with legal and corporate governance needs.
and oversee its implementation, monitoring the effectiveness of the policy as it relates to the Key duties groups executives.
Identification and nomination for board approval of suitable candidates to fill vacancies: Key duties Reviewing and agreeing the remuneration and Succession planning in particular of the chairman benefits of the executive director and senior and managing director : executives in the light, as relevant, of corporate performance against a range of measures:Making recommendations about the reappointment of non-executive directors: and Development of total remuneration packages, taking account of factors set out in the Code, Ensuring that the board and its committees are based in part on performance and subject to constituted to comply so far as practicable with suitable performance measurements as set by the Code.
the committee: and Members To make recommendations to the board for any D. C. P. McDougall chairman changes to long term incentive arrangements.
A. Kay Members D. C. P. McDougall chairman Audit committee A. C. Cates Role J.
A. Kay To assist the board in the management of the The board does not operate a Management groups finances and financial reporting structure.
The duties of such a Key duties committee are undertaken directly by the board.
Monitoring the independence and objectivity of the auditors, their performance and remuneration and Accountability and audit making recommendations on the appointment of The statement of directors responsibilities in relation new auditors: to the financial statements appears on page 23 of the annual report and accounts.
The  the statutory audit: auditors report appears on pages 36 and 37.
The Reviewing the annual and interim accounts before directors confirm that the Corporation is a going submission to the board, including particular focus concern as evidenced by the financial statements, on changes in accounting policy etc: and which demonstrate a healthy position, taking into account all known and future anticipated liabilities, Reviewing the effectiveness of systems of internal and the groups ability to meet those liabilities.
control and risk management including monitoring the internal audit function.
The financial statements present a balanced and clear assessment of the financial position and prospects of the Corporation and the group.
com The Law Debenture Corporation p. l. c. 28 Corporate governance continued financial statements are reviewed by the auditReview of reports by the external auditors on their committee, then approved by the board, and signed annual audit work, and specific checks carried out by the chairman and managing director.
on behalf of treasury management clients.
Non-audit services provided by the auditor and by The internal audit programme and system of PKF UK LLP prior to its resignation are reviewed compliance checks have both been developed using by the audit committee to ensure that independence a risk-based methodology and an evaluation of is maintained.
Non-audit fees are shown at note 3 process controls.
The boards policy is that non-audit The board considers that the above measures work which normally consists of taxation and constitute continuing application of the Turnbull other technical advice will be carried out by the guidance and form an important management tool Corporations auditors unless there is a conflict of in the monitoring and control of the groups interest or someone else is considered to have operational risks.
An important element of the overall controls remains Internal controls a continuous review of the quality and effectiveness The following paragraphs describe the framework of internal financial controls of the group.
During the of internal controls in place to ensure that the year, the board has continued to require that the Corporation complies with the Financial Reporting group maintains proper accounting records, so that Councils guidance the Turnbull guidance which it can rely on the financial information it receives to forms a part of the Code, and with the obligations make appropriate business decisions and also that of the UKLAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
the groups assets are safeguarded.
Key elements This section should be read in conjunction with the of the systems of internal control continue to be: business review, from which shareholders will better Regular qualitative self-assessment of the understand the risks that our internal controls are in effectiveness of the individual controls maintained place to manage.
in the overall internal financial control framework: The board monitors the effectiveness of internal Preparation by management of a comprehensive controls on a continuous basis and in a number of and detailed budget system, involving annual ways, both directly through main board general board approval and monthly comparison at board reviews and also by the more specific work carried level of actual results with budgets and forecasts: out by the audit committee.
The various mechanisms include:Systematic reporting to the board of matters relating to litigation, insurance, pensions, taxation, Board review of the groups matrix of key risks accounting and cash management as well as and controls: legal, compliance and company secretarial issues: An internal audit function, which involves not only Review of internal audit reports by the appropriate each business department including overseas operating company board and the audit offices being subject to audit on a regular basis, committee: but also regular reviews of other business wide processes:Review of the internal controls of those services, such as investment management, custody and Testing by the compliance officer of the Financial registration, which have been delegated to third Services Authority FSA regulated business parties, such review being conducted during the systems and controls: initial contractual negotiation and on a regular Periodic reports to the board by the compliance basis, including annual discussions with the senior officer about legal and regulatory changes, and management and compliance staff of Henderson the steps that the board must take to comply: and Global Investors Limited: The Law Debenture Corporation p. l. c. www.
com 29 Monitoring by the board of the investment Annual general meeting management process, including the establishment Details of the annual general meeting AGM for and maintenance of investment guidelines, 2009 are set out at pages 66 to 69. receiving a report from the investment manager at The board recognises the value of the AGM as an each board meeting, the review of all transactions opportunity to communicate with investors and with the investment manager and regular encourage their participation.
Separate resolutions reconciliations of the records of the group with are put to the AGM on each substantially separate those of the global custodian and investment data issue.
Except where a poll has been called, the level services provider: and of proxies lodged for each resolution, and the Receipt of frequent and detailed reports about the balance for and against the resolution and the independent fiduciary services businesses, number of abstentions is disclosed to the meeting.
including reports and attendance at board This information is published immediately after the meetings from time to time from managing AGM on the Corporations website.
Those appointing directors of overseas subsidiaries.
a proxy have the opportunity to indicate vote withheld if they wish neither to support nor oppose The systems of internal financial control are a resolution.
The notice of the AGM and related designed to provide reasonable, but not absolute, papers are sent to shareholders at least 20 working assurance against material mis-statement or loss.
Where requested by nominee holders, annual reports and related By means of the procedures set out above, the documentation are circulated to beneficial owners directors have established a process for identifying, and the Corporation is happy for beneficial owners evaluating and monitoring the effectiveness of the to attend the AGM and where appropriate internal control systems for the period.
This process arrangements have been made with the nominee to has been in place throughout 2008 and will be vote their shares in person.
reviewed by the board on a regular basis.
Arrangements are in place by which staff of the Summary statement of compliance group may, in confidence, raise concerns under the The board has concluded that, as demonstrated by Public Interest Disclosure Act 1998 about possible the disclosures made in the foregoing, the improprieties in matters of financial reporting or Corporation has complied throughout 2008 with the other matters.
If necessary, any member of staff requirements of the Combined Code on Corporate with an honest and reasonable suspicion about Governance or, where it has not complied, an possible impropriety may raise the matter directly explanation has been provided.
Compliance is with the chairman of the audit committee.
reported in respect of the entire Code.
Arrangements are in place for the proportionate and independent investigation of such matters and for appropriate follow up action.
Relations with shareholders and institutional shareholder responsibilities The Corporations compliance with these aspects of the Code is described separately within the directors report.
com The Law Debenture Corporation p. l. c.
