Governance Corporate Governance The Board of Legal & General Group Plc the Company Non-attendance at Board and Committee meetings is or Legal & General is committed to high standards of rare and it is usually due to the occurrence of unexpected corporate governance.
It supports the Combined Code commitments or for newly appointed directors, when there on Corporate Governance 2006 the Code, which sets is a clash with a previous commitment that cannot be standards of good practice for UK listed companies.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved to it, including decisions on strategic This section of the Annual Report, together with the issues, capital expenditure, dividend policy and material Directors Report, the Remuneration Report and the contracts.
In addition, the Board regularly reviews major Nominations Committee Report, explains how the projects, considers operating and financial issues and Company complies with the principles and relevant monitors performance against plan.
As well as dealing provisions of the Code.
with the formal business of the Board, at each meeting, directors receive a detailed review from a senior manager The Board of a key strategic or operational issue.
This is designed not The Board is collectively responsible for determining the only to help non-executive directors develop a thorough strategic direction of the Group and for ensuring that the understanding of key issues facing the Group but also to Company meets its obligations to shareholders.
During help them build working relationships with senior managers.
2008, the Board met nine times and also held a strategy event at an off-site location.
The number of Board and The Chairman and non-executives meet formally at least Committee meetings attended by each director during twice a year without executive directors being present.
the year was as follows: The Chairman, in conjunction with the Company Fig.
Secretary, ensures that the Board receives the information it needs to discharge its duties.
Board AC NC RC At the 2008 AGM, shareholders passed a resolution to Number of meetings during 2008 9 4 2 5 change the Articles of Association primarily to take into Sir Rob Margetts 9 9 2 5 5 account the changes in English Company Law brought Tim Breedon 9 9 4 4 5 5 about by the Companies Act 2006 and to bring the Andrew Palmer 9 9 4 4 Articles into line with best practice.
As permitted under the Kate Avery 9 9 Companies Act 2006, the new Articles include a provision John Pollock 9 9 for dealing with directors conflicts of interests to avoid a Frances Heaton 9 9 4 4 2 breach of duty, giving the directors authority to approve Rudy Markham 7 9 4 4 2 5 5 such situations.
The Board has approved a policy and Ronaldo Schmitz 7 9 2 4 5 procedure whereby conflicts of interests are disclosed Henry Staunton 9 9 4 4 2 and authorised as appropriate.
The procedure was James Strachan 7 9 3 4 2 5 5 implemented in the last quarter of 2008.
It is the Boards Sir David Walker 9 9 2 5 5 intention to review annually authorisations of conflicts.
Key AC Audit Committee Board Composition and Structure NC Nominations Committee As at 31 December 2008, the Board comprised 11 RC Remuneration Committee directors.
Biographies of all directors currently holding office appear on page 49.
50 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 www.
