Governance Report of the Audit Committee Summary of the Role of the Audit Committee All Audit Committee members are required to be financially literate The Audit Committee is appointed by the Board from the nonand to have relevant corporate finance experience.
The Group executive directors of Legal & General Group Plc.
It is a Committee provides an induction programme for new Audit Committee of the Board established pursuant to Article 110 of the Articles members and ongoing training to enable all of the Committee of Association.
members to carry out their duties.
The induction programme covers the role of the Audit Committee, its terms of reference and expected The Audit Committees terms of reference include all matters time commitment by members: and an overview of the Groups indicated by the Combined Code, except the oversight of business, including the main business and financial dynamics and compliance risks, including adherence to the Financial Services risks.
New Audit Committee members also meet some of the Groups and Markets Act 2000, which is the direct responsibility of the Board.
Ongoing training includes attendance at formal conferences, The Group Risk & Compliance Committee, which reports to the internal Company seminars and briefings by external advisers.
Group Board and whose minutes are copied to the Audit Committee, supervises the Groups Risk Framework and therefore considers all risks The Board expects the Audit Committee members to have an including compliance risk.
The terms of reference are considered understanding of the following areas: annually by the Audit Committee and are then referred to the Board the principles of, contents of, and developments in financial for approval.
reporting including the applicable accounting standards and statements of recommended practice The primary objective of the Audit Committee is to assist the Board key aspects of the Companys operations and risk control of Directors in fulfilling its responsibilities relating to: framework including corporate policies, company financing, external financial reporting and associated announcements products and systems of internal control the independence of the Groups external auditor matters that influence or distort the presentation of accounts the resourcing, plans and overall effectiveness of the internal and key figures audit department the principles of, and developments in, company law, the adequacy and effectiveness of the control environment: and sector-specific laws and other relevant corporate legislation the Groups compliance with the Combined Code on Corporate the role of internal and external auditing and risk management Governance in so far as they relate to the financial reporting and the regulatory framework for the Groups businesses risk management aspects of the Groups operations.
environmental and social responsibility best practices: and current issues pertaining to the above areas.
The Audit Committee Chairman reports the outcome of meetings to the Board, and the Board receives the minutes of all Committee Meetings meetings.
The Audit Committee is required to meet four times per year and has an agenda linked to events in the Groups financial calendar.
The The Audit Committee has unrestricted access to Company documents agenda is predominantly cyclical and is therefore approved by the and information, as well as to employees of the Company and the Audit Committee Chairman on behalf of his fellow members: each external auditor.
Audit Committee member has the right to require reports on matters The members of the Audit Committee are: of interest in addition to the cyclical items.
The Audit Committee invites the Group Chief Executive, Group Director Finance, Group Financial Controller, Group Chief Internal Name Date of appointment Auditor, Group Actuary and senior representatives of the external 26 July 2004 and appointed auditor to attend all of its meetings in full, although it reserves the Henry Staunton Chairman on 27 April 2005 right to request any of these individuals to withdraw.
Other senior management are invited to present such reports as are required for Frances Heaton 14 November 2001 the Audit Committee to discharge its duties.
James Strachan 21 January 2004 Overview of the Actions Taken by the Audit Committee Rudy Markham 15 May 2007 to Discharge its Duties In order to fulfil its terms of reference, the Audit Committee receives Membership of the Audit Committee is reviewed by the Chairman of and challenges presentations or reports from the Groups senior the Committee, Henry Staunton, and the Group Chairman, who is not management, consulting as necessary with senior representatives a member of the Audit Committee, at regular intervals.
of the external auditor and the independent actuaries.
Where necessary, they will recommend new appointments to the The Audit Committee is required to assist the Board to fulfil its Nominations Committee for onward recommendation to the Board.
responsibilities relating to external financial reporting and associated Appointments are for a period of three years and are extendible announcements.
The Audit Committee reviewed the interim and by no more than two additional three-year periods.
The Audit annual financial statements, together with the associated Stock Committee is normally comprised of four independent non-executive Exchange announcements, having received information on: directors, with a minimum of three members at any time.
Three the accounting principles, policies and practices adopted in members constitute a quorum.
the Groups accounts The Audit Committee structure requires the inclusion of one financially changes proposed to those principles, policies and practices qualified member as recognised by the Consultative Committee significant accounting issues of Accountancy Bodies.
Currently, two members of the Audit current actuarial issues Committee fulfil this requirement.
the level of insurance provisions and reserves litigation and contingent liabilities affecting the Group: and potential tax contingencies and the Groups compliance with statutory tax obligations.
70 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 www.
com Governance The Audit Committee is required to assist the Board to fulfil its To fulfil its responsibility for oversight of the external audit process, responsibilities relating to the adequacy and effectiveness of the the Audit Committee reviewed: control environment and the Groups compliance with the Combined the terms, areas of responsibility, associated duties and scope of Code.
To fulfil these duties, the Audit Committee reviewed: the audit as set out in the engagement letter for the forthcoming the report entitled Directors view on Internal Controls, submitted to year from the external auditor the Audit Committee by the Group Risk & Compliance Committee, the overall work plan for the forthcoming year presented by the which sets out the framework of risk management, control external auditor monitoring, and any control issues that have arisen the fee proposal presented by the external auditor the minutes of the Group Risk & Compliance Committee meetings the major issues that arose during the course of the audit and during 2008 their resolution the annual Internal Control Report for 2007 as present by the the key accounting and audit judgements external auditor the levels of errors identified during the audit: and Internal Audit reports on key audit areas and significant control the recommendations made by the external auditor in the environment deficiencies: and management letter, entitled The Internal Control Report, and reports on frauds perpetrated against the Group and current the adequacy of managements response.
Internal Audit Function The Audit Committee Chairman reports back to the Audit Committee The Audit Committee is committed to supporting Internal Audit and on the Group Risk & Compliance Committee meetings which he maintaining its ongoing relationship with the department to enable attends.
During 2008 the Audit Committee Chairman attended all Internal Audit to assist the Audit Committee to fulfil its statutory four of these meetings.
responsibilities in relation to the adequacy and effectiveness of the control environment and the Groups compliance with the During the year the Audit Committee undertook a formal review of its Combined Code.
own effectiveness and is satisfied that it had been operating as an effective Audit Committee meeting all applicable legal and regulatory The Audit Committee is also required to assist the Board to fulfil its requirements.
These reviews are undertaken annually.
responsibilities relating to the adequacy of the resourcing, plans and overall effectiveness of the Internal Audit department.
External Audit The Audit Committee is responsible for the development, To fulfil all of these responsibilities, the Audit Committee reviewed: implementation and monitoring of the Groups policy on external Internal Audits plans for 2008 and its achievement of the audit.
The policy assigns oversight responsibility for monitoring the planned activity independence, objectivity and compliance with ethical and the results of key audits and other significant findings, the regulatory requirements to the Audit Committee, and day-to-day adequacy of managements response and the timeliness responsibility to the Group Director Finance.
The policy states that the of resolution external auditor is jointly responsible to the Board and the Audit statistics on staff numbers, qualifications and experience Committee and that the Audit Committee is the primary contact.
and timeliness of reporting: and the level and nature of non-audit activity performed by The Groups policy on external audit sets out the categories of Internal Audit.
non-audit services which the external auditor will and will not be allowed to provide to the Group.
The policy requires pre-confirmation The Groups Public Interest Disclosure Policy the Whistleblowing by the Audit Committee of any non-audit work subject to fide Policy sets out arrangements for employees, contractors and third minimis levels.
parties to raise concerns or complaints regarding accounting, risk issues, internal controls, auditing issues and related matters with To fulfil its responsibility regarding the independence of the external relevant line management or senior Group managers.
These are auditors, the Audit Committee reviewed: escalated to the Group Chief Internal Auditor GCIA in confidence, the changes in key external audit staff in the plan for the current for reporting to the Audit Committee as appropriate.
year presented by the external auditor the arrangements for day-to-day management of the The Audit Committee held private meetings with the external auditors audit relationship and with the GCIA after Audit Committee meetings to review key a report identifying the number of former external audit staff issues within their spheres of interest and responsibility as considered now employed by the Group and their positions within the Group necessary.
a report from the external auditor describing their arrangements The GCIA reports functionally to the Audit Committee and to identify, report and manage any conflicts of interest: and administratively to the Group Director Finance.
The GCIA has a the overall extent of non-audit services provided by the external private meeting with the Audit Committee Chairman at least twice auditor, in addition to their case-by-case approval of the provision during the course of the year and has regular monthly meetings with of non-audit services by the external auditor.
the Group Chief Executive and the Group Director Finance where To assess the effectiveness of the external auditor, the Audit key risk and control issues are discussed.
Committee reviewed: The Chairman of the Audit Committee will be present at the AGM to the fulfilment of the agreed audit plan and variations from the answer questions, through the Chairman of the Board, on the report plan undertaken by the external auditor on the Audit Committees activities, matters within the scope of the robustness and perceptiveness of the external auditor in the Audit Committees responsibilities and any significant matters handling the key accounting and audit judgements: and brought to the Audit Committees attention by the external auditor.
the content of the Internal Control Report presented by the The Corporate Governance pages of the Legal & General website external auditor.
provide supplementary information including the terms of reference for the Audit Committee and the Groups policy on external audit.
Additionally, the Audit Committee consults with and obtains reports from the independent actuaries.
com Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 71
