Governance Corporate Governance The Board of Legal & General Group Plc the Company Non-attendance at Board and Committee meetings is or Legal & General is committed to high standards of rare and it is usually due to the occurrence of unexpected corporate governance.
It supports the Combined Code commitments or for newly appointed directors, when there on Corporate Governance 2006 the Code, which sets is a clash with a previous commitment that cannot be standards of good practice for UK listed companies.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved to it, including decisions on strategic This section of the Annual Report, together with the issues, capital expenditure, dividend policy and material Directors Report, the Remuneration Report and the contracts.
In addition, the Board regularly reviews major Nominations Committee Report, explains how the projects, considers operating and financial issues and Company complies with the principles and relevant monitors performance against plan.
As well as dealing provisions of the Code.
with the formal business of the Board, at each meeting, directors receive a detailed review from a senior manager The Board of a key strategic or operational issue.
This is designed not The Board is collectively responsible for determining the only to help non-executive directors develop a thorough strategic direction of the Group and for ensuring that the understanding of key issues facing the Group but also to Company meets its obligations to shareholders.
During help them build working relationships with senior managers.
2008, the Board met nine times and also held a strategy event at an off-site location.
The number of Board and The Chairman and non-executives meet formally at least Committee meetings attended by each director during twice a year without executive directors being present.
the year was as follows: The Chairman, in conjunction with the Company Fig.
Secretary, ensures that the Board receives the information it needs to discharge its duties.
Board AC NC RC At the 2008 AGM, shareholders passed a resolution to Number of meetings during 2008 9 4 2 5 change the Articles of Association primarily to take into Sir Rob Margetts 9 9 2 5 5 account the changes in English Company Law brought Tim Breedon 9 9 4 4 5 5 about by the Companies Act 2006 and to bring the Andrew Palmer 9 9 4 4 Articles into line with best practice.
As permitted under the Kate Avery 9 9 Companies Act 2006, the new Articles include a provision John Pollock 9 9 for dealing with directors conflicts of interests to avoid a Frances Heaton 9 9 4 4 2 breach of duty, giving the directors authority to approve Rudy Markham 7 9 4 4 2 5 5 such situations.
The Board has approved a policy and Ronaldo Schmitz 7 9 2 4 5 procedure whereby conflicts of interests are disclosed Henry Staunton 9 9 4 4 2 and authorised as appropriate.
The procedure was James Strachan 7 9 3 4 2 5 5 implemented in the last quarter of 2008.
It is the Boards Sir David Walker 9 9 2 5 5 intention to review annually authorisations of conflicts.
Key AC Audit Committee Board Composition and Structure NC Nominations Committee As at 31 December 2008, the Board comprised 11 RC Remuneration Committee directors.
Biographies of all directors currently holding office appear on page 49.
50 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 www.
com Governance The Board consists of a part-time non-executive responsibility to the Group Chief Executive, who is Chairman, four executive directors and six non-executive supported by the executive directors and heads of directors.
Throughout 2008, the majority of directors were business operating units.
The Group Chief Executive chairs non-executive, all of whom with the exception of the the Executive Committee of which all executive directors Chairman the Board has determined to be independent are members.
The International & Strategy Director, the in both character and judgement.
Their diverse business Chief Executive Officer Investments, the Strategy Director experience and wide range of skills enable the nonand the Company Secretary are all in regular attendance.
executive directors to make a significant contribution at meetings of the Board and its Committees.
Sir David Walker is the Vice Chairman and senior independent director.
He also chairs the Remuneration Although Sir Rob Margetts first joined the Board in Committee.
As senior independent director, Sir David June 1996, the Board believes that his knowledge and Walker is available to shareholders if they have concerns experience are of great value to the Board and the which cannot be resolved through the usual channels.
The Company Secretary, through the Chairman, is The terms and conditions of appointment of the nonresponsible for advising the Board on all governance executive directors are available for inspection at the matters and for ensuring good information flows within the Companys registered office and at the AGM.
All directors have access to the advice and services records for all directors who have held office during the of the Company Secretary, as well as to external advice, year appear in Fig.
4. as required, at the expense of the Group.
2008 Board Changes Board Evaluation There were no changes to the composition of the Board The Board and its directors participate in an evaluation during 2008. process, the aim of which is to assess the effectiveness of the Boards collective performance as well as the Responsibilities contributions of individual directors.
The Board has agreed a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Group Chief Executive.
The Board is currently undertaking an evaluation for The roles of the Chairman, Group Chief Executive and the current year which will be completed by April 2009. directors are clearly defined so that no single individual Following the previous evaluation the Board agreed an has unrestricted powers of decision.
As part of the action plan, consideration was given to the balance and composition of the Board The Chairman is responsible for leadership of the with a view to ensure an appropriate balance and Board and for ensuring effective communication with a good mix of skills and experience that would facilitate shareholders.
As part of its regular evaluation, the Board the achievement of the Companys strategy.
A separate considers the Chairmans availability and his capacity evaluation is carried out to assess the effectiveness of to undertake his role, against the background of his the Audit Committee.
This was concluded in May 2008 other commitments.
The Board remains satisfied that the and feedback provided by the Chairman of the Audit Chairman continues to be able to fulfil the normal time Committee to the members of the Committee.
Executive commitments required of his role and has the personal directors are subject to an annual appraisal and to regular commitment and capacity to make himself available review of their performance by the Group Chief Executive.
The Chairman conducts the annual appraisal, and regularly reviews the performance of the Group Chief The Group Chief Executive is responsible for the day to Executive.
In the case of the Chairman, feedback was day management of the Group and implementation of delivered by the senior independent director.
the strategy approved by the Board.
com Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 51 Governance Corporate Governance Appointments to the Board institutional investor meetings and presentations.
Appointments to the Board are the responsibility of Corporate Communications and Investor Relations ensure the Board as a whole on the recommendation of the that the view of investors are addressed.
All directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first AGM after their The Board regards the AGM as an important opportunity appointment and, thereafter, are subject to re-election to communicate directly with private investors.
Board once every three years.
The removal and appointment of members, including the Chairmen of the Remuneration, the Company Secretary is a matter reserved for the Board.
Nominations and Audit Committees, attend the meeting and are available to answer questions.
To encourage Induction and Training shareholders engagement, the Company provides both New directors participate in a formal induction programme electronic as well as written proxy appointment facilities for tailored to their individual needs.
The induction programme all shareholders.
In line with the Code, details of voting by is designed to give directors an understanding of the shareholders, including votes withheld, are made available Group, its business and the markets in which it operates.
on the Companys website following the meeting.
The Introductory visits are arranged to Groups sites and AGM Notice is sent to shareholders at least 20 working with key suppliers and stakeholders.
All directors days before the meeting and sets out a separate resolution are required to maintain and develop their knowledge on each substantive issue.
The resolutions to be proposed throughout their period of office.
As part of its continuing at the 2009 AGM together with the explanatory notes are training programme, the Group runs occasional training available on the Companys website.
Sessions run during 2008 included market consistent and embedded value The Company has taken advantage of the new electronic reporting MCEV.
shareholder communications provisions in the Companies Act 2006: those shareholders who have elected to receive In addition, all directors are invited to participate in the Annual Report and Accounts electronically have Legal & Generals educational and business awareness been able to access such information on the day they seminars for senior management.
the economy and the economy outlook for 2008, Takaful insurance, capital and cash flow, MCEV and Annuities.
Board Committees The Board has a number of standing committees: Shareholder Relations The Board places considerable importance on Audit Committee AC maintaining good relationships with shareholders.
There The role and work of the AC is set out on page 70. is regular dialogue with institutional shareholders through meetings held on a regular basis.
The Chairman, senior Corporate Social Responsibility Committee CSR management or the senior independent director are The role and work of the CSR Committee is set out on available to meet institutional shareholders when required.
No shareholders asked to meet with Sir David Walker during the reporting period.
During 2008, a number of Nominations Committee NC events have been held by Investor Relations to broaden The role and work of the Nominations Committee is set shareholders understanding of the Groups activities and out on page 72. strategy: some of such presentations are available on the Companys website.
Shareholders can receive updates Remuneration Committee RC throughout the year on the Companys website which The role and work of the Remuneration Committee is set provides share price information and historical results.
The Corporate Communications and Investor Relations Group Risk and Compliance Committee GRCC teams have day-to-day responsibility for managing The role and work of the Group Risk and Compliance shareholder communications through analysts and Committee is set out on page 54 and 55.
52 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 www.
com Governance Internal Control compliance reports and presentations from the The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups internal Compliance Director on at least a quarterly basis control systems and for monitoring their effectiveness.
presentations of the results of internal audits by Implementation and maintenance of the internal control the Group Chief Internal Auditor to the AC: and systems are the responsibility of the executive directors and monitoring and reporting on the control environment senior management.
The performance of internal control by business units to the GRCC.
systems is reviewed regularly by the AC, the GRCC and the main operating boards.
The Board takes regular account of the significance of social, environmental and ethical matters to the businesses The Board regularly reviews actual and forecast of the Group.
The GRCCs review of the significant risks performance of its businesses compared with their one to the Group includes these matters.
The work of the year plans, as well as other key performance indicators.
CSR Committee, which is chaired by the Group Chief Lines of responsibility and delegated authorities are clearly Executive, are outlined on page 41. defined.
The Groups control policies and procedures are published on a dedicated intranet site, which is regularly The Groups internal control systems are designed to updated and accessible throughout the Group.
Senior manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to meet managers are required to confirm compliance with these business objectives and can only provide reasonable, and policies throughout the year.
The results of this confirmation not absolute, assurance against material misstatement process are considered by the AC on behalf of the or loss.
In assessing what constitutes reasonable Group Board.
assurance, the Board has regard to materiality and to the relationship between the cost of, and benefit from, The arrangements for establishing policies in respect of the internal control systems.
key risks to the Group are set out below.
The results of the ongoing monitoring of financial, Review of Internal Control operational and compliance controls, and the risk The Code requires directors to review and report to management process, are reported by the AC to the shareholders on the Groups internal control systems, which Board.
For 2008, the Board was able to conclude, with include financial, operational and compliance controls, reasonable assurance, that appropriate internal control and risk management.
systems were maintained throughout the year.
The Board has controls in place to identify, evaluate Internal Audit and manage significant risks faced by the Group on an Internal Audit advises management on the extent to which ongoing basis and for determining the effectiveness of the systems of internal control are adequate and effective to system of internal control.
Where failings or weaknesses manage business risk, safeguard the Groups resources are identified, necessary actions are taken to remedy any and ensure compliance with legal and regulatory such failings or weaknesses.
It provides objective assurance on risk and control to senior management and the Board.
Established procedures, including those already described, are in place to comply with the Code.
The Board assesses Internal Audits work is focused on areas of greatest risk to the effectiveness of internal control systems on the basis of: the Group as determined by a structured risk assessment regular reports by management to the main operating process involving executive directors and senior managers.
boards and the AC, on the adequacy and effectiveness The output from this process is summarised in a plan of internal control systems and significant control issues which is presented to the AC.
The Group Chief Internal the GRCCs review of the continuous process Auditor reports regularly to the Group Chief Executive for formally identifying, evaluating and managing and to the AC.
the significant risks to the achievement of the Groups objectives www.
com Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 53 Governance Corporate Governance Compliance framework provides assurance that risks are being The Group Compliance function is responsible for oversight appropriately identified and managed and that an of the Groups compliance with regulatory requirements independent assessment of risks is being performed.
This encompasses the provision of policy advice and guidance to the regulated firms, oversight A detailed review of the Groups inherent exposures to of regulated firms compliance arrangements to assess market, credit, insurance, liquidity and operational risks, whether firms have appropriate systems, procedures and together with the framework for their management and controls in place to manage their permitted regulatory control, is set out at Note 50 to the Financial Statements.
activities, and oversight of regulatory risks arising from Analysis of specific risk factors underpinning Principal authorised firms compliance responsibilities.
The Risks and Uncertainties to the Group are set out on Compliance Director reports quarterly to the GRCC pages 14 to 15. and regularly to the Group Board.
Committee Structure Management of Risk Oversight of the risk management framework is The Group, in the course of its business activities, is exposed performed on behalf of the Board by the GRCC.
The to insurance, market, credit, liquidity, and operational GRCC meets quarterly and is chaired by the Group risks.
Overall responsibility for the management of these Chief Executive.
All executive directors are members.
risks is vested in the Board.
To support it in this role, a risk In addition, senior managers drawn from across the framework is in place comprising formal committees, Group are regular attendees.
The Chairman of the AC risk review functions, risk management policies, and risk and  LLP, as external auditors, assessment processes.
These are underpinned by defined have a standing invitation to attend.
risk principles describing the behaviours, practices and culture to support effective risk governance.
Risk Governance Framework Risk Management Risk Oversight Independent Assurance Board Exco Audit Committee Business Units Management GRCC Group Risk Function Internal Audit Committees Business Unit Risk Review GCC CCC IMRC IRC ORAC Risk Committees Functions 54 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 www.
com Governance The primary role of GRCC is to ensure there are Fig.
6. appropriate processes in place across the Group to identify, assess, monitor and control critical risks facing the Committee Role Group.
It reports regularly to the Board and as well as providing its minutes to the AC, a formal report is made Group Capital To assess the capital requirements on its assessment of the operation of the Groups risk Committee GCC including the economic capital framework.
The GRCC has sub-committees that provide requirements of the Group: monitor oversight of specific aspects of the risks to which the Group the sources of capital available to may be exposed.
Details of their roles are set out in Fig.
6. meet these requirements: and The GRCC monitors contagion risk across the Group.
oversee the allocation of capital to operational business units.
Detailed monitoring of actual risk positions to tolerances Counterparty Credit To set limits for the Groups exposure is performed within business operating units.
For Committee CCC to any single counterparty exposure financial risks, exposures are reported to the relevant and oversee the management of sub-committee of the GRCC.
To monitor the management exposures within these limits.
of operational risk and compliance with regulation, a Risk and Compliance Committee RCC is in place for each of the main business operating units of the Group.
RCCs Group Investment To monitor developments in investment formally report both to their operating boards and to the & Market Risk markets: consider asset allocation GRCC.
Management of risks arising from the Groups Committee IMRC strategies: and ensure that exposures overseas subsidiaries is performed by the boards of the to market and liquidity risks remain local holding companies, which provide reports to within acceptable parameters.
Group Insurance Risk To determine the range of products Committee GIRC that the Group may write: evaluate Risk Review Functions strategies for the management of Group and the business operating units risk review insurance risks: and ensure that functions provide oversight of the risk management exposures to insurance risk remain processes within the Group.
A central risk function is within acceptable parameters.
responsible for setting the risk management framework, policy and standards.
Risk Review Functions in each of the business operating units manage the framework Group Operational Risk To determine the Groups overall in line with these standards.
Their responsibilities include Assessment Committee framework for the management the evaluation of changes in the business operating ORAC of operational risks: setting policy for environment and business processes, the assessment of the management of specific aspects these changes on risks to business and the monitoring of the Groups operational risks: and of the mitigating actions.
The Risk Review Functions also ensuring consistency of approach ensure that business operating units risk committees are to operational risk management provided with meaningful risk reports and that there is across the Group.
appropriate information to assess risk issues.
com Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 55 Governance Corporate Governance Risk Policies Further analysis of these risks to the Group, together The Group has a common risk language for the with high-level management processes, are set out in classification and aggregation of the types of risk to which Note 50 to the Financial Statements.
The main categories of financial and non-financial risks are summarised in Fig.
For Risk Assessment Processes each category the Group has defined policies setting out The Group has a standardised assessment framework the required risk management framework, minimum for the identification and assessment of the different types standards of control and the approach to determine of risk it may be exposed to and how economic capital economic capital for residual exposures.
The policies are should be determined in relation to those exposures.
reviewed and approved by the relevant committees set This framework is applicable across all of the Group out in Fig.
Where appropriate, and establishes a basis of consistency not only for the more detailed policies and procedures are in place approach to determining and embedding economic defining the approach to the management of specific capital management but also for risk assessment, aspects of each risk category.
The operation of the management and reporting processes at all levels Groups risk policies is supported by Risk Review Functions of the Group.
with independent review by Group Internal Audit.
Within the risk assessment framework, four distinct types Fig.
7. of risk exposure are identified: Insurance Risk The risk arising from higher Strategic Risks uncertainties that arise from the Groups claims being experienced than strategy and the markets in which it operates: was anticipated.
Emerging Risks matters of internal and external concern: Market Risk The risk arising from fluctuations in interest and exchange rates, Inherent Risks factors that the Group is exposed to share prices and other relevant as an intrinsic part of the operation of its business: and market prices.
Process Risks Operational risks associated with the Credit Risk The risk that the Group is exposed to operation of systems and processes.
loss if another party fails to perform its financial obligations to the Group.
Each risk type may be mapped to the risk categories outlined in Fig.
Liquidity Risk The risk that the Group, though solvent, either does not have sufficient financial resources available to enable it to meet its obligations as they fall due, or can secure them only at excessive cost.
Operational Risk The risk arising from inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems, or from external events.
Contagion Risk The occurrence of a risk in one part of the Group may result in contagion risk elsewhere in the Group.
56 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 www.
com Governance The risk assessment activity is a continuous process and is performed in the context of the identification and management of the significant risks to the achievement of the Groups objectives.
Stress and scenario tests are used to support the assessment of risk.
Senior management and the risk review functions review the output of the assessments, with regular reports provided to the GRCC.
A Group-level risk assessment process determines the overall risks to the Group.
The overall risk framework and interactions are set out in Fig.
Compliance with the Code For the year ended 31 December 2008, the Board believes that the Company complied with the principles and provisions of the Code to the extent that they apply to the Company.
Change of Secretary Following the resignation of C A Davies, G J Timms was appointed Company Secretary with effect from 1 September 2008. www.
com Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 57
