70 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMPLIANCE WITH THE COMBINED CODE The board is committed to ensuring that the Group has a robust governance structure in place.
That has been uppermost in directors minds when applying the principles contained in section 1 of the 2006 combined code on corporate governance issued by the Financial Reporting Council.
The Group has complied with the provisions of the code and has done so throughout the year regarding the provisions where the requirements are of a continuing nature.
THE BOARD AND ITS COMMITTEES The Group is led by the board comprising executive and non-executive directors with wide experience.
The appointment of directors is considered by the board and, following the provisions in the articles of association, they must stand for election by the shareholders at the first annual general meeting following their appointment and must retire, and may stand for re-election by the shareholders, at least every three years.
Independent non-executive directors are appointed for three-year renewable terms, which may, in accordance with the articles of association, be terminated without notice or payment of compensation.
The board usually meets at least nine times a year.
It has a programme designed to enable the directors regularly to review corporate strategy and the operations and results of the businesses and discharge their duties within a framework of prudent and effective controls relating to the assessing and managing of risk.
The roles of the chairman, the group chief executive and the board and its governance arrangements, including the schedule of matters specifically reserved to the board for decision, are reviewed annually.
The matters reserved to the board for decision include the approval of the annual report and accounts and any other financial statements: the payment of dividends: the long term objectives of the Group: the strategies necessary to achieve these objectives: the Groups budgets and plans: significant capital expenditure items: significant investments and disposals: the basis of allocation of capital within the Group: the organisation structure of the Group: the arrangements for ensuring that the Group manages risks effectively: any significant change in accounting policies or practices: the appointment of the Companys main professional advisers and their fees: and the appointment of senior executives within the organisation and related succession planning.
According to the articles of association, the business and affairs of the Company are managed by the directors, who have delegated to management the power to make decisions on operational matters, including those relating to credit, liquidity and market risk, within an agreed framework.
All directors have access to the services of the company secretary, and independent professional advice is available to the directors at the Groups expense, where they judge it necessary to discharge their duties as directors.
During the year, Dr Tracy Long, of Boardroom Review, conducted a formal evaluation of the performance of the board, its committees and individual directors.
Directors were invited to comment, through questionnaires and interviews, and Dr Longs report was subsequently reviewed and discussed by the board.
Where areas for improvement were identified, action has been agreed.
The chairmans performance was evaluated by the non-executive directors, taking account of the views of executive directors.
This appraisal was discussed at a meeting of the non-executive directors, led by the senior independent director, without the chairman being present.
The remuneration committee reviewed the performance of the chairman, the group chief executive and the other group executive directors, when considering their remuneration arrangements.
The nomination committee reviewed the performance of all the directors and the independence of non-executive directors.
Like all board committees, the nomination committee and remuneration committee report to the board on their deliberations, including the results of the performance and independence evaluations.
The chairman has a private discussion at least once a year with every director on a wide range of issues affecting the Group, including any matters which the directors, individually, wish to raise.
There is an induction programme for all new directors, which is tailored to their specific requirements and includes visits to individual businesses and meetings with senior management.
Major shareholders are also offered the opportunity to meet new non-executive directors.
Additional training and updates on particular issues are arranged as appropriate.
DIRECTORS CONFLICTS OF INTEREST The board, as permitted by the Groups articles of association, has authorised all potential conflicts of interest declared by individual directors.
Decisions regarding these conflicts of interest could only be taken by directors who had no interest in the matter.
In taking the decision, the directors acted in a way they considered, in good faith, would be most likely to promote the Companys success.
The directors had the ability to impose conditions, if thought appropriate, when granting authorisation.
Any authorities given will be reviewed at least every 15 months.
No director is permitted to vote on any resolution or matter where he or she has an actual or potential conflict of interest.
MEETINGS WITH SHAREHOLDERS In order to develop an understanding of the views of major shareholders, the board receives regular reports from the group finance director and the director of investor relations.
The chairman, the group chief executive and the group finance director also have meetings with representatives of major shareholders and the senior independent director also attends some of these meetings.
In addition, all directors are invited to attend investment analysts and stockbrokers briefings on the financial results.
All shareholders are encouraged to attend and participate in the Groups annual general meeting.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 10 The board 66 Report of the independent Shareholder information 191 auditors on the consolidated Chairmans statement 2 Divisional results 18 Directors report 68 Index to annual report 192 financial statements 96 Group chief executives review 4 Corporate responsibility 36 Corporate governance 70 Financial calendar 2009 195 Consolidated financial Group chief executives Q&A 6 Our people 40 Directors remuneration report 74 statements 97 Marketplace trends 8 Risk management 42 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 102 Five year financial summary 65 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 182 Parent company financial statements 183 71 Notes to the parent Lloyds Banking Group company financial statements 186 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Each resolution considered at the annual general meeting in May 2008 and the general meeting in November 2008 was decided on a poll.
Votes representing approximately 50 per cent of the total number of shares in issue were cast at both meetings and each resolution was passed by a substantial majority.
Details of the poll results were announced following the meetings and displayed on our website, www.
They are available from the company secretary.
The resolutions to be considered at the annual general meeting in 2009 will also be decided on a poll.
Details of the results will be announced following the meeting and will be displayed on our website, www.
They will also be available from the company secretary.
AUDIT COMMITTEE The audit committee comprises Mr du Plessis chairman, Mr Brown, Mr Green, Lord Leitch, Mr Ryan from 1 March 2009 and Mr Scicluna.
The committees terms of reference are available from the company secretary and are displayed on our website, www.
During the year, the audit committee received reports from, and held discussions with, management and the auditors.
In discharging its duties, the committee has approved the auditors terms of engagement, including their remuneration and, in discussion with them, has assessed their independence and objectivity more information about which is given in note 11 to the consolidated financial statements, in relation to the procedure for approving fees for audit and non-audit work and recommended their re-appointment at the annual general meeting.
The committee also reviewed the financial statements published in the name of the board and the quality and acceptability of the related accounting policies, practices and financial reporting disclosures: the scope of the work of the group audit department, reports from that department and the adequacy of its resources: the effectiveness of the systems for internal control, risk management and compliance with financial services legislation and regulations more information about which is given in the note about internal control on page 73 : the results of the external audit and its cost effectiveness: and reports from the external auditors on audit planning and their findings on accounting and internal control systems.
Procedures for handling complaints regarding accounting, internal accounting controls or auditing matters and for staff to raise concerns in confidence have been established by the committee.
The committee also had a meeting with the auditors, without executives present, and a meeting with the group audit director alone.
CHAIRMANS COMMITTEE The chairmans committee, comprising the chairman and the group chief executive, meets to assist the chairman in preparing for board meetings.
The committee exercises specific powers delegated to it by the board from time to time.
GROUP EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE The group executive committee, comprising the group chief executive, the group executive directors, the wealth and international director, the chief risk officer, the group human resources director, the group integration director and the director of group operations, meets to assist the group chief executive in performing his duties.
Specifically, the committee considers the development and implementation of strategy, operational plans, policies and budgets: the monitoring of operating and financial performance: the assessment and control of risk: the prioritisation and allocation of resources: and the monitoring of competitive forces in each area of operation.
The committee, assisted by its sub-committees, the group business risk and group asset and liability committees, also supports the group chief executive in endeavouring to ensure the development, implementation and effectiveness of the Groups risk management framework and the clear articulation of the Groups risk policies, and in reviewing the Groups aggregate risk exposures and concentrations of risk.
To comply with the Companys articles of association, only committee members who are also directors of the Company participate in the exercising of any powers delegated by the board.
NOMINATION COMMITTEE The nomination committee, comprising Sir Victor Blank chairman, Dr Berndt, Mr du Plessis, Sir Julian Horn-Smith, Lord Leitch and Sir David Manning, reviews the structure, size and composition of the board, taking into account the skills, knowledge and experience of directors and considers and makes recommendations to the board on potential candidates for appointment as directors.
The committee also makes recommendations to the board concerning the re-appointment of any independent non-executive director by the board at the conclusion of his or her specified term: the re-election of any director by the shareholders under the retirement provisions of the articles of association: any matters relating to the continuation in office of a director: and the appointment of any director to executive or other office in the Company, although the chairman of the Company would not chair the committee when it was dealing with the appointment of a successor to the chairmanship of the Company.
During the year, in accordance with the plans for the orderly succession for appointments to the board, the committee recommended the appointment of one executive director and three non-executive directors.
In that regard, detailed role specifications were drawn up, external search consultants were engaged and candidates were interviewed by committee members and other directors.
In addition, the directors agreed with the committees recommendation that Mr Brown be asked to remain on the board until the annual general meeting in 2009.
This would enable the Group to continue to benefit from his wide experience and maintain an appropriate balance of skills and experience on the board, as part of the plans for orderly succession for appointments.
His continuing membership of the audit committee and understanding of the Groups activities was particularly helpful to the new chairman of that committee.
Mr Brown remains the senior independent director until he is succeeded at the conclusion of the annual general meeting by Lord Leitch.
The board considered the matter very carefully and concluded that both Mr Brown and Lord Leitch were independent in character and there were no relationships or circumstances which were likely to affect, or could appear to affect, their judgement.
72 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued The committees terms of reference are available from the company secretary and are displayed on our website, www.
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Information about the remuneration committees membership and work is given in the directors remuneration report on pages 74 to 95 and its terms of reference are available from the company secretary and are displayed on the Companys website, www.
RISK OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE The risk oversight committee comprises Sir Victor Blank chairman, Mr Brown, Mr du Plessis, Sir Julian Horn-Smith, Lord Leitch, Sir David Manning, Mr Ryan from 1 March 2009 and Mr Scicluna.
All non-executive directors are also invited to attend meetings if they wish.
The risk oversight committees duties include overseeing the development, implementation and maintenance of the Groups overall risk management framework, and its risk appetite, strategy, principles and policies, to ensure they are in line with emerging regulatory, corporate governance and industry best practice.
The committee also oversees the Groups risk exposures: facilitates the involvement of non-executive directors in risk issues and aids their understanding of these issues: oversees adherence to Group risk policies and standards and considers any material amendments to them: and reviews the work of the group risk division.
ATTENDANCE AT MEETINGS The attendance of directors at board meetings and at meetings of the audit, nomination, remuneration and risk oversight committees during 2008 were as follows: Audit Nomination Remuneration Risk Oversight Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings during the year 18 6 7 9 5 Current directors who served during 2008 W C G Berndt 16 7 9 Sir Victor Blank 18 7 8 5 Ewan Brown 17 6 5 J E Daniels 18 1 J P du Plessis 17 6 6 2 max 3 P N Green 15 5 7 Sir Julian Horn-Smith 18 7 9 5 A G Kane 17 Lord Leitch 17 6 7 5 2 Sir David Manning 10 max 15 4 max 4 6 max 7 2 max 3 3 C J McCall 5 max 7 4 M A Scicluna 11 max 11 2 1 max 1 G T Tate 18 5 T J W Tookey 3 max 3 H A Weir 18 Former directors who served during 2008 6 T A Dial 2 7 M E Fairey 4 1 Appointed to the risk oversight committee from 8 May 2008.
2 Appointed to the board, nomination, remuneration and risk oversight committees on 1 May 2008.
3 Appointed to the board on 1 October 2008.
4 Appointed to the board, audit and risk oversight committees on 1 September 2008.
5 Appointed to the board on 30 October 2008.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 10 The board 66 Report of the independent Shareholder information 191 auditors on the consolidated Chairmans statement 2 Divisional results 18 Directors report 68 Index to annual report 192 financial statements 96 Group chief executives review 4 Corporate responsibility 36 Corporate governance 70 Financial calendar 2009 195 Consolidated financial Group chief executives Q&A 6 Our people 40 Directors remuneration report 74 statements 97 Marketplace trends 8 Risk management 42 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 102 Five year financial summary 65 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 182 Parent company financial statements 183 73 Notes to the parent Lloyds Banking Group company financial statements 186 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report, the directors remuneration report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors have prepared the consolidated and parent company financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
The directors consider that in preparing the financial statements on pages 97 to 190 the Company and the Group have used appropriate accounting policies, consistently applied and supported by reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates, and that all accounting standards which they consider applicable have been followed.
The directors have responsibility for ensuring that the Company and the Group keep proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy the financial position of the Company and the Group and which enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the directors remuneration report comply with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the consolidated financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Company and the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
A copy of the financial statements of the Company is placed on our website, www.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of statutory and audited information on the Companys website.
Information published on the internet is accessible in many countries with different legal requirements.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
INTERNAL CONTROL The board of directors is responsible for the establishment and review of Lloyds Banking Groups system of internal control, which is designed to ensure effective and efficient operations, quality of internal and external reporting, internal control, and compliance with laws and regulations.
It should be noted, however, that such a system is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
In establishing and reviewing the system of internal control, the directors have regard to the nature and extent of relevant risks, the likelihood of a loss being incurred and the costs of control.
It follows, therefore, that the system of internal control can only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against the risk of material loss.
The directors and senior management are committed to maintaining a control-conscious culture across all areas of operation.
This is communicated to all employees by way of published policies and procedures and regular management briefings.
A requirement to comply with internal control risk policies is a key component of individual staff objectives expressed in the balanced scorecard.
Key business risks are identified, and these are controlled by means of procedures such as physical controls, credit, trading and other authorisation limits and segregation of duties.
In addition, there is an annual control self assessment exercise whereby the key businesses and head office functions review specific controls and attest to the accuracy of their assessments.
The assessment covers all enterprise-wide risk management categories and is in accordance with the principles of the combined code.
As in previous years, this exercise was completed for the year ended 31 December 2008.
All returns have been satisfactorily completed and appropriately certified.
The effectiveness of the internal control system is reviewed regularly by the board and the audit committee, which also receives reports of reviews undertaken around Lloyds Banking Group by group risk and group audit.
The audit committee receives reports from the Companys auditors,  LLP which include details of significant internal control matters that they have identified, and has a discussion with the auditors at least once a year without executives present, to ensure that there are no unresolved issues of concern.
GOING CONCERN The going concern of the Company and the Group is dependent on successfully funding their respective balance sheets and maintaining adequate levels of capital.
In order to satisfy themselves that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue to operate for the foreseeable future, the directors have considered a number of key dependencies as discussed in note 1 on page 102.
Having considered projections of the Groups capital and funding position, the directors consider that it is appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
