the worlds capital market corporate GoVernance lonDon stocK eXchanGe Group plc is coMMitteD to hiGh stanDarDs oF corporate GoVernance anD Business inteGritY in all its actiVities.
the coMpanY has coMplieD With all proVisions oF the coMBineD coDe throuGhout the Year enDeD 31 March 2008 eXcept as eXplaineD BeloW appointments to the Board committing to major capital expenditure Following the merger with Borsa Italiana or acquisitions: and on 1 October 2007, there were five new dividend policy.
directors appointed to the Board.
Angelo Tantazzi and Massimo Capuano joined The Board also views the brands and respectively as Deputy Chairman and reputations as regulated entities of its Deputy CEO.
Mr Tantazzi is also the Senior direct and indirect subsidiaries as important Independent Director.
Sergio Ermotti, assets of the Group.
Protection of brand and Andrea Munari and Paolo Scaroni joined reputation are key parts of the Boards role.
Peter Meinertzhagen and Gary Allen stepped At each of its meetings the Board receives a down from the Board on 24 September and full written report from the Chief Executives following their retirement all non-executive of each of London Stock Exchange plc directors are considered to be independent.
and Borsa Italiana S. p. A. on financial performance, key matters in each of the The Company announced the appointment divisions and subsidiaries and progress of Doug Webb as Chief Financial Officer against key performance indicators.
The who will join the Board on 2 June 2008, executive management team present to the subsequent to the resignation and departure Board on their business responsibilities on from the Board of Jonathan Howell on a regular basis and also present at the 31 January 2008.
Mr Webb was appointed Boards periodic strategy sessions.
following the engagement of external recruitment consultants.
A shortlist The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive of candidates met with the Chairman, are distinct and separate with a clear division Chief Executive and a selection of nonof responsibilities.
The Chairman leads the executive directors.
Board and is responsible for ensuring its effectiveness.
The Chairmans other current Board of directors significant commitments are set out in his The Board is the principal decision making biography on page 36.
The Chief Executive forum for the Company and is responsible has delegated authority from, and is to shareholders for achieving its strategic responsible to, the Board for managing the objectives and for the Groups financial and Companys business.
The Board has six operational performance.
The Board has scheduled meetings in addition to two adopted a formal schedule of matters offsite strategy sessions.
In 2008 the specifically reserved to it including: Board held 14 meetings.
The Chairman meets non-executive directors without the corporate strategy: presence of executive directors on a number the annual budget: of occasions throughout the year.
policies in relation to risk management, Non-attendance at Board and Committee health and safety and environmental meetings is rare.
This was usually due to matters: illness, unavoidable business commitments increases or variations to borrowing or, particularly for newly appointed facilities: directors, when there was a prior clash with a meeting which had already been timetabled.
Additionally, following the London Stock Exchange 38 annual report 2008 the worlds capital market Board and committee Meetings 2008 Board training On joining the Board, Directors are offered 5 Board Audit Remuneration Nomination the opportunity to meet with members of Total number of Meetings in the senior management team.
Periodically the year ended 31 March 2008 14 7 7 1 the Board meets at the Groups Milan office and briefings are also given at Board Dr Chris GibsonSmith 14 5 1 meetings on particular parts of the business.
Mrs Clara Furse 13 Baroness Janet Cohen 14 6 6 0 performance evaluation Mr Oscar Fanjul 13 7 3 1 The annual performance evaluation Mr Nigel Stapleton 14 6 3 1 of the Board and its Committees was Mr Robert Webb 12 7 0 undertaken in 2008 and was conducted 1 Mr Angelo Tantazzi 5 1 1 by the Company Secretary using a detailed 1 Mr Massimo Capuano 5 questionnaire.
The results of the review 1 Mr Sergio Ermotti 3 0 are used to highlight areas of strength 1 Mr Andrea Munari 5 2 and weakness, assist in consideration 1 Mr Paolo Scaroni 4 of the future development of the Board and its Committees and further improve 4 Mr Jonathan Howell 12 their performance.
The results of the 2 and 3 Mr Gary Allen 1 2 evaluation reflected the fact that the 2 and 3 Mr Peter Meinertzhagen 6 2 new Board had only been together for a relatively short time.
As part of the 1 Joined the Board with effect from 1 October 2007 review the Board considered how the new 2 Resigned from the Board with effect from 24 September 2007 international board was working together 3 Absent through illness and whether the content of agendas and 4 Resigned from the Board with effect from 31 January 2008 papers for the Board was appropriate.
5 In June 2007 Mr Stapleton stepped down from the Remuneration Committee and Mr Fanjul joined.
The review also included an assessment In November 2007 Baroness Cohen also stepped down from the Committee of the Chairmans performance.
merger with Borsa Italiana, the Committees Directors pages 36 and 37 which The results were then discussed by were restructured.
On the occasions demonstrate a range of business experience the Board and actions agreed where when a director has been unable to attend that provide the right mix of skills and appropriate.
The evaluation concluded that a Board or Committee meeting, any experience given the size of the Company.
the new Board and its Committees were comments which he or she has arising out Following the changes to the Board, the already working well.
Issues identified of the papers have been relayed in advance Board reviewed the independence of all principally related to a desire to meet with to the relevant chairman.
non-executive directors in January 2008. new executives from across the Group to The Board concluded that all non-executive better understand the new business.
Directors have the benefit of indemnity directors were independent in character, arrangements from the Company in respect that there were no relationships or Board committees of liabilities incurred as a result of their circumstances which are likely to affect The composition of the Board Committees office and execution of their powers, duties their independent judgement and no undue was reviewed after the merger with Borsa and responsibilities.
In respect of those reliance was placed on any individual.
liabilities for which directors may not be indemnified, the Company purchased and The Board specifically considered the issue reMuneration coMMittee obtained a directors and officers liability of the independence of Sergio Ermotti and The Committee members as at 31 March insurance policy throughout 2008.
This Andrea Munari in the light of A.
3.1 of the 2008 were: Robert Webb Chairman, insurance cover was renewed at the Code and the possible existence of a Chris Gibson-Smith, Oscar Fanjul, Paolo beginning of FY 2009.
Neither the Companys material business relationship.
Mr Ermotti Scaroni and Sergio Ermotti.
Following the indemnity nor insurance provides cover in and Mr Munari are employed by Unicredit resignation of Peter Meinertzhagen from the event that the director is proved to have and Banca IMI respectively, both of which the Board, all members of the Committee acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
are shareholders of the Company and are considered to be independent.
The customers of one of the Companys Committee normally invites the Chief Board balance and independence subsidiaries, Borsa Italiana.
However the Executive and Head of Human Resources The Board currently comprises 11 directors, Board continue to believe that both are to attend the meeting.
The Committee has the Chairman who was independent on independent given the significance of the written terms of reference and meets at appointment, two executive directors and customer relationships to the Group as a least twice a year to review and present 8 non-executive directors.
Doug Webb will whole, the fact that neither Mr Munari or recommendations to the Board regarding join as Chief Financial Officer on 2 June Mr Ermotti is directly involved in investment remuneration and conditions of service 2008.
Directors serving on the Boards decisions relating to the investment in the of the Chairman, Chief Executive and committees, together with biographical Company and both demonstrate behaviours executive directors, including the grant details, are identified on the Board of indicating independence.
of entitlements under the Companys share schemes.
A separate Remuneration Report is set out on pages 42 to 50.
London Stock Exchange 39 annual report 2008 the worlds capital market corporate GoVernance auDit coMMittee In compliance with the Combined Code, noMination coMMittee The Committee members as at 31 March Smith Guidance, and its Terms of The Nomination Committee members as at 2008 were: Oscar Fanjul Chairman, Janet Reference, the Committee reviewed 31 March 2008 were: Chris Gibson-Smith Cohen, Nigel Stapleton, Angelo Tantazzi the following during the past year: Chairman, Oscar Fanjul, Robert Webb, and Andrea Munari.
Following the resignation Angelo Tantazzi and Paolo Scaroni.
The of Gary Allen from the Board, all members Annual Report, Interim Results, and Committee normally invites the Chief of the Committee are considered to be formal announcements relating to Executive to attend.
During Gary Allens absence financial performance: as necessary to make recommendations through illness, Nigel Stapleton chaired the to the Board on new Board appointments reports from the internal audit Committee.
In accordance with ICAEW and to review executive and Board department on the effectiveness of the Guidance for Audit Committees as set out in succession planning.
The Committee works Groups risk management procedures, the Smith Guidance, the Board is satisfied alongside external recruitment consultants details of key audit findings and actions all members of the Committee have recent to evaluate and meet prospective taken by management: and relevant financial experience.
If appropriate, candidates will effectiveness of the Groups internal be recommended to the whole Board for role oF the auDit coMMittee control environment: approval.
The Committee has written terms The Committee has written terms of of reference which are available from the internal audits annual plan: reference, which are approved by the Company Secretary or on the corporate Board and satisfy the requirements of the reports from external auditors on their website at www.
audit, proposed audit scope and fees: internal control auditor independence: A copy of the Terms of Reference is The Board confirms that procedures have available on request from the Company performance of the Groups internal audit been in place throughout the year and up Secretary or on the corporate website at department: to the date of this report which comply fully www.
with The Combined Code on Corporate the Groups financing strategy and Governance published by the Financial proposed debt financing arrangements: MeetinGs Reporting Council FRC.
The Committee meets at least three times financial disclosures included within the a year and has an agenda linked to events Companys Prospectus and Circular In order to help the Group meet its business in the Groups financial calendar.
The relating to the merger with Borsa Italiana: objectives, the Group has implemented Chairman of the Board, Chief Financial systems of internal control over its business, the Groups insurance programme: and Officer, Head of Finance, Head of Group operational, financial and compliance risks Internal Audit and senior representatives the Groups whistle-blowing procedures.
which appropriately manage, rather than from the external auditors are invited by seek to eliminate, the risks to those the Committee to attend its meetings.
To ensure compliance with the Auditing objectives.
The controls can therefore only Other senior managers are invited to Practices Board Ethical Standard 5, Nonprovide reasonable, not absolute, assurance present such reports as are required by Audit Services Provided to Audit Clients against material mis-statement or loss.
The Committee meets and the Smith Guidance, the Committee has Board has ultimate responsibility for the privately with the external audit partner from an established policy on non-audit services.
systems of internal control and, through  on an annual The policy ensures that the provision of such the Audit Committee, has reviewed the basis.
During each meeting, the Committee services by the external auditor does not effectiveness of the systems.
The Board is has the opportunity to review any issues impair the auditors objectivity and committed to their continual enhancement with the external auditors and with the independence and defines both the type and ensures that the necessary actions to Head of Group Internal Audit without any and value of services that require prior rectify any weaknesses highlighted by its other members of executive management authorisation of the Committee and the review have been or are being taken.
services that the external auditor is prohibited Board also confirms that it has not been from providing.
The Committee annually advised of material weaknesses in that part reviews all non-audit services provided by the of the internal control system that relates to external auditor to ensure compliance with financial reporting.
The Committee remains satisfied with the objectivity and independence of the Groups external auditors.
London Stock Exchange 40 annual report 2008 the worlds capital market The principal features of the Companys relations with shareholders The Annual General Meeting AGM control framework are described under the The Investor Relations team has primary provides the opportunity for private following headings: responsibility for day to day contact with shareholders to meet directors and they are shareholders and with financial analysts encouraged to put questions to the Board.
Delegation of authority there is a clear who produce research on the Company.
The Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration definition of those matters reserved for The Chief Executive Officer, Deputy CEO and Nomination Committees are available Board approval only.
Executive directors and Chief Financial Officer engaged in to answer questions.
The procedures for have general responsibility for making and regular dialogue with shareholders, and the the AGM are compliant with the Combined implementing operational decisions and Chairman, Senior Independent Director and Code and the event is normally attended by for overseeing the Groups business.
All Executive Management are also available all directors.
directors have access to the advice and to meet major investors from time to time.
services of the Company Secretary.
In health, safety and environment addition, independent professional advice Communication with investors and analysts The Companys approach to health, safety can be obtained by directors at the Groups is managed through a comprehensive and the environment is set out in our expense, if necessary.
programme of meetings, calls, presentations Corporate Responsibility statement on and news releases.
Senior management and pages 32 and 33.
Planning and reporting the Board the Investor Relations team held over 200 approves strategic decisions and the meetings and calls with shareholders and budget for the forthcoming year and the potential investors principally in the UK, Chief Executive reports to the Board on Europe and the US during the past year.
key business matters at each meeting.
The Investor Relations programme is Monthly management reports contain key designed to ensure investors have performance indicators and compare actual appropriate access to management and financial performance with the annual information to understand the performance budget or forecast.
Management action is and prospects of the Company.
taken where variances arise and revised forecasts are prepared on a regular basis.
The Investor Relations section of our website at www.
Audit Committee the Groups internal com is a primary source of information on audit department reports to the Audit the Company.
Annual and interim reports, Committee on the effectiveness of the interim management statements, news internal control environment including risk releases and other key documents are management procedures.
The Audit archived on the website.
The presentations Committee also receives reports from the of preliminary and interim results are Groups external auditors, which includes accessible by webcasts in real time and also an evaluation of the overall control via replay for a period after the event.
Users environment of the business.
are able to register with an alerting facility to receive notification of updates and new Risk Management line management releases.
A shareholder helpline and email has overall responsibility for effective risk address are provided to help contact management and each business area between investors and the company.
maintains an up to date record of its key risks and the related controls.
Management During the year the Board received produce periodic reports confirming the a report on Investor Relations matters effectiveness of all significant control at each of its scheduled meetings, policies and procedures and these are including an analysis of share price reviewed by the most senior executive in movements, market expectations of each business area.
The Groups internal financial performance, share register audit department collates these reports and composition and feedback from major independently summarises for the Audit investors.
The Company also continued Committee any significant matters arising, to receive advice on shareholder relations together with any mitigating actions.
and share register analysis from external advisers.
Detailed procedures procedures and controls for key business areas including the Groups finance function are set out in detailed departmental manuals.
These are reviewed and kept up-to-date to meet changing business needs.
London Stock Exchange 41 annual report 2008
