BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT Governance Governance The Board of Directors Jon Aisbitt has been a non-executive director The Board is committed to high standards The Board is collectively responsible for since August 2003, a member of the of corporate governance and supports the promoting the success of the Company by Nomination, Remuneration, and the Audit need for clear standards to be laid down to directing and supervising the Companys and Risk Committee, and became Chairman safeguard the interests of shareholders and policy and strategy and is responsible to of the latter in June 2007.
Jon has over other stakeholders.
The Board is accountable shareholders for the Groups financial and 20 years experience in international to the Companys shareholders for ensuring operational performance.
During his tenure of office that the Company and its people operate the development and implementation of he has continued to perform as an effective within the requirements of good corporate Group policy and strategy and for day to independent non-executive director and governance.
day management is delegated by the Board there are no circumstances which are to the Group Chief Executive and to senior likely to affect, or could appear to affect The Companys shares are listed on the management.
his judgement as an independent director.
London Stock Exchange and the Company From an assessment of the likely time is therefore required to comply with the All directors are fully briefed on important commitment expected, the Board was Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
developments in the various business satisfied that Jon Aisbitts other commitments These Rules require listed companies to activities which the Group carries out should not be detrimental to the adequate include a statement of corporate governance worldwide and regularly receive extensive discharge of his responsibilities in respect in their annual reports relating to compliance information concerning the Groups of the Chairmanship.
with the principles and provisions set out in operations, finance, risk factors, and its Section 1 of the Combined Code 2006 on people, as well as details of any investor After due and careful consideration of Corporate Governance describing how the relations issues or the specific views of the factors outlined above Jon Aisbitt Company has applied those principles and major shareholders.
This information enables was appointed Chairman of the Board whether or not the Company has complied them to fulfill their duties and obligations of Directors of the Company, with effect with those provisions throughout the year.
The directors are also advised from 1 September 2007.
As a result of global regulatory and best practice of this appointment he relinquished his The directors consider that the Company requirements.
role as Chairman of the Audit and has complied throughout the year ended Risk Committee and was replaced in 31 March 2008 with the provisions of As at 31 March 2008, the Board comprised this role by Dugald Eadie.
Section 1 of the Combined Code 2006. two executive directors and seven nonexecutive directors including the Chairman, Phillip Colebatch and Patrick OSullivan of which five are considered to be joined the Board on 1 September 2007, independent non-executive directors.
In view of Peter Clarkes increased Changes to the Board of Directors responsibilities as Group Chief Executive The following summarises the changes to and also in light of Kevin Hayes relevant the Board of Directors that occurred during qualifications and experience, Peter Clarke the year: was replaced by Kevin Hayes as Company Kevin Davis resigned from the Board in July Secretary, effective 8 November 2007.
2007, following the separation of MF Global.
Chairman and Chief Executive Harvey McGrath retired as Chairman of The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive the Board of Directors with effect from are separate, with responsibilities clearly 1 September 2007.
At a meeting of the divided between them.
The Chairman is able Board, held on 26 July 2007, attended by to dedicate significant time to the business all directors and chaired by Glen Moreno, and has no other material commitments the senior independent non-executive outside Man Group.
director, the Board considered candidates for Chairman of the Board.
It was noted by the Board that the Company had recently undergone significant change with the separation of MF Global, the appointment of Stanley Fink as Deputy Chairman, the appointment of Peter Clarke as Group Chief Executive and the appointment of Kevin Hayes to the Board as Finance Director.
The Board considered that it was therefore appropriate to have an internal candidate as Chairman of the Board and decided not to seek outside candidates.
36 MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008 Business Review BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT www.
com cr Corporate Responsibility issues such as our responsibilities to our rolled out to our offices in Switzerland, The maintenance of our reputation as a people, investors, our sales and trading New York, Chicago and Canada.
leader in the investment management practices, potential conflicts of interest, Our intranet based climate change website business is a key component of our ability money laundering, know your customer, provides energy savings tips and helps to achieve our strategic objectives.
Trust whistle-blowing and confidentiality and staff gain an understanding of what they and integrity are essential prerequisites privacy.
These policies and procedures are can do at home and at work to reduce to maintaining our long-standing investor reviewed frequently to ensure that they energy usage.
We provide a 50% subsidy relationships, establishing new ones and remain consistent with our high standards towards carbon offset costs.
We have also deepening our relationships with our and meet or exceed regulatory engaged with the Boards of some of our stakeholders.
They make it clear to our largest institutional investors on climate and evidencing good corporate behaviour people what corporate behaviour is change and continue to influence those sustains and enhances our reputation, acceptable, and what is not.
who can help set policy on climate change.
which in turn sustains the trust of our The Risk Assurance Committee reviews key stakeholders.
compliance with our policies and Procurement Highlighted in each of the Core Value procedures and monitors key risk indices We regard it as important to encourage Drivers is a section on corporate relating to the maintenance of our reputation.
our suppliers to adopt appropriate responsibility and the strategies for The Risk Assurance Committee reports corporate responsibility disciplines and the maintenance of our reputation and to the Audit and Risk Committee of the behaviours in their businesses and to the sustainability of our business.
The Board of Directors review the ensure we leverage economies of scale framework for our people we have a Corporate Responsibility plan yearly.
whilst supporting loyal local suppliers.
Corporate Responsibility Manual and an In addition to the highlighted section in Ethical Policy, which are available on our Health and Safety the Core Value Drivers, our Corporate website.
More detailed policies address The provision of a safe and healthy Responsibility Programme covers the working environment for all of our people following areas: is of paramount importance as is the safety and well being of our visitors and Environment contractors.
We have health and safety We have continued our programmes policies and processes in place which we regarding the environment and in particular combine with regular training to ensure the climate change.
This year we will again maintenance of our consistently positive offset 100% of our essential direct global record.
There were no reportable incidents CO emissions through UN Clean 2 during the year.
This follows a comprehensive programme Full details of our Corporate Responsibility driven by our Carbon Reduction Group programme and its progress will be that actively seeks opportunities to included in our 2008 Corporate increase energy efficiency and reduce Responsibility Report and our dedicated waste.
One quarter of our staff globally Corporate Responsibility website have attended our in-house carbon www.
workshops and the programme has been The Independence of the Board that Glen Moreno is independent in character with the Chief Executive or Chairman.
Non-executive directors represent the majority and judgement.
Given his experience, The Chairman is available to attend meetings of the Board.
Of the seven non-executive credibility and commitment, he makes a with institutional investors and always attends directors, Alison Carnwath, Dugald Eadie, significant, valuable and challenging results presentations.
The non-executive Phillip Colebatch, Patrick OSullivan and Glen contribution to both governance and directors met twice during the year without Moreno are considered to be independent strategic issues.
Accordingly, independent the Chairman or executive directors present.
The Board is satisfied non-executive directors comprise the On a separate occasion the non-executive that there are no relationships or circumstances majority of non-executives and over half directors, including the Chairman, met which are likely to affect, or could appear to of the members of the Board.
without the executive directors present.
affect, the judgement of those directors.
The Alison Carnwath is considered to have All directors have access to the advice and Board makes this assertion having considered recent and relevant financial experience.
services of the Company Secretary, Kevin and taken full account of the fact that Glen Glen Moreno is recognised as the senior Hayes, who is responsible to the Board for Moreno was first appointed to the Board in independent non-executive director and is ensuring that Board procedures are followed 1994.
Following a rigorous review of his available to shareholders in the event that and that there is compliance with applicable performance and his independence, the they have concerns that have not been rules and regulations.
In addition, the Board Board, including all of the other members resolved through the normal channels has established a procedure that enables deemed independent, is completely satisfied 37 MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008 BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT Governance continued any director to have access to independent Board and committee meetings professional advice at the Groups expense.
The attendance of directors at meetings of the Board and Board Committees during Appropriate Directors and Officers liability the 2008 financial year was as follows: insurance is also in place.
The appointment Board Audit and Risk Nomination Remuneration of the Company Secretary is a matter for the Meeting Committee Committee Committee Board as a whole.
Jon Aisbitt 9 9 2 2 2 2 4 4 The Board holds meetings regularly, at least Alison Carnwath 7 8 6 6 2 2 4 4 six times a year and, additionally, for specific Dugald Eadie 9 9 6 6 2 2 4 4 purposes, as and when required.
During Stanley Fink 8 9 the year there were nine Board meetings Glen Moreno 9 9 6 6 2 2 4 4 including a two-day strategic planning Phillip Colebatch 5 5 1 2 session attended additionally by senior Patrick OSullivan 5 5 1 2 executives below Board level from across Peter Clarke 9 9 the Groups businesses.
Attendance by Kevin Hayes 9 9 directors at Board meetings is shown in Kevin Davis 2 3 # the table opposite.
To enable the Board to Harvey McGrath 4 5 2 2 discharge its duties effectively, all directors # Retired 7 November 2007 Joined 1 September 2007 Resigned 19 July 2007 receive appropriate and timely information Alison Carnwath and Kevin Davis were excused from one meeting held to discuss the MF Global IPO with briefing papers distributed in advance of Board meetings.
All new directors receive an appropriate introduction to their As part of a continuing process, the Board Nomination Committee responsibilities and the Groups operations, reviewed these delegated authorities during The Nomination Committee is appointed by by way of a detailed briefing pack and the year to take account of business the Board and is responsible for identifying, meetings with relevant senior management.
developments, governance and regulatory assessing and nominating for the approval change, and Group risk appetite.
The Board of the Board, candidates to fill vacancies The Board has ultimate responsibility for formally delegates certain of its as and when they arise.
This includes the management and performance of the responsibilities to committees by way of consideration of the re-appointment of nonbusiness including the system of internal written terms of reference.
Details of each executive directors at the conclusion of their controls and corporate governance, as well principal committee, its membership and the specified term of office and the re-election as the development of strategy and major terms of reference are summarised below by shareholders of any director under the policies.
To this end the Board has adopted and available on the Groups website: retirement by rotation provision of the written delegated authorities which identify www.
The Chairman of Companys Articles.
It is also responsible matters specifically reserved to it for decision each Committee will be attending the for considering succession planning for both and which also provide for a tiered approval Companys Annual General Meeting to the Board and senior management positions.
process for decisions below Board level, answer any questions regarding the The Committee comprises all of the nonencompassing strategic, expenditure, Committees activities and responsibilities.
executive directors and accordingly has a financial, risk and control authorities.
majority of independent non-executive Each Board Committee is expected to directors.
conduct an annual self appraisal of its The Board is performance which includes the views of Harvey McGrath retired as a director and the Board on the performance of that Chairman of the Board and Chairman of the accountable to the Committee.
The Chairman of the relevant Nominations Committee on 1 September Committee reports to the Board on the 2007.
The Board considered that the Companys results of the process.
During the year a position of Group Chairman necessitated a shareholders for comprehensive and rigorous evaluation leading role in the composition and balance process was conducted on the overall of the Board and accordingly Jon Aisbitt, ensuring that the effectiveness and performance of the Board Chairman of the Board became Chairman and its Committees.
This was led by the of the Nomination Committee from Company and its Chairman, using a detailed questionnaire, 13 September 2007.
Patrick OSullivan and people operate within the results from which were then reviewed Phillip Colebatch were also appointed to and discussed collectively by the Board, the Committee on that date.
The Committee the requirements and areas for improvement agreed and action meets as and when required.
There were of good corporate taken.
Additionally, the senior independent two meetings during the year to consider the director, in consultation with the rest of the re-appointment of non-executive directors at governance.
Board, conducted a review of the Chairmans the conclusion of their terms of office and effectiveness, and the Chairman led an the re-election of directors under the individual director assessment process.
retirement by rotation provisions of the Companys Articles.
All members were present at the meeting.
38 MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008 Business Review BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT Prior to their appointment, potential nonThe Remuneration Report, set out on pages In addition to the Committees formal terms executive directors are asked to confirm that 43-51, includes details of the Committees of reference, the focus of Committee during they have sufficient time available to meet activities, a statement of the Companys the year has been on the Companys risk what is expected of them, including the remuneration policy and the procedures for management in the following areas: membership of relevant Board committees.
Complexity and growth: They are also subject to a review to assess remuneration.
The Remuneration Committee The systematic approach to removing their independence and to confirm that they comprises the Chairman of the Board and complexity and sustaining growth.
have no other relationships that might affect five independent non-executive directors: their judgement.
The non-executive directors Dugald Eadie Chairman, Jon Aisbitt, Alison 2.
Valuation: are appointed by the Board and stand for Carnwath and Glen Moreno.
Phillip Valuation processes and the impact re-appointment at the first Annual General Colebatch and Patrick OSullivan were of liquidity on valuations.
Meeting of the Company following their appointed to the Remuneration Committee 3.
Relationship between Man Group and appointment.
They hold office for a three from 1 September 2007.
The Committee the Funds marketed to clients: year period, subject to the Companys met four times during the year and all Procedures relating to governance, Articles of Association, whereupon they may members were present on each occasion.
conflicts of interest and regulation.
stand for re-appointment by shareholders in During the year the Committee reviewed its General Meeting.
They are entitled to a fee terms of reference.
Organisation and process change due for their services plus reasonable out of to the separation of MF Global.
pocket expenses incurred for Group Audit and Risk Committee 5.
They are not entitled to any The Audit and Risk Committee ARCom Processes to manage capital pension or bonus and cannot participate is appointed by the Board.
It comprises the and liquidity.
in any Man Group share-based incentive five independent non-executive directors.
They are not entitled to any Jon Aisbitt replaced Alison Carnwath as ARCom met six times during the year, compensation for early termination, save Chair of the Committee at the start of the compared to eight times in the previous as may be provided for in general law.
The greater number of meetings in Board is confident that the non-executive of Jon Aisbitt to the office of Chairman the previous year reflected the additional director fees structure currently in place of the Board and the attendant increases time required by the Committee in order enables it to attract and retain non-executive in his responsibilities and time commitment to address matters relating to the IPO of directors of sufficient calibre and experience to the Company, the Board considered MF Global.
to bring balance, insight and challenge to the it appropriate for him to relinquish the Kevin Hayes, Finance Director was present role.
There has been no change to the fee Chairmanship and membership of ARCom at all meetings.
The Heads of Group arrangements for the year ended 31 March and Dugald Eadie was appointed Chairman Risk and Internal Audit were invited by 2008.
Further details appear in the of ARCom, effective 13 September 2007. the Chairman of ARCom to attend all Remuneration Report on page 43.
As of 1 September two new directors, meetings.
The audit partner from Phillip Colebatch and Patrick OSullivan, Non-executive directors are not required  LLP attended four were appointed to the Committee.
to hold shares in the Company but are of the meetings.
A manager within Group encouraged to do so.
The Committee has formal terms of Risk acted as secretary to the Committee.
reference which are available on the Groups Remuneration Committee website.
ARCom has explicit authority to The Remuneration Committee is appointed investigate any matters within its terms of by the Board and is responsible for setting reference and has access to all resources remuneration for all executive directors and and information that it may require for this the Chairman of the Board, and agreeing the purpose.
It is entitled to obtain legal and framework and policy for the remuneration other independent professional advice and of directors and other members of senior has the authority to approve all fees payable executive management, including pension to such advisers.
rights and eligibility for benefits under longterm incentive schemes.
The Committee approves the terms of any service agreement to be entered into with any executive director and any proposed compensation for termination.
The Committee is exclusively responsible for selecting and appointing any remuneration consultants who may advise the Committee.
39 MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008 BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT Governance continued The Chairman of the Committee met ARCom examined regulatory compliance ARCom has a key oversight role in relation to separately with the Head of Internal Audit issues and corporate responsibility reporting the external auditors,  and with the external auditors on several and also reviewed its forward agenda at the LLP, whose primary relationship is with the occasions without any other members of end of each meeting.
As a matter of professional management present and reported to the practice both ARCom and the external A theme for ARCom in the period was the Committee on these discussions.
The full auditors maintain safeguards to avoid the examination of risk issues in relation to the Committee had a meeting with the external objectivity and independence of the auditors IPO for MF Global.
The principal matter auditors once during the year without any becoming compromised.
ARCom has related to the preparation of SEC documents other members of management present.
approved a formal policy regarding the for the initial public offering as they pertained ARCom members received details of key engagement of the external auditors in the to Man Group, and components of the findings from all reports prepared by Internal provision of non-audit services.
This policy separation agreement as they related to the Audit together with managements precludes the external auditors from transition and establishment of processes responses to any recommendations.
providing certain services including book previously provided by MF Global.
keeping, financial information system design With the exception of two meetings relating The Committee met to review key issues and implementation, appraisal and valuation, to the discussion of the interim and final arising from the external audit: the annual and internal audit work and permits limited accounts and the session at the strategic report: external auditors confirmation of their other services which are subject to low fee offsite, at all other meetings ARCom received independence: Group Boards going concern thresholds or which require prior approval reports from: statement: audit representation letter and from the Committee.
The policy in relation the Head of Internal Audit, summarising reports in relation to the effectiveness of the to approval of non-audit services was the status of the internal audit programme Groups system of internal controls.
In addition updated for the year ended 31 March 2008 and any significant findings from audits the Committee met to review key issues from to reflect the increase in audit fees and completed in the period since the last the interim review and interim report.
meeting: the Chairman of ARCom, on any relevant Matters discussed at other meetings during Considerable fees were paid to discussions with the external auditors the year included:  for work since the last meeting:Approval of the Internal Audit mandate associated with the IPO of MF Global.
the Finance Director, on any relevant and plan: The Committee considered that discussions between senior managementReview of the Group Code of Conduct  detailed and the external auditors: and any incidence of misconduct and knowledge of the Group meant that the use the Financial Controller or the Finance disciplinary action: of a firm other than the Groups auditors for Director, on updates to the GroupsReview of the adequacy of the Groups these activities would have resulted in financial reporting and on the schedule whistle-blowing arrangements: considerable inefficiencies and increased of audit and non-audit fees: andBriefing paper on Internal Controls risk to the IPO schedule.
In total these fees the Head of Risk, on the Groups risk Best Practice: amount to more than twice the audit fees profile, including significant legal andReview of the external auditors payable.
The substantial majority of these compliance matters, and reports on management letter: fees relate to technical advice in relation to, matters discussed at the principal riskA meeting was held without the external and an audit of, the US GAAP financial management committees.
auditors to discuss a report on external statements required for the IPO.
In addition, auditor effectiveness: advice and assistance was given in relation Review of the external audit plan and to structuring the distribution of the IPO approval of external audit fees: proceeds to shareholders.
Non-audit fees Review of the policy on the engagement of not related to the IPO were 66% of audit the auditors to supply non-audit services: fees 2007: 41%.
Approximately one-third of and these fees relate to regulatory capital Basel II Review of the policy on the hiring of former advice, much of which may also be employees of the external auditors.
A further one-third of these fees were for services related to the The Head of Internal Audit reports to due diligence for the acquisition of a 50% ARCom, which reviewed and approved the interest in Ore Hill.
annual audit plan and the resources and results of its work.
The effectiveness of ARCom was considered by the Group Board during the year, as The Chair of the ARCom reported regularly discussed in the Board of Directors section.
to the Board on the Committees activities after each meeting, identifying any matters in respect of which the Committee considered that action was needed, and made recommendations on the steps to be taken.
40 MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008 Business Review BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT Internal control Compliance with these systems is monitored Investor relations The Board has overall responsibility for the by line management, regular reporting The Company enters into a dialogue at Groups systems of internal control and through subsidiary boards and Board appropriate times with its institutional risk management and for reviewing their Committees, and through the Internal shareholders, while having regard to the effectiveness.
The Audit and Risk Committee Audit programme.
The Board received UK Listing Authoritys guidance on the provides oversight and independent confirmation from management that the dissemination of price sensitive information.
challenge in relation to internal control Groups approach to, and required The Groups non-executive Chairman is and risk management systems.
standards for, risk management and internal available to attend meetings with institutional control were understood and that the level investors and always attends results The Groups reputation is fundamental to its of risk was consistent with and managed in presentations.
Copies of all results ability to attract investors.
The directors and accordance with the Groups risk appetite.
announcements are carried in full on the senior managers of the Group are therefore Companys website www.
com committed to maintaining high standards and Internal Audit provides further assurance as as soon as they are published, together a control conscious culture.
The Groups to the operation and validity of the system with announcements required to be made activities are also subject to high levels of of internal control through its independent in accordance with the UK Listing Authority regulatory oversight in many jurisdictions, reviews.
Its programme was based in large Listing Rules and other investor presentation particularly in the UK and the US, and part on the results of the risk identification material.
The Company encourages research significant Group resources are allocated to process and work performed included a coverage of its business activities by ensure compliance.
This oversight includes detailed examination of related key controls.
analysts and rating agencies and for this obligations of regular compliance reporting, The Board received regular reports on all the purpose makes available the time of the the maintenance of minimum levels of capital above items during the year and has also Chief Executive and Finance Director.
In and periodic audit by regulators.
undertaken a formal process to review the addition to the electronic access referred The Boards role includes: effectiveness of the system of internal control.
to above, the Company has made available setting the overall risk management This process addressed the controls in place CREST electronic proxy voting to institutional strategy: throughout the year and up to the date of shareholders since the 2003 Annual General developing appropriate risk management approval of this Annual report.
The full review Meeting and all shareholders have been and governance arrangements and covered all controls including operational, able to electronically appoint a proxy to systems: financial and compliance controls and risk vote on their behalf since the 2004 Annual establishing and maintaining effective management systems.
The effectiveness of General Meeting.
internal controls: and the internal controls was considered in the ensuring that the Group maintains context of the Groups risk appetite, reports adequate financial resources.
on its risk profile, reports of any losses The Board has overall incurred and reports from internal and The key elements of each of these and responsibility for the external audit and compliance functions.
the process for identifying, evaluating and No significant weaknesses or material Groups systems of managing the significant risks faced by failings in the system of internal controls the Group are explained in the Risk internal control and were identified in this review.
Management Management section in this Annual Report.
does, however, have an ongoing process risk management and These processes have been in place for identifying, evaluating and managing throughout the year and up to the date of significant risks faced by the Group and for reviewing their this Annual Report and have been regularly continually takes actions to improve internal effectiveness.
controls as a result of its own initiatives and in response to reports from Internal Audit The systems of internal control aim to and other internal and external reviews.
safeguard assets, and ensure proper accounting records are maintained so that The processes relating to both risk and the financial information used in the business internal controls described above accord with and for publication is reliable.
The systems the guidance in the Internal Control: Revised are designed to manage key risks rather Guidance for Directors on the Combined than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve Code the 2005 Turnbull guidance.
business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance Going concern against material misstatement or loss.
After making enquiries the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group and the Company have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and accordingly continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
41 MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008 BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT Governance continued Full use is made of the Annual General The directors are also required by the Directors statement pursuant to the Meeting to communicate with individual Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules shareholders.
The Company will continue Financial Services Authority to include a The directors confirm that, to the best of the practices of making available at the management report containing a fair review each persons knowledge and belief: Annual General Meeting the level of proxies of the business and a description of thethe Group financial statements, prepared lodged on each resolution, despatching the principal risks and uncertainties facing the in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by notice of the Annual General Meeting and Group and Company.
the EU and the parent company financial related papers at least 20 working days statements as prepared under UK GAAP, The directors are responsible for keeping before the meeting, and proposing each give a true and fair view of the assets, proper accounting records that disclose with substantially separate issue as an individual liabilities, financial position and profit of the reasonable accuracy at any time the financial motion.
It is intended that all members of the Group and Company: and position of the Company and the Group and Board will, as usual, attend the 2008 Annualthe management report contained in the to enable them to ensure that the financial General Meeting and will be available to Business Review includes a fair review of statements and the Remuneration Report answer questions both during and after the development and performance of the comply with the Companies Act 1985 and, the Meeting.
business and the position of the Company as regards the Group financial statements, and Group, together with a description of Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also Statement of directors responsibilities the principal risks and uncertainties that responsible for safeguarding the assets of The directors are responsible for preparing they face.
the Company and the Group and hence for the Annual Report, the Remuneration Report taking reasonable steps for the prevention and the Group and the parent company and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
financial statements in accordance with By Order of the Board applicable law and regulations.
Each director confirms that so far as he she Kevin Hayes is aware, there is no relevant audit information Company Secretary Company law requires the directors to of which the Groups auditors are unaware, 29 May 2008 prepare financial statements for each and that he she has taken all the steps that financial year.
Under that law the directors he she ought to have taken as a director in have prepared the Group financial order to make himself herself aware of any statements in accordance with International relevant audit information and to establish Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as that the Groups auditors are aware of that adopted by the European Union, and the information.
This confirmation is given and parent company financial statements and should be interpreted in accordance with the Remuneration Report prepared in the provisions of section 234ZA of the accordance with applicable law and United Companies Act 1985.
Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting The directors are responsible for the Practice.
The Group and parent company maintenance and integrity of the Companys financial statements are required by law to website and legislation in the United give a true and fair view of the state of affairs Kingdom governing the preparation and of the Company and the Group and of the dissemination of financial statements may profit or loss of the Group for that period.
differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
In preparing those financial statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and state that the Group financial statements comply with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and with regard to the parent company financial statements that applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
42 MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008
