Overview 02 29 Our relationships Business review 32 77 Governance 78 101 Employees Financial statements 102 138 Other information 139 149 Given the rapid growth in revenue over the past Working in a highly dynamic few years, the Groups operational structure business environment means has also had to scale-up quickly.
Already our operational structure is more akin to that of that agility, self-motivation a much more mature business.
With very few and innovation are important physical assets on the balance sheet, PartyGamings success as a business is heavily attributes that we look for in reliant on the professionalism and dynamism of our employees.
Over the past twelve months we have sought to refine our operations and processes to enable all of our employees to maximise their contribution to the bottom line.
Communication Having a clear understanding of our corporate goals along with the tactics necessary to achieve them is essential to driving the business forward and maintaining our competitive edge.
Over the past year we have sought to enhance significantly both the quality and frequency of communication across the business through a number of new initiatives.
A new strategy-cascade process was introduced in the first half of 2008, formalising the communication of the Groups strategic objectives to all staff.
This process, which began with a series of strategy events for senior executives and managers from across the organisation, was followed by personal big picture presentations from the CEO and other senior executives in each of the Groups international offices.
Detailed tactical plans and briefings were then provided to each of the key areas of the business.
The bigger picture Improved communication through a new cascade process enabled our employees to better understand each element of our strategy.
PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2008 | 65 Our relationships Employees The use of electronic communications has been Rewards and incentives significantly improved during 2008.
PartyPost, We demand a lot from our employees.
the companys internal newsletter, became a The business environment is highly dynamic and bi-monthly publication and new features were our employees need to be agile, intelligent, added to the Groups intranet site.
To provide entrepreneurial, self-motivated and prepared greater access to senior management, Exec to innovate.
Such an environment does not suit Direct was introduced in 2008, allowing any everyone but for those that are prepared to go member of staff to anonymously pose questions the extra mile, the rewards can be significant.
to members of the Executive and receive a The Company pays competitive salaries with detailed response in a public forum.
Over fifty an annual bonus plan and an employee share such questions were answered throughout the plan to attract and retain the very best year prompting a number of new policy individuals over the medium and longer term.
The frequency of updates from the We also aim to identify talent early and ensure CEO to all members of staff was also increased, that they are given every opportunity to covering strategic developments, business maximise their potential.
performance and other corporate initiatives.
A new appraisal and bonus scheme was In 2009 this approach will be supported by the introduced at the beginning of 2008 to more introduction of PartyPerformance, an internal closely align employees compensation with quarterly update on how the business is the overall performance of the business as performing against the stated strategy.
well as their individual contribution.
The scheme This all sounds good but is it working to improve which is managed through Pi, the Groups our employees understanding of the corporate Enterprise Resource Planning tool, includes strategy?
At the end of 2008 the Group a direct link to the employees performance commissioned an independent research against the Groups overall financial company to anonymously survey all staff on performance, PartyGamings Ace Behaviours their views of the Company.
The response was and individually agreed objectives.
outstanding with over 90% of staff responding Training and development to the survey, 80% expressing pride in working Training and skills development are key for the Company and 77% demonstrating a elements of our overall employee good understanding of the strategy.
management process, ensuring that our staff have the requisite skills to execute their day-today responsibilities.
But we also recognise the need to foster the development of new products and services that will drive the business forward.
Given the dynamic nature of our marketplace, such investment also helps to develop the skill set of our employees and enhance our ability to identify new opportunities as well as counter new threats.
In 2008 over 30,000 working hours were dedicated to training and development through a number of new programmes and initiatives.
66 | PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2008 Overview 02 29 Business review 32 77 Governance 78 101 Financial statements 102 138 Other information 139 149 b As a responsible gaming operator, one Our vital statistics compulsory training module undertaken by our staff in 2008 was the GamCare accredited Social Responsibility Course.
Other initiatives 1,191 members of staff as at included multi-lingual customer service training, 31 December 2008 2007:1,165 and PartyPathway, an advanced training 69% male to 31% female gender split, programme focused on developing the skills of 2007: 68% to 32% the Groups most promising employees.
26 different nationalities across the Group Organisation 2007: 36 The Group regularly reviews its organisational 21% voluntary staff turnover 2007: 21% structure to ensure that the business has the necessary resources to deliver its strategy.
19 grievance procedures brought As well as creating a number of new positions 2007: figure not available in 2008, the Group was also forced to make a 25.3 hours of training per head number of redundancies.
This was a difficult 2007: figure not available process but one that was handled with 114 planned redundancies, 21 people extreme professionalism both by the staff redeployed internally, 29 people assisted affected and the Human Resources team.
to find work outside of the Group Of 114 planned redundancies, 21 employees 2007: 27 redundancies were internally redeployed and 29 were 1.36% of total working days lost to sickness assisted in finding work outside of the Group.
2007: figure unavailable As at 31 December 2008, the Group employed The Group introduced Pi, a new Enterprise Resource Planning tool, in the second half of 2007 to collect data on our employee-related KPIs.
2008 a total of 1,191 staff in comparison to 1,165 therefore provides the first full year of data that represents a benchmark at the end of 2007.
The company remains against which future performance will be measured.
a vibrant mix of 26 different nationalities, with a male to female ratio of approximately 2:1 and spanning all age groups.
We are an equal opportunities employer and strive to recruit the best and most appropriate employees first, regardless of their ethnicity, gender or age.
All of our employees receive a written contract on joining the company.
GoodCorporation findings The big workout!
Good progress has been made on improving On average, each member of our staff benefited from 25.3 hours of training in 2008. internal communications.
Whilst there is still scope for improvement, health and safety standards and procedures are improving and this should continue in 2009 with the implementation of a new policy and training module.
PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2008 | 67 Remote control Act responsibly Session timers, deposit limits and selfexclusion tools enable our customers to ensure that they play within their limits.
68 | PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2008 Overview 02 29 Our relationships Business review 32 77 Governance 78 101 Customers and Financial statements 102 138 Other information 139 149 responsible gaming Customers and responsible gaming While PartyGaming is a We want our customers to have fun and enjoy young company in a young the great entertainment that we provide: we do not want any customer to play beyond their industry, we take a mature means or develop a gambling problem.
Being approach to responsible responsible is important for a variety of reasons and it also makes good business sense: gaming.
We know our limits underage or problem gamblers tarnish our and encourage our reputation and also create additional costs for customers to know theirs.
our business such as voiding transactions and incurring chargebacks.
Our aim is to prevent a player from developing problems before they even start.
A few key ingredients are required as part of a responsible approach to online gaming or indeed any form of gambling and, as the operator, we acknowledge that we have an important part to play.
But ultimately, the onus of responsibility falls upon the shoulders of the individual.
Freedom to choose how we live our lives, what we do and where we go requires that we stay in control and take responsibility for our own actions.
Online gaming is no different from eating, drinking or even shopping.
Consume too much and it can have adverse consequences.
Consumers need to manage the amount of time and money spent on all things they consume.
Gambling in any format is no different and as a business we want to ensure that it does not assume too large a role in our customers lives.
PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2008 | 69 Our relationships Customers and responsible gaming Whilst we take some comfort from the research Online training for responsible gaming issues produced by the likes of Harvard Medical that was developed with GamCare, a leading 18 School and that sponsored by the UKs authority on the provision of counselling, advice 19 Gambling Commission that show the and practical help in addressing the social prevalence of problem gambling as being very impact of gambling, was introduced for all low, we are not complacent about what is employees in 2008.
Every year, GamCare also probably the most important issue for the online certifies that we do what we say regarding and offline gaming industries.
We are committed socially responsible gaming.
to continue working with operators, academics, In 2008, we subscribed to the Gambling counselling service providers, trade associations Therapy service to assist players in obtaining and other stakeholders to expand our information about responsible gaming and to knowledge in this area to reduce the level seek counselling if required online.
This service of problem gambling and put even more is offered in more than 20 languages.
effective information and self-help measures in the hands of consumers.
The marketing of our games and services is very much on the front line of responsible behaviour.
But, just as road safety measures cannot Every marketing employee is required to prevent all car accidents, we are conscious undertake compliance and ethical marketing that whatever measures we put in place, they training.
We also adhere to the ethical will not guarantee that a player will never guidelines developed by the Remote Gambling develop problems.
While we continue to strive Association RGA, the European Gaming towards that goal, there will always be a small and Betting Association EGBA and the number that find themselves slipping into Interactive Gaming Council.
This is in addition to difficulty.
Why this happens is not well the Advertising Code developed by the British understood and has yet to be analysed Advertising Standards Agency.
properly by the medical profession.
Greater focus on behavioural studies such as that We seek to ensure that our games do not conducted by Harvard Medical School, rather incorporate features that research indicates than on opinion-based research, is what is may result in uncontrolled gaming by customers.
required: evidence of what people actually do, In accordance with our regulatory obligations, rather than what they think they do is what we all of our games are subject to a rigorous testing need to create better policies, treatment, procedure before being released and are education and ultimately prevention.
also reviewed by iTech Labs, an independent Our approach specialist in this area.
iTech Labs, which is a UK As mentioned previously, Martin Weigold, Gambling Commission-approved testing house, Group Finance Director, has executive also tests our random number generator on a responsibility for all CSR matters.
Committee provides independent oversight on responsible gaming and wider CSR initiatives that are developed and undertaken by the Responsible Gaming Committee, which comprises several senior executives who meet regularly throughout the year.
18 Assessing the Playing Field a prospective longitudinal study of internet sports gambling behaviour LaBrie, LaPlante, Nelson, Schumann and Schaffer Harvard Medical School, Boston.
19 The British Gambling Prevalence Survey 2007 Wardle, Sprotson, Orford, Erens, Griffiths, Constantine and Piggot.
70 | PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2008 Overview 02 29 Business review 32 77 Governance 78 101 Financial statements 102 138 Other information 139 149 Games for grown-ups GoodCorporation findings Anyone under the legal age limit is not allowed The introduction of an automatic self-exclusion to play on our gaming sites.
This approach tool on all Party-platform sites, that can be conforms to legal and regulatory requirements implemented remotely by customers, is a but we also hope that it will help to reduce positive step, as is the Group-wide responsible problem gambling as research has found that gaming training that has been introduced children who gamble may develop a gambling in 2008.
There is still room to improve the problem in later life.
We use third-party age communication around certain promotions verification methods wherever practicable to and a new head of player marketing has been prevent children from playing on our real recruited to help address this.
There is also money games.
still scope for improvement in responsible gaming controls for those sites not under Self-control the operational responsibility of the Group.
We have developed several tools for customers that allow them to better manage their playing And finally time, to set deposit limits and also to self-exclude, Please forgive us for a self-congratulatory slap should they wish to do so.
We also provide tools on the back for winning the eGaming 2008 to help them assess whether they may be award for Socially Responsible Operator of the gambling too much.
Year and also for being included in the FTSE4Good Index Series, which measures the In 2008 we introduced an automated selfperformance of companies that meet globally exclusion and account closure system.
This recognised corporate responsibility standards enables players to determine how long they acknowledgement and recognition that we wish to take a break using an easy-to-use practice what we preach.
Once a limit has been set by a customer it cannot be re-set.
Preventing crime Standard bearer Responsible gaming is not just about tackling PartyGaming has signed-up to the responsible problem or underage gambling.
It also extends gaming standards established by the EGBA, the RGA to preventing crime and ensuring our systems and eCOGRA.
We are represented on the Gaming Committee of the International Money Laundering Prevention Officers, Anti-Money Laundering Europe a forum to tackle money laundering, the Remote Casino Working Group of the Financial Action Task Force, and the RGAs Anti-Crime, Regulatory, International and Social Responsibility forums.
PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2008 | 71 Our relationships Suppliers Through Pi, our Enterprise Resource Planning We encourage suppliers to system, we have developed a step-by-step adopt similar principles of process that governs each stage of the supply chain.
A preferred supplier list has been responsibility and high created to identify significant contracted standards.
vendors with which we already have a strong relationship.
Before we can begin working with any new supplier, competitive quotes are obtained and an assessment process to establish their financial strength, quality control as well as business ethics is undertaken.
GoodCorporation findings The new supplier procurement procedures are a positive step as is the process now in place to inform suppliers of the Groups own approach to responsible practices.
There is, however, scope to increase the consistency of approach Our suppliers play a vital role in our ongoing to contractors in different locations.
But just as these organisations are responsible gaming section to PartyPartners, the important for our day-to-day operations, we Groups affiliate web site, was also a positive recognise that they also pose potential threats step in 2008. in the form of financial, reputational or other risks.
We want to work with companies and individuals who share our high standards and values and this is why we prefer to develop long-term business alliances with a select group of partners.
In the past year we have put in place new policies and procedures to further strengthen the way these relationships are managed.
A dedicated Procurement Department has been established to ensure that these policies are followed at all times and that we are not being exposed to undue risks.
Acting responsibly In 2009, at least 70% of our charitable donations will be set aside for causes related to responsible gaming.
72 | PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2008 Overview 02 29 Our relationships Business review 32 77 Governance 78 101 Community Financial statements 102 138 Other information 139 149 The majority of our charitable donations were We contribute to the directly associated with responsible gaming.
communities where we We recognise our obligation to ensure that help is available for people who may be finding have operations and that gambling is becoming or has become a support worthy causes both problem for them.
Approximately three-quarters of our $160,000 of donations in 2008 were made financially and through pro to charities and projects associated with bono activities.
problem gambling, including GamCare and Gordon House via The Responsibility in Gambling Trust in the UK and also Adictel in France.
For 2009, we are aiming to increase our donations to responsible gaming initiatives to a minimum of 70% of our available charity funding that is set between a target range of 0.20% and 0.25% of the previous years Clean EBITDA.
Our commitment to act responsibly extends beyond the day-to-day activities of our As is probably the case for most businesses, we business through our community and charity receive far more requests for donations than endeavours across the Group.
We believe that we can ever hope to satisfy.
Saying no to any enabling our employees to spend up to a full worthy cause is difficult, but the charities and working day of Company time on pro bono the community projects and societies that did charitable, community or environmental receive a donation from us in 2008 included: projects will be beneficial for their personal Homeless People in London, Gibraltar development and also the standing and Philharmonic Society, Gibraltar Field Gun team, reputation of our business.
Great Ormond Street Hospital for Children, a soup kitchen project in Israel and the Guide The Group-wide pro bono scheme that was Dogs Association.
launched in 2008 has been a major success.
Our target of having 15% to 20% of our GoodCorporation findings employees participate in such activities in the In last years Annual Report, the GoodCorporation first year was beaten comfortably.
Chosen noted that: Whilst both Gibraltar and London activities ranged from blood donation sessions were taking an active role locally, some of the to renovating a bus stop shelter and from more recent additions to the Group locations flipping burgers at a local school fund-raising were yet to engage with the local community day to shaking tins on the streets to collect as commercial pressures had prevented them money for several different charities.
27% of our staff helped to put something back We are now pleased to report that our into their community during the year.
offices in Bulgaria, India and Israel took the GoodCorporation findings on board and during the year have engaged with their local communities through numerous charitable events.
For 2009, we aim to link more charity donations with the pro bono efforts of employees in all of our offices.
PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2008 | 73 Our relationships Environment We also seek to minimise the production of PartyGaming is a low impact waste materials in the first place, for example, company and we want to by encouraging staff to print documents double-sided, or better still, not at all.
We realise all play a part in reducing costs to the that the operation of our environment and add to our bottom line.
business has consequences Energy Consumption for others and actively seek PartyGaming already has low energy consumption in comparison to other global to reduce our impact on the businesses and we are committed to reducing environment.
our energy usage even further.
We undertake measures such as switching off air-conditioning outside of normal office hours, using energy efficient light sources and ensuring computer and electrical equipment is switched off when not in use.
Meeting the standards Travel PartyGaming was one of the first online gaming It is Group policy to use video conferencing, companies to achieve certification for the conference calls and emails whenever possible international standards in Health and Safety to limit the need for travel between our offices OHSAS 18001 and Environmental Management and reduce environmental and financial costs.
Systems ISO 14001 and we are delighted To ensure we uphold this commitment, all travel that in 2008 our Gibraltar head office was by air or rail is now recorded and has to be successfully recertified.
approved by a senior member of the management team.
We do not have a These standards are valuable management company car scheme and we encourage staff tools that enable us to monitor and improve to use public transport whenever possible.
our environmental performance and it is the Groups long-term aim to achieve similar GoodCorporation findings certification for all of our international offices.
Whilst the Group is a low impact company it can do more to monitor environmental issues Recycling and should seek to improve consistency in its The waste-free office is something that many approach to environmental issues across businesses aspire to but the reality is often very the Group.
Our aim is to minimise the use of paper and other resources and we are committed to recycling a broad range of materials wherever practicable.
In addition to existing programmes, in the past year we have introduced new schemes to enable staff to donate items such as mobile phones and reading glasses for distribution to charity.
74 | PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2008 Overview 02 29 Our relationships Business review 32 77 Governance 78 101 Shareholders and other Financial statements 102 138 Other information 139 149 providers of capital Regular updates with open access to management are the foundations of our approach to stakeholder relations.
Double top Ever since becoming a listed company in 2005, Our 2007 Annual Report was a double award winner the Group has sought to build an open and last year, picking up both Best Annual Report for transparent relationship with its shareholders quoted and unquoted companies from CorpComms and other providers of capital.
Besides regular Magazine and the Good Design Award from the updates through press announcements, our Chicago Athenaeum Museum of Architecture and Design.
corporate web site and other published documents, we engage in a coordinated communication programme with shareholders, investors and other stakeholders keeping them abreast of developments.
This programme includes face-to-face meetings, webcasts, conferences and conference calls.
GoodCorporation findings There were no issues raised.
PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2008 | 75 Finishing School Grow the player base PartyAcademy.
com is a brand new online teaching tool for our players to improve their poker play.
With tutorials, relevant articles and online questions, whether you are a shark or a fish, school has never been so much fun!
