Report of the Audit Committee This report sets out the membership, purposes and guidance on internal controls and risk management and activities of the Audit Committee during the year.
interim results and press release for the six months ended 30 September 2007: Membership and terms of reference Review of risk management within Europe, Asia & US, Membership of the Audit Committee consists solely of International and the Central function: the Companys Non-executive Directors: Kasper Rorsted Review of insurance cover: Committee Chairman, Simon Ball, Clive Butler, Kate Nealon Review of the effectiveness of the internal and and Agns Touraine.
external auditors: Review of litigation: During the year under review, the Audit Committee undertook Review of the Groups accounting and tax policies: a full review of its objectives and terms of reference.
Following Review of key corporate governance developments: and that review, the Committees objectives were confirmed as: Self-evaluation of the effectiveness of the Committee.
assisting the Board in meeting its responsibilities to create an effective system of internal control and compliance: Disclosure Committee providing accurate external financial reporting: and overseeing, To assist the Audit Committee with the above, responsibility reviewing and monitoring managements conduct and for identifying and considering disclosure matters in reporting of effective risk management.
connection with the preparation of all market releases containing material financial information has been delegated The Committees full terms of reference are published on to a Disclosure Committee comprising senior management our website www.
com and summarised below: from finance, legal and external affairs.
To review and, where necessary, challenge the actions and During the preparation of the Annual Report, the Disclosure judgements of management in relation to the full year and Committee requests and obtains confirmatory statements half year financial statements before submission to the from contributors prior to the documents review by the Board.
Particular attention is paid to critical accounting Committee and approval by the Board.
policies, the overall quality of earnings, the clarity of disclosure and compliance with accounting standards: Internal Audit To review compliance with legal and regulatory The Internal Audit function, headed by the Director of requirements arising from our listing on the London Internal Audit, is supported by a team of auditors based Stock Exchange: in the UK and Jamaica.
The function has a formal charter To review material complaints regarding accounting, approved by the Board that describes its purpose, authority internal controls and auditing raised by employees and responsibility.
The functions annual audit plan is and monitor whistle blowing procedures: approved by the Audit Committee.
To review the policies and process for identifying, External audit assessing and managing business risks: KPMG Audit Plc has acted as auditor since 1991.
The audit To review the internal audit programme and consider engagement partner was assigned to the Company in the effectiveness of the internal audit function: and 2005 06.
A policy to maintain the independence of the To make recommendations to the Board about the auditor and its personnel, governing the provision of audit appointment, reappointment or removal of the external and non-audit services provided by the auditor and its auditor, their remuneration, terms of engagement and associates has been established by the Audit Committee.
the approval process for non-audit services.
The policy clearly identifies permitted and prohibited Meetings services and sets out the procedure to be followed for the The Audit Committee held five scheduled meetings during approval of all audit and non-audit services.
All engagements the year ended 31 March 2008, together with an additional with an expected value in excess of 250,000 require the meeting in May 2007 to consider any issues arising from the prior approval of the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
For the year ended 31 March 2008 the Committee approved The agenda for scheduled meetings is prepared by the fees for audit services of 3.3 million including 0.3 million Committee Chairman, in conjunction with the Group Finance relating to the prior year together with fees for audit-related Director, Group Financial Controller and external auditors.
regulatory reporting of 0.4 million and non-audit work of 1.1 million.
The nature of the services provided is set out in Each scheduled meeting receives reports from the Group note 6 to the consolidated financial statements.
There is no Finance Director, the external auditor and the Director of limitation of liability in the terms of appointment of KPMG Internal Audit.
In addition, during the year, the Committee as auditors to the Company.
considered the business set out below, making recommendations to the Board where appropriate: Kasper Rorsted Chairman, Audit Committee Preliminary results and press release for the year ended 21 May 2008 31 March 2007, the 2006 07 Annual Report together with the Directors statement on compliance with Turnbull 53 Governance
