Corporate governance report Our Board is committed to ensuring that high The Senior Independent Director is Clive Butler.
Clive standards of corporate governance are maintained is charged with establishing a communication channel by Cable & Wireless.
between the Chairman and the Non-executive Directors and ensuring that the views of each Non-executive Director Our governing policies and practices are detailed in this are given due consideration.
He is also a contact point for report and in the reports of the Audit Committee on page 53 shareholders if they have reason for concern which contact and Remuneration Committee on pages 54 to 63.
Together, through the normal channels of the Chairman or Executive these reports provide shareholders with an insight into how Directors has failed to resolve, or for which contact is our Board and senior management run the business to inappropriate.
Role of the Board Board membership and attendance The Board leads Cable & Wireless and, either directly At 31 March 2008 our Board comprised the Chairman, or through the operation of its Committees and delegated three Executive Directors and five Non-executive authority, brings an independent judgement on all matters Directors, who are collectively responsible for the success of strategy, performance, resources including key of Cable & Wireless.
One Executive Director, Harris Jones, appointments and standards of conduct.
The Board left during the period under review.
Biographies of the Committees are constituted with appropriate written terms current Directors and details of their Committee membership of reference that are reviewed annually and together with are shown on page 45. our Articles of Association are published on our website at www.
Each Director is entitled to one vote at Our Non-executive Directors bring a wide range of skills Board meetings.
All votes are equal in power.
and experience to Cable & Wireless.
They provide an independent view on matters of strategy, performance, The Board is responsible for the strategic aims of Cable risk and people through their contribution at Board and & Wireless, which are then implemented through the approval Committee meetings.
The Board considers that all our and regular monitoring of performance against the budget Non-executive Directors are independent in character and and five year plan prepared by the Executive Directors.
Non-executive Directors are appointed for an At its regular meetings, the Board deals with both those initial three year term with the expectation that a further matters specifically reserved for its decision and any other term will follow, subject to review by the Board.
Reserved matters include Group strategy, and conditions of appointment of the Non-executive financial reporting and control, acquisitions and disposals, Directors are available for inspection at our registered annual budgets and operating plans, customer contracts office during normal business hours and at our AGM.
and expenditure over a certain financial limit, Board and Committee membership and other senior appointments, The Board met on eight occasions during 2007 08 and, Director and senior executive remuneration, delegation in addition, attended meetings to consider the strategic of authority and corporate governance.
Further detail direction of different parts of the business.
Details of of the Boards reserved powers may be found on our Directors attendance at scheduled Board and Committee website at www.
The Board and its Committees are provided with full and Audit Remuneration Nominations timely information prior to meetings, including detailed Board Committee Committee Committee financial information.
The Chairman, in consultation with the Chairman Company Secretary and Executive Directors, sets the agenda Richard Lapthorne 8 2 for Board meetings.
Formal minutes recording decisions of all Executive Directors Board and Committee meetings are prepared and circulated George Battersby 8 to each Director as appropriate.
If a Director objects to a John Pluthero 8 particular proposal, this will be recorded in the minutes of Tony Rice 8 the relevant meeting.
During the year ended 31 March 2008, as for the previous year, there were no such objections.
Non-executive Directors Simon Ball 8 5 7 The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that an appropriate Clive Butler 8 5 7 2 induction is given to any new Board member.
Directors Kate Nealon 7 4 7 2 receive appropriate training, briefings and information, Kasper Rorsted 8 5 6 2 both orally and in written form, to enable them to perform their Agns Touraine 8 5 7 roles both on the Board and its Committees.
All Directors Former Executive Directors have access to the advice of the Company Secretary and Harris Jones 3 in addition, the Board has established a procedure whereby any Director, wishing to do so in the furtherance of their Meetings held during the year 8 5 7 2 duties, may take independent professional advice on any matter at the Companys expense.
Director is not a Committee member.
50 During the year ended 31 March 2008, responsibility The Nominations Committee is chaired by Clive Butler for the day-to-day management of Europe, Asia & US Senior Independent Director and the other members are was delegated to John Pluthero and responsibility for Richard Lapthorne Chairman of Cable and Wireless plc, management of the Central functions was delegated to Kate Nealon Chair of the Remuneration Committee and Tony Rice.
Until 12 November 2007, responsibility for the Kasper Rorsted Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The day-to-day management of International was delegated majority of its members are independent Non-executive to Harris Jones.
Subsequent to this date, John Pluthero Directors.
The Committee met twice during the year under was appointed as Executive Chairman of International review and its full terms of reference are available on our and assumed day-to-day management of International website at www.
in addition to Europe, Asia & US.
Performance evaluation During the year under review, the Operating Boards for Since the last Annual Report, the Board has undertaken International and Europe, Asia & US continued to meet and its annual evaluation of performance including a review operate.
Until 12 November 2007, Lord Robertson of Port of the performance and membership of its principal Ellen was the Non-executive Chairman of International and committees.
Unlike the previous year when an external membership of the International Operating Board included facilitator was appointed, the Board elected to undertake Harris Jones, members of his senior management team and this years evaluation in-house, led by the Chairman.
Subsequent to that date, John The process included the completion of a detailed Pluthero became Executive Chairman of International questionnaire by each Board member together with and a number of changes were made to the International private meetings as appropriate.
The conclusions of the Operating Board following changes to the International Board evaluation, including a review of progress against senior management team.
Throughout this time, continuity points raised in previous years, were collated by the was provided by the three Investor Directors appointed by Company Secretary and then presented to, and the Board, being Tony Rice Joint Group Managing Director, considered by, the whole Board.
Central and Group Finance Director, George Battersby Group HR Director and Nick Cooper Group General During the year, the Non-executive Directors again met Counsel and Company Secretary.
privately both with and without the Chairman being present, to consider management performance and succession Membership of the Europe, Asia & US Operating Board issues.
The Non-executive Directors appraised the includes John Pluthero as Executive Chairman, Jim Marsh Chairmans performance and carefully reviewed the as Chief Executive, and members of the senior management relationship between the Chairman and the Joint Group team, together with the three Investor Directors named above.
Managing Directors to ensure that the Board structure Separate schedules of reserved matters have been created and relationships continued to promote the creation of shareholder value.
As part of this evaluation the Senior for the two Operating Boards and the Board may delegate power to the Investor Directors to grant approval on any Independent Director met with Executive Directors to discuss their views.
matter otherwise reserved for the Board.
Compliance with the Combined Code the Code Committees of the Board Membership of Committees of the Board is reviewed Throughout the year ended 31 March 2008, we complied with all Code provisions set out in Section One of the 2006 annually.
Reports on the purpose and activities of the FRC Combined Code on Corporate Governance with one Audit Committee and Remuneration Committee are exception.
C. 3.1 of the Code provides that the Board should included on pages 53 and 54 to 63 respectively.
satisfy itself that at least one member of the Audit Committee A Nominations Committee has been established by the has recent and relevant financial experience.
As in previous Board to ensure that appropriate procedures are in place years, our Board considers that there is a sufficient breadth for the nomination, selection, training and evaluation of of financial expertise across the Audit Committee and Directors as well as ensuring that succession planning is that, collectively, its members have the requisite skills being undertaken.
The Nominations Committee reviews and attributes to discharge its responsibilities properly.
the balance of Board membership and the required blend As a result, the Board has decided not to identify any one of skills, knowledge and experience by considering its member as having such experience.
The Committee was active in making recommendations for changes to the Board during By order of the Board the year.
Members of the Committee abstain when matters Nick Cooper affecting their own appointments are discussed.
Group General Counsel and Company Secretary 21 May 2008 51 Governance
