The Merchants Trust PLC Corporate Governance The Board has considered the principles and recommendations which external recruitment consultants were appointed to draw of the AIC Code of Corporate Governance AIC Code by up a shortlist of candidates.
reference to the AIC Corporate Governance Guide for The Boards tenure policy is that new Directors stand for Investment Companies AIC Guide.
The AIC Code, as election at the first Annual General Meeting following their explained by the AIC Guide, addresses all the principles set out appointment and then at least one third of Directors retire by in Section 1 of the Combined Code which was issued by the rotation at each Annual General Meeting.
Every Director is Financial Reporting Council in June 2006, as well as setting out required to seek re-election at least every three years and additional principles and recommendations on issues that are of annually after nine years service.
The names of the Directors specic relevance to the Company.
The Board considers that retiring by rotation and those other Directors retiring in reporting against the principles and recommendations of the AIC accordance with the Articles of Association at this years Annual Code, and by reference to the AIC Guide, will provide better General Meeting are given on page 18. information to shareholders.
The Company has complied with the recommendations of the AIC Code and the relevant The Board meets at least six times a year and convenes other provisions of Section 1 of the Combined Code, except in meetings as and when required.
Between meetings, regular relation to the Combined Code provisions relating to: contact with the investment managers is maintained.
The Board the role of the chief executive has a schedule of matters reserved for its approval to ensure it has full and effective control over appropriate issues.
These executive directors remuneration issues include approval of the Companys investment policy, the need for an internal audit function capital structure, share price and discount, committee membership and terms of reference, financial reporting, risk For the reasons set out in the AIC Guide, and in the preamble management, board appointments and removals, corporate to the Combined Code, the Board considers these provisions governance, internal controls and contracts.
A procedure has are not relevant to the Company as it is an externally managed been adopted for Directors, in the furtherance of their duties, to investment company.
The Company has therefore not reported take independent professional advice at the expense of the further in respect of these provisions.
The Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, who is responsible to the Board for The Board ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that the The Board currently consists of five Directors, all of whom are Company complies with applicable rules and regulations.
When non-executive and independent of the Companys investment a new Director is appointed there is an induction process manager.
It is intended that there will be six directors after the carried out by the investment manager.
Directors are provided, Annual General Meeting.
Their biographies, on page 14, on a regular basis, with key information on the Companys demonstrate a breadth of investment, industrial, commercial and regulatory and statutory requirements and internal financial professional experience.
Changes affecting Directors responsibilities are advised to the Board as they arise.
The Chairman of the Company is a non-executive Director and Joe Scott Plummer was appointed as the Senior Independent During the year, the effectiveness of the Board was assessed Director in March 2005. through interviews conducted by the Chairman with each Director.
In addition, the performance of the Directors was The Board follows the AIC Code and considers Joe Scott evaluated by each Director, followed by a discussion with the Plummer and Dick Bareld, to be independent, notwithstanding Chairman.
The Chairmans own performance was evaluated by that each has served on the Board for more than nine years.
the other Directors, who met under the chairmanship of Joe The Board does not consider that length of service has Scott Plummer as Senior Independent Director.
The results of diminished the independence of these directors and continues the effectiveness assessment and performance evaluation have to be of the view that their extensive experience and active been presented to the Nomination Committee.
knowledge of the industry is of great benefit to the Board.
The effectiveness assessment determined that with the planned The composition of the Board is reviewed regularly.
Two new recruitment of new Directors the balance of the Board was directors will be appointed with effect from 1 May 2008, satisfactory.
Michael McKeon and Henry Staunton.
This follows an exercise in 24 The Merchants Trust PLC Corporate Governance The Board has contractually delegated to the investment remuneration.
It meets representatives of the Managers twicemanager the management of the investment portfolio, and the yearly and receives reports on the internal controls maintained day to day accounting and company secretarial requirements.
on behalf of the Company and reviews the effectiveness of This contract was entered into after full and proper consideration these controls.
The Audit Committee continues to believe that by the Board of the quality and cost of services offered, the Company does not require an internal audit function of its including the financial control systems in operation, in so far as own as it delegates its day to day operations to third parties they relate to the affairs of the Company.
The Board receives from whom it receives internal controls reports.
and considers reports regularly from the investment manager As the Company has no employees it does not have a formal and ad hoc reports and information are supplied to the Board policy concerning the raising, in confidence, of any concerns as required.
The Boards statement on its review of the about improprieties, whether in matters of financial reporting or management contract appears on page 18. otherwise, for appropriate independent investigation.
The Audit Attendance by Directors at formal Board and committee Committee has, however, received and noted the Managers meetings during the year was as follows: policy on this matter.
Nomination Committee Management The Nomination Committee meets at least once each year and Audit Nomination Engagement makes recommendations on the appointment of new Directors Director Board Committee Committee Committee and the re-election of existing Directors by shareholders.
of meetings 6211 committee also determines the process for the annual H. A. Stevenson 6 2 11 evaluation of the Board.
The Committee is chaired by Hugh # Sir John Banham Stevenson, the Chairman of the Board.
All Directors serve on R. A. Bareld 6211 the committee and consider nominations made in accordance Sir Bob Reid 51 with an agreed procedure.
Sir James Sassoon 6211 P. J. Scott Plummer 5211 Management Engagement Committee Invited to attend meetings, although not a committee member.
The Management Engagement Committee meets at least once #Retired from the board in May 2007. each year to review the Management Agreement and the Managers performance.
It has dened terms of reference and Board Committees consists of the non-executive Directors and excludes any Audit Committee Directors previously employed by the Managers.
It is chaired by The Audit Committee consists of all of the independent nonHugh Stevenson, the Chairman of the Board.
executive Directors, with the exception of the Chairman, and has dened terms of reference and duties.
The role of the Audit The Board has not constituted a Remuneration Committee: all Committee is to assist the Board in relation to the reporting of Directors are non-executive and remuneration matters are dealt financial information.
The Audit Committee is chaired by with by the whole Board.
The committee considers that, collectively, its members have sufficient recent and relevant financial The Terms of Reference for each of the committees may be experience to discharge their responsibilities fully.
The viewed by shareholders on request and are published on the committee meets at least twice each year and reviews the website www.
annual and half yearly financial statements and considers the Auditors report on the annual accounts, the planning and the Financial Reporting process of the audit and the Auditors independence and The Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the objectivity.
It has also considered the non-audit services financial statements is on page 19. provided by the Auditors and determined that they have had no impact on the Auditors independence and objectivity.
The Audit The Independent Auditors Report can be found on pages 29 Committee reviews the Companys accounting policies and and 30. considers their appropriateness.
The Committee also reviews the terms of appointment of the Auditors together with their 25 The Merchants Trust PLC Corporate Governance The Board, assisted by the Manager, undertook a full review Auditors Information of the Companys business risks and these are analysed and Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval of recorded in a risk matrix.
Every six months the Board this report confirms that: receives from the Manager a formal report which details any known internal controls failures, including those that are not a in so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit directly the responsibility of the Manager.
The Board information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: continues to check that good systems of internal control and and risk management are embedded in the operations and culture of the Company and its key suppliers.
b the Director has taken all the steps he ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself aware of any relevant The appointment of RCM UK Limited RCM as the audit information and to establish that the Companys Manager provides investment management, accounting and auditors are aware of that information.
company secretarial services to the Company.
The Manager therefore maintains the internal controls associated with the This conrmation is given and should be interpreted in day to day operation of the Company.
These responsibilities accordance with the provisions of Section 234ZA of the are included in the Management Agreement between the Companies Act 1985.
The Managers system of internal control includes organisation arrangements with Going Concern clearly dened lines of responsibility and delegated authority After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable as well as control procedures and systems which are expectation that the Company has adequate resources to regularly evaluated by management and monitored by its continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
RCM is regulated by the Financial For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis Services Authority FSA and its compliance department in preparing the financial statements.
regularly monitors compliance with FSA rules.
The Company receives reports at least annually from the manager on its Internal Control internal controls.
The Company, in common with other The Directors have overall responsibility for the Companys investment trusts, has no internal audit department, but the system of internal control.
Whilst acknowledging their effectiveness of the Managers internal controls is monitored responsibility for the system of internal control, the Directors are by Allianz Global Investors internal audit function.
aware that such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of a failure to achieve business objectives and There is a regular review by the Board of asset allocation can provide only reasonable but not absolute assurance against and any risk implications.
There is also regular and material misstatement or loss.
comprehensive review by the Board of management accounting information including revenue and expenditure The Board has established an ongoing process for identifying, projections, actual revenue against projections and evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the performance comparisons.
This process is subject to review by the Board and accords with the Internal Control Guidance for Directors in the Authorisation and exposure limits are set and maintained by Combined Code published in September 1999 and revised in the Board.
The process has been fully in place throughout the year under review and up to the The Audit Committee assesses the Managers and date of signing of this Annual Financial Report.
Custodians systems of controls and approves the appointment of any sub-custodians.
The Audit Committee The key elements of the procedures that the Directors have also receives reports from the Managers and Custodians established and which are designed to provide effective internal internal auditors, compliance department and independent control are as follows: Auditors.
26 The Merchants Trust PLC Corporate Governance The Board reviews the Internal Control reports of the We believe that good corporate governance includes the Managers and third party service providers, including those management of the companys impacts on society and the of the Companys Registrars, Capita Registrars, and environment, as these are increasingly becoming a factor in Custodian, HSBC Bank plc.
contributing towards maximising long term shareholder value.
The Directors confirm that the Audit Committee has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control.
During the Exercise of Voting Powers course of its review of the system of internal control, the Board The Companys investments are held in a nominee name.
The has not identied nor been advised of any failings or Board has delegated discretion to discharge its responsibilities in weaknesses which it has determined to be significant.
respect of investments, including the exercise of voting powers on its behalf, to the Manager.
Relations with Shareholders The Board strongly believes that the annual general meeting The Board has noted the Managers statement of its corporate should be an event which private shareholders are encouraged governance aims and objectives, summarised as: to attend.
The annual general meeting is attended by the Chairman of the Board and the Chairman of the Audit Our primary corporate aim is to maximise shareholder value Committee, and the Investment Manager makes a presentation through the securing of corporate performance whilst at the meeting.
The number of proxy votes cast in respect of protecting this value through operating within established each resolution will be made available at the annual general rules of conformance.
Our primary investment management aim is to meet or The Manager meets with institutional shareholders on a regular exceed our clients expectations through generating first class basis and report to the Board on matters raised at these returns within the constraint of their risk tolerance.
RCM votes in all markets wherever possible, and strives All correspondence with shareholders is reviewed by the Board.
actively to encourage both improved levels of disclosure among companies and proper voting infrastructure among Shareholders who wish to communicate directly with the custodians and agents globally.
Chairman, the Senior Independent Director or other Directors may write care of the Company Secretary at 155 Bishopsgate, In the UK, RCM is a member of the National Association of London EC2M 3AD.
Pension Funds NAPF and the International Corporate Governance Network ICGN, and abides by these organisations The Notice of Meeting sets out the business of the meeting and founding principles.
These guidelines also take into account special resolutions are explained more fully in the Directors international codes of corporate governance from a number of Report.
Separate resolutions are proposed for each substantive sources, including Employment Retirement Income Security Act issue.
ERISA legislation and Department of Labor recommendations in the U. S. where appropriate.
Corporate Social Responsibility and Where Directors hold directorships on the boards of companies Environmental Policy in which the Company is invested, they do not participate in The Investment Managers have been directed by the Board to decisions made concerning those investments.
take account of companies corporate social responsibility and environmental performance when taking investment decisions.
An extract from the Trusts voting record in the previous calendar year will be available for inspection at the annual The Board has noted the Managers views on Social general meeting each year.
Responsibility that it adheres to in engaging with the underlying investee companies and in exercising its delegated responsibilities in voting.
These are that: 27 The Merchants Trust PLC Directors Remuneration Report This report is submitted in accordance with Schedule 7A of the an additional 3,000, and 27,500 per annum for the Chairman Companies Act 1985 for the year ended 31 January 2008. of the Board.
The Board Directors Emoluments Audited The Board of Directors is composed solely of non-executive The following disclosures on Directors remuneration have been Directors and the determination of the Directors fees is a audited as required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A of the Companies matter dealt with by the whole Board.
The Board has not been Act 1985. provided with advice or services by any person to assist it to The Directors Emoluments during the year and in the previous make its remuneration decisions, although the Directors carry year are as follows: out reviews from time to time of the fees paid to the directors Directors fees of other investment trusts.
2008 2007 Policy on Directors Remuneration No Director has a service contract with the Company.
The H. A. Stevenson 25,000 23,334 Companys policy is for the Directors to be remunerated in the Sir John Banham 4,327 14,000 form of fees, payable quarterly in arrears.
There are no long R. A. Bareld 15,000 14,000 term incentive schemes, bonuses, pension benets, share Sir Bob Reid 15,000 14,000 options or other benets and fees are not related to the Sir James Sassoon 17,000 9,062 individual Directors performance, nor to the performance of the P. J. Scott Plummer 15,000 15,554 111 111 Board as a whole.
Totals 91,327 89,950 111 111 The Companys Articles of Association limit the aggregate fees Performance Graph payable to the Board of Directors to a total of 150,000 per The graph below measures the Companys share price and net annum.
Subject to this overall limit, it is the Boards policy to asset value performance against its benchmark index of the determine the level of Directors fees having regard to the level FTSE 100 Index.
of fees payable to non-executive Directors in the investment trust industry generally, the role that individual Directors full, and the The Companys performance is measured against the FTSE 100 time committed to the Companys affairs.
The Board believes Index as this is the most appropriate comparator in respect of its that levels of remuneration should be sufficient to attract and asset allocation.
An explanation of the Companys performance retain non-executive directors to oversee the Company.
is given in the Chairmans Statement and the Investment Managers Review.
Directors and ofcers liability insurance cover is held by the Company.
Following the approval of the proposal at last years 290 Annual General Meeting to change the Companys Articles of Association to enable the Company to grant indemnities to the 250 Directors individually, deeds of indemnity have been entered 210 into with the Directors.
170 Remuneration 130 The policy is to review Directors fees from time to time, but 90 reviews will not necessarily result in a change to the rates.
As 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 The Merchants Trust Share Price The Merchants Trust NAV FTSE 100 disclosed in last years report, in the year under review the Source: Mellon Directors were paid at a rate unchanged since June 2006 of 15,000 per annum, with an additional 2,000 payable to the By Order of the Board Audit Committee Chairman.
The Chairman of the Board was K. J.
Salt paid at a rate of 25,000 per annum.
These rates will be Secretary increased with effect from 1 June 2008 to 18,000 per annum 14 April 2008 for the Directors, with the Audit Committee Chairman receiving 28 Cumulative Return % The Merchants Trust PLC Independent Auditors Report information specified by law regarding directors remuneration Independent Auditors Report to the Members and other transactions is not disclosed.
of The Merchants Trust PLC We have audited the financial statements of The Merchants We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement Trust PLC for the year ended 31 January 2008 which comprise reects the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the Income Statement, the Reconciliation of Movements in the Combined Code 2006 specified for our review by the Shareholders Funds, the Balance Sheet, the Cash Flow Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if Statement, and the related notes.
These financial statements it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the have been prepared under the accounting policies set out Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and therein.
We have also audited the information in the Directors controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
companys corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors We read other information contained in the Annual Financial The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Financial Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited Report, Directors Remuneration Report and the financial financial statements.
The other information comprises only the statements in accordance with applicable law and United Key Facts, Performance Attribution Analysis, Chairmans Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Statement, Historical Record, Investment Managers Review, Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the Statement of Listed Holdings, Distribution of Total Assets, Performance Directors Responsibilities.
Graphs, the Directors Report, the Corporate Governance Statement and the unaudited part of the Directors Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the Remuneration Report.
We consider the implications for our part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the companys members as a body in accordance with Section Basis of audit opinion 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We We conducted our audit in accordance with International do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the agreed by our prior consent in writing.
The information given in financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration the Directors Report includes that specic information Report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the presented in the Investment Managers Report and other significant estimates and judgments made by the directors in sections of the Annual Financial Report that is cross-referred the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the from the Business Review section of the Directors Report.
accounting policies are appropriate to the companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report information and explanations which we considered necessary in to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you whether in our assurance that the financial statements and the part of the opinion the information given in the Directors Report is Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free from consistent with the financial statements.
material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the company has overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if Report to be audited.
29 The Merchants Trust PLC Independent Auditors Report Opinion In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, of the state of the companys affairs as at 31 January 2008 and of its net return and cash ows for the year then ended: the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the financial statements.
 LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors London 14 April 2008 30
