Statement of Corporate Governance nine years.
Nonetheless, the Board considers Mr Coats to be Introduction fully independent.
The UK Listing Authority requires all listed companies to describe how they have complied with the principles of the The Combined Code states that, following appointment, the Combined Code on Corporate Governance published in July test of independence is not appropriate in relation to the 2003.
The Association of Investment Companies AIC also Chairman.
"However, the AIC Code states that the test of published a Code of Corporate Governance for Investment independence continues to be appropriate and, consequently, Trusts ""AIC Code"" in July 2003."
The AIC Code, which was the Board will follow the AIC Code.
The Board considers the updated in February 2006 and again in May 2007, forms a Chairman to be independent.
comprehensive guide to best practice in certain areas of governance where the specific characteristics of investment The names and biographies of those Directors who held trusts suggest alternative approaches to those set out in the office at the date of this Annual Report appear on pages 20 Combined Code that may be preferable.
There is a certain and 21 of this Annual Report, and indicate their range of amount of overlap with the Combined Code, although the investment, industrial, commercial and professional focus of attention is on the points of difference.
The Board is committed to high standards of corporate The Board sets the Companys values and objectives, and governance and has put in place a framework for corporate ensures that its obligations to its Shareholders are met.
It has governance, which it believes is appropriate for an formally adopted a schedule of matters which are required to investment trust.
be brought to it for decision, thus ensuring that it maintains full and effective control over appropriate strategic, financial, Application of the Principles of the Codes operational and compliance issues.
The Board is accountable to the Companys Shareholders for good governance and this Statement describes how the These matters include: principles identified in the Combined Code and the AIC Code the maintenance of clear investment objectives and risk have been applied by the Company throughout the year to management policies 30 June 2008, except where disclosed below.
the monitoring of the business activities of the Company ranging from analysis of investment performance through The Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority require the to annual budgeting and quarterly forecasting and variance Board to report on compliance with the Combined Code analysis provisions throughout the year.
In instances where the Companies Act requirements such as the approval of the Combined Code and the AIC Code differ, an explanation will interim and annual Financial Statements and approval and be given as to which Code has been applied and the reason recommendation of the interim and final dividends for that decision.
respectively setting the range of gearing in which the Manager may Save as described below, no exceptions to compliance with operate the Combined Code were identified.
"major changes relating to the Companys structure, including share buy-backs and share issues The Board Board appointments and removals and the related terms appointment and removal of the Manager and the terms The Board currently consists of five non-executive Directors, and conditions of the management and administration all of whom, with the exception of Ms M Glen, are agreements relating thereto considered under the Codes to be independent of the terms of reference and membership of Board Committees investment manager ""Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited"" or Stock Exchange UK Listing Authority Financial Services the Manager, and free of any relationship which could Authority responsibility such as approval of all circulars, materially interfere with the exercise of their independent listing particulars and approval of all releases concerning judgement on issues of strategy, performance, resources and matters decided by the Board."
The firm of which Ms Glen is a partner provides legal advice to companies within the Managers There is an agreed procedure for Directors to take group.
Accordingly, Ms Glen does not meet the tests of independent professional advice, if necessary, at the independence from the Manager set out in the AIC Code.
The Directors have access to the advice Notwithstanding this, the Board takes the view that, in and services of the corporate Company Secretary through its performing the role of Director, Ms Glen has displayed appointed representatives who are responsible to the Board: independence from the Manager.
She will, however, offer for ensuring that Board procedures are complied with.
Mr Coats will, by the Annual General Meeting, have served as a Director for more than 28 Murray Income Trust PLC Enfocus Software - Customer Support under the direction of the Chairman, for ensuring good The Board and Committees have undertaken their annual information flows with the Board and its committees, as performance evaluation, using questionnaires and discussion, well as facilitating induction and assisting with professional to ensure that all its members have devoted sufficient time development as required.
and contributed adequately to the work of the Board and for advising through the Chairman on all corporate Committees, and to consider each Directors independence.
The Chairman has been evaluated by his fellow Directors.
The Board considers that none of his other commitments When a Director is appointed, an induction process is set out on page 20 of this report interfere with the arranged by the Manager.
This involves induction meetings discharge of his responsibilities to the Company, and is which cover details about the Company, its Manager, legal satisfied that he makes sufficient time available to serve the responsibilities and investment trust industry matters.
There have been no significant changes Directors are provided, on a regular basis, with key to the Chairmans other commitments during the year.
information on the Companys policies, regulatory and statutory requirements and internal controls.
Changes External Agencies affecting Directors responsibilities are advised to the Board The Board has contractually delegated to external agencies, as they arise.
Directors have also taken part in various including the Manager and other service providers, certain training specific to non-executive Directors, including services: the management of the investment portfolio: the training courses run by the AIC and the Manager.
custodial services which include the safeguarding of the assets : the registration services: and the day-to-day The Chairman of the Company is a non-executive Director.
accounting and company secretarial requirements.
Each of Mr Coats has been appointed senior independent Director these contracts was entered into after full and proper consideration by the Board of the quality and cost of services During the year ended 30 June 2008, the Board met five offered in so far as they relate to the affairs of the Company.
Details of attendance by each of the Directors and The Board receives and considers reports from the Manager Committee members at Board and Committee meetings are on a regular basis.
In addition, ad hoc reports and shown below.
Between meetings, the Board maintains information are supplied to the Board as requested.
regular contact with the Manager.
The primary focus at regular Board meetings is a review of investment Committees performance and associated matters including gearing, asset Nomination Committee allocation, marketing and investor relations, peer group A Nomination Committee has been established with written information and industry issues.
terms of reference, and comprises the full Board.
The Chairman of the Committee is the Chairman of the Audit, Management Company.
Nomination Engagement and Committee The Committee makes recommendations to the Board on Remuneration Meetings the following matters: Board Committee Attended Meetings Meetings the identification and nomination of candidates to fill Director Attended Attended Board vacancies as and when they arise for the approval of the Board P A F Gifford 5 5 6 6 1 1 plans for succession A J M Coats 5 5 6 6 1 1 the re-appointment of any non-executive Director at the M Glen 5 5 6 6 1 1 conclusion of their specified term of office N A Honebon 5 5 6 6 1 1 the re-election by Shareholders of any Director under the H van der Klugt 5 5 6 6 1 1 retirement by rotation provisions in the Companys Articles each of the three Committees met twice during the year.
of Association the continuation in office of any Director at any time To enable the Board to function effectively and allow the appointment of any Director to another office e. g. Directors to discharge their responsibilities, full and timely Chairman of the Audit Committee other than to the access is given to all relevant information.
In the case of position of Chairman, the recommendation for which Board meetings, this consists of a comprehensive set of would be considered at a meeting of the Board.
papers, including the Managers review and discussion documents regarding specific matters.
Directors have made In considering the appointment of a new Director, the further enquiries where necessary.
Committee ensures that the Board continues to have the right balance of skills, experience, age and length of service.
It Murray Income Trust PLC 29 Enfocus Software - Customer Support Statement of Corporate Governance continued may use the professional services of a search consultant to meetings with representatives of the Manager.
identify suitable candidates for review by the Board.
Management Engagement Committee The Committee further recommended to the Board the As recommended by the AIC Code, a Management nomination for re-election of Mr Gifford, Mr van der Klugt Engagement Committee has been established, comprising and Ms M Glen for the following reasons: the full Board.
The Chairman of the Committee is the Mr Gifford, who has been a Director since July 1999, was Chairman of the Company.
It annually reviews matters previously a director of Robert Fleming Holdings.
His concerning the investment management agreement which experience in investment matters is greatly valued by his exists with Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited.
Details of the fellow Directors.
He was appointed Chairman of the Management Agreement are shown on page 26.
Mr van der Klugt has been a Director since May 2004.
As a Remuneration Committee and Directors Remuneration former director of Schroder Investment Management, his Under the UK Listing Authoritys Listing Rule 15.4.
15, where experience in the fund management industry greatly an investment trust has only non-executive directors, the enhances the combined experience of the Board.
Combined Code principles relating to directors remuneration Ms Glen has been a Director since February 2003.
However, the Company does have a head of Funds and Financial Services at Shepherd Remuneration Committee, comprising the full Board, and Wedderburn Solicitors, and her experience in this area is whose Chairman is Mr van der Klugt.
of considerable assistance to her fellow Directors.
Her continued appointment as a Director facilitates the The remuneration of the Directors has been set in order to maintenance of an appropriate range of skills and attract individuals of a calibre appropriate to the future experience on the Board.
The Companys policy on Directors remuneration, together with details of the Audit Committee remuneration of each Director, is detailed in the Directors An Audit Committee has been established with written terms Remuneration Report on pages 34 and 35.
The terms of of reference and, with effect from 8 February 2008, reference of the Remuneration Committee are available on comprises all independent Directors it formerly comprised request and on the Companys website.
Ms Glen attends by invitation.
Mr Coats, a chartered accountant, is the Chairman of the Audit Directors Terms of Appointment Committee.
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee, All non-executive Directors are appointed for an initial term which are available on request and on the Companys of three years, subject to re-election and Companies Act website, are reviewed and re-assessed for their adequacy on provisions and, in accordance with the existing Articles of an annual basis.
The Committee considers Ernst & Young LLP, Association, stand for election at the first Annual General the Companys Auditors, to be independent of the Company, Meeting following their appointment.
The Articles of as no non-audit services, except for the interim review, were Association state that Directors must offer themselves for recarried out by Ernst & Young LLP during the year.
election at least once every three years.
The matters considered by the Committee during the year Policy on Tenure included: The Boards policy on tenure is that Directors need not serve the review of the effectiveness of the internal control on the Board for a limited period of time only.
The Board environment of the Company to assist in this the does not consider that the length of service of a Director is Committee received reports from the internal and external as important as the contribution he or she has to make, and auditors on a regular basis therefore the length of service will be determined on a case the review of the annual accounts and interim report by case basis.
the review of the terms of appointment of the Auditors together with their remuneration as well as the non-audit Communication with Shareholders services provided by the Auditors if applicable the review of the scope and the results of the audit, its cost The Company places a great deal of importance on effectiveness and the independence and objectivity of the communication with its Shareholders.
The Manager, Auditors, with particular regard to non-audit fees it should accompanied occasionally by the Chairman, has an annual be noted that the Auditors, Ernst & Young LLP, rotate the programme of meetings with institutional Shareholders, and partner responsible for the audit every five years reports back to the Board on these meetings.
the review of the Auditors management letter and the management response The Company has adopted a nominee code, which ensures the review of the management agreement that, when shares in Murray Income Trust are held in the 30 Murray Income Trust PLC Enfocus Software - Customer Support name of nominee companies and notification has been The Independent Auditors Report is on pages 36 and 37. received in advance, nominee companies will be provided with copies of Shareholder communications for distribution Internal Control to their customers.
Nominee investors may attend general The Board of Directors of Murray Income Trust PLC has meetings and speak at meetings when invited by the overall responsibility for the Companys system of internal Chairman.
control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Directors confirm that there is an ongoing process for identifying, Participants in the Managers Savings Plan, whose shares are evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the held in the nominee names of the plan administrator, are Company, which has been in place for the full year under given the opportunity to vote by means of a Letter of review and up to the date of approval of the Financial Direction enclosed with the Annual Report.
The Letter of Statements, and that this process is regularly reviewed by the Direction is forwarded to the administrator of the Savings Board and accords with the FRCs guidance document Plan, who will complete a proxy on behalf of the participants Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the and forward it to the Companys registrar for inclusion in the Combined Code.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of Those participants who attend the Annual General Meeting internal control and, in particular, it has reviewed the process are given the opportunity to speak when invited by the for identifying and evaluating the significant risks affecting Chairman.
the Company and the policies and procedures by which these risks are managed.
As required under the Combined Code, the Annual Report is posted to Shareholders at least twenty business days before The Directors have delegated the investment management of the Annual General Meeting.
the Companys assets to the Manager within overall guidelines, and this embraces implementation of the system The Notice of Meeting on pages 55 to 57 sets out the of internal control, including financial, operational and business of the meeting and the resolutions are explained compliance controls and risk management.
Internal control more fully in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages systems are monitored and supported by an internal audit 34 and 35 and the Directors Report on pages 22 to 27. function which undertakes periodic examination of business processes, including compliance with the terms of the Separate resolutions are proposed for each substantive issue.
management agreement and ensures that recommendations to improve controls are implemented.
The Board is very conscious that the Annual General Meeting is an event at which all Shareholders are encouraged to Risks are identified and documented through a risk attend and participate.
The Manager makes a presentation to management framework by each function within the the meeting outlining the key investment issues that affect Managers activities.
Risk is considered in the context of the the Company.
All Shareholders have the opportunity to put FRC guidance, and includes financial, regulatory, market questions at the Annual General Meeting.
The number of operational and reputational risk.
This helps the internal audit proxy votes is relayed to Shareholders at the Annual General risk assessment model identify those functions for review.
Meeting after each resolution has been dealt with on a show Any weaknesses identified are reported to the Board, and of hands, and details will be posted on the Companys timetables are agreed for implementing improvements to website.
The implementation of any remedial action required is monitored and feedback provided to the Board.
Shareholders also have direct access to the Company via the free Shareholder information telephone service run by the The key components designed to provide effective internal Manager and the Company and the Manager responds to control for the year under review and up to the date of this letters from Shareholders.
A website from which the Annual Report are outlined below: Companys reports and other publications can be the Manager prepares forecasts and management accounts downloaded is maintained on www.
which allow the Board to assess the Companys activities and review its investment performance Accountability and Audit the Board and the Manager have agreed clearly defined The Directors Statement of Responsibilities in respect of the investment criteria, specified levels of authority and Financial Statements is on page 33 and the Statement of exposure limits.
Reports on these issues, including Going Concern is included in the Directors Report on page performance statistics and investment valuations, are 26. regularly submitted to the Board.
The Managers evaluation Murray Income Trust PLC 31 Enfocus Software - Customer Support Statement of Corporate Governance continued procedure and financial analysis of the companies Exercise of Voting Powers concerned include detailed appraisal and due diligence The Directors believe that the exercise of voting rights at as a matter of course, the compliance department of company meetings lies at the heart of the regulation and Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited continually reviews the promotion of corporate governance.
The Board has, Managers operations therefore, given discretionary voting powers to the Manager, written agreements are in place which specifically define who endeavours to exercise these powers.
the roles and responsibilities of the Manager and other third party service providers twice a year, at its Board meetings, the Board carries out an assessment of internal controls by considering documentation from the Manager, including its internal audit and compliance functions and taking account of events since the relevant period end on a monthly basis the Board receives a detailed Compliance Report.
In addition, the Manager ensures that clearly documented contractual arrangements exist in respect of any activities that that have been delegated to external professional organisations.
The Managers Head of Internal Audit reports six-monthly to the Audit Committee of the Company and has direct access to the Directors at any time.
The internal control systems are designed to meet the Companys particular needs and the risks to which it is exposed.
Accordingly, the internal control systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business goals and, by their nature, can provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board has reviewed the need for an internal audit function, and has decided that the systems and procedures employed by the Manager, including its internal audit function and the work carried out by the Companys external auditors, provide sufficient assurance that a sound system of internal controls, which safeguards Shareholders investment and the Companys assets, is maintained.
An internal audit function, specific to the Company, is therefore considered unnecessary.
Socially Responsible Investment Policy The Directors are aware of their duty to act in the interests of the Company.
They acknowledge that there are risks associated with investment in companies which fail to conduct business in a socially responsible manner and the Directors, therefore, ensure that they take regular account of the social, environment and ethical factors, which may affect the performance or value of the Companys investments.
32 Murray Income Trust PLC Enfocus Software - Customer Support
