Statement of Cor Statement of Corp porate Governance orate Governance operational and compliance issues.
These matters include: Introduction The Company is committed to a high standard of corporate the maintenance of clear investment objectives and risk governance.
Accordingly, the Board has put in place a management policies.
framework for corporate governance, which it believes is the monitoring of the business activities of the Company appropriate for an investment trust and which enables it to ranging from analysis of investment performance through comply with the Combined Code on Corporate Governance to annual budgeting and quarterly forecasting and variance the Code as appended to the Listing Rules.
the Association of Investment Companies AIC published a Companies Act requirements such as the approval of the Code on Corporate Governance in July 2003 as amended in interim and annual Financial Statements and approval and February 2006 which complements the Code and represents recommendation of the interim and final dividends a framework of best practice in certain areas of governance respectively.
where the specific characteristics of investment companies setting the level of gearing which the Manager may suggest alternative approaches that may be preferable to operate.
There is a certain amount of Board appointments and removals and the related terms overlap with the Code, although the focus of attention is on subject to appropriate Shareholder approval.
appointment and removal of the Manager and the terms and conditions of the management and administration Application of the Code agreements relating thereto.
The Board is accountable to the Companys Shareholders for terms of reference and membership of Board Committees.
good governance and this statement describes how the Stock Exchange UK Listing Authority Financial Services principles identified in the Code have been applied by the Authority responsibility such as approval of all circulars, Company.
Save for the exception noted below, the Company listing particulars and approval of all releases concerning has complied with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the matters decided by the Board.
Code throughout the year ended 31 December 2008.
In addition there were three meetings of the Audit The Board Committee, one meeting of the Remuneration Committee, The Board consists of five non-executive Directors, all of one meeting of the Management Engagement Committee whom are considered to be independent of the Manager and four other Board Committee meetings.
Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited or the Manager and free of any relationship which could materially interfere with The Chairman of the Company is a non-executive Director.
the exercise of their independent judgement on issues of Mr Benson is the senior independent non-executive Director.
strategy, performance, resources and standards of conduct.
It should be noted that: There is an agreed procedure for Directors to take independent professional advice, if necessary, at the the Chairman was independent on appointment and, in Companys expense.
The Directors have access to the advice compliance with the AIC Code, continues to be so.
and services of the corporate Company Secretary through its appointed representatives who are responsible to the Board: Biographies of the Directors appear on pages 20 to 21 of this for ensuring that Board procedures are complied with: report and indicate their high level and range of industrial, under the direction of the Chairman, for ensuring good commercial and professional experience, within an international perspective.
information flows with the Board and its committees, as well as facilitating induction and assisting with professional The Board sets the Companys values and objectives and development as required: and, for advising through the Chairman on all corporate ensures that its obligations to its Shareholders are met.
During the year ended 31 December 2008 the Board met governance matters.
seven times and also held a Strategy Meeting.
The primary focus at regular Board Meetings is a review of investment When a Director is appointed, an induction meeting is performance and associated matters, including gearing, asset arranged by the Manager.
Directors are provided, on a regular allocation, marketing and investor relations, peer group basis, with key information on the Companys policies, information and industry issues.
Between these meetings, the regulatory and statutory requirements and internal controls.
Board maintains regular contact with the Manager.
It has Changes affecting Directors responsibilities are advised to formally adopted a schedule of matters which are required to the Board as they arise.
be brought to it for decision, thus ensuring that it maintains full and effective control over appropriate strategic, financial, Murray International Trust PLC 27 Statement of Corporate Governance continued Directors have attended Board meetings and Committee Nomination Committee meetings, held during the year as shown below with their A Nomination Committee has been established with written eligibility to attend the relevant meeting in brackets : terms of reference, copies of which are available upon request and also on the Company's website, and comprises Board and Management the following members, all of whom are independent from any relationship that would interfere with impartial Strategy Audit Engagement judgement in carrying out their responsibilities: Meetings Committees Committees Attended attended attended Mr J F H Trott Chairman of the Committee J F H Trott 7 7 0 0 1 1 Lady Balfour of Burleigh Lady Balfour 6 7 3 3 1 1 Mr D H Benson of Burleigh Mr J D Best D H Benson 4 7 1 3 0 1 Mr A C Shedden J D Best 6 7 3 3 1 1 A C Shedden 7 7 3 3 1 1 The Committee makes recommendations to the Board on the following matters: To enable the Board to function effectively and allow the identification and nomination of candidates to fill Directors to discharge their responsibilities, full and timely Board vacancies as and when they arise for the approval of access is given to all relevant information.
The identification of such candidates is carried Board meetings, this consists of a comprehensive set of out in conjunction with the Board by an independent firm papers, including the Managers review and discussion of consultants: documents regarding specific matters.
Directors have made plans for succession: further enquiries where necessary.
the re-appointment of any non-executive Director at the conclusion of their specified term of office: The Board and Committees have undertaken their annual the re-election by Shareholders of any Director under the performance evaluation, by means of general discussion and retirement by rotation provisions in the Companys Articles individual interviews between the Chairman and the other of Association: Directors, to ensure that all Directors have devoted sufficient the continuation in office of any Director at any time: and time and contributed adequately to the work of the Board the appointment of any Director to another office e. g. and Committees.
As part of the Directors evaluation process Chairman of the Audit Committee other than to the the training needs of Directors, if any, were discussed and position of Chairman, the recommendation for whom agreed.
The Chairman has been satisfactorily evaluated by would be considered at a meeting of the Board.
The Board is satisfied with its current balance, performance and the contributions of its Directors The Committee recommended to the Board the nomination during the year.
for re-election of Mr J D Best and Mr A C Shedden, who both retire by rotation at the Annual General Meeting and are External Agencies seeking re-election.
The Committee concluded that their knowledge and experience are greatly valued by the Board.
The Board has contractually delegated to external agencies, Details of their other directorships are shown on page 21. including the Manager and other service providers, certain services: the management of the investment portfolio, the Audit Committee custodial services which include the safeguarding of the An Audit Committee has been established with written terms assets, the registration services and the day to day of reference, copies of which are available upon request and accounting and company secretarial requirements.
Each of also on the Company's website, and comprises the following these contracts was entered into after full and proper members, all of whom are independent and free from any consideration by the Board of the quality and cost of services relationship that would interfere with impartial judgement in offered in so far as they relate to the affairs of the Company.
carrying out their responsibilities: The Board receives and considers reports from the Manager on a regular basis.
In addition ad hoc reports and information Mr A C Shedden Chairman of the Committee are supplied to the Board as requested.
Lady Balfour of Burleigh Mr D H Benson Committees Mr J D Best The composition of the Committees is shown below under the headings of each Committee.
Terms of reference for each The terms of reference of the Audit Committee are reviewed Committee are available on request and copies are also and re-assessed for their adequacy on an annual basis.
The available on the Companys website.
28 Murray International Trust PLC work undertaken by the Audit Committee during the year Limited.
Details of the management agreement are shown on under review, in accordance with those terms of reference page 25 of the Annual Report.
Details of attendance at the included: Management Engagement Committee are shown on page 28. the review of the effectiveness of the internal control Remuneration Committee environment of the Company to assist in this the The Company has appointed a Remuneration Committee, Company receives reports from the internal and external comprising the following members: auditors on a regular basis: the review of the annual accounts and half yearly report: Lady Balfour of Burleigh Chairman of the Committee the review of the terms of appointment of the Auditors Mr D H Benson together with their remuneration as well as the non-audit Mr J D Best services provided by the Auditors if applicable although Mr A C Shedden there is no fixed rotation in place for the Companys auditors, the Companys audit arrangements are reviewed The Combined Code recommends that all the members of on a periodic basis in order to confirm that the engagement the Committee should be independent.
The remuneration of terms remain in line with the market and competitive: the Directors has been set in order to attract individuals of a the review of the scope and the results of the audit and the calibre appropriate to the future development of the independence and objectivity of the Auditors it should be Company.
The Companys policy on Directors remuneration, noted that the Auditors, Ernst & Young LLP, change the together with details of the remuneration of each Director, is partner responsible for the audit every five years : detailed in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 33 the review of the Auditors management letter and the and 34. management response: the review of the Managers whistleblowing Directors Terms of Appointment arrangements: All non-executive Directors are appointed for an initial term the review of the management agreement: and of three years, subject to re-election and Companies Act meetings with representatives of the Manager.
provisions and, in accordance with the existing Articles of Association, stand for election at the first Annual General Details of attendance at the Audit Committee are shown on Meeting following their appointment.
Association state that Directors must offer themselves for reelection at least once every three years.
Any Director who The Board receives a letter from Ernst & Young LLP, its seeks re-election beyond six years will be subject to auditor, which notes that Ernst & Young has policies and particularly rigorous review to ensure their performance procedures in place that instil professional values as part of continues to be effective.
its firms culture and ensure that the highest standards of objectivity and independence and integrity are maintained.
Policy on Tenure Accordingly, the Board confirms its belief that Ernst & Young The Board takes the view that independence is not is independent in accordance with the Combined Code.
necessarily compromised by length of tenure on the Board and that experience can add significantly to the Boards Management Engagement Committee strength.
In line with best practice, the Boards policy is for As recommended by the AIC Code, a Management Directors who have been on the Board for more than nine Engagement Committee has been established with written years to retire at each subsequent Annual General Meeting terms of reference, copies of which are available upon and submit themselves for annual re-election.
request and on the Company's website, comprising the following members, all of whom are independent and free Communication with Shareholders from any relationship that would interfere with impartial The Company places a great deal of importance on judgement in carrying out their responsibilities: communication with its Shareholders.
The Manager has an Mr J F H Trott Chairman of the Committee annual programme of meetings with institutional Lady Balfour of Burleigh Shareholders and reports back to the Board on these Mr D H Benson meetings.
Mr J D Best Mr A C Shedden The Company has adopted a nominee code, which ensures that, when shares in Murray International Trust are held in It annually reviews matters concerning the management the name of nominee companies and notification has been agreement which exists with Aberdeen Asset Managers received in advance, nominee companies will be provided Murray International Trust PLC 29 Statement of Corporate Governance continued with copies of Shareholder communications for distribution control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Following the to their customers.
Nominee investors may attend general Financial Reporting Council's publication of Internal Control: meetings and speak at meetings when invited by the Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code the Chairman.
FRC guidance in October 2005, the Directors confirm that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and Participants in the Savings Plan, whose shares are held in the managing the significant risks faced by the Company.
This nominee names of the plan administrator, are given the process has been in place for the full year under review and opportunity to vote by means of a Letter of Direction up to the date of approval of the Financial Statements, and enclosed with the Annual Report.
The Letter of Direction is this process is regularly reviewed by the Board and accords forwarded to the administrator of the Savings Plan, who will with the FRC Guidance.
complete a proxy on behalf of the participants and forward it to the Companys registrar for inclusion in the voting figures.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of Those participants who attend the Annual General Meeting internal control and, in particular, it has reviewed the process are given the opportunity to speak when invited by the for identifying and evaluating the significant risks faced by Chairman.
As required under the Code, the Annual Report is the Company and the policies and procedures by which these posted to Shareholders at least twenty business days before risks are managed.
The Directors have delegated the investment management of The Notice of Meeting sets out the business of the meeting the Companys assets to the Manager within overall and the resolutions are explained more fully in the Directors guidelines and this embraces implementation of the system Report on pages 22 to 24. of internal control, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management.
Internal control Separate resolutions are proposed for each issue.
systems are monitored and supported by an internal audit function which undertakes periodic examination of business The Board is very conscious that the Annual General Meeting processes, including compliance with the terms of the is an event for all Shareholders and encourages them to management agreement, and ensures that recommendations attend and participate.
The Manager makes a presentation to to improve controls are implemented.
the meeting outlining the key investment issues that affect the Company.
All Shareholders have the opportunity to put Risks are identified and documented through a risk questions at the Companys Annual General Meeting.
The management framework by each function within the number of proxy votes is relayed to Shareholders at the Managers activities.
Risk is considered in the context of the Annual General Meeting, after each resolution has been dealt FRC Guidance and includes financial, regulatory, market with on a show of hands.
This helps the internal audit risk assessment model identify those functions for review.
Shareholders also have direct access to the Company via the Any weaknesses identified are reported to the Company and free Shareholder information telephone service run by the timetables are agreed for implementing improvements to Manager and the Company and the Manager respond to systems.
The implementation of any remedial action required letters from Shareholders.
The Manager meets regularly with is monitored and feedback provided to the Company.
major Shareholders and reports back to the Board on these visits.
A website from which the Companys reports and The key components designed to provide effective internal other publications can be downloaded is maintained on control for the year under review and up to the date of this www.
co. uk Report are outlined below: the Manager prepares forecasts and management accounts Accountability and Audit which allow the Board to assess the Companys activities and review its investment performance: The Directors Statement of Responsibilities in respect of the the Board and Manager have agreed clearly defined Financial Statements is on page 32 and the Statement of investment criteria: Going Concern is included in the Directors Report on page specified levels of authority and exposure limits.
Reports on 25. these issues, including performance statistics and investment valuations, are regularly submitted to the The Independent Auditors Report is on page 35.
The Managers evaluation procedure and financial analysis of the companies concerned include detailed Internal Control appraisal and due diligence: The Board of Directors of Murray International Trust has overall responsibility for the Companys system of internal 30 Murray International Trust PLC as a matter of course the compliance department of Companys Manager, encourage companies in which Aberdeen Asset Managers continually reviews the investments are made to adhere to best practice in the area Managers operations: of Corporate Governance.
They believe that this can best be written agreements are in place which specifically define achieved by entering into a dialogue with company the roles and responsibilities of the Manager and other third management to encourage them, where necessary, to party service providers: improve their policies in this area.
The Company's ultimate the Board has considered the need for an internal audit objective however is to deliver superior investment return for function but, because of the compliance and internal its shareholders.
Accordingly, whilst the Manager will seek to control systems in place at the Manager, has decided to favour companies which pursue best practice in the above place reliance on the Managers systems and internal audit areas, this must not be to the detriment of the return on the procedures: and investment portfolio.
twice a year, at its Board meetings, the Board carries out an assessment of internal controls by considering documentation from the Manager, including its internal audit and compliance functions and taking account of events since the relevant period end.
In addition, the Manager ensures that clearly documented contractual arrangements exist in respect of any activities that have been delegated to external professional organisations.
The Head of Internal Audit of the Manager reports six monthly to the Audit Committee of the Company and has direct access to the Directors at any time.
The internal control systems are designed to meet the Companys particular needs and the risks to which it is exposed.
Accordingly, the internal control systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and, by their nature, can provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Proxy Voting as an Institutional Investor Responsibility for actively monitoring the activities of investee companies has been delegated by the Board to the Manager.
The Manager is responsible for reviewing, on a regular basis, the annual reports, circulars and other publications produced by the investee company, and for attending company meetings.
The Manager, in the absence of explicit instruction from the Board, is empowered to exercise discretion in the use of the Companys voting rights.
The Managers policy is to vote all shares held by the Company.
Socially Responsible Investment Policy The Board is aware of its duty to act in the interests of the Company.
The Board acknowledges that there are risks associated with investment in companies which fail to conduct business in a socially responsible manner.
The Manager considers social, environmental and ethical factors which may affect the performance or value of the Companys investments.
The Directors, through the Murray International Trust PLC 31
