GOVERNANCE AND ACCOUNTS Corporate Governance Statement Cairn is committed to achieving compliance with the principles and provisions set out in the Combined Code appended to the Listing Rules and to ensuring that high standards of corporate governance are maintained.
The Board considers that the Company is compliant with the Combined Code, other than in the areas detailed on page 55.
Set out below is a statement of how the Company applied the principles of the Combined Code for the year ended 31 December 2008.
The Board Cairns business is international in scope and carries political, commercial and technical risks.
Accordingly, particular attention is paid to the composition and balance of the Board to ensure that it has wide experience of the sector and regulatory environment in which Cairn operates, and appropriate financial and risk management skills.
In each Board appointment, whether executive or non-executive, the Board considers that objectivity and integrity, as well as skills, experience and ability that will assist the Board in its key functions, are prerequisites for appointment.
The Board currently comprises the Chairman, the Chief Executive, five executive directors and five independent non-executive directors.
The directors biographies are on pages 38 to 39.
Andrew Shilston and Ed Story also both served as non-executive directors during the year.
However, following their resignations with effect from 23 May 2008 and 15 January 2009 respectively, their biographical details are no longer included.
Hamish Grossart, Deputy Chairman, is currently Cairns senior independent non-executive director although this role will be taken over by Iain McLaren with effect from 19 May 2009.
A key responsibility for the senior independent non-executive director is to be available to shareholders in the event that they may feel it inappropriate to relay views through the Chairman or the Chief Executive or the Finance Director.
In addition, the senior independent non-executive director takes the lead role when the non-executive directors assess the performance of the Chairman, further details of which are set out on page 46.
All of the directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first AGM after their appointment to the Board and to re-election by shareholders at least once every three years.
In addition, any non-executive director who has served on the Board for more than nine years is subject to annual re-election.
The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive has been clearly established, set out in writing and agreed by the Board and was reviewed during 2008 to ensure it remains appropriate and effective.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved to it for decision.
These reserved matters include determination of the overall strategy of the Group and approval of the annual report and accounts and any other financial statements, the Groups annual budget and amendments to that budget over a particular amount, borrowing and security, acquisitions and disposals, capital expenditure over a specified amount, amendments to the organisational structure of the Group and Board, approval of significant changes to accounting policies and approval of management incentive schemes and Group policy on pensions.
The schedule of matters reserved to the Board was also reviewed and updated during 2008.
The Board delegates the execution of its strategic objectives to the Chief Executives Committee, which comprises the executive directors and senior management.
Operational management of the Group on a day-to-day basis is delegated to the Management Operating Team, which comprises the asset managers and functional heads of department.
The Board has full and timely access to all relevant information to enable it to perform its duties.
The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Board, through the Chairman, on all corporate governance matters.
In addition, each director has access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and Deputy Company Secretary.
There is also a procedure agreed by the Board for directors, in furtherance of their duties, to take independent professional advice if necessary, at the Companys expense, up to a pre-determined limit.
During 2008, seven scheduled meetings of the Board were held, six of which were held at the Companys registered office in Edinburgh with the other meeting held in New Delhi.
Details of attendance at each of those meetings, and at meetings of Board committees, are set out on page 51.
During the year, certain further meetings took place to deal with specific matters that required to be considered at short notice.
When a specific matter requires consideration at short notice, there is a procedure that sets out when those matters must be considered at a short-notice Board meeting and when they may be dealt with by a committee of the Board comprising at least two non-executive directors one of whom must be the Chairman or Deputy Chairman and two executive directors.
Any director who is physically unable to attend Board and committee meetings is given the opportunity to be consulted and comment in advance of the meeting by telephone or in writing.
Video and telephone conferencing facilities are also used when directors are not able to attend meetings in person.
The formal agenda for each scheduled Board meeting, which regularly includes presentations from senior operational management, is set by the Chairman in consultation with the Chief Executive and the Company Secretary.
In particular, the agenda for each Board meeting includes a detailed update on matters in respect of the Groups Indian business from those directors of the Company who also sit in a non-executive capacity on the board of Cairn India currently Sir Bill Gammell, Jann Brown and Malcolm Thoms.
The Chief Executive of Cairn India, Rahul Dhir, also frequently attends parts of the meetings to ensure that the Board is kept fully CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008 45 GOVERNANCE AND ACCOUNTS Corporate Governance Statement Continued briefed on matters relating to Cairn India.
Formal minutes of all Board and committee meetings are circulated to all directors prior to the next Board meeting and are considered for approval at that Board meeting.
In addition, the members of the Board are in frequent contact between meetings to progress the Groups business.
The non-executive directors also meet informally, without any executives present, on a regular basis to discuss matters in respect of the business.
New directors receive a full and appropriate induction on joining the Board.
This involves meetings with other Board members, senior management and certain of the Companys principal advisers.
In addition, a new director is provided with an induction pack which contains background materials and general information on the Company, the Companys policies and procedures, financial information, an operational review and a briefing on directors legal and regulatory responsibilities.
Details of the procedures followed for the appointments of Iain McLaren and Dr Jim Buckee, who were appointed as non-executive directors of the Company during 2008 and 2009 respectively, are set out on pages 49 and 50.
The Company provides the necessary resources for developing and updating its directors knowledge and capabilities.
In particular, the Company is committed to the provision of continuing professional development training to its directors and in 2008 held a number of seminars for Board members, which are regularly presented by the Companys external advisers and guest speakers, on subjects appropriate to the Companys business, including changes to legislation, regulation and market practice.
These seminars were held at the end of Board meetings and were attended by all directors present at such meetings.
This process is continuing in 2009.
Any director may request that a particular subject is covered in a seminar.
In addition, all press cuttings relating to the Company and all brokers and analysts reports on the Company are distributed to all directors.
At least once a year, the Board visits an operational site and in December 2008, the directors visited the Companys operations in Rajasthan, India.
The Company has directors and officers liability insurance in place.
Performance Evaluations The Board has a formal rigorous process of annual performance evaluation for the Board, audit, nomination and remuneration committees and individual directors.
The Board reviews on an annual basis whether such performance evaluation should be conducted using an external resource.
The Board decided, however, that for 2008 there was value in conducting the process internally to develop an appropriately tailored approach and benefit first-hand from direct input from individual directors.
The performance evaluation of the Board and the Board committees was primarily based upon answers to a detailed questionnaire which had been updated since the previous years evaluation and which was prepared internally by the Company Secretary and Chairman.
The questionnaire was distributed to all Board members and the Company Secretary.
The areas covered in the questionnaire included the effectiveness of the Board and Board committees, performance against objectives, preparation for and performance at meetings and corporate governance matters.
One particular area that the questionnaire addressed was the performance of those directors who are also non-executive directors of Cairn India in respect of the stewardship of that part of the Groups business.
The questionnaire addressed all of the issues raised by the Higgs Review of the role and effectiveness of non-executive directors.
The review process carried out pursuant to the questionnaires can be summarised as follows: Evaluators Chairman Executive directors Non-executive directors Evaluating Board Chairman Board committees Executive directors Non-executive directors Self-assessment Once a questionnaire had been completed by each member of the Board and the Company Secretary, the Chairman held a meeting with each director and the Company Secretary individually, as appropriate to discuss their responses.
The Chairman then reported the results of the process to the Board at a Board meeting, which discussed the comments and implemented the conclusions.
The Board and Board committees are satisfied that they are operating effectively.
The Deputy Chairman sought the views of the executive directors and met with each of the other non-executive directors, in the absence of the Chairman, to discuss and assess the Chairmans performance.
The results of this review were then discussed with the Chairman.
The Board not including the Chairman is satisfied that the Chairmans performance is effective and that he demonstrates continued commitment to the role.
The performance evaluation process indicated areas for improvement, which have been or are being implemented.
Following the performance evaluations, the Board believes that all of the directors performance including those of Todd Hunt, Dr Mike Watts, Phil Tracy and Hamish Grossart, who are standing for re-election at the AGM continues to be effective and that they demonstrate commitment to the role.
46 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008 GOVERNANCE AND ACCOUNTS Corporate Governance Statement Continued A performance evaluation of the Board, the Board committees and individual directors will continue to be conducted annually and the method for such review will continue to be reviewed by the Board in order to optimise the process.
The executive directors have their performance individually reviewed by the remuneration committee against objectives which are set annually.
The bonuses payable to the executive directors under the Companys cash bonus scheme described further on page 66 and 67 are linked directly to the results of these reviews.
Independence of Non-Executive Directors The Board evaluation and review process also covered the independence of each of the non-executive directors, taking into account their integrity, objectivity and contribution to the Board and its committees.
In particular, the process again considered the independence of Hamish Grossart.
Hamish Grossart Since Mr Grossart has served on the Board for more than nine years, in terms of the Combined Code he can be considered as independent only if the Board deems him to be so.
Mr Grossart commits a substantial amount of time to the affairs of the Company.
In particular, Mr Grossart has been the Deputy Chairman and a member of the Companys nomination, remuneration and audit committees for a number of years and has been the Companys senior independent non-executive director since the role was created in 2003.
Mr Grossart will however be relinquishing the role of senior independent non-executive director with effect from 19 May 2009 and the Board has agreed that Iain McLaren will assume this role on that date.
In addition, Mr Grossart is resigning as chairman and a member of the remuneration committee and as a member of the nomination committee, also with effect from 19 May 2009.
The Board has agreed that Jim Buckee will replace Mr Grossart as chairman of the remuneration committee and Norman Murray will replace him as a member.
Todd Hunt will replace Mr Grossart as a member of the nomination committee.
The Board is aware that PIRC have queried whether Mr Grossart can be classed as an independent director of the Company.
It is understood, however, that in terms of its internal policies, PIRC does not consider any non-executive director who has been on a board for more than nine years to be independent, notwithstanding that the Combined Code permits the Board to determine a director with this length of tenure to be independent.
The Board believes that the following behaviours are essential in order for a director to be considered independent: provides an objective, robust and consistent challenge to the assumptions, beliefs and views of senior management and the other directors: questions intelligently, debates constructively and challenges rigorously and dispassionately: acts at all times in the best interests of the organisation and its shareholders: and has a detailed and extensive knowledge of the Groups business, industry and the market as a whole.
Having thoroughly reviewed the matter, without Mr Grossart being present, the Board is firmly of the view that Mr Grossart demonstrates each of the behaviours set out above and that there is currently no evidence that length of tenure is having an adverse impact on his independence.
The Board believes that Mr Grossarts performance continues to be effective and that he demonstrates continued commitment to the role.
In particular, the Board noted that Mr Grossart does not participate in the Companys cash bonus scheme, share option plans, long-term incentive plans or pension scheme and is not dependent upon the fees received from the Company as his primary source of income.
Mr Grossart has indicated that he is willing to stand for re-election as a director of the Company on an annual basis and a resolution will be proposed at the AGM to be held on 19 May 2009 to this effect.
The Board believes that it is in shareholders interests for Mr Grossart to be re-elected as an independent non-executive director of the Company.
In addition, the Board is firmly of the belief that due to both the current economic climate and the recent changes in Board composition, Mr Grossarts experience, particularly in financial matters, and his detailed understanding of the Groups business are valuable at this time.
The Board therefore believes that Mr Grossarts continued presence on the Board and the audit committee is helpful for continuity.
Having reviewed the independence of each of the non-executive directors, the Board concluded that all non-executive directors of the Company are independent.
Board Committees The Board has established an audit committee, a remuneration committee and a nomination committee, each of which has formal terms of reference approved by the Board.
The terms of reference for each of these committees satisfy the requirements of the Combined Code and are reviewed internally on an ongoing basis by the Board.
Copies of the terms of reference are available for inspection on request and will be available for inspection before the AGM to be held on 19 May 2009.
The committees are provided with all necessary resources to enable them to undertake their duties in an effective manner.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the committees and the minutes of all committee meetings are circulated to all directors.
Set out below are reports from the audit committee, remuneration committee and nomination committee.
CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008 47 GOVERNANCE AND ACCOUNTS Corporate Governance Statement Continued 1.
Audit Committee Report The audit committee comprises three non-executive directors, all of whom are considered by the Board to be independent.
Currently, its members are Iain McLaren chairman, Hamish Grossart and Dr Jim Buckee.
The Board is satisfied that two members of the committee have recent and relevant financial experience.
Mr McLaren was formerly a partner at KPMG LLP.
Mr Grossart serves on audit committees of other listed companies and trained as an investment banker.
The Board considers it appropriate for Mr Grossart to remain a member of the audit committee for the time being to ensure continuity given that Iain McLaren and Dr Jim Buckee are new members of the committee.
Andrew Shilston served as chairman of the audit committee during the year under review until his resignation with effect from 23 May 2008.
Ed Story also served as a member of the audit committee during the entire year under review, although he has subsequently resigned as a non-executive director with effect from 15 January 2009.
The audit committee met five times in 2008.
At the request of the audit committee, the Finance Director and senior members of the Finance Department attended each of these meetings.
The Chairman also attended one meeting as an observer, on being invited to do so by the committee.
In addition, all five meetings were attended by the external auditors and by the internal auditors.
The external auditors receive copies of all audit committee papers including papers to be considered at meetings when they are not in attendance and minutes of all committee meetings.
In addition, the chairman of the committee regularly meets with the external audit partner to discuss matters relevant to the Company.
The role of the committee includes: monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the Company and formal announcements relating to the Companys financial performance and reviewing any significant financial reporting judgements contained in them: reviewing accounting policies, accounting treatments and disclosures in financial reports: reviewing the Companys internal financial controls and internal control and risk management systems: monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys internal audit function: overseeing the Companys relationship with the external auditors, including making recommendations to the Board as to the appointment or reappointment of the external auditors, reviewing their terms of engagement, and monitoring the external auditors independence, objectivity and effectiveness: and reviewing the Companys whistleblowing procedures and ensuring that arrangements are in place for the proportionate and independent investigation of possible improprieties in respect of financial reporting and other matters and for appropriate follow-up action.
The audit committee met on three occasions during the 2007 year-end process.
Issues likely to impact the financial statements are raised at the initial meeting by both the senior management and the external auditors.
The auditors also present their audit plan.
Audit committee guidance is sought on accounting policies and assumptions to be adopted in preparing the financial statements.
After discussing and challenging the issues raised, the audit committee recommends the policies to be adopted or direct senior management to produce further information if deemed necessary.
At the final meeting, the external auditors report their audit results to the audit committee, including a summary of any significant accounting and auditing issues, internal control findings and a summary of audit differences identified.
The audit committee considers any disagreements in accounting treatment between management and the auditors, should any arise.
The audit committee has established a policy in relation to the supply of non-audit services by the external auditors and other third parties.
The Company will engage an external adviser to provide non-audit services on the basis of the skills and experience required for the work, where benefit will be derived as a result of the third partys knowledge of the Company and cost.
These advisers may include the Companys external auditors for a restricted list of non-audit services, although, before the engagement commences, the Company must be satisfied that the auditors objectivity and independence would not be compromised in any way as a result of being instructed to carry out those services.
If the cumulative fees to be paid to an external adviser for the provision of non-audit services are below a certain level, the adviser may be engaged in accordance with the Companys financial delegations of authority after a quotation has been received.
If the fees payable are expected to exceed that level on a cumulative basis, the engagement must be approved by the audit committee in advance after following a tender process.
KPMG LLP has been appointed by the audit committee to supervise and co-ordinate the Companys internal audit function.
KPMG also provide internal audit services to Cairn India.
At the beginning of each year, an internal audit plan is developed by the internal auditor, in consultation with senior management, based on a review of the outcome of the previous years internal audit, the significant risks in the Group Risk Matrix and identified mitigation measures.
The internal auditor also attends meetings of the Group Risk Management Committee and certain of the meetings of the Management Operating Team to maintain an understanding of the business activities and associated risks.
The audit committee receives updates on the internal audit work plan on an ongoing basis.
The external auditors do not place any reliance on the work undertaken by the Companys internal audit function due to the nature of the scope and the timing of their work.
The external auditors do, however, attend audit committee meetings where internal audit updates are given.
48 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008 GOVERNANCE AND ACCOUNTS Corporate Governance Statement Continued The Company undertook an audit tender process in 2003, as a result of which Ernst & Young LLP EY were re-engaged as the Companys auditors.
The Company monitors its auditors performance on an ongoing basis, including an annual assessment carried out by the audit committee with input from the Finance Director and other key members of the finance department.
Following such assessment, the audit committee meets to discuss what actions, if any, require to be taken.
In addition to this, the EY senior audit partner working with Cairn is subject to rotation and a new audit partner worked with the Company on the 2008 year-end process.
Remuneration Committee Report The remuneration committee comprises four non-executive directors, all of whom are considered by the Board to be independent.
Currently, its members are Hamish Grossart chairman, Mark Tyndall, Todd Hunt and Dr Jim Buckee.
Ed Story served as a member of the remuneration committee during the year under review until his resignation with effect from 15 January 2009.
As mentioned above, Hamish Grossart will resign as chairman and as a member of the remuneration committee on 19 May 2009 and will be replaced by Jim Buckee as chairman and by Norman Murray as a member.
The remuneration committee met five times in 2008.
The Chief Executive, at the request of the committee, attends its meetings.
In addition, he is consulted by the committee on its proposals.
The Chairman also attended four meetings of the committee during 2008 as an observer, on being invited to do so by the committee.
Certain other of the executive directors attended meetings of the committee as observers on being invited to do so by the committee.
None of the members of the committee, nor the Chief Executive nor the Chairman, participated in any meetings or discussions relating to their own remuneration.
The role of the committee includes: determining and agreeing with the Board the remuneration policy for all the executive directors, the Chairman and the members of the CEC: within the terms of the agreed policy, determining the total individual remuneration package for each executive director: determining the level of awards made under the Companys share option plans and long-term incentive plans and the performance conditions which are to apply: determining bonuses payable under the Companys cash bonus scheme: determining the vesting of awards under the Companys long-term incentive plans and exercise of share options: and determining the policy for pension arrangements, service agreements and termination payments for executive directors.
Details of the Companys policies on remuneration, service contracts and compensation payments are given in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 60 to 72.
Nomination Committee Report The nomination committee currently comprises Norman Murray chairman, two independent non-executive directors, Hamish Grossart and Iain McLaren, and, to ensure input from the executive, one executive director, Sir Bill Gammell Chief Executive.
Ed Story served as a member of the nomination committee during the year under review until his resignation with effect from 15 January 2009.
Certain other of the non-executive directors attended meetings of the committee as observers on being invited to do so by the committee.
The nomination committee met five times in 2008.
As mentioned above, Hamish Grossart will resign as a member of the nomination committee with effect from 19 May 2009 and will be replaced by Todd Hunt.
The Board has also agreed that Mark Tyndall will be appointed a member of the nomination committee with effect from 19 May 2009.
The Combined Code requires there to be a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of new directors, which should be meritocratic and made against objective criteria.
For this purpose, the Board has established the nomination committee, whose role includes considering the composition, balance and skills of the Board and making recommendations to the Board on these matters, on the appointment of new directors and on the reappointment and orderly succession of existing directors.
Iain McLaren and Dr Jim Buckee were appointed as non-executive directors of the Company with effect from 1 July 2008 and 15 January 2009 respectively.
The following procedures were followed in respect of these appointments: Appointment of Iain McLaren Following the resignation of Andrew Shilston as a non-executive director, the nomination committee considered the technical abilities required by his successor.
In particular, the nomination committee considered that any such appointee should have such recent and relevant financial experience to enable him or her to act as chairman of the audit committee following Mr Shilstons departure from that role.
After detailed consideration, the nomination committee identified Iain McLaren, who was formerly a senior partner of KPMG LLP in Scotland, as a suitable successor given his detailed knowledge of the oil and gas sector and his significant experience in the accounting profession.
After seeking the views of the other non-executive directors, a proposal that Iain McLaren be appointed as a non-executive director and as chairman of the audit committee was put to the Board, who unanimously approved the appointment.
Iain McLaren was appointed as a non-executive director and as chairman of the audit committee with effect from 1 July 2008.
Mr McLaren was appointed as a member of the nomination committee with effect from 21 August 2008.
CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008 49 GOVERNANCE AND ACCOUNTS Corporate Governance Statement Continued Appointment of Dr Jim Buckee The nomination committee evaluated the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board and recommended that the Company appoint a new non-executive director.
Having considered the preferable background of any potential candidate, it was agreed that any appointee should have extensive experience in the oil and gas industry and have an engineering background.
The nomination committee recommended to the Board that Dr Jim Buckee, who had previously been President and Chief Executive Officer of Talisman Energy, Inc. be appointed as a non-executive director of the Company and as a member of the audit committee and remuneration committee.
Dr Buckees appointment was unanimously approved by the Board and he was appointed as a non-executive director and as a member of the audit committee and the remuneration committee with effect from 15 January 2009.
Following their identification as candidates and prior to their appointment, both Iain McLaren and Dr Jim Buckee met with the chairman and other members of the nomination committee and also with the executive directors and senior management.
They were also given the opportunity to carry out due diligence on the Company, including meetings with the Companys auditors, discussions with the executive directors and attendance at results presentations prior to their appointment.
Although neither of the above directors was identified by means of an external search consultancy or by advertising, the nomination committee does use the services of independent consultants from time to time to assist in the identification of candidates for non-executive directors and or to benchmark candidates already identified by the committee against possible candidates identified by consultants.
By way of example, Spencer Stuart assisted the Company in identifying Andrew Shilston as a non-executive director and Ridgeway Partners assisted in identifying candidates for non-executive directors of Cairn India Limited.
The nomination committee is currently considering the possibility of appointing another non-executive director to the Board during the next 12 months and Ridgeway Partners have been retained to assist in this process.
The nomination committee reviews Board composition on an ongoing basis and regularly considers whether any skills gap exists on the Board.
Any new appointments to the Board will be considered in this context.
Succession Planning The nomination committee regularly reviews the structure, size and composition including the skills, knowledge and experience required of the Board and makes recommendations to the Board as appropriate.
The Board has satisfied itself that the nomination committee has in place appropriate plans for orderly succession to the Board and senior management positions as well as procedures to ensure an appropriate balance of skills within the Company and on the Board and its committees.
The Board and nomination committee are satisfied that individuals currently fulfilling key senior management positions in the organisation have the requisite depth and breadth of skills, knowledge and experience to ensure that orderly succession to the Board can take place.
Organisational Planning The focus throughout 2008 was on employee engagement and organisational development.
It is essential that all employees are able to contribute to the future of the organisation and engage fully in its ongoing development.
Having undergone significant organisational change over the preceding two years, in 2008 the Company conducted an independent employee engagement survey to formally solicit feedback from staff.
Overall the results of the survey were largely positive, although some key areas for development were also highlighted.
All staff were involved in developing actions to address the highlighted development areas and a follow-up survey is planned for 2009.
Leadership and management development was also a key focus in 2008.
Following on from the success of the 2007 pilot programme which was attended by several executive directors, all senior managers participated in a bespoke Henley leadership programme during 2008.
A separate management development programme was also developed and run in June and November for all other people managers in Edinburgh and Bangladesh respectively.
Further leadership and management development will be undertaken in 2009.
Building upon a holistic, independent benefits review undertaken for the Edinburgh office in 2007, coupled with changes to rules governing UK pensions, the Company proposed a new, more flexible Group Personal Pension Plan, which would allow each employee to make their pension arrangements specific and unique to their circumstances.
Following a comprehensive staff consultation, the new Group Personal Pension Plan came into force on 1 June 2008.
Since implementing the new scheme, the number of staff making additional voluntary contributions to their pensions has increased from 4% to 31%.
In April 2008, the Company was awarded the Scotland PLC Developing Your People Award, which recognises the efforts of companies in nurturing and encouraging their employees to make the most of their talents.
50 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008 GOVERNANCE AND ACCOUNTS Corporate Governance Statement Continued Directors Attendance at Board and Board Committee Meetings The table below sets out the attendance record of each director at scheduled Board and Board committee meetings during 2008: Board Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Meetings held during 2008 7 5 5 5 Meetings attended Meetings attended Meetings attended Meetings attended Executive Directors 1 Sir Bill Gammell 7 n a n a 5 1 Dr Mike Watts 7 n a n a n a 1 1 Jann Brown 7 n a n a n a 1 Malcolm Thoms 7 n a n a n a 1 Phil Tracy 7 n a n a n a 1 Simon Thomson 7 n a n a n a Non-Executive Directors 1 1 Norman Murray 7 n a n a 5 2 Hamish Grossart 7 4 5 5 2 2 1 Todd Hunt 5 n a 4 n a 2 2 1 Mark Tyndall 6 n a 4 n a 3 3 3 Iain McLaren 4 2 n a 2 4 4 4 Dr Jim Buckee n a n a n a n a Notes: n a not applicable where a director is not a member of the committee.
1 During 2008, certain directors who were not committee members attended meetings of the audit committee, remuneration committee and nomination committee by invitation.
These details have not been included in the table.
2 Where a director was unable to attend meetings of the Board or of Board committees, he reviewed the relevant papers for the meetings and provided his comments to the Board or the Board committees in advance of such meetings.
3 Iain McLaren was appointed as a director on 1 July 2008.
The number of Board meetings and audit committee meetings attended is stated with effect from that date.
Mr McLaren was appointed as a member of the nomination committee on 21 August 2008.
The number of meetings attended is stated with effect from that date.
4 Dr Jim Buckee was appointed as a director on 15 January 2009.
5 Andrew Shilston was a non-executive director and chairman of the audit committee during the period from 1 January 2008 to 23 May 2008.
During this time he attended 3 Board meetings and 3 audit committee meetings.
6 Ed Story was a non-executive director during the period from 1 January 2008 to 15 January 2009.
During the year under review he attended 3 Board meetings, 3 audit committee meetings, 3 remuneration committee meetings and 2 nomination committee meetings.
Relations with Shareholders Communications with shareholders are given high priority by the Board.
Cairn sends both its annual report and accounts and half-yearly report to all shareholders.
In order to ensure that the members of the Board develop an understanding of the views of major shareholders, there is regular dialogue with institutional shareholders, including meetings after the announcement of the year-end and interim results.
The Chairman attends a number of these meetings.
At the Board meeting immediately following these meetings, a detailed report is given to all directors who were not in attendance at those meetings.
In addition, the Company maintains an external relations database which details all meetings attended by the directors with third party stakeholders.
All analysts and brokers reports on the Company are also distributed to all directors.
Cairn responds to all correspondence from shareholders and also has a website, which contains a range of information, including a dedicated investor relations section.
The senior independent non-executive director is available to shareholders if they have concerns that contact through the normal channels of the Chairman, Chief Executive or Finance Director has failed to resolve or for which such contact is inappropriate.
Each of the non-executive directors is available to attend meetings with major shareholders without the executive directors present, if requested by such major shareholders.
At the end of 2008 and then again prior to the AGM to be held on 19 May 2009, the Chairman and the Company Secretary held meetings with several of the Companys institutional shareholders, the ABI, RREV and PIRC, to discuss current corporate governance issues, their reports on the Companys annual report and accounts for the previous financial year and, in particular, the steps that had been taken by the Company during 2008 to address comments made in respect of Board composition and the procedures that are in place to ensure the continuing independence of the non-executive directors.
CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008 51 GOVERNANCE AND ACCOUNTS Corporate Governance Statement Continued Annual General Meeting The Board uses the AGM to communicate with private and institutional investors and welcomes their participation.
It is policy for all directors to attend the AGM if at all possible.
Whilst this may not always be possible for business or personal reasons, in normal circumstances the chairmen of the audit, remuneration and nomination committees will attend the AGM and be available to answer questions.
It is policy to involve shareholders fully in the affairs of the Company and to give them the opportunity at the AGM to ask questions about the Companys activities and prospects.
Details of resolutions to be proposed at the AGM on 19 May 2009 can be found in the Notice of Annual General Meeting and on the Companys website.
The proxy votes for and against each resolution, as well as abstentions, will be counted before the AGM and the results will be made available at the meeting after the shareholders have voted on each resolution on a show of hands.
The Form of Proxy for the AGM includes a vote withheld option in respect of each resolution, to enable shareholders to abstain on any particular resolution.
It is explained on the Form of Proxy that a vote withheld is not a vote in law and will not be counted in the calculation of the proportion of the votes for or against a resolution.
Directors Responsibility Statement The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and the Group and Company financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and those IFRSs as adopted by the EU.
The directors are required to prepare the Group and Company financial statements for each financial year which present fairly the financial position of the Group and Company and the financial performance and cash flows of the Group and Company for that period.
In preparing each of the Group and Company financial statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies in accordance with IAS 8: Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors and then apply them consistently: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirement in IFRSs is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the Groups and Companys financial position and financial performance: and state that the Group and Company have complied with IFRSs, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records, which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and Company and enable them to ensure that the Groups and Companys financial statements comply with the Companies Act and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Going Concern The directors have considered the factors relevant to support a statement on going concern.
They have a reasonable expectation that the Group will continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and have therefore used the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Internal Control The Board acknowledges its responsibility for the system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The system of internal control plays a critical role in managing the risks towards the achievement of corporate vision, strategy and objectives, and is also central to safeguarding shareholders interests and Company assets.
This system of internal control is in accordance with the guidance of the Turnbull Committee and is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The process has been in place in respect of the Group for the 2008 accounting period and up to the date of approval of the report and accounts.
The Board has carried out a review of the effectiveness of the system of internal controls during 2008 and will ensure that such reviews are performed in 2009.
In so doing, the Board has taken into account the assurance provided by the Chief Executive Officer of Cairn India in respect of the effectiveness of the system of internal control within Cairn India and which derives from a parallel process followed within Cairn India.
The Board is accordingly satisfied that effective control is in place and that risks have been mitigated to an acceptable level.
The Company is subject to a variety of risks that derive from the nature of the oil and gas exploration and production business and relate to the countries in which it conducts its activities.
The directors believe that Cairn derives its competitive edge by focusing activities in areas where they believe they have a technical and commercial advantage and the experience gained over many years enables the Company to manage these risks effectively.
52 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008 GOVERNANCE AND ACCOUNTS Corporate Governance Statement Continued Operations in any country are only possible when values are shared, and the directors believe that the Groups values of integrity, social and environmental responsibility, teamwork and nurturing of individuals, creativity, risk management and alliancing with key partners are ingredients that are central to the Companys success.
The ability to recognise the value of working as a partnership with host governments, both nationally and regionally, has also been a critical ingredient in this approach and success.
2008 was another year of change for the Company with the focus on supporting the subsidiary company Cairn India with progressing the Mangala Field development and building an exploration portfolio and new organisation in the Capricorn subsidiary.
Particular attention has been placed by Group management on ensuring that a robust system of internal control has been maintained during 2008 in relation to the significant risks in these business activities.
Cairn India is subject to the rules, regulations and guidelines of SEBI and to its listing agreement with the BSE and NSE.
Under the terms of a relationship agreement between the Company and Cairn India entered into at the time of the IPO the Relationship Agreement, both companies have also agreed to use reasonable endeavours to ensure that they can comply with their respective obligations to SEBI, the FSA, the BSE, the LSE and the NSE and under the SEBI Insider Trading Regulations and UK regulation and legislation relating to the disclosure of information or dealing in respect of listed securities or corporate governance.
This has included adopting and following the principles and policies of corporate governance, including risk management, which enable each company to comply with these obligations.
The following describes the key elements of the internal control system and the processes used by the Board during 2008 to review the effectiveness of the system.
It also describes the approach to be taken in 2009.
Strategic direction The Group business model is conventional in that strategy is set by the directors and approved by the Board and its implementation is delegated to the CEC.
Following its listing on the BSE and NSE in January 2007, Cairn India is a subsidiary of the Company with its own board of directors.
In accordance with the memorandum and articles of association of Cairn India, the Company has three non-executive directors on the board of Cairn India including Sir Bill Gammell as Chairman and, therefore, has an input to Cairn Indias strategy.
From time to time, these three non-executive directors are also rotated and during 2008 Jann Brown replaced Norman Murray as a non-executive director of Cairn India.
Malcolm Thoms also replaced Hamish Grossart as a non-executive director of Cairn India during 2007.
In addition to this, Norman Murray and Hamish Grossart can act as alternate directors to Jann Brown and Malcolm Thoms respectively.
Operating management Outside of Cairn India, the Group, through its unlisted subsidiary Capricorn, operates several business units in different countries and with various partners.
Work programmes and budgets are prepared annually to meet the Group strategy, starting at the asset level before being consolidated at Group level.
A detailed business plan is also prepared to meet the agreed annual work programme and budget.
This sets out detailed objectives and KPIs for each asset and supporting functional departments, and is consolidated into the companys annual business plan.
After an iterative process, the business plan and budget is presented to the CEC and the Board for approval.
The asset management teams then have the required authority to implement the business plans and to deliver the agreed work programme within the approved budget and delegation of authorities, and in accordance with the internal control framework.
The remit of the CEC is to oversee the delivery of the strategy through the annual business plans and approved budget.
The directors have also appointed Group functional heads whose roles include providing input and challenge to the work programmes, budgets and business plans, and supplying the relevant director with full and accurate information and to make statements on the adequacy of internal control.
Risk management The Group Risk Management Committee GRMC, established by the Board in 1999, continues to be responsible for the development of risk management strategy and processes within the Company and for overseeing the implementation of the requirements of this strategy.
It does this by ensuring that the framework for the identification, assessment, mitigation and reporting on all areas of risk is fit for purpose and that appropriate assurance arrangements are in place in relation to these risks.
The GRMC membership was changed in 2008 in order to maintain a robust and challenging approach to risk management.
The GRMC is chaired by the Finance Director and comprises executive directors and senior functional management.
The non-executive Chairman of the Audit Committee is a member of the GRMC and the Internal Auditor also attends meetings, in order to ensure internal audits integration with the risk management process.
The Group Business Risk Management System GBRMS, which defines the processes through which Cairn seeks to systematically identify, analyse, assess, treat and monitor the business risks faced by the Group, was updated in 2008 to ensure alignment with risk management processes across the group.
The GBRMS also identifies the risk management organisational structure through which business risks are managed and regularly reviewed at operating, asset, country and group levels.
CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008 53 GOVERNANCE AND ACCOUNTS Corporate Governance Statement Continued Subsequent to its listing, Cairn India operates its own RMC in line with its Business Risk Management System BRMS under the chairmanship of the Chief Operating Officer and reporting to the Cairn India Board.
Risk Management Sub Committees have also been set up reporting to the Cairn India RMC to consider the specific risks associated with operations, finance, exploration and the Rajasthan upstream and midstream projects.
The Cairn India BRMS is substantially similar to that of the Company and, under the terms of the Relationship Agreement, a copy of the Cairn India risk report and RMC minutes is routinely submitted for review at the GRMC, at which a senior representative from Cairn India is present to provide explanation and take questions.
Business risks in Capricorn, together with the identified mitigating measures and responsibilities, are recorded in asset and country risk registers which, following endorsement by the Management Operating Board, are reported through to the Group risk register.
The Cairn India and Capricorn risk registers are integrated into the Group risk register, and are regularly reviewed by the GRMC to ensure that the business understands the key risks it faces and that there is an embedded risk management approach in place across the Group.
The GRMC reports on the Groups risk profile to both the audit committee and the Board.
Additionally, the audit committee and Board receive internal reviews of the effectiveness of internal control relative to the key risks.
The conclusion of the Board following these reviews during 2008 is that the internal controls in respect of key risks are appropriate.
Assurance The integrated assurance framework adopted by the Board provides for three levels of assurance against the risks facing the Group: firstly at the operational level: secondly through overview by Group functional management and the GRMC: and thirdly through internal, external or joint venture audits.
During 2008, the directors reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system of financial and non-financial controls, including operational and compliance controls, risk management and the Groups high level internal control arrangements.
The directors derive assurance from the following internal and external controls: a regularly updated schedule of matters specifically reserved for a decision by the Board: policies and procedures for key business activities: an appropriate organisational structure: control over non-operated joint venture activities through delegated representatives: specific delegations of authority for all financial and other transactions: segregation of duties where appropriate and cost effective: business and financial reporting, including KPIs: functional management reviews: the nomination of various directors of the Company to the Cairn India board in a non-executive capacity and to certain of its committees.
The Board also receives copies of minutes of meetings of the Cairn India board of directors: a Relationship Agreement with Cairn India, which, inter alia, contains provisions for the supply by Cairn India to the Company of such information and confirmations as the Company may require to comply with legal, regulatory and reporting obligations: an annual letters of assurance process, through which country managers confirm the adequacy of internal financial and non-financial controls and their compliance with Group policies and report any control weaknesses identified in the past year: a letter of assurance from the Cairn India Chief Executive Officer confirming the adequacy of internal controls within Cairn India in line with its policy, and reporting of any control weaknesses identified in the past year: Group internal audits to assess compliance the internal auditor implements a number of audits during the year in line with the annual internal audit plan approved by the audit committee and Board: reports from the Group audit committee and GRMC, including reports from the Cairn India RMC and Cairn India audit committee : reports from the Group external auditor on matters identified during its statutory audits: reports from audits by host governments and co-venturers: and independent third party reviews.
54 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008 GOVERNANCE AND ACCOUNTS Corporate Governance Statement Continued Compliance with the Combined Code Throughout 2008 the Company complied with the provisions of the Combined Code, except in the following areas: Provision of the Combined Code Company Position Explanation A.
3.2 at least half the Board, excluding From 1 January 2008 until 23 May 2008, The Board firmly believes that the the chairman, should comprise nonthe Board comprised the Chairman, composition of the Board was executive directors determined by the the Chief Executive, five other executive appropriate and effective for the Board to be independent.
directors and five independent nonchallenges that it faced during 2008. executive directors.
Following Andrew The Board is satisfied that it maintained Shilstons resignation on 23 May 2008, a sufficient degree of independence the number of independent nonthroughout the year to enable it to executive directors decreased to four discharge effectively and properly its until Iain McLarens appointment on obligations under the Combined Code.
Since the end of 2008, The composition of the Board and the Ed Story has resigned and Jim Buckee issue of succession planning is under has been appointed as an independent constant review and is a regular item non-executive director.
on the agenda for meetings of the nomination committee.
4.1 a majority of the members of The Company complied with this At the start of 2008 the nomination the nomination committee should be provision from 1 July 2008 until committee comprised two independent independent non-executive directors.
During the period non-executive directors, the Chairman from 1 January 2008 to 30 June 2008 and one executive director.
Following the Company did not comply with the appointment of Iain McLaren as a the provision.
non-executive director and member of the nomination committee, the Company complied with the provision.
Since the end of 2008, Ed Story has resigned as a non-executive director but Todd Hunt and Mark Tyndall are being appointed members of the committee with effect from the AGM on 19 May 2009.
The Board believes that the newly agreed membership of the committee is appropriate and effective.
C. 3.1 the Board should establish The Company complied with this Following the resignation of Andrew an audit committee of at least three provision during the year other than Shilston as a non-executive director independent non-executive directors.
during the period from 23 May 2008 and chairman of the audit committee to 30 June 2008. on 23 May 2008, the audit committee comprised only two independent nonexecutive directors.
However, with effect from 1 July 2008 the Company again complied with this provision as the Board appointed Iain McLaren, a former partner at KPMG LLP, as a non-executive director and chairman of the audit committee.
During the period when the Company did not comply, no meetings whether scheduled or otherwise of the audit committee took place.
D. 2.4 the Company should arrange The Notice of AGM and related papers The Company is committed to ensuring for the Notice of AGM and related papers are being sent to shareholders 17 working that the AGM is used constructively.
to be sent to shareholders at least 20 days 26 clear days including weekends Due to the unavailability of certain key working days before the AGM.
and bank holidays prior to the AGM this members of the Board in late May, a year.
This complies with the statutory decision was taken to hold the AGM on minimum notice period contained in the 19 May 2009 which, although providing Companies Act.
shareholders with less than 20 working days notice, will enable all directors to attend and therefore provide investors with the opportunity to ask questions of such directors.
CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008 55
