Novae Group plc | Annual Report 2008 Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information investor relations 111 Novae is committed to direct and open communication with its shareholders and other stakeholders.
The Group provides investors and analysts with timely and broad-ranging financial and operating information on the business.
Shareholder base As at 31 December 2008 Novae had 1,362 shareholders 2007: 1,395 shareholders.
The price of Novaes ordinary shares is published in the Financial Times, The Times, The Daily Telegraph and the Evening Standard.
Information on pricing and trading volumes for Novaes ordinary shares is available free of charge from the London Stock Exchange website www.
Shareholder and analyst meetings In 2008 Matthew Fosh and Oliver Corbett held 117 meetings with current or prospective investors and analysts 2007: 136.
In addition, investor and analyst presentations were given when Novaes interim and preliminary results were published and these presentations are posted on the Groups website.
The Group receives anonymous feedback following investor meetings to discuss its interim and preliminary results.
Speci c issues raised at investor meetings are reviewed and, where relevant, addressed in subsequent periods.
Four analysts publish regular equity research on Novae: RBS Hoare Govett corporate broker, Clear Capital, Numis and UBS.
A number of other analysts also follow Novae, including KBC Peel Hunt and Shore Capital.
Corporate information and website Novaes annual report remains central to maintaining good communication with shareholders.
The annual and interim reports are subject to formal review by the Audit Committee and Board to ensure that they are relevant and clear.
Annual and interim reports are mailed or, if they prefer, are available electronically to shareholders and, on request, to other interested parties.
The Group responds to letters and emails it receives from investors.
com includes signi cant operating and financial information on the business.
As well as downloadable copies of annual and interim reports and investor and analyst presentations, it contains copies of press releases, information on corporate governance, the operational structure of the Group, its key products and its employees.
Annual General Meeting All shareholders are welcome to attend Novaes Annual General Meeting on 29 April 2009.
They will have the opportunity to put questions to the Board or, if they prefer, to ask questions informally after the meeting.
The Group will publish the results of votes cast at its Annual General Meeting.
