Novae Group plc | Annual Report 2008 Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information corporate governance statement 49 The Board has a schedule of matters that it reserves for itself, Combined Code which is reviewed annually.
These matters include, amongst Novae Group plc has applied the principles set out in others, a change in the nature of the Groups business, material Section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance acquisitions and disposals of assets, partnership or joint June 2006 the code as they apply to listed companies ventures involving the Group, certain capital expenditure, outside the FTSE 350 throughout the year immediately dividend policy, changes in the Groups capital structure, preceding the year ended 31 December 2008 and has approval of the Groups financial statements and approval established arrangements which it believes are appropriate of all circulars and listing particulars required by the for a group undertaking insurance business and associated UK Listing Authority.
Novae Group plc complies with the provisions of the code.
The directors bring to the Board a wide range of experience and skills and participate fully in decisions on key issues The Board facing the Group.
The non-executive directors have individual and collective access to the Chairman when required.
The The Board is made up of a non-executive Chairman, four Group maintains appropriate insurance cover in respect of non-executive directors and five executive directors.
The legal action which may be brought against the directors.
Board meets six times a year and additionally when necessary.
At each scheduled meeting directors are apprised of the The Board has five standing committees: the Audit Groups underwriting performance, investment performance Committee, the Investment Committee, the Nomination and financial position, together with relevant strategic issues.
Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the Risk Committee.
Their Terms of Reference are available on Sir Bryan Carsberg is the Senior Independent Non-Executive request and are given on the Groups website.
He is available to shareholders who wish to contact him.
The attendance of directors at Board and Committee meetings during the calendar year 2008 is as follows: Audit Investment Nomination Remuneration Risk Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings during 2008 Attended Possible Attended Possible Attended Possible Attended Possible Attended Possible Attended Possible J R Adams 6 6 4 4 L P Adams 2 2 1 1 Sir Bryan Carsberg 6 6 4 4 1 1 3 3 O R P Corbett 6 6 5 6 3 4 M K Fosh 6 6 5 6 1 1 3 4 A E G Hambro 6 6 J P Hastings-Bass 6 6 2 2 1 1 3 3 3 4 R D C Henderson 6 6 4 4 1 1 3 3 P C Matson 6 6 3 4 A M Nichols 6 6 6 6 4 4 www.
com 50 corporate governance statement | continued Chairman and Group Chief Executive Induction, training and evaluation Induction and training The Chairman, a non-executive director, is responsible for On appointment directors are provided with a structured the running of the Board and its meetings and ensuring induction course and are introduced to senior managers that effective communications are maintained with below Board level.
Directors are able to attend relevant shareholders.
The Chairman ensures that directors receive training courses upon joining the Board and thereafter.
accurate, timely and clear information regarding the Group.
Supply of information The Board is responsible to shareholders for the overall The Board is satis ed that it is provided with information direction and control of the Group.
The Group Chief in an appropriate form and of suf cient quality to enable it Executive is responsible to the Board for the running of to discharge its duties.
the Group and for the management of its senior executives within parameters set by the Board.
The Group Chief The Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring that Executive is also responsible for the development, Board procedures are followed and all directors have access recommendation and implementation of the Groups to his advice and services.
Directors may, in the furtherance strategic plans.
of their duties, seek independent professional advice at the Groups expense.
Board balance and independence Board evaluation The non-executive directors are of suf cient calibre The process for the evaluation of the Boards performance that their views carry signi cant weight in the Boards has been changed in 2008.
Board performance is now decision-making process.
evaluated by a detailed online questionnaire, which also Four of the five non-executive directors, L P Adams, Sir encompasses evaluation of the Chairmans and Board Bryan Carsberg, J P Hastings-Bass and R D C Henderson, Committees performance.
are independent for code purposes.
They are considered to be free from any relationship with the executive management Relations with shareholders of the Company which would materially interfere with the The Group Chief Executive and other executive directors exercise of their independent judgement.
A E G Hambro hold regular meetings with institutional shareholders to is employed by Caledonia Investments plc.
His presence on discuss the Groups strategy and financial performance.
the Board ensures that the shareholder perspective is given The Chairman speaks to or meets leading institutional appropriate emphasis in the Boards deliberations and he is shareholders annually.
The Senior Non-Executive Director in any event demonstrably independent of the Groups is available to shareholders if required.
The Annual Report is designed to present a balanced and understandable view of the Groups activities and prospects.
Re-election The Chairmans statement and the Operating and All directors are required to submit themselves for re-election Financial Review provide an assessment of the Groups at least every three years.
Any director appointed since the affairs and position.
date of the last Annual General Meeting is required to seek re-election at the first Annual General Meeting after The Chairmen of each of the Audit, Remuneration and such appointment.
Nomination Committees are ordinarily available to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting, along with Sir Bryan Carsberg, O R P Corbett and A M Nichols will all other directors, and the Chairman of the Board ensures offer themselves for re-election at the 2009 Annual General that investor participation in the meeting is encouraged.
L P Adams will offer himself for election, having joined the Board since the last Annual General Meeting.
com gives access to the Groups share price and to other information about the Group, its structure, its underwriting specialities and its senior personnel.
Novae Group plc | Annual Report 2008 Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 51 Investment Committee Board committees Membership Remuneration Committee The Investment Committee comprises the following The Remuneration Committee comprises the following directors: O R P Corbett Chairman, M K Fosh and directors: R D C Henderson Chairman, Sir Bryan Carsberg A M Nichols and in addition, M A Hudson, Finance Director and J P Hastings-Bass.
Its report is set out on pages 54 to 59. of Novae Syndicates Limited, M Metcalfe, Finance Director Nomination Committee of Novae Insurance Company Limited and I M Hilder, Membership Group Actuary.
The Nomination Committee comprises the following Role directors: J P Hastings-Bass Chairman, Sir Bryan Carsberg, Its role and activities are discussed further in the Risk R D C Henderson and M K Fosh.
The Committee meets Disclosures on pages 71 to 84. annually and additionally as required.
Audit Committee Role Membership The Board has delegated to the Nomination Committee The Audit Committee comprises Sir Bryan Carsberg Chairman, responsibility for reviewing and proposing appointments to R D C Henderson and L P Adams.
A non-executive director the Board and for recommending any other changes to the of Novae Syndicates Limited attends each meeting.
The composition of the Board or of Board Committees.
The Board has determined that Committee selects candidates for appointment to the Board Sir Bryan Carsberg, a chartered accountant, has recent and to meet its desired composition and sets the procedure for relevant financial experience as required by the code.
the appointment of new directors.
It ensures that succession plans are in place for key Board members.
Role The Board has delegated to the Committee responsibility Principal issues for overseeing the financial reporting and internal control of The principal issues addressed by the committee in 2008 the Group and for maintaining an appropriate relationship were the appointment of an additional independent with external auditors.
The main role of the Committee non-executive director and the identi cation of a successor is to encourage and safeguard the highest standards of to P E Selway-Swift.
The Committee had access to integrity, financial reporting, risk management and internal appropriate external independent advice and an external control.
In doing this, the principal responsibilities of the search rm was used to identify candidates prior to the Committee include: appointment of L P Adams to the Board.
An external search rm was also used to identify candidates to succeed Reviewing the form and content of and monitoring P E Selway-Swift as Chairman, which led to the decision the integrity of the Companys and the Groups to appoint J P Hastings-Bass to this role.
financial statements Risk Committee Monitoring and reviewing the arrangements for ensuring Membership the objectivity and effectiveness of the external and The Risk Committee comprises the following directors: internal audit functions J R Adams Chairman, O R P Corbett, M K Fosh, Recommending to the Board the appointment, P C Matson, A M Nichols and J P Hastings-Bass.
re-appointment or removal of the external auditors J R W Thirlwell attends meetings in his capacity as a non-executive director of Novae Syndicates Limited.
Reviewing the adequacy and effectiveness of the Groups The Committee meets quarterly.
internal controls and risk management systems Role Reviewing and monitoring the Groups ethical standards, Its role and activities are discussed further in the Risk procedures for ensuring compliance with regulatory Disclosures on pages 71 to 84. and financial reporting requirements and its relationship with the relevant regulatory authorities www.
com 52 corporate governance statement | continued To assist the Committee in ful lling its role, a number of the Audit Committee is required if this reaches 25% and in senior executives were invited to attend its meetings.
These any event if there is a perceived con ict of interest between included the Group Chief Executive, the Group Finance assurance and non-assurance services.
The overall amount of Director, the Group Financial Controller, the Group Internal fees paid or due to external auditors for both assurance and Auditor, the Chief Information Of cer and the Group Actuary.
non-assurance services is subject to formal annual review The Groups external auditor was also invited to attend each by the Audit Committee.
During the year the Committee The Audit Committee is satis ed that the external auditors met with the Group Internal Auditor and the Groups remain independent.
external auditors without executive management present.
This provided an opportunity for the internal and external The full terms of reference of all the Committees of the auditors to raise any matters of concern in con dence.
Board are available on www.
com or from the No issues of signi cance were raised in 2008.
Principal issues All of the Board committees received information and The principal issues addressed during 2008 included claims support from management during the year to enable them reserving gross and net of reinsurance: the reserving process: to carry out their duties and responsibilities effectively.
capital modelling and pricing: and developments in and All of the committees have access to appropriate external compliance with financial accounting requirements.
Consideration was given to the IFRS Phase II implications for insurers, due in 2012, and the possible changes to the Internal control capital regime under Solvency II also due in 2012.
The Board, although retaining ultimate responsibility for its operation, has delegated the review of the effectiveness External auditors of the system of internal controls to the Audit Committee.
The Group auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, have provided Such a system, however, is designed to manage rather than assurance services to the Novae Group for over 10 years.
eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives The Committee keeps the desirability of market testing and can only provide reasonable assurance against material under review, having regard to the costs of change and mis-statement or loss, and of the safeguarding of assets, the bene ts of a fresh review.
the maintenance of proper accounting records, the reliability Non-assurance services of financial information, compliance with appropriate In 2003, the Group adopted a policy covering the provision legislation, Lloyds and FSA regulation and best practice of non-assurance services to the Group by the external and the identi cation and management of business risk.
This policy applies equally to the Group auditors The Group internal audit function, reporting to the Audit currently KPMG Audit Plc and the managing agency Committee and to the Group Chief Executive, operates auditors currently Littlejohn, which Lloyds requires to independently of the other aspects of the Groups management be a separate rm.
Fees for assurance services are fide ned structure.
It continually reviews the Groups system of for this purpose as the aggregate of amounts paid or due internal controls.
for statutory audit and external actuarial review.
Detailed implementation of the system of internal financial This policy was introduced to enhance the governance control throughout the Group has been delegated to around the provision of such services and to provide a clear executive management by the Board.
These controls include and transparent framework to ensure the objectivity and financial controls that assist the Board in meeting its independence of external auditors.
Under the policy there is responsibilities for the integrity and accuracy of the Groups a cap on the aggregate amount paid or due for non-assurance accounting records.
The Groups financial statements, services expressed as a percentage of the aggregate amount prepared from these records, comply with generally paid or due for assurance services.
The written approval of accepted accounting principles.
Novae Group plc | Annual Report 2008 Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 53 The Board exercises control over appropriate strategic, financial, operational and compliance issues.
There is a clearly fide ned organisational structure with established lines of reporting and decision-making authority.
Performance is monitored against pre-established targets contained in budgets and annual plans.
Details concerning risk management are provided on pages 71 to 84.
The Board considers the information it receives to be suf cient to enable it to review the effectiveness of the Companys system on internal control in accordance with Turnbull guidance.
Going concern After making appropriate enquiries, the directors have reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources, including those necessary to ful l the regulatory capital requirements of its Lloyds and insurance company businesses, to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Compliance with code provisions Novae Group plcs compliance with the codes provisions C1.1, C2.1, C3.1-C3.7, and the statement relating to the going concern basis adopted in preparing the financial statements, has been reviewed by the Groups auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, in accordance with the guidelines published by the Auditing Practices Board.
By order of the Board M J Turvey Secretary 6 March 2009
