26 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT Directors Statement of Compliance with the new Association of Investment Companies Code of Corporate Governance the AIC Code following the AICs Corporate Governance Guide for Investment Companies the AIC Guide The Principles The Board is committed to maintaining the highest standards of Corporate Governance and is accountable to shareholders for the governance of the Companys affairs.
In February 2007, the Financial Reporting Council confirmed that AIC Member companies who report against the AIC Code and who follow the AIC Guide were meeting their obligations in relation to the 2006 Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Combined Code and paragraph 9.8.
6 of the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority relating to additional items to be included in the annual financial report.
This Statement describes how the principles of the AIC Code, following the AIC Guide, have been complied with in the affairs of the Company.
Any reference to the AIC Code in this statement includes references to the AIC guide.
During the year under review, the schedule of matters reserved for the Board, and, where appropriate, the terms of reference of the Audit Committee and the Management Engagement Committee Nomination Committee were reviewed and updated to bring them in line with latest regulatory requirements, best practice and to ensure compliance with the AIC Code.
The Companys Corporate Governance procedures are considered regularly by the Board and amended as necessary.
Directors The Directors believe that throughout the period under review they have complied with the provisions of the AIC Code and, therefore section one of the Combined Code, save in respect of those matters explained below under the relevant sections.
Independence The Board comprises six non executive Directors, five of whom are considered wholly independent.
Sir Martyn Arbib was founder and chairman of Perpetual plc, which was acquired by Invesco Ltd in December 2000.
The Manager, Invesco Asset Management Limited IAML, is a subsidiary of Invesco Ltd.
In accordance with the AIC Code, a recent employee of the Manager who is also a Director of the Company should not be considered independent unless his employment ceased over five years ago.
Sir Martyns employment with Invesco Ltd ceased in 2002 and the Board are satisfied that he can now be considered an independent Director.
Ed Burke is an employee of an Invesco Group company and is therefore not considered independent in accordance with the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
Directors have a range of business, financial and asset management skills and experience relevant to the direction and control of the Company.
Brief biographical details are shown on page 11.
The AIC Code recommends that any director serving on a board for more than nine years should seek re-election annually.
The Board has considered the continued appointment of, Sir Martyn Arbib, James DAlbiac and Antony Hardy in light of them having served on the Board for over twelve years and has concluded that they continue, both collectively and individually, to be effective and make valuable contributions to the Board.
Notwithstanding their length of service, the Board consider that they each remain independent from the Companys Manager.
Chairman The Chairman is Bill Alexander, a non-executive and wholly independent Director who has no conflicting relationships.
Since all Directors are non-executive and day to day management responsibilities are sub-contracted to the Manager, the Company does not have a Chief Executive Officer.
Due to the size of the Board, the Board has not appointed a deputy chairman.
Senior Independent Director The AIC Code recommends the appointment of a Senior Independent Director.
The Board has therefore appointed James DAlbiac as the Senior Independent Director, who is available to shareholders if they have concerns which contact through the normal channels of Chairman or Manager have failed to resolve or for which such contact is inappropriate.
PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 27 Supply of Information The Manager ensures that Directors have timely access to all relevant management, financial and regulatory information to enable informed decisions to be made.
The Board meets on a regular basis at least four times each year and additional meetings are arranged as necessary.
Regular contact is maintained between the Manager and the Board between formal meetings.
Board meetings follow a formal agenda, which includes a review of the investment portfolio with a report from the Manager on the current investment position and outlook, strategic direction, performance against stock market indices and the Companys peer group, asset allocation, gearing policy, cash management, revenue forecasts for the financial year, marketing and shareholder relations, corporate governance and industry and other issues.
Board Responsibilities All Directors are equally responsible under the law for the proper conduct of the Companys affairs.
The Directors have a duty to promote the success of the Company taking into consideration the likely consequences of any decision in the long-term: the need to foster the Companys business relationships with its Manager and advisers: the impact of the Companys operations on the community and the environment: the desirability of the Company maintaining a reputation for high standards of business conduct: and the need to act fairly as between shareholders of the Company.
In order to promote the success of the Company, the Board directs and supervises its affairs within a framework of effective controls which enable risk to be assessed and managed.
A formal schedule of matters reserved for the Board has been established.
The schedule of matters was reviewed and updated in May 2008 to ensure compliance with the latest regulatory requirements, best practice and the AIC Code.
The main responsibilities of the Board include: setting policies and standards: ensuring that the Companys obligations to shareholders and others are understood and complied with: approving accounting and dividend policies: managing the capital structure: setting long-term objectives and strategy: assessing risk: reviewing investment performance: approving loans and borrowing: approving recommendations presented by the Companys respective Board Committees: controlling risks: and the ongoing assessment of the Manager.
The Board also seeks to ensure that shareholders are provided with sufficient information in order to understand the risk reward balance to which they are exposed by holding their shares, through the portfolio details given in the annual and half-yearly financial reports, interim management statements, fact sheets and daily NAV disclosures.
The Board as a whole undertakes periodically the responsibilities which would otherwise be assumed by remuneration and nomination committees, having agreed that separate remunerations and nomination committee are not appropriate for a company of this size and nature.
There is currently an agreed procedure for Directors, in the furtherance of their duties, to take legal advice at the Companys expense up to an initial cost of 5,000, having first consulted with the Chairman.
The schedule of matters reserved for the Board will be available at the AGM and can be inspected at the Registered Office of the Company.
It can also be viewed on the Companys website.
Managers Responsibilities The Manager is responsible for the day-to-day investment management decisions of the Company and for the provision of company secretarial and administration services.
A statement of the Managers responsibilities is shown on page 21.
The Board has reviewed and accepted the Managers whistle-blowing policy under which staff of IAML can, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties or irregularities in matters affecting the Company.
Company Secretary The Board has direct access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, IAML.
The Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring that the Board and Committee procedures are followed and that all applicable regulations are observed.
The Company Secretary is also responsible for ensuring the timely delivery of information and reports and that the statutory obligations of the Company are met.
Finally, the Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Board on all corporate governance matters.
28 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT continued Appointment, Re-election and Tenure of Directors Directors are selected and appointed by the Board as a whole functioning as a Nomination Committee.
There is no separate Nomination Committee as the Board is considered small for the purposes of the Code.
The Directors are therefore responsible for reviewing the size, structure and skills of the Board and considering any necessary changes or new appointments.
No Director has a formal contract of employment with the Company.
The Board has formulated a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the selection and appointment of new Directors to the Board.
To date the Board has not used an executive search consultancy or open advertising when seeking new candidates for appointment as the Directors have considered that the candidates found from sources within the Company and through its advisers have been of a sufficiently high quality.
Directors terms and conditions of appointment are set out in letters of appointment which are available for inspection at the Registered Office of the Company, can be found on the Companys website and will be available at the AGM.
The Articles of Association require that each Director shall retire at an AGM at least every three years after appointment or as the case may be last reappointment, and may offer themselves for re-election.
No Director serves a term of more than three years before re-election.
A Directors normal tenure of office will be for three terms of three years, except that the Board may determine otherwise if it is considered that the continued participation on the Board of an individual Director is in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders.
If this is the case then a long serving Director will stand for re-election annually at the Companys AGM.
Due to their length of service, Sir Martyn Arbib, James DAlbiac and Antony Hardy will seek re-election annually.
Ed Burke is an employee of an Invesco Group Company and therefore, in accordance with the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority will be subject to annual re-election.
The Board confirms that the performance of the Directors seeking re-election continues to be effective and demonstrates commitment to the role.
The Board therefore recommends to shareholders for their support for resolutions 2 through to 5 relating to the Directors seeking re-election.
Directors Induction and Training On appointment to the Board, Directors are fully briefed as to their responsibilities and are kept informed throughout their terms in office of industry and regulatory developments.
The Manager and the Board have formulated a programme of induction training for newly appointed Directors, which includes briefings from key members of the Manager.
The Board are continually updated with any changes to corporate governance processes, the Listing Rules and other regulatory issues as well as being notified of relevant external training courses available to them.
Directors Remuneration The Board as a whole reviews Directors remuneration on a regular basis.
Details of the Companys policy on Directors remuneration and of payments to Directors are given in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 24 and 25.
Board, Committee and Directors Performance Appraisal The Company has in place a system of performance evaluation which is undertaken by the Board annually.
During the year, the Directors have undergone an appraisal process to evaluate the performance of the Board as a whole, the respective Committees of the Board and of individual Directors.
The results of the appraisal process were satisfactory and the Board confirms that the performance of the Directors continues to be effective and demonstrates commitment to the role and responsibilities.
Accountability and Audit The Directors responsibilities for the Companys accounting records and financial statements are set out on page 32.
The Independent Auditors Report appears on pages 33 and 34.
PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 29 Audit Committee The Audit Committee comprises Antony Hardy, James DAlbiac, Bill Alexander and Vivian Bazalgette, all of whom are independent Directors.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee is Antony Hardy.
Audit Committee members consider that collectively they are appropriately experienced to fulfil the role required.
The Audit Committee has written terms of reference which are reviewed annually and clearly define its responsibilities.
The terms of reference were reviewed and updated in May 2008 to ensure compliance with the latest regulatory requirements, best practice and the AIC Code.
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee, including its role and authority, are available for inspection at the AGM, at the Registered Office of the Company and can be viewed on the Companys website.
The Audit Committee meets at least twice each year to review the internal financial and non-financial controls, to approve the contents of the draft annual and half-yearly financial reports to shareholders and to review the Companys accounting policies.
In addition, the Audit Committee reviews the Auditors independence, objectivity and effectiveness, the quality of the services of all the service providers to the Company and, together with the Manager, reviews the Companys compliance with financial reporting and regulatory requirements.
At each meeting, representatives of the Managers Internal Audit and Compliance teams are present.
Representatives of Deloitte & Touche LLP, the Companys Auditors, attend the Audit Committee meeting at which the draft annual financial report is reviewed.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee will be present at the AGM to deal with questions relating to the Annual Financial Report for the year ended 31 March 2008.
Internal Financial and Non-Financial Controls The Directors acknowledge that they are responsible for ensuring that the Company maintains a sound system of internal control to safeguard shareholders investment and the Companys assets.
The Board reviews, at least annually, the effectiveness of the Companys system of internal controls, including financial, operational and compliance and risk management systems.
The Companys system of internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve the Companys objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board confirm that the necessary actions are taken to remedy any significant failings or weaknesses identified from their review.
There are no significant failings or weaknesses that have occurred thoughout the year ended 31 March 2008 and up to the date of this Annual Financial Report.
The Board meets regularly, at least four times a year, and reviews financial reports and performance against revenue forecasts, stock market indices and the Companys peer group.
In addition, the Manager and Custodian maintain their own systems of internal controls and the Board and Audit Committee receive regular reports from the Internal Audit and Compliance teams of the Manager.
Formal reports are also produced on the internal controls and procedures in place for custodial, investment management and accounting activities, and these are reviewed annually by the Board.
Internal Audit Function The Directors have reviewed the need for the Company to establish an internal audit function but, in view of the extent of the Managers executive responsibilities and, given that the Manager has an internal audit function, consider that such a function is not necessary for the Company.
Auditors Non-audit Services The Companys Auditors, Deloitte & Touche LLP, provided non-audit services to the Company in relation to compliance with the debenture covenant, which amounted to 3,000 2007: 2,000 excluding VAT.
It is the Companys policy not normally to seek substantial non-audit services from its Auditors.
The scope for non-audit services is reviewed by the Audit Committee and approved prior to the Auditors engagement.
In particular, the Audit Committee considers whether the skills and experience of the Auditors make them a suitable supplier of the non-audit service and whether there are any safeguards in place to ensure that there is no threat to objectivity and independence in the conduct of the audit resulting from the provision of such services by the Auditors.
30 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT continued The Management Engagement Committee The Management Engagement Committee comprises Antony Hardy, James DAlbiac, Bill Alexander and Vivian Bazalgette, all of whom are independent Directors.
The Chairman of the Management Engagement Committee is Bill Alexander.
The Management Engagement Committee has written terms of reference which clearly define its responsibilities and duties.
They will be available for inspection at the AGM, the Registered Office of the Company and the Companys website.
The Management Engagement Committee meets annually to review the investment management agreement with the Companys Manager and to review the services provided by the Manager.
A statement of IAMLs responsibilities as Manager, Administrator and Company Secretary of the Company and the assessment of the Manager by the Management Engagement Committee can be found on page 21.
Attendance at Board and Committee Meetings All the Directors are considered to have an excellent attendance record at scheduled Board and Committee Meetings of the Company.
The following table sets out the number of scheduled meetings held during the year and the number of meetings attended by each Director or member of each Committee.
AUDIT MANAGEMENT BOARD COMMITTEE COMMITTEE MEETINGS MEETINGS MEETINGS HELD ATTENDED HELD ATTENDED HELD ATTENDED Bill Alexander 4 4 2 2 1 1 Sir Martyn Arbib 4 3 n a n a n a n a James DAlbiac 4 4 2 2 1 1 Vivian Bazalgette Appointed 21 May 2007 4 4 2 2 1 1 Antony Hardy 4 4 2 2 1 1 Ed Burke 4 4 n a n a n a n a Relations with Shareholders Shareholder relations are given high priority by both the Board and the Manager.
The prime medium by which the Company communicates with shareholders is through the annual and half-yearly financial reports, which aim to provide shareholders with a full understanding of the Companys activities and its results.
This information is supplemented by the publication of bi-annual, interim management statements, monthly factsheet and information on the daily calculation of the NAV of the Companys ordinary shares, which is published via the London Stock Exchange, and the Companys website.
A presentation is made by the Manager following the business of the AGM each year.
Shareholders have the opportunity to communicate directly with the Board, Chairman and the Chairmen of the Committees of the Board at the AGM.
All shareholders are encouraged to attend the AGM.
It is the intention of the Board that the annual financial report and the notice of the AGM be issued to shareholders so as to provide twenty working days notice of the AGM.
Shareholders wishing to lodge questions in advance of the AGM are invited to do so, either on the reverse of the proxy card, via the Companys website or in writing to the Company Secretary at the address given on page 12.
At other times the Company responds to queries from shareholders on a range of issues.
There is a regular dialogue with individual major shareholders to discuss aspects of investment performance, governance and strategy and to listen to shareholder views in order to develop a balanced understanding of their issues and concerns.
General presentations to both institutional shareholders and analysts follow the publication of the annual results.
All meetings between the Manager and institutional shareholders are regularly reported to the Board.
Shareholders can visit the Companys website in order to access copies of annual and half-yearly financial reports: interim management statements: shareholder circulars: Company factsheets: London PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 31 Stock Exchange announcements: schedule of matters reserved for the Board: terms of reference of Board Committees: Directors letters of appointment: the Companys share price and any proxy voting results.
Institutional Voting The Board considers that the Company has a responsibility as a shareholder towards ensuring that high standards of Corporate Governance are maintained in the companies in which it invests.
To achieve this, the Board does not seek to intervene in daily management decisions, but aims to support high standards of governance and, where necessary, will take the initiative to ensure those standards are met.
The principal means of putting shareholder responsibility into practice is through the exercise of voting rights.
Your Companys voting rights are exercised on an informed and independent basis and are not simply passed back to the company concerned for discretionary voting by its chairman.
Social Responsibility Your Manager considers many factors when evaluating potential investments.
Some are financial ratios and measures, for example, free cash flow, earnings per share, price to book and more.
Others are more subjective indicators, which rely more on first hand research, such as quality of management, innovation and product strength.
While a companys policy towards the environment and social responsibility is considered as part of the overall assessment of risks and the suitability of the company for the portfolio, the Manager does not necessarily preclude an investment being made in that company on these grounds alone.
Going Concern After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
