: DIRECTORS REPORT GOvERnanCE Key governance principles 5 56 6 Key governance principles COnTEnTS 1 InTRODUCTIOn non-executive directors 2.4 Each of the non-executive directors has Introduction 56 This section explains how the company has been formally determined by the board to be applied the main and supporting principles set The board 56 independent for the purposes of the Combined out in Section 1 of the Combined Code published Report on the audit committee 58 Code, as each was found to be free from any by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2006 Report on the nomination material business or other relationship with the 2006 Combined Code, as amended in committee 59 the company either directly or as a partner, June 2008.
Report on the remuneration shareholder or officer of an organisation that committee 59 has a relationship with the company.
The statement of compliance is set out on page Report on the executive Accordingly, the board believes that there are 62 in paragraph 13 of the directors report.
committee 59 no such relationships which could materially Report on the risk interfere with their independent judgement.
3.1 Compliant Composition Accountability 60 2.5 Non-executive directors are currently 2.1 The board leads and controls the company.
Internal control 60 appointed for fixed periods of three years, subject It currently comprises three executive directors, to appointment by shareholders.
The initial Relations with shareholders 61 four non-executive directors and a Chairman.
three-year period may be extended for one Directors responsibilities in A.
1 Compliant further three-year period and, in exceptional relation to the financial statements 61 cases, further extended, subject to Division of responsibilities between the Chairman re-appointment by shareholders.
Their letters Disclosure and Transparency and the Chief Executive Rules statement 62 of appointment may be inspected at the 2.2 The board has previously approved a companys registered office or can be obtained statement of the division of responsibilities Statement of compliance with the Combined Code 62 on request from the Company Secretary.
between the Chairman and the Chief Executive.
7.2 Compliant The Chairman is responsible for chairing the board meetings, and monitoring their 2.6 John Maxwell has been appointed as the effectiveness, and chairing the AGM and the senior independent director.
He is available to nomination committee.
He is also responsible shareholders if they have concerns which for ensuring that an effective strategy is contact through the normal channels of approved by the board and that an annual Chairman, Chief Executive or Finance Director evaluation of the board is carried out.
The Chief has failed to resolve or for which such contact Executive is primarily responsible for is inappropriate.
John Maxwell will be retiring implementing the companys strategy, as well as from the board at the AGM on 6 May 2009, being a focal point for communication with and will be replaced by Robert Hough as the shareholders.
All other responsibilities other senior independent director on that date.
than those detailed above, those reserved to the A.
3.3 Compliant board as a whole and the board committees are the responsibility of the Chief Executive, who Governance framework delegates appropriately.
2.1 Compliant 2.7 The board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved to it for decision, including Chairman corporate strategy, approval of budgets and 2.3 The Chairman was also Chairman of financial results, new board appointments, Huveaux PLC until 6 November 2008 and on proposals for dividend payments, the approval 1 February 2009 he became Chairman of of all major transactions and authorisation of Hyperion Insurance Group Limited.
This directors interests that conflict, or may conflict appointment involves no more than one days with the interests of the company.
This schedule work per week.
There have been no other is reviewed on an annual basis and was last material changes in his other commitments reviewed on 22 October 2008.
There are five during the year or since the year end.
4.3 Compliant written terms of reference which are reviewed on Annual Report & Financial Statements 2008 Provident Financial plc : DIRECTORS REPORT GOvERnanCE Key governance principles continued 5 57 7 an annual basis and were last updated on Re-appointment of directors 2.12 Under the companys articles, each director 22 October 2008.
The terms of reference can be found on the companys website or are available should retire, but may be re-appointed, at least at every third AGM as well as at the first AGM on request from the Company Secretary.
In addition, the group has detailed corporate following appointment.
Also, after nine years, a director must offer himself herself for policies which set out authority levels within the group.
Divisional boards are required to report re-appointment annually.
In 2008, biographical details of the directors submitted for on compliance with the corporate policies on an annual basis.
1.1 Compliant re-appointment at the AGM were supplied in the shareholders circular and notice of the Meetings 2008 AGM.
7.1 Compliant 2.8 The board normally has eight scheduled Policy on other board appointments meetings a year, including an annual planning conference.
A pack of board papers including a 2.13 The boards policy on other directorships is designed to ensure that directors remain able to detailed agenda is sent to each director in the week before the board meeting so that he she discharge their responsibilities to the company.
This applies to the Chairman, executive has sufficient time to review them.
All directors are, therefore, able to bring independent directors and non-executive directors.
The policy is set out in paragraphs 2.13.1 to 2.13.3 judgement to bear on issues such as strategy, performance, resources and standards of below.
Any request for an exception to this policy is considered on its merits.
Additional meetings are called when required and there is frequent contact between A.
4.5 Compliant meetings, where necessary, to progress the 2.13.1 As specified in the letters of appointment companys business.
In 2008, the Chairman met of the non-executive directors, any proposed with the non-executive directors without any appointment to the board of another company executive director present.
The non-executive will require the prior approval of the board.
directors met without the Chairman present to A.
4.4 Compliant discuss the Chairmans performance and the 2.13.2 In accordance with the Combined Code, senior independent director discussed comments an executive director will be permitted to hold arising with the Chairman.
1.3 Compliant one non-executive directorship and to retain Board the fees from that appointment provided that meetings the board considers that this will not adversely Total number of board meetings in 2008 8 affect his executive responsibilities.
The board would not permit an executive director to take John van Kuffeler Chair 8 8 on the chairmanship of a FTSE 100 company.
4.5 Compliant Andrew Fisher 8 8 2.13.3 The companys policy is that a nonChris Gillespie 8 8 executive director should have sufficient time to John Maxwell 8 8 fulfil his her duties to the company, including Robert Hough 8 8 chairing a committee.
The board will consider all requests for permission for other Manjit Wolstenholme 8 8 directorships carefully, having regard to the A.
A non-executive director would not be expected to hold more than four Company Secretary other material non-executive directorships.
2.9 All directors are able to consult with the If he she holds an executive role in a FTSE 350 Company Secretary.
The appointment and company, he she would not be expected to hold removal of the Company Secretary is a matter more than two other material non-executive for the board.
The Company Secretary is directorships.
Only one FTSE 100 company, or secretary to all the board committees.
two FTSE 350 companies, should be chaired at A.
4.4 Compliant Independent advice Performance evaluation 2.10 There is a formal procedure by which any 2.14 In November 2008, the board completed the director may take independent professional sixth evaluation of its performance and that of advice relating to the performance of his her its committees and individual directors.
The duties at the companys expense.
Chairman was primarily responsible for this A.
5.2 Compliant evaluation and submitted a questionnaire to all directors.
This contained questions on different Insurance aspects of the operation of the board and its 2.11 The company has arranged appropriate Directors and Officers liability insurance in respect of legal action against directors.
1.5 Compliant Annual Report & Financial Statements 2008 Provident Financial plc : DIRECTORS REPORT GOvERnanCE Key governance principles continued 58 committees and the performance of individual announcements relating to the groups financial directors.
The senior independent director was performance, reviewing significant financial responsible for collating comments on the reporting judgements contained in them.
A summary of the reviews the groups internal and external evaluation was presented to the board on whistleblowing policy and established an 11 December 2008 which showed that the board, independent external confidential reporting line its committees and individual directors were in 2008.
The committee is also responsible for working effectively.
The results of the evaluation the annual review of the register of benefits and proposals to take account of any matters offered to directors in accordance with the arising were agreed.
6.1 Compliant companys code of practice on benefits.
C. 3.2 C. 3.3 C. 3.4 Compliant Conflicts of interest 3.3 Manjit Wolstenholme took over the chair of 2.15 The company has procedures in place the committee on her appointment to the board.
to enable the board to review and authorise She is a chartered accountant and is considered conflict situations as appropriate.
The board has to have the recent and relevant financial fully complied with all the requirements of these experience required by the provisions of the procedures since 1 October 2008.
The other members of the Training committee have a wide range of business and 2.16 Appropriate training and briefing is financial experience which is evidenced by provided to all directors on appointment to the their biographical summaries on page 49. board, taking into account their individual C. 3.1 Compliant qualifications and experience.
Ongoing training 3.4 The groups internal audit function was is arranged to suit their individual needs provided by Ernst & Young LLP E&Y during including environmental, social and governance 2008.
From 1 January 2009, following the training as appropriate and the Company appointment of a Head of Audit & Risk, the Secretary, reporting to the Chairman, is internal audit function will be provided by an responsible for identifying appropriate training in-house team.
The committee formally agrees courses for directors.
Update sessions are the internal audit plan once a year and reviews arranged for the board as necessary.
In May regular reports on the activity of the internal 2008, Eversheds LLP attended the board audit function.
As the internal audit function meeting to present an overview of the reports to the committee, this helps to ensure Companies Act 2006 and to give training on the functions independence from group directors duties.
5.1 Compliant management and ensures that appropriate action is taken in response to audit findings.
3 REPORT On ThE aUDIT COMMITTEE C. 3.5 Compliant 3.1 Meeting attendance: 3.5 At the invitation of the committee, meetings Audit are attended by both the internal and external committee auditors as required and by the Finance meetings Director and the group Financial Controller.
Total number of meetings in 2008 3 3.6 At its February and September meetings Manjit Wolstenholme Chair 3 3 the committee had a separate session with the Robert Hough 3 3 groups auditors  LLP PwC and the groups internal auditors, E&Y, John Maxwell 3 3 without any executive director or employee of C. 3.1 Compliant the company or group being present.
This gave members of the committee the opportunity to 3.2 The committee makes recommendations to raise any issues, including any issues on the the board, for the board to put to shareholders final or interim results of the group directly in general meeting, in relation to the with PwC and E&Y.
C. 3.2 Compliant appointment, re-appointment and removal of the auditors and approves their remuneration 3.7 The committee is conscious of the need to and terms of engagement.
It reviews and ensure that the auditors are, and are perceived monitors the independence and objectivity of the to be, independent and its work relating to this auditors and the effectiveness of the audit is summarised in paragraphs 3.7.
5 process, taking into consideration relevant UK below.
C. 3.2 Compliant professional and regulatory requirements.
1 PwC provide the committee with a letter of It develops and implements policy on the independence, which is regularly updated and engagement of the auditors to supply non-audit considered by the committee.
C. 3.2 Compliant services and reports to the board identifying 3.7.
2 The committee has adopted a policy on the any matters in respect of which it considers that action or improvement is needed and makes appointment of staff from the auditors to positions within the various group finance recommendations as to the steps to be taken.
It monitors the integrity of the financial departments.
It grades appointments into four categories and sets out the approvals required.
statements of the group and the formal Neither a partner of the audit firm who has Annual Report & Financial Statements 2008 Provident Financial plc : DIRECTORS REPORT GOvERnanCE Key governance principles continued 59 4 REPORT On ThE nOMInaTIOn COMMITTEE acted as engagement partner, the quality review partner, other key audit partners or partners in 4.1 Meeting attendance: the chain of command, nor a senior member of Nomination the audit engagement team, may be employed committee as group Finance Director, group Financial meetings Controller or a divisional finance director.
Total number of meetings in 2008 1 C. 3.2 Compliant John van Kuffeler Chair 1 1 3.7.
3 The company has a formal policy on the Peter Crook 1 1 use of auditors for non-audit work.
This policy Robert Hough 1 1 is reviewed once a year.
4 The main elements of the policy are as Manjit Wolstenholme 1 1 follows: The award of non-audit work to the auditors is managed in order to ensure that the auditors are able to conduct an independent 4.2 The committees remit is to assist the board audit and are perceived to be independent by the in the process of the selection and appointment groups shareholders and other stakeholders.
of any new director and to recommend to the The performance of non-audit work by the board the appointment of any new director.
groups auditors should be minimised and work It keeps under review the structure, size and should be awarded only when, by virtue of their composition of the board.
It considers and, knowledge, skills or experience, the auditors if appropriate, recommends to the board are clearly to be preferred over alternative the extension of the term of office of a nonsuppliers.
The group should maintain an active executive director.
It considers the succession relationship with at least two other professional plan annually and reports to the board that it accounting advisers.
The nature and cost of all has done so.
There is a formal schedule of non-audit work awarded to the groups external matters reserved to it for decision.
auditors for the period since the last meeting A.
4.1 Compliant and for the year to date is reported to each 4.3 At its meeting in February 2008, the meeting of the audit committee, together with committee carried out a rigorous review of an explanation as to why the auditors were the the performance of John Maxwell and preferred supplier.
No information technology, recommended a further extension to his term remuneration, recruitment, valuation or general of office to 31May 2009.
7.2 Compliant consultancy work may be awarded to the 4.4 The committee reviewed the structure and auditors without the prior approval of the chair composition of the board in 2008 and initiated a of the audit committee, such approval to be search for a new non-executive director to given only in exceptional circumstances.
The replace John Maxwell, who has indicated his chair of the audit committee must approve in intention to retire from the board at the AGM on advance any single award of non-audit work 6 May 2009.
The committee reported formally to with an aggregate cost of 250,000 or more.
The the board on the candidates identified by the auditors may not perform internal audit work.
search and recommended to the board the C. 3.2 Compliant appointment of Rob Anderson as a non-executive 3.7.
5 In 2008, the committee regularly director, subject to shareholder approval at the considered a schedule of non-audit work carried AGM on 6 May 2009.
The committee prepared a out by PwC.
Work carried out by PwC for the description of the role and capabilities required group in 2008 fell broadly into four categories: for the appointment and managed the selection fees payable for the audit of the parent company process with the help of an external search and consolidated financial statements: audit consultant.
4.6 Compliant of the companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation: other services pursuant to 5 REPORT On ThE REMUnERaTIOn COMMITTEE legislation and tax services.
Fees paid to PwC in 2008 are set out on page 91 in note 4 Full details of the composition and work of the of the notes to the financial statements.
remuneration committee are contained on page C. 3.7 Compliant 64 in paragraph 5 of the directors remuneration report.
2 Compliant 3.8 The committee has formally considered its effectiveness in 2008.
The overall view was 6 REPORT On ThE ExECUTIvE COMMITTEE that the committee was working effectively.
6.1 Compliant The committee normally meets at least once a week, and more frequently as required, and deals with matters relating to the running of the group, other than those matters reserved to the board and those specifically assigned to the other committees.
There is a formal schedule of matters reserved to it for decision.
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2008 Provident Financial plc : DIRECTORS REPORT GOvERnanCE Key governance principles continued 60 7 REPORT On ThE RISk aDvISORy COMMITTEE nature of the risks facing the group, the extent and categories of risk which are acceptable to 7.1 Meeting attendance: bear, the likelihood of the risk materialising, the Risk advisory groups ability to mitigate any risk, and the costs committee of operating particular controls relative to the meetings benefits obtained.
It also reviews the risk Total number of meetings in 2008 1 registers prepared by the divisional risk Robert Hough Chair 1 1 committees twice a year, challenging and Andrew Fisher 1 1 making changes where appropriate.
It submits a schedule of key risks, divisional key risk John Maxwell 1 1 registers and the ICAAP to the risk advisory Manjit Wolstenholme 1 1 committee for review.
C. 2.1 Compliant 7.2 The groups risk management framework is 8 aCCOUnTaBIlITy overseen by the risk advisory committee on The board presents the companys position and behalf of the board.
The risk advisory committee prospects in as clear a way as possible, both is chaired by Robert Hough and comprises the by means of the annual report and in circulars Finance Director and the other non-executive and reports to shareholders.
Its function is to keep under review are posted on the companys website at the groups risk management framework, and to www.
Announcements report to the board on its work.
It reviews the made by the company to the London Stock groups risk registers, considers the most Exchange are also posted on the companys important risks facing the group.
responsible for reviewing the groups Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP 9 InTERnal COnTROl prior to submission to the board.
9.1 The board is responsible for the companys The risk advisory committee delegates a system of internal control and for reviewing its number of responsibilities to the risk advisory effectiveness.
The system is designed to group which comprises the executive directors, manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of the Company Secretary, the group Financial failure to achieve business objectives and any Controller and the Head of Audit & Risk.
The system can provide only reasonable and not risk advisory group considers the extent and Bi-annual Corporate Board of budget policy directors process manual Audit Risk Executive Monthly Treasury management committee advisory committee committee committee accounts Internal Risk Divisional audit advisory boards group Committee Process Annual Report & Financial Statements 2008 Provident Financial plc : DIRECTORS REPORT GOvERnanCE Key governance principles continued 61 10 RElaTIOnS wITh ShaREhOlDERS absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
C. 2.1 Compliant 10.1 Members of the board meet with institutional shareholders on a regular basis.
9.2 The key elements of the internal control The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that system, which have been established in appropriate channels of communication are accordance with the revised Guidance for established between directors and shareholders Directors on the Combined Code, are set out in and ensuring that the views of the shareholders paragraphs 9.2.
C. 2 Compliant are made known to the board.
1 In December each year, the board approves relations report is considered by the board at detailed budgets and cash flow forecasts for the each meeting and independent reviews of year ahead.
It also approves outline projections shareholder views are commissioned.
for the subsequent four years.
An update to the D. 1.1 D. 1.2 Compliant budget is performed in June each year.
Actual 10.2 The company encourages private investors performance against budget is monitored in to attend the AGM.
The chair of each of the detail within the groups management accounts board committees is available to answer and this is supplemented with a rolling forecast questions from shareholders at the AGM and of the full year outturn.
The groups management there is an opportunity for shareholders to accounts form part of the board papers for each ask questions on each resolution proposed.
The company reports to shareholders D. 2.3 Compliant on a half-yearly basis.
C. 2.1 Compliant 10.3 At the 2008 AGM, details of proxy votes 9.2.
2 The audit committee keeps under review cast on each resolution were made available to the adequacy of internal controls including shareholders and other interested parties by financial, operational and compliance controls means of an announcement to the London in conjunction with the internal auditors and Stock Exchange and on the companys website.
reports to the board regularly.
An annual D. 2.2 Compliant programme of work which targets and reports on higher risk areas is carried out by the 10.4 At the 2008 AGM, the company proposed internal auditors.
The operation of internal separate resolutions on substantially separate financial controls is monitored by regular issues and will continue to do so.
It is the management reviews, including a procedure companys policy to give shareholders in excess by which each division certifies compliance of 20 working days notice of the AGM.
3 The risk advisory committee considers the 10.5 The company introduced a dividend nature and extent of the risks facing the group, reinvestment plan during 2008, which enables keeps them under review, reviews the framework all shareholders to elect to receive their to mitigate such risks, and notifies the board dividends in shares should they wish to do so.
of changes in the status and control of risks.
It reports to the board on a regular basis.
11 DIRECTORS RESPOnSIBIlITIES In RElaTIOn TO ThE FInanCIal STaTEMEnTS In addition, the risk advisory group formally reviews the divisional risk registers twice a year.
11.1 The following statement, which should It reports to the risk advisory committee.
be read in conjunction with the independent C. 2.1 Compliant auditors report on page 133, is made to distinguish for shareholders the respective 9.2.
4 The board requires the divisions to operate responsibilities of the directors and of the in accordance with its corporate policies and auditors in relation to the financial statements.
divisions are obliged to certify compliance on C. 1.1 Compliant an annual basis.
C. 2.1 Compliant 11.2 The directors are responsible for preparing 9.3 In accordance with the revised Guidance for the annual report, the directors remuneration Directors on the Combined Code, the board has report and the financial statements in reviewed the effectiveness of the groups accordance with applicable law and regulations.
framework of internal controls during 2008.
The process for identifying, evaluating and managing 11.3 The Companies Act 1985 and the relevant the significant risks faced by the group, as set provisions of the Companies Act 2006 require out above, was in place throughout 2008 and up the directors to prepare financial statements for to 2 March 2009 and no significant failings or each financial year.
The directors have prepared weaknesses were identified during this period.
the financial statements in accordance with The board has also, whenever appropriate, International Financial Reporting Standards ensured that necessary actions have been, or IFRS, as adopted by the European Union.
are being taken, to remedy significant failings The financial statements are required to give a or weaknesses identified from the review of true and fair view of the state of affairs of the the effectiveness of internal control.
company and the group and of the profit or loss C. 2.1 Compliant of the group for that period.
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2008 Provident Financial plc : DIRECTORS REPORT GOvERnanCE Key governance principles continued 62 12 DISClOSURE anD TRanSPaREnCy 11.4 In preparing those financial statements, RUlES STaTEMEnT the directors are required to i select suitable accounting policies and then apply them Each of the directors, whose names and consistently: ii make judgements and functions are set out on pages 48 to 49, confirms estimates that are reasonable and prudent: that, to the best of his her knowledge and belief, iii state that the financial statements comply the financial statements, prepared in with IFRS as adopted by the European Union: accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU, give iv prepare the financial statements on a going a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, concern basis, unless it is inappropriate to financial position and profit of the group and presume that the group will continue in company: and that the directors report business, in which case there should be contained in this Annual Report and Financial supporting assumptions or qualifications as Statements 2008 includes a fair review of the necessary.
development and performance of the business and the position of the company and group, 11.5 The directors are also required by the together with a description of the principal risks Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the and uncertainties it faces.
Financial Services Authority to include a management report containing a fair review of 13 STaTEMEnT OF COMPlIanCE wITh ThE the business and a description of the principal COMBInED CODE risks and uncertainties facing the group and The company complied with the main and company.
supporting principles set out in Section 1 of 11.6 The directors are responsible for keeping the Combined Code on Corporate Governance proper accounting records that disclose with 2006 throughout 2008.
It also voluntarily reasonable accuracy at any time the financial complied with the Combined Code on Corporate position of the company and group and to enable Governance published in June 2008 during them to ensure that the financial statements this period.
and the directors remuneration report comply with the Companies Act 1985 and the relevant provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and, as Approved by the board on 3 March 2009 and regards the group financial statements, Article signed by order of the board.
They are also Kenneth J Mullen responsible for safeguarding the assets of the General Counsel and Company Secretary company and the group and hence taking 3 March 2009 reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
11.7 The Annual Report & Financial Statements 2008 will be published on the companys website in addition to the normal paper version.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Provident Financial website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2008 Provident Financial plc
