Corporate responsibility report Our social and environmental policy aims to ensure that social, environmental and ethical considerations are taken into account in all aspects of our activities.
The Social & Environmental Committee SEC oversees the continual development and implementation of the Groups environmental, social and community policies.
Through this work, the SEC is also able to identify and communicate any potential areas of non-financial risk.
The SEC has responsibility for ongoing development of the social and environmental policy framework, and its implementation, improvement, management and monitoring.
The Committee is chaired by the Groups chief executive: it meets on a quarterly basis and reports to the Board.
The implementation of the social and environmental policy is managed on a day-to-day basis by committee members and a network of site-based personnel.
During 2008, the SEC appointed Carbon Smart to assist with the collection, verication and reporting of carbon footprint data for its UK ofces.
The Committee was pleased to see that our efforts in addressing social, environmental and ethical challenges continued to be recognised by the FTSE4Good policy committee, and that the Company remains a constituent of the FTSE4Good Index Series.
Socially responsible investment SRI We acknowledge that Rathbones most significant social and environmental impacts arise indirectly as a result of its investment activities.
While the primary consideration is to maximise risk-adjusted returns to clients, we recognise that non-financial considerations can impact the long-term value of companies.
Although general investment activities are not covered by a formal Socially Responsible Investment SRI policy, social, environmental and ethical considerations are taken into account for specic mandates throughout the Group, but particularly by our Bristol-based specialist ethical investment service, Rathbone Greenbank Investments.
In 2008, Rathbones participated as a signatory to the Carbon Disclosure Projects CDP sixth request for information from the worlds largest companies about their greenhouse gas emissions, together with the risks and opportunities presented by climate change.
Along with other institutional investors, Rathbone Greenbank Investments continues to lend its support to this project, for which the current iteration began in February 2009.
In November 2008, Rathbones was a signatory to the Investor Statement on a Global Agreement on Climate Change produced by an international coalition of institutional investor groups looking to inuence public policy on climate change and affect decisions on investment.
During 2008, the Group continued to implement its policy on proxy voting, which covers all companies in the FTSE 350 and those where it holds 3% or more of the issued share capital with the exception of Rathbone Brothers Plc.
Voting is also undertaken on any company if requested by an underlying shareholder.
Environment Policy Rathbones aims to reduce the environmental impact of its operational activities through a reduction in consumption and the conservation of resources.
efficient resource usage to deliver environmental benets and cost savings will be achieved through using energy and natural resources economically and efficiently, and by reducing emissions and waste levels.
Where reducing consumption is not a viable option, we aim to utilise materials derived from sustainable or recycled sources.
We recognise the need to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and support the UK Governments commitment to do this.
We are demonstrating our commitment to this in our aim to develop systems to monitor energy use, promote more efficient use of energy in all buildings and encourage practices which reduce energy consumption.
Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2008 49 Corporate responsibility report Corporate responsibility report continued Environment continued Performance Scope and Boundaries This report provides a summary of Rathbones environmental performance between 1 October 2007 and 30 September 2008.
This environmental section of this report was prepared with the assistance of external environmental consultants Carbon Smart and approved by Rathbones Social and Environmental Committee and by the Board on 3 March 2009.
The report covers 92% of Group employees at 31 December 2008.
The scope of the data collected covers UK operations only, excluding the new Birmingham ofce which opened on 21 July 2008 and Kendal ofce due to lack of data availability and relatively small size of these ofces.
Data Collection and Calculation Our long-term goal is to obtain information from all Rathbones ofces for all environmental indicators on an annual basis and to use the findings for reviewing and improving the Groups environmental performance.
The collection of good quality data was difficult in certain areas, particularly where utility costs formed part of landlord service charges and where travel destinations were not recorded on expense claims.
The data collection process included site visits to London, Bristol and Liverpool, where 90% of employees under the reporting scope are based.
Data has been calculated and reported following the World Resources Institute WRI Greenhouse Gas GHG Protocol A Corporate and Accounting Standard and the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs DEFRA 2008 Guidelines to GHG Conversion Factors July 2008.
1 We have expressed our carbon footprint in terms of CO2 equivalent CO2e to accommodate conversion factors used for business travel that include non-CO2 greenhouse gas emissions.
Our priority this year has been to improve the quality of the data reported.
We have measured our performance in three key areas: carbon footprint, waste and recycling and paper consumption.
For the first time, we have included emissions from business travel.
We have reported our carbon footprint following the World Resources Institute GHG Protocol.
Emissions are classied as follows: Scope 1 direct emissions from fossil fuels under our direct control e. g. natural gas, company car fuel Scope 2 indirect emissions from purchased electricity Scope 3 other indirect emissions that we cause but that are not from emission sources that we own e. g. from our supply chain and air travel 2 Table 1.
Absolute and relative CO2e from Rathbones ofces under scope Total Per employee CO2e tonnes CO2e tonnes per employee Electricity consumption 1,999,470 kWh 2,840 kWh 1,074 1.5 Gas consumption 1,455,655 kWh 2,068 kWh 300 0.4 3 Business travel air, rail and road 2,223,556 km 3,158 km 469 0.7 Waste 239 tonnes 339 kg N A N A Paper stationery and print 89 tonnes N A N A N A Total 1,843 2.6 1 Carbon dioxide equivalent is a measure used to compare the emissions from various greenhouse gases, such as nitrogen oxides NOx, based upon their global warming potential.
For more information consult the IPCC website, www.
ch 2 Ofces under scope are: London, Liverpool, Edinburgh, Bristol, Cambridge, Winchester, Chichester and Exeter.
Total number of employees as of 2 31 December 2008: 704.
Total oor area of ofces as of 31 December 2008: 11,061 m 3 Road travel includes car use including taxis and company cars Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2008 50 Corporate responsibility report
