64 The Capita Group Plc Corporate governance The Capita Group Plc and its subsidiaries the Group continue to be Board composition committed to the principles of corporate governance contained in the The Directors acknowledge the need to segregate the responsibility for Combined Code Principles of Good Governance and Code of Best Practice operating the Board from the management of the underlying business.
the Code for which the Board is accountable.
Consequently, the roles of Non-Executive Chairman Eric Walters and Chief Executive Paul Pindar are separate.
The Group has complied throughout the year with the provisions of Section 1 of the Code as updated in June 2008, except in respect of the The Board consists of Eric Walters Non-Executive Chairman : 3 further composition of the Board.
independent Non-Executive Directors: Martin Bolland Senior Independent Director, Martina King and Bill Grimsey: and 5 Executive Directors: Composition of the Board A.
3.2 During the period under review the Paul Pindar Chief Executive, Gordon Hurst Group Finance Director and composition of the Board changed several times.
This is shown in the Company Secretary, Simon Pilling Chief Operating Officer, Maggi Bell table below: Business Development Director and Paddy Doyle Executive Director.
Period Description of change Balance of Board The Senior Independent Director is available, as necessary, to lead meetings 1 January Non-Executive Chairman of the Non-Executive Directors without the Executive Directors and or the 29 February 2008 4 Executive Directors Chairman being present and is available to meet with shareholders to 3 Non-Executive Directors understand any concerns.
Biographies of the Directors can be found on 1 March 31 July 2008 Appointment of Non-Executive Chairman pages 62-63.
Martin Bolland 4 Executive Directors 1 March 2008 4 Non-Executive Directors Board responsibilities and effectiveness 1 August Appointment of Non-Executive Chairman The Board is collectively responsible to shareholders for setting the 30 September 2008 Maggi Bell 5 Executive Directors direction of the business and monitoring the Groups ongoing affairs.
It is 1 August 2008 4 Non-Executive Directors also responsible for ensuring an effective internal control environment that identifies and manages appropriately the risks associated with the business 1 October Resignation of Non-Executive Chairman as set out on page 67.
31 December 2008 Peter Cawdron 5 Executive Directors 30 September 2008 3 Non-Executive Directors The Board demonstrates its commitment to the strategic direction and control of the Group by scheduling a series of meetings in the year.
It can The Board believes that the current composition, as it is led by a meet as necessary outside of this schedule to consider any urgent matters Non-Executive Chairman, remains suitable for the nature and size of the that may arise.
It sets the strategic objectives of the Group, ensuring Group.
We believe that the collective skills, experience and approach to sufficient financial and human resources are in place to meet those aims.
running the business are appropriate for driving the Group forward and The Board sets the Groups values and standards and ensures that its achieving the Groups goals.
However, we constantly review the obligations to clients, employees, suppliers, the community and other key composition of the Board to ensure that it continues to meet the needs of stakeholders are understood and met.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters that can only be decided by the As explained in our half-yearly report, Paddy Doyle decided to move Board.
This Schedule has been reviewed and updated during the year and to a part-time role from January 2009.
Paddys ability and judgement have the key matters reserved to the Board include: played a key role in our success and we are therefore delighted that he agreed to remain as an Executive Director and moved to 2 days a week The Groups business strategy from 1 January 2009.
The Board believes that the retention of Paddy Doyle Annual financial and operating plans as an Executive Director on a part-time basis is an asset to the business.
Financial reporting The Boards Non-Executive Directors Eric Walters, Martin Bolland, Martina King and Bill Grimsey are regarded as independent and free Dividend policy from any business or other relationship that could materially interfere Internal controls and risk management via the Audit Committee with their judgement.
Remuneration policy via the Remuneration Committee Board Changes in the year Treasury policy and significant fundraising Martin Bolland was appointed Non-Executive Director with effect from 1 March 2008 and subsequently replaced Peter Cawdron as Senior Appointment removal of Directors and Company Secretary Independent Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee on 1 October The Board also considers regular reports from the Chief Executive, Group 2008.
Martins appointment was made following a formal and rigorous Finance Director, Chief Operating Officer and Business Development recruitment process.
When considering Martins appointment, the Director.
The Board is provided with complete, timely and relevant Nomination Committee met, with Eric Walters chairing the proceedings.
information to ensure that informed judgements are made in pursuit of Peter Cawdron took no part in the process.
Simon Pilling was appointed Chief Operating Officer with effect from The Board also reviews the performance of management in meeting 1 August 2008: business objectives, plans the succession of key executives, and determines Maggi Bell was promoted to Business Development Director with effect appropriate remuneration levels through the Remuneration Committee, a from 1 August 2008: committee of the Board.
Peter Cawdron retired as a Non-Executive Director with effect from Paul Pindar, as Chief Executive, is responsible for all aspects of the 30 September 2008. operation and management of the Group.
Following the change in the Board structure in August 2008 a review was undertaken of the reporting For each appointment the Board undertook a formal appointment process, and communication lines.
It was agreed that the Divisional Executive led by the Nomination Committee and, where appropriate, with the Board was duplicating our monthly operational business MOB review assistance of independent external search consultants.
process and it was therefore agreed that the Divisional Executive Board All these changes were part of the Boards orderly succession planning and was no longer required.
Governance The Capita Group Plc 65 The Non-Executive Directors have a particular responsibility to challenge The performance review of the Chief Executive is conducted by the independently and constructively the business development plans that Non-Executive Chairman, taking into account the views of other Directors.
are proposed by executive management and monitor the performance of Non-Executive Directors performance is reviewed by the Non-Executive the management teams in the delivery of agreed business objectives and Chairman, taking into account the views of other Directors.
The Non-Executive Chairman encourages and engages in an open The Board considered, as it had in previous years, the merit of using an dialogue with Non-Executive Directors in particular, who are at liberty external body to manage the performance evaluation process.
It concluded to meet with him as a group or individually as they feel fit, without the that it remained most appropriate for the Company Secretary and Deputy presence of Executive Directors.
The Non-Executive Directors meet at least Company Secretary to issue the questionnaires and collate and analyse once a year without the Executive Directors present.
Directors and officers liability insurance is maintained.
Appointment, re-appointment and removal of Directors Director induction and professional development Directors are appointed and may be removed in accordance with the On joining the Board, all Directors participate in an induction programme Articles of Association of the Company and the provisions of the involving appropriate documentation, meetings and visits to Capita Companies Acts.
businesses with other Directors, attendance at MOB review meetings and All Directors are subject to election at the first Annual General Meeting discussions with advisers and senior management from across the Group.
after their appointment and to re-election at intervals of no more than Martin Bolland and Maggi Bell undertook induction training that was 3 years in accordance with the Combined Code and the Companys Articles appropriate for their roles and responsibilities during the year.
Accordingly Maggi Bell will retire and offer herself for All Board members have access to independent advice on any matters election at the Annual General Meeting in 2009. relating to their responsibilities as Directors and as members of the various No person, other than a Director retiring at the meeting, shall be appointed committees of the Board, at the Groups expense.
The Company Secretary, or re-appointed a Director of the Company at any general meeting unless Gordon Hurst, who is also Group Finance Director, is available to all he she is recommended by the Directors.
Directors and he is responsible for ensuring that all Board procedures are complied with.
No person, other than a Director retiring at a general meeting as set out above, shall be appointed or re-appointed unless between 7 and 35 days The decision to combine the roles of Group Finance Director and Company notice, executed by a member qualified to vote on the appointment or Secretary was taken when Capita was a smaller entity and as the Group re-appointment, has been given to the Company of the intention to has evolved this approach has been regularly reviewed.
During the year, propose that person for appointment or re-appointment, together with the Board felt the Group had sufficiently evolved and increased in notice executed by that person of his her willingness to be appointed or size and diversity to warrant the creation of the new role of Deputy re-appointed.
The duties of the Deputy Company Secretary include coordinating and managing the provision of company secretarial services The Non-Executive Chairman and, where appropriate, the Non-Executive to the Group on behalf of Gordon Hurst, the Group Finance Director and Directors have, following the evaluation process described above, Company Secretary, and acting as Secretary to the Audit, Remuneration considered the performance of Eric Walters, Gordon Hurst and Maggi Bell, and Nomination Committees.
The Deputy Company Secretary has direct who are subject to re-election and election at the 2009 Annual General access and responsibility to the Chairs of all the standing committees and Meeting and are satisfied that they continue to be effective and open access to all the Directors.
demonstrate a clear commitment to the role.
During the year, the Directors received appropriate ongoing briefings and Eric Walters will have served 9 years as a Non-Executive Director in information, including updates on governance and regulatory issues, to August 2009, and has served as Non-Executive Chairman since July 2006. enable them to perform their roles.
This included specific briefings on the Neither the Combined Code nor the Companys articles require the changes to the Companies Act 2006 and the transitional arrangements.
Company to make the post of Chairman subject to annual re-election.
They also attended external courses where appropriate.
The Board have discussed this with Eric, and also in a Board meeting where Eric was not present, and it was agreed that he would not be subject to Board performance evaluation annual re-election.
An evaluation of Board and Committee effectiveness was conducted in 2008.
The evaluation took the form of detailed questionnaires completed Membership of the Committees by each Director in relation to the Board and any Committee of which they Membership of the Companys standing committees during the year is were a member at the time of the evaluation.
The results of the evaluation shown below: were presented to the Board in December 2008.
The Board concluded that Eric Martin Martina Bill Peter Walters Bolland King Grimsey Cawdron the Board and its Committees continue to operate effectively.
Nomination C The performance of individual Executive Directors is appraised annually Remuneration C by the Chief Executive, to whom they report.
The performance of the Chairman is reviewed by the Non-Executive Directors, led by Martin Audit C C Bolland, taking into account the views of the Executive Directors.
C Chairman Martin Bolland was appointed Chair of the Audit Committee following the resignation of Peter Cawdron on 30 September 2008 Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee comprised Eric Walters Chairman, Peter Cawdron, Martin Bolland, Martina King and Bill Grimsey.
Peter Cawdron retired from the Committee on 30 September 2008 and was replaced by Martin Bolland.
The Committee reports to the Board and its role is to seek suitably skilled and experienced candidates to be Non-Executive Directors and ensure plans are in place for orderly succession of appointments to the Board.
66 The Capita Group Plc Corporate governance The Nomination Committee undertook to review their terms of reference The Committee met with the Group Finance Director to discuss the and new terms of reference were recommended and approved by the re-appointment of the Auditors and their performance over the preceding Board in November 2008.
This discussion also included the scope of the audit that was required.
This process meant the Committee could discuss in detail the When considering the constitution of the Board, the Nomination re-appointment and recommend the re-appointment of the Auditors to Committee carries out a rigorous review, taking into account the need for a the Board, which it did and found to be satisfactory.
progressive refresh of the Board.
Core competencies and attributes required to fill the roles are set out and independent external search consultants The Committee has responsibility for reviewing the annual business engaged, where appropriate, to identify potential candidates.
The Chairman assurance programme and for ensuring that the Group Risk and Business of the Company will not take part in any discussions regarding the Assurance Function is adequately sponsored and resourced.
It also consideration of the appointment of a new Chairman.
monitored the resourcing levels and performance of the Groups Compliance function.
Audit Committee At the meeting to review the 2008 Annual Report and Accounts, the The Audit Committee comprised the Non-Executive Directors Committee considered the level of non-audit services being provided by throughout the year.
Peter Cawdron retired as Chairman of the the Groups Auditors in order to satisfy itself that the objectivity and Committee on 30 September 2008 and was replaced by Martin Bolland, independence of the Auditors were safeguarded.
Details of audit and who has significant recent and relevant financial experience, including non-audit fees are given in note 6 on page 91.
The lead audit partner is being a qualified Chartered Accountant.
The other members of the rotated at least on a 5-yearly basis.
Audit Committee are Martina King and Bill Grimsey.
Audit Committee meetings are attended, by invitation, by the Non-Executive Chairman, Remuneration Committee Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, Group Compliance Director, Details of the Remuneration Committee and its activities are given in the Group Risk and Business Assurance Director and by representatives of Directors remuneration report on pages 71-76. the external Auditors.
The terms of reference of the Nomination, Remuneration and Audit The Committee met 4 times during the period.
Meetings are Committees were updated during the year to reflect changes in best planned around the financial calendar for the Company and the practice.
The terms of reference are displayed in the investor centre at meeting held in May is specifically to focus on the risk, internal control www.
On appointment as Chairman, Martin Bolland held meetings with the Board and committee members, frequency of meetings and attendance Group Compliance Director, Deputy Company Secretary, Group Risk and During 2008 the Board met 9 times, excluding ad hoc meetings, solely Business Assurance Director and external auditors as part of his induction to deal with procedural matters.
The Nomination Committee and the to the Committee.
He was given a specific induction and training on Remuneration Committee met 3 and 5 times during the year, respectively.
He also reviewed the formats of all papers and reports The Audit Committee met 4 times during the year.
Attendance is recorded presented to the Committee.
Nomination Remuneration Audit The Group Compliance Director, Deputy Company Secretary, Group Risk Board Committee Committee Committee and Business Assurance Director and Auditors all have direct access to the meetings meetings meetings meetings Chairman of the Committee.
Scheduled meetings 93 5 4 During the year, the Committee reviewed its terms of reference and Eric Walters 93 4 ensured that these remain in line with the guidance given by the Financial Paul Pindar 8 Reporting Council and the Code.
Revised terms of reference were proposed Gordon Hurst 9 to the Board in November 2008.
The terms of reference include the Paddy Doyle 8 approval of the appointment of the Group Risk and Business Assurance Simon Pilling 8 Director.
1 Maggi Bell 2 The Committee also reviewed during the year the policy on whistleblowing 2 Peter Cawdron 71 3 3 and the policy on the provision of the non-audit services by the Auditors.
Both policies were updated to reflect current good practice and are Martina King 93 5 4 published on the Companys employee intranet.
Bill Grimsey 73 4 4 3 Martin Bolland 71 21 In accordance with the terms of reference the Committee met separately with the Auditors independently of the Executive Directors and also with 1.
Maggi Bell was appointed to the Board as an Executive Director on 1 August 2008 the Group Risk and Business Assurance Director.
Peter Cawdron retired as a Director on 30 September 2008 3.
Martin Bolland was appointed to the Board on 1 March 2008 and to the Nomination, Audit and The Committee reviewed a wide range of financial reporting and related Remuneration committees on 1 October 2008 matters during the year, including the half year and annual accounts prior Any Directors non-attendance at Board meetings or meetings of the Audit, to their submission to the Board.
The Committee focused in particular on Remuneration or Nomination Committees was due to illness or an absence critical accounting policies and practices adopted by the Group and any previously agreed with the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive or significant areas of judgement that materially impact on reported results.
the Chairman of the relevant committee.
It also monitored the internal controls that are operated by management to ensure the integrity of information reported to shareholders.
The Dialogue with institutional shareholders Committee also reviewed and approved the Representation Letter The Board encourages and seeks to build a mutual understanding of required by the Auditors.
objectives between the Group and its institutional shareholders.
As part The Committee provides a forum for reporting by the Groups Auditors, of this process, the Non-Executive Chairman, Chief Executive, Group and it advised the Board on the appointment, independence and objectivity Finance Director and Chief Operating Officer make regular presentations of the Auditors and on the remuneration for both statutory audit and nonand meet with institutional shareholders to discuss any issues of concern, audit work.
It also discussed the nature, scope and timing of the statutory to obtain feedback and to consider Corporate Governance issues.
All the audit with the Auditors.
The Audit Committee annually performs an Non-Executive Directors are available to meet with shareholders to independent assessment of the suitability and performance of the Auditors understand their views more fully.
The Non-Executive Chairman and the in making its recommendation to the Boardfor their re-appointment.
Senior Independent Director are personally available to the significant shareholders in the Group.
Governance The Capita Group Plc 67 The Corporate Communications team has effective day-to-day Results are monitored routinely by means of comprehensive responsibility for managing shareholder communications and always acts management accounts and actual progress against plan is challenged in close consultation with the Board.
A Disclosure Committee consisting directly by Executive Directors of the Board on a Group-wide basis and at of the Corporate Communications Director, Chief Executive and Group the business unit level each month Finance Director ensures all appropriate communications are made to the A framework is in place to identify, assess and mitigate the major business London Stock Exchange and shareholders.
Shareholders can also access risks, including credit, liquidity, operations, reputation, information up-to-date information through the investor centre section of the Groups security, regulatory and fraud.
The framework also includes specific website at www.
A telephone helpline, 0871 664 provision for risk-based due diligence in respect of business acquisitions 0300, provides a contact point directly to the Groups registrars.
Exposure to business risk is monitored as an All members of the Board, including the Non-Executive Directors, receive a integral part of the MOB review process and by the Audit Committee report on any significant discussions with shareholders and the feedback, The Group risk framework is supplemented in certain of the Groups that follows the annual and half-yearly presentations to investment businesses, including all financial services related business streams, analysts and shareholders, is also circulated.
All brokers reports and by a number of formally constituted local boards, which in turn are analysts briefings are circulated to the Directors.
underpinned by dedicated risk committees.
These committees provide The Board encourages shareholders to attend its Annual General Meeting.
an appropriate means to routinely monitor the risk profile of these Directors, including the chairpersons of the various committees, are present businesses, including regulatory risks, and for proposed mitigating actions to answer any questions.
The Group uses the Annual General Meeting to to be challenged and tracked communicate with private investors and encourages their participation.
The Group risk management framework is monitored and developed as required by the Group Risk and Business Assurance function, in Social and environmental responsibility conjunction with the Group Compliance function, to ensure that it Details of how the Group manages its social and environmental remains appropriate to business requirements and consistent with responsibilities can be found on pages 34-44 and at best practice www.
The Group Risk and Business Assurance function reports to the Group Internal control Finance Director and independently to the Audit Committee.
In addition The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for to independently facilitating the Groups risk management framework, it regularly reviewing its effectiveness.
Procedures have been designed for, delivers a risk-based internal audit programme, to provide assurance on inter alia, the safeguarding of assets against unauthorised use or the effectiveness of the internal control structures operating across the disposition, maintaining proper accounting records and the reliability of business.
The annual audit programme is focused on areas of greatest financial information used within the business or for publication.
Such a risk to the Group, as determined by the Group risk framework, and the system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to independent view of those risks is taken by the Group Risk and Business achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not Assurance function absolute assurance against material errors, losses or fraud.
There is an In addition, regulatory risks and compliance matters are overseen by the ongoing process of identifying, evaluating and managing the significant Group Compliance function reporting through the Group Finance Director risks faced by the Group, which has been in place throughout the year and independently to the Audit Committee.
The Group Compliance team, under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and in conjunction with dedicated compliance teams within the relevant Accounts.
This process is regularly reviewed by the Board.
The Groups key businesses, independently monitor regulatory compliance by way of internal control procedures include the following: risk-based work programmes and support operations in identifying and The Board has responsibility to set, communicate and monitor mitigating regulatory risks as an integral part of the Group risk framework the application of policies, procedures and standards in areas including Both the Group Compliance function and the Group Risk and Business operations, finance, legal, commercial and regulatory compliance, human Assurance function routinely appraise the Groups senior management resources and health and safety, information security and property and the Audit Committee of their work programmes and findings.
management and corporate social responsibility and the environment and these policies are cascaded to the businesses via the MOB review The Board keeps under review the effectiveness of this system of internal process control.
The key mechanisms used by the Board to achieve this include regular MOB review reports, periodic updates from the Audit Committee Authority to operate the individual businesses comprising the Divisions based on its review of risk management, business assurance and that make up the Group is delegated to their respective Managing compliance reports by the relevant Group functions: discussions with and Directors, within limits set by the Group.
The MOB review process reports from the Auditors and other advisers, and periodic reports from includes, through the Divisional Directors and their management teams, relevant regulators.
the appointment of executives to the most senior positions within the Group, other than Board appointments.
The Board establishes key Based on the above, the Board has concluded that it is satisfied with the operational, functional and financial reporting standards for application process of monitoring the effectiveness of internal controls and complies across the whole Group and this is cascaded through the MOB review with the Internal Control Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code process.
These are supplemented by operating standards set by local issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales management teams, as required for the type of business and geographical and in the revisedTurnbull Guidance 2005.
The Board and the Audit location of each subsidiary and business unit Committee have reviewed the effectiveness of the internal control system, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk Comprehensive annual financial plans are prepared at the individual management in accordance with the Code for the period from 1 January business unit level and summarised at a Divisional and Group level.
2008 to the date of approval of this Annual Report and Accounts.
Financial plans are reviewed and approved by the Board following No significant failings or weaknesses were identified during this review: challenge within the MOB review process.
Capital expenditure is subject however had there been, the Board confirms that necessary actions would to rigorous budgetary control beyond specified levels and detailed have been taken to remedy them.
written proposals have to be submitted to the Board.
Expenditure on acquisitions is the subject of appropriate consideration, review and approval by the Board.
68 The Capita Group Plc Corporate governance Group activities None of the Directors of the Company had a material interest in any The Group is a leading UK provider of business process outsourcing contract with the Company or its subsidiary undertakings other than their solutions and professional support services to organisations across the contracts of employment.
The Groups 9 chosen markets are in the public sector: central government, local government, education, health and Voting rights and share capital transport, and in the private sector: life and pensions, insurance, financial On 20 February 2009 the Company had received notifications that the services and other corporates.
following were interested in accordance with DTR 5: On behalf of its clients, the Group aims to improve service quality, reduce Percentage of ISC No.
of shares costs of delivery and enable them to transform the way that they deliver Shareholder No.
of shares as at 20 Feb Direct Indirect services to their customers.
The services that the Group provides are Invesco Limited 75,606,954 12.16% 75,606,954 essential to the smooth running and success of its clients operations.
The Group designs, successfully implements and manages tailored service Baillie Gifford & Co 40,283,857 6.48% 40,283,857 solutions, ranging across administration, information technology, financial, Fidelity 35,911,427 5.78% 35,911,427 human resources, property and customer service functions.
The Group Legal & General 25,613,317 4.12% 25,613,317 maintains leading positions in the majority of its markets due to its scale 1 and ability to draw on its wide base of professional services, detailed At the date of this report, 621,684,940 ordinary shares of 2 15p each have market knowledge and extensive business process transformation and been issued and are fully paid up and are quoted on the London Stock change management skills.
During the period under review, the Groups Exchange.
During the year ended 31 December 2008, options were business divisions were reorganised.
The Board decided the reorganisation exercised pursuant to the Companys share option schemes, resulting in the was necessary to manage the continued growth in the business and to allotment of 12,187,282 new ordinary shares.
A further 456,443 new enhance service provisions across the Group.
The Groups principal activities ordinary shares have been allotted under these schemes since the end of are now managed through 5 operating divisions comprising: Insurance & the financial year to the date of this report.
10,668,305 of the issued share Investor Services: ICT, Property & Partnerships: Life & Pensions: capital is held within an Employee BenefitTrust for the use of satisfying Professional Services and Integrated Services.
Group support services employee share options.
report direct to Group Executive Directors.
A review of the development of The Company renewed its authority to repurchase up to 10% of its own the Group and its business activities during the year is contained in the issued share capital at the Annual General Meeting in May 2008.
During Business Review on pages 01-60.
Our divisional operations and financial the year the Company acquired 10,355,046 2007: 6.6m ordinary shares, performance are detailed on pages 54-59. representing 1.66% of the issued share capital see note 25 on page 107.
During the year 10,355,046 shares, were transferred to an Employee Profits and dividends BenefitTrust.
No shares were cancelled during the year and there are no The Group profit before taxation and after amortisation and callable swaps shares held in treasury.
The Directors recommend a final dividend of 9.6p per share 2007: 8.0p per share to be paid on 18 May Rights and restrictions attaching to shares 2009 to ordinary shareholders on the Register on 14 April 2009.
This gives a Under the Companys Articles of Association, holders of ordinary shares total dividend for the year of 14.4p per share 2007: 12.0p per share.
are entitled to participate in the payment of dividends pro rata to their The Employee BenefitTrust has waived its right to receive a dividend on the holding.
The Board may propose and pay an interim dividend and shares being held within theTrust.
recommend a final dividend, in respect of any accounting period out of the profits available for distribution under English law.
A final dividend Directors may be declared by the shareholders in the General Meeting by ordinary The Directors of the Company currently in office are listed on pages 62-63. resolution, but no dividend may be declared in excess of the amount Eric Walters, Gordon Hurst and Maggi Bell will retire at the forthcoming recommended by the Board.
Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election At any General Meeting a resolution put to vote at the meeting shall be and election.
No Director has a service contract exceeding 1 year.
decided on a show of hands unless before or on the declaration of the results of a vote on a show of hands or on the withdrawal of any other Conflicts policy demand for a poll a poll is properly demanded.
On a show of hands every Under the Companies Act 2006, directors are under an obligation to avoid member who is present in person or by proxy at a General Meeting of the situations in which their interests can or do conflict, or may possibly Company shall have one vote.
On a poll every member who is present in conflict, with those of the company.
In response to the conflicts of interest person or by proxy shall have one vote for every share of which they are provisions, a comprehensive project was undertaken to identify and the holder.
disclose any conflicts of interest that have arisen or may arise across the Group.
Procedures were implemented for evaluating and managing No person holds securities in the Company carrying special rights with conflicts that have been identified in a way that ensures that decisions regard to control of the Company.
The Company is not aware of any are not compromised by a conflicted director.
In addition, the Companys agreements between holders of securities that may result in restrictions on Articles of Association give the Board the power to authorise matters that the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
give rise to actual or potential conflicts.
The Board will report annually on the Companys procedures for ensuring that the Boards powers of Restrictions on transfer of shares authorisation of conflicts are operated effectively and that the procedures The Companys Articles of Association allow Directors to, in their absolute have been followed.
A policy for ongoing identification and disclosure of discretion, refuse to register the transfer of a share in certificated form conflicts is in place and is kept under regular review.
They may also refuse to register a transfer of a Following a review of Directors conflicts of interest the Board authorised share in certificated form unless the instrument of transfer is lodged, duly the conflict of Gordon Hurst being a trustee of both the Capita Pension and stamped, at the registered office of the Company, or at such other place Life Assurance Scheme and the Capita Group Money Purchase Scheme, and as the Directors may appoint and except in the case of a transfer by a gave specific guidance on this conflict going forward.
Gordon Hurst did not recognised person where a certificate has not been issued in respect of the participate in the discussion or vote on the guidance given.
No other share is accompanied by the certificate for the share to which it relates and conflicts of interest declared were material to the Board.
All conflicts of such other evidence as the Directors may reasonably require to show the interest will be reviewed on an annual basis by the Nomination Committee right of the transferor to make the transfer.
They may also refuse to register and will be revisited as part of the year end process by the Directors.
any such transfer where it is in favour of more than 4 transferees or in respect of more than 1 class of shares.
Governance The Capita Group Plc 69 The Directors may refuse to register a transfer of a share in uncertificated Payment of suppliers form in any case where the Company is entitled to refuse or is excepted The Company aims to pay suppliers in accordance with the suppliers from the requirement under the Uncertificated Securities Regulations to contract terms.
In 2008 the Company had an average of 41 days purchases register the transfer.
2007: 42 days purchases outstanding in trade creditors.
Going concern Charitable and political donations The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its During the year charitable donations amounted to 0.6m 2007: 0.5m.
future development, performance and position are set out in the Business No political contributions were made.
Further details of the Groups Review on pages 1-60.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, charitable donations and work within the community can be found on liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described on pages 26-32. pages 43-44 and at www.
In addition note 24 to the financial statements includes the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk Financial instruments management objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging The Groups financial instruments primarily comprise bonds, unsecured activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
loan notes, bank loans, finance leases and overdrafts.
The principal purpose of these is to raise funds for the Groups operations.
In addition various The Group has considerable financial resources together with long term other financial instruments such as trade creditors and trade debtors arise contracts with a wide range of public and private sector clients and directly from its operations.
From time to time, the Group also enters into suppliers.
As a consequence, the Directors believe that the Group is well derivative transactions, primarily interest rate swaps, currency swaps and placed to manage its business risks successfully despite the current forward exchange contracts, the purpose of which is to manage interest risk uncertain economic outlook.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that The main financial risks, to which the Group has exposure, are interest rate the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in risk, liquidity risk, credit risk and foreign currency risk.
operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and The Group borrows in selected currencies at fixed and floating rates of Accounts.
interest and makes use of interest rate swaps to generate the desired interest profile and to manage its exposure to interest rate fluctuations.
Disabled persons In respect of liquidity risk, the Group aims to maintain a balance between It is the Groups policy to give full consideration to suitable applications continuity of funding and flexibility through the use of bonds, bank loans, for employment of disabled persons.
Disabled employees are eligible to unsecured loan notes, finance leases and overdrafts.
participate in all career development opportunities available to staff.
Opportunities also exist for employees of the Group who become disabled In respect of credit risk, the Group trades only with recognised, creditworthy to continue in their employment or to be retrained for other positions in third parties.
It is the Groups policy that all clients who wish to trade on the Group.
credit terms are subject to credit verification procedures.
In addition, receivable balances are monitored on an ongoing basis with the result that Employee involvement the Groups exposure to bad debts is not significant.
With respect to credit The Group is committed to involving all employees in the performance and risk arising from the other financial assets of the Group, which comprise cash development of the Group.
Its approach to employee development offers and cash equivalents, available-for-sale financial investments and certain continual challenges in the job, learning opportunities and personal derivative instruments, the Groups exposure to credit risk arises from development.
The Group supports employees through a comprehensive default of the counterparty.
The Group has a maximum exposure equal to range of key business and management skills courses and an annual the carrying amount of the above receivables and instruments.
There is no management development programme.
concentration of counterparty risk and the Group takes all reasonable steps to seek assurance from the associated parties to ensure that it can manage The Group encourages all its employees to participate fully in the business any risk identified appropriately.
Employees receive news of the Group through Recap, the Groups online staff newsletter, frequent email notices, internal The Group has exposure to foreign currency risk where it has investments in notice board statements, the employee intranet, Capita Connect, and overseas operations which are affected by foreign exchange movements.
Capita Online, a regular email communication reviewing the performance The Group is not generally exposed to significant foreign currency risk of the Group from the perspective of the Directors.
In 2009 there will be a except in respect of its overseas operations in India which generate full re-launch of the Companys intranet for all employees.
These exposure to movements in the INR GBP exchange rates.
The Group seeks communication initiatives enable employees to share information within to mitigate the effect of this exposure by entering forward currency and between business units and employees are encouraged to contribute contracts in the form of Non-deliverable Forward Contracts NDFs to fix news, views and feedback.
The Group maintains a strong communications the GBP cost of highly probable forecast transactions denominated in INR.
network and employees are encouraged, through its open door policy, to These non-deliverable forward contracts are designated as cash flow discuss with management matters of interest to the employee and subjects hedges and it is the Groups policy to negotiate the terms of the hedge affecting day-to-day operations of the Group.
derivatives to match the terms of the hedged items in order to maximise hedge effectiveness.
The Capita Sharesave Scheme, an employee Save As You Earn Scheme, and the Capita Share Ownership Plan, a share incentive plan, are both firmly Qualifying third party indemnity provisions for the benefit of Directors established and are designed to promote employee share ownership and to Under the Companies Act 2006, companies are under an obligation to give employees the opportunity to participate in the future success of the disclose any indemnities which are in force in favour of their directors.
Approximately 23% of the Groups eligible employees have share The current Articles of Association of the Company contain an indemnity in options or own Capita shares.
For the launch of the 2008 Sharesave favour of the Directors of the Company which indemnifies them in respect Scheme a refresh of all the documentation for the scheme was undertaken of certain liabilities and costs that they might incur in the execution of their and this helped to increase participation in the scheme by 19%.
Copies of the relevant extract from the Articles of In keeping with its belief that employees are the Groups most valuable Association are available for inspection at the registered office of the asset, the Group operates employee awards schemes.
These celebrate the Company during normal business hours on any weekday and will be core values that embody the organisation and reward employees for available at the venue of the Annual General Meeting from 15 minutes service excellence, effective teamwork, service to the community and before the meeting until it ends.
Further information can be found on pages 37-41.
70 The Capita Group Plc Auditors Statement of Directors responsibilities in respect of the financial A resolution to re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as the Auditors will be put statements and auditors forward at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year that give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the The Company is committed to ensuring appropriate independence in its Company and of the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for that relationship with the Auditors and the key safeguards are: period.
In preparing those accounts, the Directors are required to: The Group Finance Director monitors the independence of the Auditors as Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently part of the Groups assessment of auditor effectiveness and reports to the Audit Committee Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent The Audit Committee routinely benchmarks the level of the Audit fee State whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, against other comparable companies both within and outside of its sector, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the to ensure ongoing objectivity in the audit process accounts The Group Finance Director monitors the level and nature of non-audit Prepare the accounts on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate fees accruing to the Auditors, and specific assignments are discussed in to presume that the Group will continue in business.
advance with the Auditors and flagged for the approval of the Audit To the best of each Directors knowledge and belief, there is no information Committee as appropriate and in accordance with the Companys policy relevant to the preparation of their report of which the Companys Auditors on the provision of non-audit services by the Auditors.
Committee reviews, in aggregate, non-audit fees of this nature on an annual basis and considers implications for the objectivity and Each of the Directors has taken all steps that a Director might reasonably independence of the relationship with the Auditor.
be expected to have taken to be aware of all relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys Auditors are aware of that information.
Ensuring conflicts of interest are avoided is a fundamental criterion in the selection of any third party auditor for assignments with which the Group is The Directors confirm that the financial statements comply with the above involved.
Such conflicts may arise across public or private sector customers requirements.
and key supplier relationships, for example, and are a key determinant in The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which the award process for external audit assignments.
disclose with reasonable accuracy at anytime the financial position of the Group and enable them to ensure that the accounts comply with the Powers of Directors Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets The business of the Company shall be managed by the Directors who are of the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and subject to the provisions of the Companies Act, the Memorandum and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
the Articles of Association of the Company and to any directions given by special resolution, including the Companys power to repurchase its To the best of each Directors knowledge, the financial statements own shares.
contained within this 2008 Annual Report and Accounts give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by a special Group and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a resolution of the Companys shareholders.
whole: and the Directors report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the issuer and the Change of control undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with All of the Companys share schemes contain provisions relating to a change a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
Outstanding options and awards would normally vest and of the principal risks and uncertainties can be found on page 32. become exercisable on a change of control, subject to the satisfaction of any performance conditions at that time.
Annual General Meeting The Group has a number of borrowing facilities provided by various banks The 2009 Annual General Meeting AGM of the Company will be held at and other financial institutions.
The bonds issued by the Group contain a Deutsche Bank, Winchester House, 1 Great Winchester Street, London change of control provision which requires the Group to offer to prepay the EC2N 2DB, on 6 May 2009.
At the AGM a number of resolutions will be bonds in full if a change of control event occurs and the Group is unable to proposed.
The resolutions are set out in the Notice of Meeting, which was obtain an investment grade credit rating.
sent to shareholders with the 2008 Annual Report and Accounts and includes notes explaining the business to be transacted.
In May 2008, There are no other significant contracts in place that would take effect, shareholders granted authority for the Company to purchase up to 60.82m alter or terminate on the change of control of the Company.
ordinary shares which will expire at the conclusion of the 2009 AGM.
A resolution to renew this authority will be put to shareholders at that meeting.
At the AGM in May 2009 the Directors are proposing that the name of the Company be changed to Capita plc with effect from 31 December 2009.
This brings our name in line with our branding and marketing strategy.
