212016 RIT R&A pp20-pp39 29 5 08 19:20 Page 26 RIT CAPITAL PARTNERS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 26 The Directors present their Corporate Governance Report for the year ended 31 March 2008.
Apart from certain matters reported below, the Directors believe that the Company has complied with the Combined Code on Corporate Governance published in June 2006 by the Financial Reporting Council the Code for the period under review.
The contents of this report are intended to address the subjects required under the Code, as well as providing a description of the Companys governance environment in general terms.
THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS The Company is an investment trust managed by its Board of Directors the Board currently comprising twelve Directors, three of whom are executive Directors including the Chairman, three of whom are non-independent non-executive Directors and the remaining six are independent non-executive Directors as determined by the Board.
The full membership of the Board and the biographical details of each of the Directors are set out on pages 18 and 19.
The Board has a formal Schedule of Reserved Matters, which may be viewed on the Companys website www.
This is designed to prescribe the responsibilities of the Board in managing the Companys business within a framework of prudent and effective controls to facilitate assessment and management of risk.
The Board is responsible for setting the Companys strategic aims and ensuring that the necessary resources are in place to these ends, delegating as appropriate to the Companys executive management.
In general terms, the executive management of the Company is responsible for the implementation and execution of the Boards strategic directives relating to investment management, the Companys governance and administration.
The Board met formally on four occasions in the year ended 31 March 2008.
Lord Rothschild, Mr Bailey, Mr Budge, Mr Elkann, Mr Haysey, Mr Leigh-Pemberton, Mr Marks, Mr Rothschild and Mr Sofaer attended each meeting: Mr Knight attended three meetings: and Mr Breuer-Weil attended two meetings.
Mr Cornish was appointed as a Director during the year and was present at the one meeting he was entitled to attend.
The non-executive Directors participate in discussions regarding the Companys strategy and performance.
They also meet on one occasion each year without any executive directors present to consider the conclusions of the annual Board evaluation exercise and the performance of the Chairman.
In addition, there are four permanent committees.
The composition of the committees is set out on page 19.
Each committee has its own Terms of Reference which may be viewed on the Companys website.
The permanent committees are as follows: The Audit Committee The Audit Committee comprises four non-executive Directors, all of whom are independent of the Company.
It is chaired by Charles Bailey, a former Senior Partner at Price Waterhouse, who is also the chairman of the audit committees of two other public companies, and whom the Board considers has appropriate financial experience.
The Committee meets at least twice each year to review the Companys interim and annual financial statements, to consider reports thereon from the external audit process and to review any issues arising with the Companys management.
It may meet on additional occasions should the need arise.
The Committee also monitors the adequacy of the Groups accounting policies and financial reporting, which are discussed with the external auditors.
The Audit Committee also considers the external auditors independence, objectivity and the cost effectiveness of the audit process.
The Committee monitors the level of non-audit services provided to the Company by the auditors, assessing their objectivity in providing such services and ensuring that the independence of the audit team from the Company was not compromised.
Non-audit services provided by  LLP in the year ended 31 March 2008 were primarily in relation to taxation services.
The Committee also reviews the effectiveness of the Companys system of internal controls at least annually by reference to reports prepared and compiled by management.
The remaining matters in the Audit Committees Terms of Reference are considered as and when necessary.
212016 RIT R&A pp20-pp39 29 5 08 19:20 Page 27 27 The Audit Committee is responsible for monitoring the Companys whistleblowing procedures for staff to follow in the event that they might have any concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters.
The procedures in place provide for staff to have direct recourse to the Audit Committee, through its Chairman.
The current membership of the Committee is set out on page 19.
John Cornish was appointed as a member of the Committee in January 2008.
The Committee met formally on three occasions in the year ended 31 March 2008.
Mr Bailey, Mr Knight and Mr Leigh-Pemberton attended all three meetings.
No meetings were held between the date of Mr Cornishs appointment and the year-end.
The Nominations Committee The Nominations Committee comprises four Directors, three of whom are independent and nonexecutive and the fourth is Lord Rothschild, who is the Chairman of the Committee.
The Committee meets at least once a year on a formal basis, and on additional occasions as required.
Its remit, as set out in its Terms of Reference, includes the leading of the process for appointments to the Board, to ensure that appointments are made on merit and against objective criteria and to review the suitability of those Directors who are retiring by rotation to stand for re-election.
The Committee also monitors the composition of the Board on an ongoing basis, with a view to succession planning and the maintenance of an appropriate balance of skills and experience within the Company and on the Board.
The Committee met formally on one occasion in the year ended 31 March 2008.
All four members of the Committee attended this meeting.
The Remuneration and Conflicts Committee The Remuneration and Conflicts Committee comprises three non-executive Directors, all of whom are independent.
The Committee meets at least once each year on a formal basis, and on additional occasions as may be required.
Its primary responsibilities include the creation and maintenance of remuneration policies designed to attract, retain and motivate directors appropriately for a self-managed investment trust.
This includes the review of the total remuneration packages of the executive Directors, ensuring an appropriate balance between fixed and performance-related elements.
This exercise is conducted in part by reference to other companies of similar size and business objectives.
The Remuneration and Conflicts Committee seeks the advice of external remuneration consultants as and when appropriate.
The Committee is also responsible for monitoring the fees paid to the non-executive Directors, by reference to the roles and time commitment of each individual concerned, although the final determination of the fees payable to non-executive directors is a matter for the Board of Directors as a whole.
It is also the responsibility of the Committee to determine the policy for the pension arrangements of the executive Directors and to monitor and pre-approve any arrangements entered into between the Company and any of its Directors, or their connected interests, to ensure that any conflicts of interest are avoided or pre-approved and managed appropriately.
Conflicts of interest include arrangements under which the costs of investment support services are shared with entities controlled by a director.
All three members of the Committee attended this meeting.
The Valuation Committee The Valuation Committee comprises three Directors, two of whom are non-executive and one is an executive Director.
The Committee meets at least twice each year and additionally as may be required.
Its principal responsibility is to review the Companys unlisted investments so that they are presented in the annual and half-yearly accounts at a fair valuation.
The full membership of the Committee is set out on page 19.
The Committee met formally on two occasions in the year ended 31 March 2008 and all directors eligible to attend did so on both occasions.
212016 RIT R&A pp20-pp39 29 5 08 19:20 Page 28 RIT CAPITAL PARTNERS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 28 CHAIRMAN WITH EXECUTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES Lord Rothschild is both Chairman of the Board and an executive Director.
The Board recognises that this is at variance with the recommendations of the Code, which are concerned with the potential problems of combining the running of the Board with the executive responsibility for the running of the Company.
The Board believes that the current arrangements are appropriate for a self-managed investment trust and are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders on an ongoing basis.
The Company has in place a structure of permanent board committees, described above, designed to devolve responsibility and control of certain key areas of Board responsibility away from the Chairman.
The Audit Committee and the Remuneration and Conflicts Committee are both comprised entirely of independent nonexecutive Directors.
Whilst the Nominations Committee is chaired by Lord Rothschild and a member of the Valuation Committee is an executive Director, independent non-executive Directors represent a majority of their number in both cases.
The Board is therefore of the view that the Company is not at risk from a concentration of power caused by the Chairman having executive responsibilities and believes that Lord Rothschild is well qualified for both roles.
As Chairman, Lord Rothschild is responsible for the leadership of the Board and its effectiveness in dealing with the matters reserved for its decision.
This includes ensuring that Directors are properly briefed on issues arising at board meetings.
He is also responsible for ensuring effective communication with shareholders and for facilitating the full and effective contribution of the non-executive Directors.
BOARD BALANCE AND INDEPENDENCE As described above, the Board is comprised of twelve Directors of whom three are executive, three are non-executive but not independent and six are non-executive and determined by the Board as independent.
This balance is intended to limit the scope for an individual, or a small group of individuals, to dominate the Boards decision-making.
More than half of the Board, excluding the Chairman, therefore comprises non-executive Directors determined by the Board to be independent.
The size and composition of the Board is considered to be suitable for the Companys size and business, whilst not being so large as to be unwieldy.
Of the six non-executive Directors determined by the Board to be independent, two do not meet one of the seven independence criteria set out in the Code, in that they have served on the Board more than nine years since the date of their first election.
Mr Bailey, the Senior Independent Director and Mr Knight, the long serving Directors concerned, bring relevant experience and knowledge to the Board without which its effectiveness would be reduced.
The Board believes that an in-depth knowledge of the Companys business derived from long service is an advantage, particularly in the circumstances of a selfmanaged investment trust and recommends the re-election of Mr Bailey and Mr Knight at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
APPOINTMENTS TO THE BOARD The Nominations Committee is responsible for the process of appointment of new directors to the Board.
The Board, through the Nominations Committee, recognises the need to consider, on an ongoing basis, the appointment of new directors to bring fresh impetus and objectivity.
Such appointments will be made on merit and ability to devote such time as is necessary to the position, as described in each Directors letter of appointment.
The Committee will also be mindful of succession planning and board balance when recommending future appointments to the Board.
Neither open advertising nor external search consultancies were used in respect of the non-executive Director appointment made during the year, as the Board and Nominations Committee identify and assess candidates on the basis of their potential contribution to the Company.
Non-executive directors are not appointed for specified terms.
Since periodic re-election requirements are in place, neither the Nominations Committee nor the Board consider that such contractual limitations would be in the best interests of the Company as a self-managed investment trust.
Appropriate training on listed company governance and on the Company is provided to new directors on their first appointment.
212016 RIT R&A pp20-pp39 29 5 08 19:20 Page 29 29 INFORMATION AND PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that the Directors receive accurate, timely and clear information through the Company Secretary, J. Rothschild Capital Management Limited.
This is effected through regular oral and written communication, including detailed papers provided for each of the Companys scheduled board meetings.
Such communication is intended to update Directors knowledge and familiarity with the Company and its business, to enable them to fulfil their respective roles on the Board or its committees.
The Directors have access to the Company Secretary for advice and services.
The Chairman, the Nominations Committee and the Company Secretary have formulated a full, formal and tailored induction process for new directors on their joining the Board.
All Directors are entitled to take independent professional advice, including legal advice, at the Companys expense where they judge it necessary to discharge their responsibilities as Directors, up to a maximum of 25,000 per annum.
The Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures and applicable rules and regulations are complied with and for advising the Board, through the Chairman, on corporate governance matters.
PERFORMANCE EVALUATION The Code requires the Company to report on the means by which performance evaluation of the Board, its committees and its individual Directors has been conducted.
The Board has determined that the completion of a confidential questionnaire by each of the Directors covering the processes, efficiency and composition of each of the Board, its committees and the Directors, followed by discussion of the summarised responses is the most appropriate for the Companys circumstances.
This exercise was conducted between February and March 2008, when the responses were evaluated and considered by the Board and separately by the non-executive Directors in a meeting without any executive Directors being present.
RE-ELECTION OF DIRECTORS The Company has complied with the Code requirements for each Director to stand for re-election at least once every three years and that any Director serving more than nine years since first elected should stand for re-election annually.
The Directors retiring by rotation and standing for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting are as set out in the Notice of Meeting on pages 90 and 91, and the summary of AGM business contained in the Explanatory Notes on pages 94 to 97.
Following the performance evaluation of the Board described above, it is confirmed that the performance of each Director, including those standing for re-election, continues to be satisfactory and that each continues to demonstrate commitment in the role.
The re-election of those Directors standing at the forthcoming annual general meeting is therefore recommended by the Board.
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS The Board and executive management maintain a dialogue with both institutional shareholders and analysts and also respond promptly to other shareholders enquiries.
Shareholders are invited to ask questions at the Annual General Meeting and, as far as is practicable, the Chairman of the Audit Committee, the Remuneration and Conflicts Committee, the Nominations Committee and the Valuation Committee will be available to answer any questions from shareholders.
The net asset value of the Company is disclosed on a monthly basis to the London Stock Exchange to enable shareholders and analysts to follow the progress of the Company.
The Company also maintains a website at www.
co. uk where shareholders have access to the latest monthly financial data released by the Company, together with historical information and financial statements.
212016 RIT R&A pp20-pp39 29 5 08 19:20 Page 30 RIT CAPITAL PARTNERS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 30 ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT Statement of the Directors Responsibilities Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group and of the income of the Company and the Group for that year.
In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company and the Group will continue in business.
The Directors have responsibility for ensuring that the Company keeps proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and which enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Internal Control The Board of Directors is responsible for the Groups system of internal control although it has delegated the supervision of the system to the Audit Committee.
Such systems are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and, as such, can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against any material misstatement or loss.
The Board has delegated to executive management the implementation of the systems of internal control within an established framework applicable throughout the Group.
The system of internal control is reviewed annually.
The Board considers that the necessary procedures have been implemented to satisfy the requirements of the Financial Services Authority with respect to the Turnbull guidance Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code issued in September 1999 and revised in 2005.
The Board, through the Audit Committee, reviews the need to establish a separate internal audit function annually.
The Audit Committee reviewed the role of the Companys Compliance Officer with specific regard to the monitoring and evaluation of the Companys internal controls.
These are considered to amount to a proportion of an internal audit function.
The precise scope and depth of the remit will continue to be reviewed and, as appropriate, expanded.
A clear and direct reporting line between the Compliance Officer and the Chairman of the Audit Committee and Senior Independent Director has been established to maximise the independence of the Compliance Officer from executive management.
The Compliance Officer also monitors the compliance of external managers with the terms of their investment management agreements as well as reviewing their internal control procedures.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the key systems of internal control in operation during the financial period and up to the date of this report through the monitoring processes set out below.
Control Environment The Group has established an organisational structure which allocates defined levels of authority and reporting responsibility in respect of the operational, compliance, financial and taxation affairs of the Group to a small number of senior executives who meet regularly to discuss matters of importance to the Group.
Risk Management The identification of major business risks is carried out by the Board in conjunction with the relevant executives.
The mitigation and monitoring of risks identified is undertaken by the Board or the executive management as appropriate.
Timetables are agreed for implementing any required improvements to systems and progress against these timetables is monitored.
Detailed portfolio valuations are undertaken every week and these form the basis for risk control decisions regarding equity exposure, liquidity, market price risk and exchange rate risk.
Further information relating to risk management is contained in Note 26 to the financial statements.
212016 RIT R&A pp20-pp39 29 5 08 19:20 Page 31 31 Social, Environmental and Ethical SEE Responsibility The Board is responsible for investment strategy and related questions of SEE policy.
It has delegated the supervision of SEE related matters to the Audit Committee, and day-to-day responsibility resides with executive management.
As an investment trust, the Board considers that the Companys direct SEE impact is low.
However, SEE risk is considered on a case-by-case basis where management believes that investments made internally, as opposed to those made by external managers, would create an SEE risk exposure.
Potential SEE risk is also considered in the selection of external investment managers.
Financial Reporting and Control Procedures There is a budgeting system with an annual budget approved by the executive management.
Monthly actual results are reviewed and reported against budget and reviewed regularly by the executive management.
The Group maintains guidelines in relation to the key controls exercised over its financial and operating affairs.
Duties are segregated to the extent commensurate with the size of the Groups organisation and business environment.
STATEMENT ON GOING CONCERN The Directors confirm that they are satisfied that the Company and the Group have adequate resources, an appropriate financial structure and suitable management arrangements in place to continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
