Corporate governance The company is committed to high standards of corporate governance, The Group Audit Committee complies with the provisions of the NYSEs business integrity and professionalism in all its activities.
corporate governance listing standards that relate to the composition, responsibilities and operation of audit committees.
In June 2008, the Throughout the year ended 31 December 2008, the company has company submitted its required annual written affirmation to the NYSE complied with all of the provisions of the Combined Code issued by the confirming its full compliance with those and other applicable Financial Reporting Council in June 2006 the Code except in relation provisions.
More detailed information about the Audit Committee and its to the provision that the Remuneration Committee should have work during 2008 is set out in the Audit Committee Report on pages delegated responsibility for setting remuneration for the Chairman and 157 and 158. executive directors.
The company considers that this is a matter which should rightly be reserved for the Board.
No director is involved in Board of directors decisions regarding his or her own remuneration.
The Board is the principal decision-making forum for the company.
It has overall responsibility for leading and controlling the company and is During the period following the changes to the Board on 6 February accountable to shareholders for financial and operational performance.
2009 to the date of this Report and Accounts, the company has not had The Board approves Group strategy and monitors performance.
The a senior independent director and the Remuneration Committee has Board has adopted a formal schedule of matters detailing key aspects comprised two independent non-executive directors and the Chairman of the companys affairs reserved to it for its decision.
This schedule is of the Board, not the three independent non-executive directors reviewed annually.
The Board is in the process of recruiting three additional independent non-executive directors and plans to appoint a The roles of the Chairman and Group Chief Executive are distinct and senior independent director and an additional member of the separate, with a clear division of responsibilities.
The Chairman leads Remuneration Committee as part of the recruitment process.
the Board and ensures the effective engagement and contribution of all executive and non-executive directors.
The Group Chief Executive has The company has also complied with the Financial Reporting Council responsibility for all Group businesses and acts in accordance with the Guidance on Audit Committees issued in October 2008 in all material authority delegated by the Board.
Responsibility for the development of respects.
policy and strategy and operational management is delegated to the Group Chief Executive and other executive directors.
Under the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 the Act, specific standards of corporate governance and business and financial All directors participate in discussing strategy, performance and the disclosures apply to companies with securities registered in the US.
The financial and risk management of the company.
Meetings of the Board company complies with all applicable sections of the Act.
are structured to allow open discussion.
The New York Stock Exchange There were nine scheduled Board meetings during 2008.
The directors As a foreign issuer with American Depositary Shares ADS were supplied with comprehensive papers in advance of each Board representing ordinary shares, preference shares and debt securities meeting covering the Groups principal business activities.
Members of listed on the New York Stock Exchange NYSE, the company must executive management attend and make regular presentations at disclose any significant ways in which its corporate governance meetings of the Board.
In addition to scheduled meetings, a number of practices differ from those followed by US companies under the NYSEs ad hoc Board meetings and Chairmans Committee meetings were held corporate governance listing standards.
In addition, the company must during 2008.
These meetings were attended by the majority of directors.
comply fully with the provisions of the listing standards that relate to the composition, responsibilities and operation of audit committees.
These The Board is aware of the other commitments of its directors and has provisions incorporate the relevant rules concerning audit committees of established procedures for ensuring that the Boards powers for the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934. authorising directors conflicts of interest are being operated effectively.
With effect from 1 October 2008, the Companies Act 2006 introduced a The company has reviewed its corporate governance arrangements and statutory duty on directors to avoid conflicts of interest.
Since that date, is satisfied that these are consistent with the NYSEs corporate the Board has considered, and where appropriate authorised, any governance listing practices, with the exception that the Chairman of actual or potential conflicts of interests that directors may have.
the Board is Chairman of the Nominations Committee and is a member of the Remuneration Committee, both of which are permitted by the UK Combined Code since the Chairman was considered independent on appointment.
The companys Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees are otherwise composed solely of non-executive directors deemed by the Board to be independent.
The NYSEs corporate governance listing standards also require that a compensation committee has direct responsibility to review and approve Group Chief Executive remuneration.
The Board, rather than the Remuneration Committee, reserves the authority to make the final determination of the remuneration of the Group Chief Executive.
RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008 153 Corporate governance continued Board balance and independence Each new director receives a formal induction on joining the Board, The Board currently comprises the Chairman, three executive directors including visits to the Groups major businesses and meetings with and five non-executive directors.
The Board functions effectively and directors and senior management.
The induction is tailored to the efficiently and is considered to be of an appropriate size.
The directors directors specific requirements.
Directors are advised of appropriate provide the Group with the knowledge, mix of skills, experience and training and professional development opportunities and undertake the networks of contacts required.
The Board Committees comprise training and professional development they consider necessary in directors with a variety of relevant skills and experience so that no assisting them to carry out their duties as a director.
undue reliance is placed on any individual.
Performance evaluation The non-executive directors combine broad business and commercial The Board has undertaken a formal and rigorous evaluation of its own experience with independent and objective judgement.
The balance performance and that of its committees and individual directors.
between non-executive and executive directors enables the Board to provide clear and effective leadership and maintain the highest In 2008, this was conducted internally using detailed questionnaires standards of integrity across the companys business activities.
The and individual meetings with each director.
Amongst the areas reviewed names and biographies of all Board members are set out on pages 146 were the role of the Board and Committees, composition, meetings and and 147. processes, performance and reporting, and external relationships.
The Board has considered and discussed reports on the outcomes of the In addition to the Chairman, there are five independent and three nonevaluations and is satisfied with the way in which the evaluations have independent directors i. e. the executive directors on the Board.
Following Bob Scott ceasing to be a director on 6 February 2009, a replacement senior independent director will be appointed in due A number of initiatives are already underway aimed at improving the course.
The Board plans to appoint, in consultation with HM Treasury, overall performance and effectiveness of the Board, including further three new independent non-executive directors to the Board during Board appointments, restructuring Board agendas and allowing more 2009. time at Board meetings to consider strategic issues.
In addition, a number of actions have already been taken to enhance reporting to the The Board considers that the Chairman was independent on Board and Audit Committee on risk matters, liquidity and funding.
appointment and all non-executive directors are independent for the purposes of the Code.
In addition, the former Chairman evaluated the individual performance of each director.
The former senior independent director canvassed the Re-election of directors views of the executive directors and met with the non-executive Directors must stand for re-election by shareholders at least once every directors as a group without the former Chairman present to consider three years.
Any non-executive directors who have served for more than his performance.
nine years will also stand for annual re-election and the Board will consider their independence at that time.
The proposed re-election of Board Committees directors is subject to prior review by the Board.
In order to provide effective oversight and leadership, the Board has established a number of Board Committees with particular The names of directors standing for election at the 2009 Annual General responsibilities.
The Committee chairmanship and membership are Meeting are included on page 151 and further information will be given reviewed on a regular basis.
The names and biographies of all Board in the Chairmans letter to shareholders in relation to the companys Committee members are set out on pages 146 and 147.
The terms of reference of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Information, induction and professional development Committees and the standard terms and conditions of appointment of All directors receive accurate, timely and clear information on all non-executive directors are available on the Groups website relevant matters, and have access to the advice and services of the www.
com and copies are available on request.
Group General Counsel and Group Secretary who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that Audit Committee applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
In addition, all All members of the Audit Committee are independent non-executive directors are able, if necessary, to obtain independent professional directors.
The Audit Committee holds at least five meetings each year.
advice at the companys expense.
The Audit Committees report is set out on pages 157 and 158.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee is comprised of independent nonexecutive directors, together with the Chairman of the Board.
The Remuneration Committee holds at least three meetings each year.
The Directors Remuneration Report is contained on pages 160 to 168.
154 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Nominations Committee Relations with shareholders The Nominations Committee comprises independent non-executive The company communicates with shareholders through the Annual directors, under the chairmanship of the Chairman of the Board.
The Report and Accounts and by providing information in advance of the Nominations Committee meets as required.
Individual shareholders can raise matters relating to their shareholdings and the business of the Group at any The Nominations Committee is responsible for assisting the Board in the time throughout the year primarily by letter, telephone or email via the formal selection and appointment of directors.
The committee engages Groups website www.
with external consultants, it considers potential candidates and recommends appointments of new directors to the Board.
The Shareholders are given the opportunity to ask questions at the Annual appointments are based on merit against objective criteria, including the General Meeting or submit written questions in advance.
The chairmen time available of the potential director and the commitment which will of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees are available be required.
to answer questions at the Annual General Meeting.
In addition, the Nominations Committee considers succession planning Communication with the companys largest institutional shareholders is for the Chairman, Group Chief Executive and non-executive directors.
undertaken as part of the companys investor relations programme.
The The Nominations Committee takes into account the knowledge, mix of Chairman meets with the Groups top 20 investors at least once every skills, experience and networks of contacts which are anticipated to be 12 months to discuss issues such as strategy, business performance needed on the Board in the future.
The Chairman, Group Chief and corporate governance.
During the year, the directors received Executive and non-executive directors meet to consider executive analysts reports and a monthly report from the Groups investor succession planning.
No director is involved in decisions regarding his relations department which includes an analysis of share price or her own succession.
movements, the Groups performance against the sector, and key broker comments.
In addition, information on major investor relations activities Meetings and changes to external credit ratings is provided.
Detailed market and The number of scheduled meetings of the Board and the Audit, shareholder feedback is provided to the Board after results and other Remuneration and Nominations Committees and individual attendance market announcements.
The senior independent director was available by members in 2008 is shown below.
throughout 2008 to shareholders should they have considered their concerns were not being addressed through the normal channels.
The Board Audit Remuneration Nominations arrangements used to ensure that directors develop an understanding Total number of of the views of major shareholders are considered as part of the annual meetings in 2008 96 3 5 Board performance evaluation.
Number of meetings attended in 2008: The Chairman, Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director Sir Tom McKillop 1 9 3 5 communicate shareholder views to the Board as a whole.
Sir Fred Goodwin 2 8 Mr Buchan 86 2 The Board commissions a survey of investor perceptions periodically.
Mr Cameron 3 7 The survey is undertaken on behalf of the Board by independent Dr Currie 4 9 3 consultants and the outcomes of the study are considered by the Mr Fish 8 Board.
Mr Fisher 2 6 Mr Friedrich 4 96 Mr Hester 5 3 Mr Hunter 96 5 Mr Koch 4 9 Mrs Kong 4 9 3 Mr MacHale 96 Mr McFarlane 5 3 Mr Pell 9 Sir Steve Robson 4 76 Mr Ryan 5 3 Mr Scott 4 9 3 3 Mr Sutherland 4 7 3 4 Mr Whittaker 9 Notes: 1 Sir Tom McKillop ceased to be a director on 3 February 2009.
2 Sir Fred Goodwin and Mark Fisher ceased to be directors on 21 November 2008.
3 Johnny Cameron ceased to be a director on 13 October 2008.
4 Jim Currie, Bill Friedrich, Bud Koch, Janis Kong, Sir Steve Robson, Bob Scott and Peter Sutherland ceased to be directors on 6 February 2009.
5 Stephen Hester, John McFarlane and Arthur 'Art' Ryan were appointed as directors on 1 October 2008.
RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008 155 Corporate governance continued Internal control Internal control over financial reporting The Board of directors is responsible for the Groups system of internal The Group is required to comply with Section 404 of the US Sarbanescontrol that is designed to facilitate effective and efficient operations Oxley Act of 2002 and assess the effectiveness of internal control over and to ensure the quality of internal and external reporting and financial reporting as of 31 December 2008. compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
In devising internal controls, the Group has regard to the nature and extent of the risk, the The Group assessed the effectiveness of its internal control over likelihood of it crystallising and the cost of controls.
A system of internal financial reporting as of 31 December 2008 based on the criteria set control is designed to manage, but not eliminate, the risk of failure to forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable, and not Commission in Internal Control Integrated Framework.
absolute, assurance against the risk of material misstatement, fraud or losses.
Based on its assessment, management has concluded that, as of 31 December 2008, the Groups internal control over financial reporting is The Board has established a process for the identification, evaluation effective.
and management of the significant risks faced by the Group, which operated throughout the year ended 31 December 2008 and to 25 The Groups auditors have audited the effectiveness of the Groups February 2009, the date the directors approved the Report and internal control over financial reporting and have given an unqualified Accounts.
This process is regularly reviewed by the Board and meets opinion.
the requirements of the guidance Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code issued by the Financial Reporting Managements report on the Groups internal control over financial Council in October 2005. reporting will be filed with the SEC at the same time as the Annual Report on Form 20-F.
The effectiveness of the Groups internal control system is reviewed regularly by the Board and the Audit Committee.
Executive management Disclosure controls and procedures committees or boards of directors in each of the Groups businesses As required by US regulations, the effectiveness of the companys receive regular reports on significant risks facing their business and disclosure controls and procedures as defined in the rules under the how they are being controlled.
In addition, the Board receives monthly US Securities Exchange Act of 1934 have been evaluated.
Additional details of the Groups approach to evaluation has been considered and approved by the Board which has risk management are given in the Risk, capital and liquidity instructed the Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director to management section of the Business review on pages 78 to 144.
The certify that, as at 31 December 2008, the companys disclosure controls Board received a number of reports from Group Internal Audit and and procedures were adequate and effective and designed to ensure external consultants focussed on certain areas of the business that that material information relating to the company and its consolidated have been particularly exposed to loss as a result of the market turmoil.
subsidiaries would be made known to them by others within those The Group Audit Committee has received confirmation that entities.
management has taken, or is taking, the necessary action to remedy failings or weaknesses identified in these reports and through the Changes in internal controls operation of the Groups framework of control.
There was no change in the companys internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the period covered by this report that In addition, the Groups independent auditors present to the Audit has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Committee reports that include details of any significant internal control companys internal control over financial reporting.
matters which they have identified.
The system of internal controls of the authorised institutions and other regulated entities in the Group is also subject to regulatory oversight in the UK and overseas.
Additional details of the Groups regulatory oversight are given in the Supervision and Regulatory reviews and developments sections on pages 279 to 281.
156 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Audit Committee Report The Audit Committee has adopted a policy on the engagement of the The current members of the Audit Committee are Archie Hunter external auditors to supply audit and non-audit services, which takes Chairman, Colin Buchan and Joe MacHale.
All served throughout 2008 into account relevant legislation regarding the provision of such as did former members of the committee, Bill Friedrich and Sir Steve services by an external audit firm.
The Audit Committee reviews the Robson, until their retirement as directors on 6 February 2009.
All policy annually and prospectively approves the provision of audit members of the Audit Committee are independent non-executive services and certain non-audit services by the external auditors.
The Audit Committee holds at least five scheduled meetings each year, two of which are held immediately prior to submission of the Annual audit services include all services detailed in the annual interim and annual financial statements to the Board.
This core engagement letter including the annual audit and interim reviews programme is supplemented by additional meetings as required.
A total including US reporting requirements, periodic profit verifications and of ten meetings were held in 2008.
Audit Committee meetings are reports to regulators including skilled persons reports commissioned by attended by relevant executive directors, the internal and external the Financial Services Authority e. g. Reporting Accountants Reports.
auditors and finance and risk management executives.
At least twice per annum the Audit Committee meets privately with the external Annual audit services also include statutory or non-statutory audits auditors.
Since 2000, the Audit Committee has undertaken an annual required by any Group companies that are not incorporated in the UK.
programme of visits to the Group's business divisions and control Terms of engagement for these audits are agreed separately with functions.
The object of the programme is to allow the Audit Committee management, and are consistent with those set out in the audit to gain a better understanding of the Group and an invitation to attend engagement letter insofar as local regulations permit.
is extended to all non-executive directors.
The programme of future visits is considered annually and the norm is for two to three visits to be The prospectively approved non-audit services include the following undertaken each year.
The Committee undertook three visits in 2008. classes of service: The Board is satisfied that all the Audit Committee members have recent capital raising, including consents, comfort letters and relevant and relevant financial experience.
Although the Board has determined reviews of registration statements: that each member of the Audit Committee is an Audit Committee Financial Expert and is independent, each as defined in the SEC rules provision of accounting opinions relating to the financial statements of under the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and related guidance, the Group: the members of the Audit Committee are selected with a view to the expertise and experience of the Audit Committee as a whole, and the provision of reports that, according to law or regulation, must be Audit Committee reports to the Board as a single entity.
The designation rendered by the external auditors: of a director or directors as an Audit Committee Financial Expert does not impose on any such director, any duties, obligations or liability that tax compliance services: are greater than the duties, obligations and liability imposed on such director as a member of the Audit Committee and Board in the absence corporate finance services relative to companies that will remain of such a designation.
Nor does the designation of a director as an outside the Group: and Audit Committee Financial Expert affect the duties, obligations or liability of any other member of the Board.
insolvency work relating to the Groups customers.
The Audit Committee is responsible for: For all other permitted non-audit services, Audit Committee approval must be sought, on a case by case basis, before the provision of the assisting the Board in discharging its responsibilities and in making service commences.
In addition, the Audit Committee reviews and all relevant disclosures in relation to the financial affairs of the Group: monitors the independence and objectivity of the external auditors when it approves non-audit work to be carried out by them, taking into reviewing accounting and financial reporting and regulatory consideration relevant legislation and ethical guidance.
Information on compliance: the audit and non-audit services carried out by the external auditors is detailed in Note 5 to the Groups accounts.
reviewing the Groups systems of internal control: and monitoring the Groups processes for internal audit, risk management and external audit.
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee are available at www.
com and these are considered annually by the Audit Committee and approved by the Board.
RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008 157 Corporate governance continued 2008 saw considerable economic uncertainty and unprecedented The Audit Committee is responsible for making recommendations to the upheaval in financial markets worldwide.
These conditions severely Board, for it to submit the Audit Committees recommendations to affected the Group and it has recorded significant asset write-downs in shareholders for their approval at the Annual General Meeting in relation its 2008 financial statements.
In these circumstances, particular to the appointment, reappointment and removal of the external auditors.
attention of the Audit Committee was focused on a number of salient The Board has endorsed the Audit Committees recommendation that judgments involved in the preparation of the accounts: shareholders be requested to approve the reappointment of Deloitte LLP as external auditors at the Annual General Meeting in April 2009. valuation methodologies and assumptions for financial instruments carried at fair value including the Groups credit market exposures: The Audit Committee also fixes the remuneration of the external auditors as authorised by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
impairment losses in the Groups portfolio of loans and advances: and The Audit Committee approves the terms of engagement of the external auditors.
impairment of goodwill and other intangibles.
It is intended that there will be an external review of the effectiveness of In its consideration of each of these issues, the aims of the Audit Group Internal Audit every three to five years, in line with best practice, Committee have been to: with internal reviews continuing in the intervening years.
In 2007, KPMG conducted a review of the effectiveness of Group Internal Audit and understand and challenge the valuation and other accounting concluded that the function operated effectively and the Board agreed judgments made by management: with these findings.
In 2008, the Audit Committee conducted an internal review of Group Internal Audit that involved participants throughout the review the conclusions of the external auditors and, where Group as well as the external auditors.
The Audit Committee concluded applicable, other experts and to understand how they came to their that the function operated effectively and the Board agreed with the conclusions: and Audit Committees findings.
satisfy itself that the disclosures in the financial statements about It is also intended that there will be an external review of the these estimates and valuations are transparent and appropriate.
effectiveness of the Audit Committee every three to five years, with internal reviews by the Board continuing in the intervening years.
An issue of key interest to the Audit Committee, given the current  conducted an external review of the economic environment, was management's going concern assessment.
effectiveness of the Audit Committee in 2005.
An internal review of the In particular, the Committee's attention was directed to understanding Audit Committees performance was undertaken in 2008 and a separate the way in which management had satisfied itself that the Group has report on the outcome was considered and discussed by the Board.
access to sufficient funding and capital over the next 12 months.
The Committee reviewed and challenged the assumptions underlying Since 2005, divisional audit committees have been responsible for management's analysis and discussed with the external auditors its reviewing each divisions business.
During 2008, the divisional audit review of management's analysis and conclusions.
committee structure was revised to take account of the acquisition of ABN AMRO, the significant international growth of the Groups As far as it can determine, the Committee received all the information businesses and best practice requirements.
The divisional audit and material it required to allow it to meet its obligations in respect of committees report to the Audit Committee and the Audit Committee is the 2008 financial statements.
satisfied that these committees continue to discharge their terms of reference.
The Committee reviews the work of the Groups risk management and internal audit functions regularly.
Four additional sessions of the Committee were held in 2008 that focused solely on risk issues: these sessions included contributions from independent advisors.
Archie Hunter Chairman of the Audit Committee The Audit Committee undertakes an annual evaluation to assess the 25 February 2009 independence and objectivity of the external auditors and the effectiveness of the audit process, taking into consideration relevant professional and regulatory requirements.
The outcomes of this evaluation are considered by the Board together with the Audit Committees recommendation on the re-appointment of the external auditor.
In 2009 and subsequently, the annual evaluation will be carried out immediately following completion of the annual accounts and audit.
158 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008
