Business review continued On pages 78 to 144 of the Business review certain information has Whilst the international stabilisation efforts led by various governments been audited and is labelled as such.
since September 2008 have helped, the knock-on economic impacts are now evident in markets globally.
2009 will see further strains for Risk, capital and liquidity management unaudited financial institutions.
Whilst the liquidity crisis is likely to stabilise, the 2008 has been one of the most challenging years for banks.
The level of impairments will increase as recession spreads worldwide.
financial markets turmoil, which started in the second half of 2007 following concerns over the US sub-prime mortgage market, resulted in The Board, in the light of the severe and increasing deterioration in a global reduction in liquidity and the availability of term-funding.
market conditions, the worsening economic outlook and difficulties in Confidence in financial institutions was eroded through 2008 as a result the credit markets, concluded that it was appropriate for the Group to of an increased perception of counterparty risk following notable strengthen its capital position.
The Group has responded to the changing business and economic During the recent market turbulence, in common with other banks, the conditions by reducing leverage, building and improving liquidity, raising Group saw the availability of long term funding from both the capital additional capital and through augmenting its risk management markets and money markets decline significantly during the second half resources to drive forward a number of strategic initiatives.
As a result, reliance on shorter term funding increased with a risk operating model has been strengthened to ensure its adequacy for consequent deterioration in the Groups liquidity profile.
In response to changing market conditions and additional capital management the market stress, central banks increased liquidity through a number of disciplines are being embedded across the Group.
There is an facilities and schemes available to support their respective banking increased emphasis on the independence of the control functions, systems.
In addition, governments around the world have provided capital allocation, stress testing and risk return throughout the Group.
capital to financial institutions and moved to offer guarantees and increase deposit insurance to reassure investors and depositors.
As a global bank, the Group has access to a number of those facilities and schemes which, in common with many other banks, it has used to support funding.
Risk governance unaudited Risk and capital management strategy is owned and set by the Groups Board of Directors, and implemented by executive management led by the Group Chief Executive.
There are a number of committees and executives that support the execution of the business plan and strategy.
Group Board of Directors Group Executive Group Audit Committee Advances Committee Management Committee Group Credit Committee Executive Risk Forum Group Asset and Liability Group Risk Committee Management Committee 78 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008 The role and remit of these committees is as follows: Committee Focus Membership Group Audit Committee Financial reporting and the application of accounting Independent non-executive directors GAC policies as part of the internal control and risk assessment process.
GAC monitors the identification, evaluation and management of all significant risks throughout the Group.
Advances Committee Deals with transactions that exceed the Group Credit Members of GEMC AC Committees delegated authority and large exposures.
Group Chief Credit Officer Group Executive Ensures implementation of strategy consistent with risk Business and function heads, as determined by the Management Committee appetite.
Group Chief Executive Board GEMC Executive Risk Forum Acts on all strategic risk and control matters across Group Chief Executive ERF the Group including, but not limited to, credit risk, Group Finance Director market risk, operational risk, compliance and regulatory Group Chief Risk Officer risk, enterprise risk, treasury and liquidity risk, Chairman, Regional Markets reputational risk, insurance risk and country risk.
Chief Executive, RBS UK Chief Executive, Global Banking & Markets Group Risk Committee Recommends limits and approves processes and Group Chief Risk Officer GRC policies to ensure the effective management of all Group head of each risk type material risks across the Group.
Group Treasurer Chief Executive and Chief Risk Officer from each division Group General Counsel and Group Secretary Group Chief Economist Group Credit Committee Approves credit proposals under the authority Members as determined by GEMC GCC delegated to the committee by the Board and or the Advances Committee.
Group Asset and Liability Identifies, manages and controls the Group balance Group Finance Director Management Committee sheet risks.
Chairman Chief Executive from each division GALCO Group Treasurer Group Chief Risk Officer Heads of Group functions Group Chief Executives Acts as a forum for the provision of information and Group Chief Executive Advisory Group advice to the Group Chief Executive.
Forms part of the Group Finance Director GCEAG control process of the Group.
Chairman and Chief Executives from each division Group Chief Risk Officer Group General Counsel and Group Secretary Group Directors, Strategy, Communications and Human Resources RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008 79 Business review continued Management responsibilities unaudited The GEMC is responsible for ensuring that the implementation of All staff have a role to play in the day to day management of risk, in line strategy and operations are in line with the risk appetite determined by with Group policy, which is set and managed by specialist staff in: the Board.
This is reinforced through a policy framework ensuring that all staff within the Group make appropriate risk and reward trade-offs Risk Management: credit, market, operational, regulatory, enterprise within pre-agreed boundaries.
and insurance risk, together with risk analytics.
Group Treasury: balance sheet, capital management, intra-group How we do business Policy exposure, funding, liquidity and hedging policies.
Independence underpins the approach to risk management, which is Delivering customer value.
reinforced throughout the Group by appropriate reporting lines.
Management and Group Treasury functions are independent of the revenue generating business.
As part of the move toward greater Risks Identifying and managing our risks.
functional independence, the divisional Chief Risk Officers now have a Understanding our markets.
direct reporting line to the Group Chief Risk Officer.
Security Protecting our assets, premises, systems and data.
Group Internal Audit GIA supports the GAC in providing an Operating our processes, systems independent assessment of the design, adequacy and effectiveness of and controls.
Risk appetite unaudited People Working in the Group.
Risk and capital management across the Group is based on the risk Promoting diversity and inclusion.
appetite set by the Board, which is established through setting strategic Reputation Working within laws and regulation.
direction, contributing to, and ultimately approving annual plans for each Investing in the community.
division and regularly reviewing and monitoring the Groups Conducting sustainable business.
performance in relation to risk through monthly Board reports.
Maintaining key services and processes.
Risk appetite is defined in both quantitative and qualitative terms as follows: Finances Managing our capital and resources.
Quantitative: encompassing stress testing, risk concentration, valueat-risk, liquidity and credit related metrics.
The annual business planning and performance management process and associated activities ensure the expression of risk appetite remains Qualitative: focusing on ensuring that the Group applies the correct appropriate.
GRC and GALCO support this work.
Different techniques are used to ensure that the Groups risk appetite is achieved.
80 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008
