| | 44 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Corporate governance The directors restrict the borrowings of the Company so that the This report sets out the Companys approach to corporate governance aggregate amount, for the time being, remaining borrowed by the in 2008.
The report has been prepared in accordance with the Code of Group is not, without the previous sanction of an ordinary resolution Best Practice set out in section 1 of the 2006 FRC Combined Code on of the Company, more than one and a half times the aggregate of: Corporate Governance the Combined Code and sets out the extent of our compliance with the Code.
r The amount paid up on the issued share capital of the Company and r The total of the capital and revenue reserves of the Group subject to Compliance with the Combined Code certain adjustments.
Throughout 2008 the Group has complied with the Principles and Provisions of the Combined Code except that the Group has not The specific duties of the Board are clearly set out as a formal schedule appointed a senior independent director.
The non-executive directors of matters specifically reserved to it, which can only be amended by the consider each year formally whether a senior independent director is Board itself and which is reviewed annually.
Matters reserved to the required and continue to have a unanimous view that the appointment Board include: of a senior independent director is not appropriate at this time.
All non-executive directors are encouraged to communicate directly with r Approval of the Groups long term objectives and commercial strategy executive directors and senior management outside of formal meetings r Approval of changes to the Groups senior management structure and an active dialogue is maintained by the Board.
r Approval of the Groups overall risk appetite r Annual review of the effectiveness of internal control arrangements The Board r Approval of the annual operating and capital budgets The Board is accountable to shareholders for the creation and delivery r Changes to the Groups capital structure and of strong sustainable performance and the creation of long term r Approval of the Groups financial results and any significant changes shareholder value.
The Board meets regularly and is responsible for to accounting practices or policies.
organising and directing the affairs of the Company and the Group in a manner that will promote the success of the Company and is consistent with good corporate governance practice, and for ensuring that in carrying out its duties the Company and the Group meet legal and regulatory requirements.
The Board is also responsible to the Financial Services Authority FSA for ensuring compliance with the Groups UK regulatory obligations.
In the first quarter of 2008 the FSA concluded an Advanced Risk Recognition Operating FrameWork review of both the Group and UK operations.
During 2008 the FSA also conducted private meetings with several members of the Board and executive management, including Johanna Waterous, prior to her appointment as a director, as a part of their close and continuous programme.
The business of the Company is managed by the directors, who may exercise all the power of the Company subject to the Articles, relevant law and any directions as may be given by the Company in general meeting by shareholder resolution.
The directors may delegate any of their powers or discretions to committees.
A director must not vote in respect of any contract or other proposal in which he or any person connected with him has a material interest otherwise than by virtue of his interest in securities of the Company.
However, a director shall be entitled to vote in certain limited circumstances which are set out in full in the Articles.
The Articles of the Company were amended at the 2008 AGM to, amongst other matters, address the new statutory provisions regarding directors duties in relation to conflicts of interest which came into force on 1 October 2008 under the Companies Act 2006.
Following the aforementioned amendment the Company has put updated procedures in place to deal with conflicts of interest and these procedures have operated effectively throughout 2008.
GOVERNANCE | | Annual Report and Accounts 2008 RSA 45 The Board met 11 times during the year ended 31 December 2008.
The attendance of directors at meetings of the Board and at board committees of which they were members during the year is set out below: Board Board Group Audit Nomination Remuneration Investment Board Risk Notes meetings Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Total number of meetings in the year 1 11 4 5 3 8 3 4 George Culmer 11 4 3 4 Noel Harwerth 11 5 3 Andy Haste 11 4 3 4 Edward Lea 11 5 8 3 Simon Lee 11 Malcolm Le May 8 2 5 3 John Maxwell 11 5 3 8 3 Bridget McIntyre 2 8 John Napier 11 2 3 Johanna Waterous 3 6 2 1 Chairman of the Board or board committee Notes: 1.
In addition to attendance as above, Andy Haste and George Culmer regularly attend, by invitation, meetings of the Group Audit Committee GAC.
Andy Haste regularly attends meetings of the Remuneration Committee.
Bridget McIntyre resigned as UK CEO on 2 September 2008 and as a director on 31 December 2008.
Johanna Waterous was appointed as a non-executive director with effect from 20 May 2008.
Board balance and independence years thereafter.
Johanna Waterous will therefore be proposed for Details of the directors who served during the year can be found on reappointment at the forthcoming AGM and the directors proposed pages 38 and 39. for re-election are Andy Haste and John Napier.
The Company may by ordinary resolution of which special notice has been given remove At all times during the year, at least half of the Board, excluding the any director before the expiration of his period of office.
All non-executive directors have been determined by the Board to be independent.
Pursuant to his appointment on 9 January 2003, John Napier has The Chairman meets regularly with the non-executive directors both completed a six year term as a non-executive director and Chairman individually and collectively without the executive directors being and his appointment has been extended for a further three year term present.
The Chairman met the independence criteria of the Combined which will expire on 31 December 2011.
This reappointment was Code on his appointment in 2003 and continues to meet the criteria considered in detail by the Board, with particular consideration given set out in the Code.
There have been no changes to his external to the commitment shown by John Napier to his role during his term commitments since then which might affect his responsibilities to the of appointment and the requirement for the progressive refreshment Group.
Andy Haste was appointed as a non-executive director of ITV of the Board.
plc on 11 August 2008 at which time ITV plc was a constituent of the FTSE 100.
ITV plc is currently a member of the FTSE 250.
No other Nomination Committee executive director served on the board of a FTSE 100 company During the year the Nomination Committee was chaired by John Napier.
The other members of the Committee were John Maxwell and Malcolm Le May.
The attendance record of directors during 2008 is shown in the Directors have access to the services and advice of the General Counsel table above.
The Committee met three times during 2008. and Group Company Secretary and in addition may take independent professional advice at the expense of the Company in furtherance of The Nomination Committees principal duties are to review the their duties.
structure, size and composition of the Board and to evaluate the directors skills, knowledge and experience.
When appointing new Appointments to the Board directors, regard is given to the size of the Board and the balance The directors and the Company by ordinary resolution may appoint a of executive and non-executive directors as well as the skills and person who is willing to be a director either to fill a casual vacancy or as experience already represented by the existing Board members, and an additional director.
A director who is appointed by the directors shall those which would be desirable on the Board going forward.
The retire at the following AGM and will put himself forward to be elected Committee has access to external recruitment consultants in order to by the shareholders.
In accordance with the Companys Articles and the help fill any vacancies.
The Committee considers the leadership needs Combined Code, the directors submit themselves for reappointment at and succession planning of the Board when making decisions on new the first AGM after their appointment and for re-election every three appointments.
Resolutions to reappoint directors at the AGM are | | 46 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Corporate governance continued subject to the approval of the Board, taking into account the ensuring that both the Group CEO and his executive management team recommendations of the Nomination Committee.
have appropriate objectives and that their performance against those objectives is reviewed.
The Group CEO is responsible to the Board for Induction and professional development the executive management of the Group and for liaising with the On appointment, directors undertake an induction programme and Chairman and keeping him informed on all material matters.
receive a range of information about the Company when they join the Board.
This includes background information on the Group and details Remuneration of board procedures, governance issues and directors responsibilities.
Details of the directors remuneration and the Groups policies on The induction programme also includes a series of meetings with remuneration are set out in the remuneration report on pages members of the Board and executive management, together with 49 to 61. various briefings and presentations regarding the business and regulatory matters from executives.
Financial reporting The directors are required to ensure that adequate accounting records Development and training for the directors is an ongoing process which are maintained so as to disclose at any time, and with reasonable includes briefings on legislative changes and on corporate governance accuracy, the financial position of the Group.
They are also responsible issues.
Directors also receive regular presentations about the Companys for taking reasonable steps to safeguard the assets of the Group and to operations and there are regular discussions on strategy, customer prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
marketing and employee satisfaction and environmental, social and governance matters.
Opportunity is also created for non-executive The directors must present financial statements for each financial year, directors to make informal visits to different parts of the Group and in accordance with applicable law, accounting standards and regulations, to meet with local management.
which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the assets, liabilities, financial position and the profit or loss and cashflows for the Performance evaluation Company and the Group as a whole for that period.
Financial In 2008 the Board undertook an annual evaluation of its performance statements for the Group are prepared in accordance with International to assess how well the Board, its committees and the directors were Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, the Companies Acts 1985 and performing.
The review included the use of a comprehensive 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulations.
Responses from the questionnaire were collated and subsequently discussed by the Board.
Some of the outcomes achieved In preparing such financial statements the directors are required to: in 2008 following the review included: r Select suitable accounting policies and apply them on a consistent r A continued commitment to site visits and on the non-executive basis using reasonable and prudent judgement directors meeting emerging talent from the business r State whether or not applicable accounting standards have been r Continued improvement of agenda management for Board meetings followed and explain any material departures to ensure that adequate time is made for the debate and exchange r State whether the Group financial statements have been prepared of ideas and in accordance with IFRS and r A programme of regular investment updates for the whole Board, r Use the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to do so.
in addition to continued comprehensive reviews at the Investment Committee.
The directors confirm that they have complied with the above requirements in preparing the financial statements.
The non-executive directors are responsible for the evaluation of the Chairmans performance and take into account the views of the Internal control executive directors in their evaluation.
As part of the ongoing The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups internal control performance evaluation process the Chairman has regular one to one systems and for monitoring effectiveness.
Implementation and meetings with all the non-executive directors.
maintenance of the internal control systems are the responsibility of the executive directors and senior management.
The performance Chairman and Chief Executive Officer CEO of internal control systems is reviewed regularly by the Group Audit The roles of the Chairman and the Group CEO are separate, Committee GAC.
with responsibilities clearly divided between them.
This separation of responsibilities is formalised in role statements which have been The Board reviews annually the effectiveness of the Groups systems approved by the Board.
of internal control in order to safeguard the Groups assets and shareholders investment.
This system includes governance, financial The Chairman is responsible for leading the Board, liaising as necessary controls, the risk management framework and the process to deliver with the Group CEO on developments between Board meetings and regulatory and compliance requirements.
The systems are designed to GOVERNANCE | | Annual Report and Accounts 2008 RSA 47 identify and mitigate, rather than eliminate, the potential risk of failure r To have oversight of internal and external audit functions to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and r To manage the systems of internal controls not absolute assurance against material financial misstatement or loss.
r To review the Groups financial performance Following the review of the internal control systems, the Board r To review all matters relating to the legal integrity of the Group and confirms that the actions it considers necessary to rectify any significant r To provide assurance on the effectiveness of the Groups risk failings or weaknesses identified as a result of the review have been, management.
The GAC has unrestricted access to Company documents and information, The Board, through the GAC, receives reports from the Group Chief as well as to employees of the Company and the external auditors.
Auditor and her team on the integrity of the control environment and also receives reports from the external auditors based upon their audit The GAC meets regularly with internal and external auditors without work.
The GAC also receives reports on the adequacy of the Groups management present.
The partner of the Groups external auditors, who arrangements for ensuring regulatory compliance from the Group Head is responsible for the external audit, attends meetings regularly.
Each year, of Regulatory Risk and Compliance.
The Board, through the Board Risk the GAC considers the performance of the external auditors prior to a Committee BRC, considers reports from risk specialists to the Group, resolution on their reappointment and remuneration at the AGM.
and reviews Group level risk management information.
It is the GACs responsibility to keep the procedures laid out in the Each quarter there is a self certification process completed by business Group whistleblowing policy under review.
This policy deals with managers across the Group to confirm the adequacy of controls and employees who wish to raise serious concerns in good faith, and either their compliance with Company policies, laws, rules and regulations.
do not feel comfortable raising the matter with local management or are not satisfied with the local management response.
They can raise their The Board considers that the current reporting framework delivers concerns with the Group Chief Auditor, who will either investigate or sufficient information to monitor the systems of internal control and arrange for an investigation of the matter.
Employees are offered such to review their effectiveness as required by the Combined Code.
safeguards and support as may be necessary to protect their personal The Board therefore considers that an ongoing process for identifying, integrity and, where possible, identity.
evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group has been in place during 2008 and up to the date of approval of the Annual External auditors Report and Accounts.
This process is regularly reviewed by the Board During the year, Deloitte LLP were, on a number of occasions, engaged and accords with the Turnbull Guidance on the Combined Code.
In order to maintain their independence, such appointments are only made in accordance with a protocol developed by the GAC.
Further detail on the overall risk framework is set out on pages This gives guidance to businesses within the Group on the 30 to 32. appropriateness of engaging the Groups external auditors as advisors and sets down the procedures to be followed to authorise such an Group Audit Committee engagement.
The GAC is satisfied that this protocol has been followed The GAC is chaired by Edward Lea who has been Chairman of the and there are no matters that would compromise the independence Committee since October 2003.
The other members of the Committee of the auditors or affect the performance of their statutory duties.
are Noel Harwerth, John Maxwell and Johanna Waterous, who joined the Committee on her appointment to the Board on 20 May 2008.
The Board has accepted the GACs recommendation that a resolution In 2008, the Committee met five times.
The attendance record of be put to the 2009 AGM for the reappointment of Deloitte LLP as directors in 2008 is shown in the table on page 45.
The Committee is external auditors.
comprised of independent non-executive directors who have recent and relevant financial experience.
The Group CEO, Chief Financial Officer, Key features of the current internal control systems of the Group include: Group Chief Auditor and Group Head of Regulatory Risk and Compliance are regular attendees.
The Chairman and other members of Internal audit executive management are also invited to attend from time to time.
The The Group has an internal audit function, whose activities and outcomes of meetings are reported to the Board and the Board receives effectiveness are monitored and reviewed by the GAC.
The GAC the minutes of all GAC meetings.
is responsible for ensuring that adequate access to information and resource is given to the Group Chief Auditor and for approving the The GACs principal duties are as follows: appointment to, and removal of the holder from, that position.
r To coordinate and have oversight of the Groups financial reporting process r To monitor compliance | | 48 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Corporate governance continued The Board Risk Committee Delegated authorities The BRC, which meets at least quarterly, is currently chaired by George The Group operates a Delegated Authority Policy which specifies how Culmer, Chief Financial Officer.
The BRC also comprises the Group CEO executive authority is delegated from the Board to the Group CEO and other members of executive management.
It is intended that in and on to other executives in the Group.
Individual executive licences 2009 Noel Harwerth will join the Committee and become Chairman set out specific limits of authority in terms of entering into financial, and Malcolm Le May will also join the Committee.
The Committee is underwriting and other business commitments.
Each executive is authorised by the Board under its terms of reference to manage all risks responsible for ensuring a similar process of delegation is in place within faced by the Group.
The Committees principal duties include: his or her area of responsibility.
r Defining the Groups risk appetite prior to approval by the Board by Dialogue with institutional shareholders reference to policies, control limits and other mechanisms The Board attaches considerable importance to its relationships and r Approval of policy and minimum standards that are consistent with communication with shareholders.
Senior management meet principal the risk appetite institutional shareholders on a regular basis and small shareholder groups r Ensuring that risks that are outside the appetite are identified and on request and non-executive directors are available to meet with mitigated in an appropriate manner and institutional shareholders as required.
In addition, investor relations r Overseeing and challenging the Groups risk management processes.
events are held during the year to increase shareholders understanding of the business.
Investment Committee The Investment Committee is chaired by Malcolm Le May and Constructive use of the Annual General Meeting comprises all of the non-executive directors, the Group CEO and the All shareholders are invited to attend the Companys AGM.
The AGM Chief Financial Officer.
The Committee met three times during 2008.
Notice is despatched to shareholders at least 20 working days before Due to the unprecedented activity in the financial markets in 2008 the the meeting and contains separate resolutions on each substantive issue Board also received regular investment updates from the Group including a resolution to adopt the Annual Report and Accounts.
The Committee assists the Board in setting the directors are requested to attend each AGM.
The Chairman and the Groups investment strategy and monitors the execution of that strategy chairmen of the Group Audit, Nomination and Remuneration and the Groups investment performance.
Committees make themselves available to take questions from shareholders at and after the AGM.
Financial control framework In 2006 the Company voluntarily delisted from the New York Stock Any form of proxy sent by the Company to shareholders in relation Exchange and terminated its American Depository Receipt ADR to any general meeting must be delivered to the Company, whether in programme.
In January 2007 the Company suspended its US SEC written form or in electronic form, not less than 48 hours before the registration and its reporting obligations to the SEC also ceased at time for holding the meeting or in the case of a poll taken otherwise that time.
The registration was permanently terminated on than at or on the same day as the meeting, not less than 24 hours before 31 December 2007.
As a result of the SEC deregistration, the the time appointed for the taking of the poll.
Company is no longer required to be compliant with the US Sarbanes Oxley Act 2002.
However, the elements of Sarbanes Oxley At any general meeting every shareholder present shall have one vote compliance which have added value have been carried forward in the on a show of hands, and on a poll every shareholder present in person Groups financial control framework.
or by proxy shall have one vote for each share of which he is the holder.
In the case of an equality of votes, whether on a show of hands or on a Corporate governance framework poll, the chairman of the meeting shall be entitled to a casting vote.
All The Groups corporate governance framework describes and resolutions were put to a poll at the AGM in 2008.
Voting at the AGM prescribes how the Group is directed and managed by setting out the is conducted electronically, with the results being announced to the matters reserved for the Board, the terms of reference of the Board London Stock Exchange and on the Companys website.
and management committees, role statements, policies, systems, procedures and controls.
By order of the Board Mark R Chambers The terms of reference for key committees of the Board explaining their General Counsel and Group Company Secretary role and the authority delegated to them are available on the Companys 25 February 2009 website www.
com or on request from the General Counsel and Group Company Secretary.
