Governance In this section we set out the role of the Report on the Committees activities in 2008 Nominations Nominations Committee, its membership Meetings and attendance Committee report and what it considered during the year.
The Committee, which meets as often as required, met four times during the year.
Role of the Committee Attendance by Committee members at each The Board has delegated to the Committee meeting is set out in the table below: responsibility for reviewing and proposing appointments to the Board and for Maximum recommending any other changes to the possible Meetings attendance attended composition of the Board or the Board Michael Miles 4 4 Committees.
The principal responsibilities of the Committee include: Andrew Beeson 4 4 Luc Bertrand 4 1 Reviewing the composition of the Board and Sir Peter Job 4 3 making recommendations to the Board with Merlyn Lowther 4 4 respect to the role and responsibilities for each George Mallinckrodt 4 4 appointment: Kevin Parry 4 4 Ensuring there is a formal, rigorous and Bruno Schroder 4 4 transparent procedure for the appointment of new Directors: Principal issues addressed during 2008 were:Selecting and interviewing potential candidates for appointment to the Board and its The size and composition of the Board Committees: and the principal Board Committees: and Identifying and recommending suitable The appointment of an additional independent candidates for the roles of Chairman and non-executive Director.
Senior Independent Director: Developing and recommending appropriate The Committee reviewed the size and composition criteria for determining Director independence: of the Board and the three principal Committees, Remuneration, Audit and Nominations.
The Periodically reviewing the terms of appointment Committee applied the principles agreed in 2003 of the non-executive Directors: and and reaffirmed in 2007 that the Board should have Conducting a review of the Committees a balance of executive Directors, independent performance, periodically reviewing the non-executive Directors and Directors who have adequacy of its terms of reference and a connection with the principal shareholder group.
recommending any changes to the Board.
The Committee approved a profile for an The full terms of reference of the Committee are additional independent Director to strengthen available on www.
com or from the financial services experience amongst the nonCompany Secretary.
Following a search process the Committee recommended the appointment The composition of the Committee of Lord Howard in November 2008.
All non-executive Directors are members of the Committee, the current composition of which is: The Committee also reviewed executive representation on the Board and recommended Michael Miles Chairman the appointment of Philip Mallinckrodt to the Andrew Beeson Board in light of his executive responsibilities for Luc Bertrand the Groups Private Banking and Property Lord Howard businesses.
Sir Peter Job Merlyn Lowther In reviewing the composition of the Board, the Bruno Schroder Committee considered in detail the position of Sir Peter Job as an independent Director given Lord Howard joined the Committee on that at the 2009 Annual General Meeting he 20 November 2008 on his appointment would have served for nine years since election.
George Mallinckrodt was a The Committee recommended that Sir Peter member of the Committee until his retirement should be considered to be an independent on 31 December 2008.
Kevin Parry stood down Director in view of his demonstrable independence from the Committee on 17 December 2008 of character and judgement.
The Board supported following the announcement of his appointment the Committees recommendation.
The Chief Executive is usually invited to attend Committee meetings.
Support The Committee received information and support from management during the year to enable it to carry out its duties and responsibilities effectively.
The Committee has the right to appoint external advisers where it believes that to be appropriate.
