In this section we set out the role of the Audit Report on the Committees activities in 2008 Audit Committee Committee, its membership and the matters Meetings and attendance report it considered during the year.
The Committee met four times in 2008 and there was full attendance at all meetings except that Luc Role of the Committee Bertrand was unable to attend one meeting.
50 51 The Board has delegated to the Committee responsibility for overseeing the financial To assist the Committee in fulfilling its role, a number reporting and internal control of the Group and of senior executives are invited to attend for maintaining an appropriate relationship with Committee meetings.
These include the Chief the Companys auditors.
The main role of the Financial Officer, the Heads of Group Compliance, Committee is to encourage and safeguard the Group Risk, Internal Audit and the Group General highest standards of integrity, financial reporting, Counsel.
They provided reports on their areas of risk management and internal control.
The Groups external auditors, this the principal responsibilities of the Committee , are also represented at include: each meeting and presented reports on their activities.
Reviewing the form and content and monitoring the integrity of the Companys and the Groups During the year the Committee met separately financial statements: on two occasions with the Groups external Reviewing and monitoring the arrangements auditors and with the Head of Internal Audit, for ensuring the objectivity and effectiveness without executive management present.
of the external and internal audit functions: This provided an opportunity for the external and internal auditors to raise matters of concern Recommending to the Board the appointment, in confidence.
re-appointment or removal of the external auditors: The Committee has a formal programme of issues Reviewing the adequacy and effectiveness which it covers during the year.
This programme of the Companys internal controls and risk is formulated by the Committee Chairman and management systems: and the Company Secretary and is designed to ensure that all matters that fall within the CommitteesReviewing and monitoring the Companys remit are reviewed at the appropriate time.
ethical standards and procedures for ensuring compliance with regulatory and financial Principal issues considered during 2008 were: reporting requirements and the Groups relationship with the relevant regulatoryThe annual financial statements for 2007 authorities.
and interim financial statements for 2008: The external audit plan for 2008: The Committees terms of reference are available on www.
com or from theGroup Internal Audits plans for 2008 and Company Secretary.
2009 and its quarterly reports on its activities and the control environment: The Composition of the Committee The Groups risk management process, The current members of the Committee are: including key risks facing the Group: Andrew Beeson Chairman The Groups overall governance and risk Luc Bertrand framework: Merlyn Lowther The appropriateness of the accounting policies used in drawing up the Groups financial Kevin Parry was Chairman of the Committee statements: until 17 December 2008 when it was announced The Groups Internal Capital Adequacy that he would become Chief Financial Officer.
Assessment Process as required under the All of the members are independent nonCapital Requirements Directive: executive Directors.
For the purposes of the Combined Code, Kevin Parry, a former partner The external auditors year-end report, in the accountancy firm KPMG LLP, was and interim report and management letters: Merlyn Lowther, former Chief Cashier of the Bank The valuation and pricing of investment assets: of England, is considered by the Board to have recent and relevant financial experience.
Governance The Groups major IT projects: An updated policy was reviewed in 2008 and the Committee was satisfied that the revised policy The governance of investment funds was appropriate.
In 2008 the value of non-audit managed by the Group: services provided by  to The governance of Group subsidiaries: Group companies was 1.5 million.
The range of non-audit services provided included tax and The performance, independence and objectivity compliance advice, reports on internal controls of the external auditors, including a review of and regulatory opinions for regulated subsidiaries non-audit fees: and across the Group.
The performance of Group Internal Audit.
The Groups external auditors are also required Other issues to provide a report to the Audit Committee The Committee received reports and every six months detailing all non-audit services, presentations on various subjects connected including the level of fees charged, and to have principally to the control environment within the their own internal processes to ensure that the Group.
The Committee reviewed the scope and firm, its partners and its staff are independent level of cover provided by the Groups Directors of the Group.
They must also provide and Officers liability insurance and the confirmation of their independence annually.
appropriateness of cover provided by other  has provided insurances, the governance of the Groups such confirmation in respect of 2008. pension arrangements and the governance of outsourced activities.
To support the principles of independence, the auditors have a policy governing the Non-audit services and auditor independence length of time a partner can work on the In 2004 the Committee adopted a policy covering Schroders audit.
In accordance with this policy the provision of non-audit services to the Group  changed the senior by the external auditors.
This enhanced the audit partner in 2006.
The Committee is satisfied governance of the provision of such services and that the external auditors remain independent.
provides a clear and transparent framework to ensure the objectivity and independence of the The Committee considered the re-appointment external auditors.
Under the policy the provision of of  as auditors, taking any service that might lead to a conflict of interest into account the results of the auditor assessment is not permitted unless other possible providers process, the quality of work undertaken and the are themselves conflicted.
In such exceptional level of audit fees.
The Committee concluded cases the Audit Committee must approve each that it was appropriate to recommend the service and approval will only be given where the re-appointment of the auditors and that this Committee is satisfied that appropriate measures recommendation be put to shareholders are in place to manage or mitigate any potential at the 2009 Annual General Meeting.
During 2008 there were no instances where  were Committee evaluation engaged to provide services which might have led The annual evaluation of the Committees to a conflict of interests.
effectiveness was undertaken as part of the overall Board evaluation process.
The specific The policy also has strict rules in relation to the findings relating to the Audit Committee were approval of contracts for non-audit services discussed with the Committee Chairman.
which do not present a possible conflict of interest.
All contracts for non-audit services Support to the Committee must be notified to the Head of Finance and The Committee received information and support contracts valued in excess of 25,000 require from management during the year to enable it to prior approval.
carry out its duties and responsibilities effectively.
The Committee has access to external independent advice at the Companys expense.
