This section of the Annual Report sets out our The composition of the Board Corporate approach to corporate governance in 2008.
In addition to governance report In it you will find information on the Board, how the Chairman, there are five executive Directors it operated, how it delegated its responsibilities, and six non-executive Directors, of which five how the Board Committees discharged their are considered by the Board to be independent.
34 35 responsibilities and how we evaluated the Biographical details of the Directors are set out effectiveness of the Board, the Committees and on pages 28 and 29. the Directors.
It also sets out how we engaged with our shareholders.
The changes to the composition of the Board during the year are set out in the Directors report.
Corporate governance review 2008 This section explains our overall approach The Chairman is Michael Miles.
He is responsible to corporate governance, how we have applied for leading the Board.
His other responsibilities are the principles of the 2006 Combined Code on to ensure the effectiveness of the Board, monitor Corporate Governance the Code, the extent to and evaluate the performance of the Chief which we have complied with the Codes provisions Executive and ensure there is appropriate and an explanation of the one area where we have dialogue with shareholders.
As one of the UKs largest asset managers, corporate governance is very important The Chief Executive is Michael Dobson.
We are committed to business integrity, high responsible for the executive management of ethical values and professionalism in all our the business of the Company and its subsidiaries.
The Board of Schroders plc supports This includes recommending to the Board the the highest standards of corporate governance.
The Board has adopted the Schroders Corporate The Chairman and Chief Executive each have a Governance Guidelines which form the basis for written job description setting out their respective how the Board and its Committees operate, what responsibilities.
Michael Miles job description was is expected of Directors and how they discharge reviewed and updated in 2007.
These Guidelines and the Groups job description was reviewed and updated in 2008. other core governance documents, including the Schedule of Matters Reserved to the Board and the The Senior Independent Director is Sir Peter terms of reference of the principal Board Committees, Job.
He is available to shareholders if they have are available on our website at www.
com concerns which have not or cannot be resolved or from the Company Secretary.
through discussion with the Chairman or the executive Directors.
Sir Peter also chairs meetings The role of the Board of the non-executive Directors at which the The Board is accountable to shareholders for performance of the Chairman is reviewed.
the creation and delivery of strong, sustainable financial performance and long-term shareholder The non-executive Directors considered by the value.
The Board achieves this by taking decisions Board to be independent are Andrew Beeson, on issues, delegating responsibility to Board Luc Bertrand, Sir Peter Job, Merlyn Lowther and Committees and delegating authority to the Chief Lord Howard.
Throughout 2008 none of the Executive.
Certain matters can only be decided by factors implying a lack of independence, as set the Board.
These are contained in the Schedule of out in the Code, applied.
Bruno Schroder is also a Matters Reserved to the Board and include non-executive Director, but does not meet the test consideration and approval of such matters as: of independence in the Code.
However, the Board considers that he brings valuable experience The Groups strategy: to Board deliberations and that at all times he Acquisitions and disposals: acts in the best interests of the Company.
George Mallinckrodt, who retired at the end of the year, Significant new business activities: was also considered not to be independent The Annual Report and Accounts and other under the Code.
Sir Peter Job will cease to be financial statements: independent under the Code at the 2009 Annual General Meeting having served for nine years The annual budget: and since he was first elected to the Board.
The Board The issue and repurchase of the Companys however considers that Sir Peter continues to be shares.
independent in character and judgement, Governance notwithstanding his long service as a Director, andThe strategic development of the Group, that he makes a significant contribution to the including its people strategy: Boards effectiveness.
The Board also considers The Groups financial results: that Sir Peter continues to be well qualified for the The economic situation, the credit crisis role of Senior Independent Director.
The Board and their impact on the Group: is recommending to shareholders the re-election of Sir Peter at the Annual General Meeting.
The budget for 2009: Having served for nine years, Sir Peter will stand The level of dividend: for re-election annually until he steps down from the Board.
The Groups capital: Our businesses in Asia, Europe and Time commitment The Board is satisfied that the the Americas: Chairman and each of the non-executive Directors committed sufficient time during 2008 to theOur key business areas including Equities, fulfilment of their duties as Directors of the Company.
Fixed Income, Distribution, Alternatives and Private Banking: External non-executive directorships The Board The Groups corporate responsibility and believes in the benefit of executive Directors charitable giving policies: and other employees accepting non-executive directorships of other companies in order to widenAcquisitions: and their skills and knowledge for the benefit of the Regulatory and governance issues.
The Board has adopted a policy on external appointments which is designed to ensure Attendance at the Board meetings is set out in the that employees remain able to discharge their table below: responsibilities to the Group.
Under the policy, executive Directors should normally not take on Maximum more than one non-executive directorship of a possible Meetings major company or any chairmanship of such a attendance attended company.
Directors and employees are usually Michael Miles 7 7 permitted to retain any fees paid in respect of Andrew Beeson 7 7 such appointments.
Luc Bertrand 7 5 Alan Brown 7 6 To avoid potential conflicts of interest, nonMichael Dobson 7 7 executive Directors are expected to inform Lord Howard 2 2 the Chairman before taking up any external appointments.
Sir Peter Job 7 6 Merlyn Lowther 7 7 Board meetings The Board held seven meetings George Mallinckrodt 7 7 during 2008, including a two-day off-site meeting Kevin Parry 7 6 at which the Groups strategy was reviewed.
The Bruno Schroder 7 7 Board has a two-year rolling plan of items for Massimo Tosato 7 7 discussion, agreed between the Chairman and Jonathan Asquith 2 2 the Chief Executive.
This plan is reviewed and adapted regularly to ensure that all of the matters reserved to the Board, as well as other key issues, Information provided to the Board Before each are discussed at the appropriate time.
At each Board meeting Directors received comprehensive Board meeting in 2008 the Chief Executive papers and reports on the issues to be discussed.
provided a review of the business and how it was Senior executives below Board level also attended performing and the Chief Financial Officer meetings to make presentations on their areas of provided a detailed review of the Groups financial responsibility.
This gave the Board the opportunity position.
The range of subjects discussed by the to have direct access to a broader group of Board included: executives.
In addition to Board papers, Directors were provided with relevant information between meetings.
This included information on management changes, analysts commentaries on the Company, and information on our competitors and the asset management industry generally.
Directors were also sent copies of the minutes of the Group Management Committee meetings.
In order to keep the Board informed of wider Conflicts of interest In light of changes to the Corporate developments within the business and on general law resulting from the implementation of the governance report issues affecting their role as Directors, specific Companies Act 2006, the Board approved a briefing sessions were held outside of Board policy on conflicts of interest.
These were open to all Directors.
Directors are required to disclose all actual and 36 37 One of the principal objectives was to ensure potential conflicts.
The Board reviewed the that there was consistency of knowledge on the existing actual and potential conflicts of each issues considered.
The Board held two briefing Director as disclosed by them and approved sessions in 2008 and the topics covered product those conflicts.
The Board may impose profitability and the Groups initiatives in respect of restrictions if these are deemed necessary.
We shall be continuing A register of conflicts is maintained and will with these briefings in 2009. be reviewed at least annually.
Induction All new Directors undertake an induction Chairmans Committee Meetings of the Chairman programme on joining the Board.
The aim of and non-executive Directors, usually without the this programme is to introduce new Directors executive Directors present, are held prior to most to the Groups business, its operations and scheduled Board meetings.
Four such meetings its governance arrangements.
The induction were held in 2008 and matters discussed programme includes meetings with senior included the evaluation of the Board, the management, visits to offices, presentations on performance of the Chairman and the Chief key business areas and relevant documentation.
Executive, senior management succession and The Board receives presentations on business investment performance.
The Chief Executive and functional areas, new business and strategic attended three meetings at the invitation of the developments, changes to the regulatory Chairman.
environment and the impact of specific issues.
Delegated authorities The Board has a formal Support to the Board The Board Secretary schedule of matters reserved to it, subject to is responsible for advising and supporting which authority to manage the business is the Chairman and the Board on corporate delegated to the Chief Executive.
He in turn governance matters.
Directors have access delegates authority to the senior executive team through the Board Secretary to independent which meets as the Group Management professional advice at the Companys expense.
This is chaired by the Chief Executive and generally meets twice each month to oversee Insurance and indemnities The Company the management of the Groups business.
maintains appropriate Directors and Officers liability insurance.
The current members and their areas of responsibility are set out below: At the 2007 Annual General Meeting, shareholders authorised the Company to provide indemnities Michael Dobson Chief Executive to Directors in certain circumstances and to Alan Brown Chief Investment Officer fund Directors defence costs.
The Company Jamie Dorrien-Smith Head of Americas subsequently granted specific deeds of indemnity Lester Gray Head of Asia Pacific to each of the Directors including the Directors Ken Lambden Head of Equities appointed since the 2007 Annual General Meeting.
Philip Mallinckrodt Head of Private Banking Kevin Parry Chief Financial Officer Markus Ruetimann Chief Operating Officer Massimo Tosato Vice Chairman and Head of Distribution John Troiano Head of Global Institutional Business Howard Trust Group General Counsel Governance The Board delegates certain of its responsibilities The Board as a whole is responsible for ensuring to its Remuneration Committee, Nominations that dialogue with shareholders takes place.
Reports During the year the Chief Executive, the Chief on the Committees activities during the year Financial Officer and other senior executives together with summaries of the terms of reference conducted a series of meetings with and of these Committees are set out in the subsequent presentations to institutional investors, analysts sections of this corporate governance report.
and prospective shareholders to review the The Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Groups strategy and prospects and to discuss Nominations Committees reported to the Board corporate governance matters.
Over 100 such on the matters considered, and any significant meetings were held in 2008.
The Chairman is also issues that had arisen, at the next Board meeting available to meet institutional shareholders, as is after the Committees had met.
Directors receive the Senior Independent Director.
Feedback from copies of the minutes of Committee meetings.
shareholders is available to the Board from the Chairman, the Chief Executive and the Chief Board effectiveness Financial Officer.
Evaluation The Board, led by the Chairman, reviewed the effectiveness of the Board and The Annual General Meeting provides shareholders the principal Board Committees.
The Board with an opportunity to question the Chairman considered alternative evaluation methods and and other Directors, including the Chairmen of the agreed that internal evaluation, using a Schroders Remuneration and Audit Committees.
The Chief specific questionnaire complemented by interviews Executive provided shareholders at the meeting between the Chairman and individual Directors in April 2008 with a review of the Groups business where required, was appropriate.
The performance in 2007 and an update on our results for the first of the Board Committees and individual Directors quarter of 2008. was considered as part of this evaluation process.
The responses to the questionnaires were analysed The Annual Report and Accounts and the notice and discussed with the Chairman.
A report was of meeting are sent to shareholders at least 20 prepared on the findings of the evaluation process working days prior to the date of the Annual and this was considered by the whole Board at its General Meeting.
Compliance with code provisions The performance of the Chief Executive was The Company complied with all of the provisions considered by the Chairmans Committee against of section 1 of the Code throughout the year his objectives for the year which had been agreed except for one.
Less than half of the Board with the Chairman.
The outcome was discussed excluding the Chairman comprised independent by the Chairman with the Chief Executive.
Bruno Schroder is a representative of the principal shareholder group A meeting of the Chairmans Committee, led by and the Board considers that it is appropriate for Sir Peter Job in his role as Senior Independent this group to be represented on the Board.
Director, also assessed the performance of the Chairman with input from the whole Board.
Sir Michael Miles Peter discussed with the Chairman the outcome Chairman of this review.
9 March 2009 Shareholder relations Ongoing communication across the Companys shareholder base, including institutional investors and private and employee shareholders, is achieved mainly through the publication of the annual and interim reports and quarterly trading updates, the announcement of significant developments affecting the Group and the Annual General Meeting.
Corporate and investor information, including webcasts of the presentations of the interim and final results made by the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer, can be found at www.
