Section 04 Governance 45 Carillion plc Governance Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Corporate Governance report General principles This policy is carried into Carillions business through a series The Board is firmly committed to high standards of corporate of detailed procedures.
They allow Carillion to carry into practice governance.
During the year to 31 December 2008 and as its reputation for conducting business to the highest ethical detailed below and in the Remuneration report, the Company standard which is essential to its relationships with customers, complied with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the business partners, employees, shareholders and the public.
Combined Code on Corporate Governance June 2006 except The detailed procedures reflect the way Carillion competes for in respect of Board balance Combined Code principle A.
3.2. business, through the quality and value of its work and through The reason for non-compliance in this matter is explained below.
the reliability and reputation of its people.
Ethics and Business Integrity Policy The Ethics and Business Integrity Policy and its implementation Carillion has a clear and unequivocal approach to business is reviewed annually by the Board.
integrity and ethics which underlies the Carillion values of openness, collaboration, mutual dependency, sustainable, Directors profitable growth, professional delivery and innovation.
The Board The Ethics and Business Integrity Policy demonstrates how With effect from 1 January 2008, the Company is led by a Carillion will conduct its business to the highest ethical standards.
Board comprising five Executive and five Non-Executive Directors.
The Chairman and each of the Non-Executive Directors are The policy applies to all employees of any Carillion group considered to be independent of management.
The way Carillion delivers this policy is and will be have wide areas of experience and have no business or other reflected in the way the Group competes for business, through relationship that could materially interfere with their independent the quality and value of its work and through the reliability judgement.
David Garman is the Senior Independent Nonand reputation of its employees.
The policy is Until 1 January 2008, the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors comprised more than half of the Board.
However, given the business integrity: we do not give or accept bribes.
We do increase in the size and complexity of the business due to not sanction or accept any illegal payments, allowances, or acquisition, the Board resolved that additional executive gifts-in-kind.
We will investigate fully all alleged breaches.
representation on the Board was required.
However, Roger We will dismiss any employee who has breached this policy Robinson has decided to retire as a Director at the Annual mutual respect: we do what we say we will do.
We treat General Meeting on 6 May 2009.
The Company will then once our people fairly and with respect at all times, avoiding more be fully compliant with the provisions set out in Section 1 discrimination and bullying.
We provide a safe and healthy of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
working environment, and respect sustainable principles in all our dealings In accordance with the Combined Code, the Executive Directors trust: we engender trust within our work groups and service contracts are terminable by one years notice.
companies, respecting diverse traditions and cultures.
We respect the trust placed in us by others, not least when we A detailed internal evaluation of the Boards corporate are asked to take responsibility for aspects of their business governance procedures and compliance was again conducted or resources.
We maintain and demand high professional in 2008 by the Chairman in conjunction with the Company standards and demand honesty and openness.
The internal evaluation took into account the views conflicts of interest wherever possible, and we proactively of each of the Directors on i the role of Directors, ii the declare any unavoidable conflicts for open scrutiny and performance of the Board, the Chairman and the Non-Executive resolution Directors, iii Board committees, iv leadership and culture, legality: we respect the rule of law in all our dealings.
v corporate governance vi Directors remuneration, We clearly communicate procedures for disciplining those vii relations with shareholders and viii Board accountability who do not comply with the law or our standards and and audit.
The Board at its meeting in November 2008 reviewed policies.
We maintain a system for confidential reporting the results of the internal evaluation and, where required, issues of breaches of our standards and policies were acted upon in order to further enhance the effectiveness human rights: we support the belief that human rights are of the Boards procedures and working practices.
universal and adhere to the principles of human rights in our operations.
We support the United Nations Universal This is the seventh year that this process has taken place and Declaration on Human Rights.
will be repeated annually as the Board considers it satisfactory.
In addition, reviews of the performance of each of the Directors has taken place.
46 Carillion plc Governance Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Corporate Governance report continued The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the All Directors have access to the Company Secretary, who is Group Chief Executive as adopted by the Board, encompasses responsible to the Board for ensuring that agreed procedures and the following parameters applicable rules and regulations are observed.
The Board approves the appointment and removal of the Company Secretary.
the primary job of the Chairman of a public company is to provide continuity, experience and governance while the Any Director may, in furtherance of his or her duties, take Group Chief Executive provides leadership, energy, independent professional advice when necessary, at the expense imagination and the driving force of the Company.
the Chairman is viewed by investors as the ultimate steward of the business and the guardian of the interests of all the The Board is provided with regular and timely information on shareholders.
Nonetheless, it is essential that the outline of the financial performance of businesses within the Group, and their respective roles encourages the Chairman and Group of the Group as a whole, together with reports on trading Chief Executive to work well together to provide effective matters, markets, sustainability and other relevant issues.
and complementary stewardship the Chairman must: Board Committees take overall responsibility for the composition and capability The principal Board Committees are the Remuneration of the Board Committee, the Audit Committee and the Nominations consult regularly with the Group Chief Executive and be Committee.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to each available on a flexible basis for providing advice, counsel of these committees.
The terms of reference of each of the and support to the Group Chief Executive.
Board Committees are available on the Carillion website at the Group Chief Executive must: www.
com or on request from the Company Secretary.
manage the Executive Directors and the Groups day to day activities The membership of each of the principal committees is as follows: prepare and present to the Board strategic options for growth in shareholder value Remuneration Committee set the operating plans and budgets required to deliver David Garman, Chairman the agreed strategy David Maloney ensure that the Group has in place appropriate risk Steve Mogford management and control mechanisms.
Vanda Murray The Board had a programme of eight meetings in 2008 and The Committee consists entirely of independent Non-Executive also meets on an ad hoc basis as required.
Directors and has a key role in reviewing and advising the Board on the appropriate remuneration for the Executive Directors of A formal schedule of matters reserved to the Board for Carillion plc.
Further details on remuneration issues are given on consideration and decision is maintained.
These matters include pages 51 to 58. statutory matters such as the approval of final and interim Audit Committee financial statements and the recommendation of dividends David Maloney, Chairman appointments to, and removals from, the Board and the David Garman terms of reference and membership of Board committees Steve Mogford approval of Group strategy and annual budgets Vanda Murray approval of authority levels, financial and treasury policies authorisation for any acquisition or disposal This Committee consists entirely of independent Non-Executive review of the internal control arrangements and risk Directors.
For further information see the Report of the Audit management strategies Committee on pages 48 to 49. review of corporate governance arrangements.
The Executive Directors and the Carillion subsidiary companies operate within clearly defined limits of authority delegated by the Board and any matters outside of these limits must be referred to the Board for consideration.
Section 04 Governance 47 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Nominations Committee Nomination and remuneration of Directors Philip Rogerson, Chairman The appointment of a Director is a matter for resolution by David Garman the Board as a whole, taking advice from the Nominations David Maloney Committee.
John McDonough Steve Mogford For Board appointments, the Nominations Committee uses Vanda Murray the services of the recruitment consultants JCA and Odgers.
Details of potential candidates are provided by the consultants The Committee reviews the structure, size, composition, balance and initially reviewed by a sub-committee of the Nominations of skills, knowledge and experience of the Board and makes Committee.
Meetings with selected candidates are then held recommendations to the Board with regard to any changes that with Directors.
Subsequently, the Nominations Committee meets are deemed desirable.
The Committee also reviews succession to recommend an appointment, which is then proposed to the planning to ensure that processes and plans are in place with Board for approval.
regard to both Board and senior appointments.
In the case of Non-Executive Directors, initial appointments are Attendance at meetings in 2008 normally for three years: re-appointment is subject to review and The number of full scheduled Board and Committee meetings is not automatic.
attended by each Director during 2008 was as follows: The fees of Non-Executive Directors are determined by the Board as a whole, taking into account the commitment required and Audit Remuneration Nominations Board Committee Committee Committee participation in the work of committees and other advisory services in relation to the business of the Group.
In advising the Number of Board on such fees, it is the policy of the Executive Directors to meetings held 84 2 2 seek independent external advice concerning the appropriateness Richard Adam 8 of the amounts by comparison with general practice.
The level of David Garman 8 4 2 2 fees currently payable to the Non-Executive Directors is based on David Hurcomb 8 independent external advice.
Donald Kenny 8 The remuneration of the Directors is dealt with in the David Maloney 8 4 2 1 Remuneration report on pages 51 to 58.
John McDonough 8 1 Steve Mogford 7 4 2 2 Retirement of Directors by rotation Vanda Murray 8 4 2 2 All Directors are required to submit themselves for re-election Roger Robinson 8 at least every three years.
The Directors retiring and seeking re-election at the Annual General Meeting to be held on Philip Rogerson 8 2 6 May 2009 are David Maloney and Vanda Murray.
Other Board matters Additionally, new Directors are subject to election by shareholders Policy on external appointments at the first opportunity following their appointment.
Recognising that external appointments can broaden their knowledge and so be of benefit to the Company, Executive The service contracts of the Executive Directors and the terms Directors are permitted, at the discretion of the Board, to accept a and conditions of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors limited number of such appointments and retain the fees received are available for inspection at the registered office of the for such appointments.
John McDonough is a Non-Executive Company during normal business hours on any weekday Director of Tomkins plc and Richard Adam is a Non-Executive bank holidays excepted and at the Annual General Meeting.
Director of SSL International plc.
Roger Robinson will be retiring at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 6 May 2009 and will therefore not be seeking re-election.
48 Carillion plc Governance Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Corporate Governance report continued Induction and development of Directors David Garman was appointed to the Audit Committee in Directors are provided with a comprehensive information pack October 2004.
Until its takeover in 2008, David was Chief on joining the Company and are advised of their legal and Executive of TDG plc.
other duties and obligations as a director of a listed company.
In addition, all new Directors receive induction on their Vanda Murray is Non-Executive Chairman of Eazyfone Group appointment covering such matters as the operation and and Deputy Chairman of the North West Development Agency.
activities of the Group, the role of the Board and the Companys Vanda was appointed to the Audit Committee in July 2005. corporate governance procedures.
Directors are also briefed by the Companys external advisors, where appropriate, on Steve Mogford is Chief Executive of Selex Sensors and Airborne changes to legislation or regulation or market practice as well Systems SpA and was appointed to the Audit Committee in as receiving briefings from business groups throughout the year.
At least once a year, the Board visits an operational site and in Appointments to the Committee are made by the Board.
November 2008 the Directors visited the Groups operations in Dubai.
Directors also visit other operations and staff.
The Audit Committee has in attendance at meetings, by invitation of the Committee, Executive Directors, representatives The regular updating of Directors skills and knowledge is of the external auditors KPMG Audit Plc, the Group Head encouraged and a procedure has been established whereby the of Risk and the Head of Internal Audit.
It is also able to invite Company Secretary is notified by Directors of their requirements others as it requires from time to time.
The Committee also in this respect.
meets privately with both the external and internal auditors.
Relations with shareholders The responsibilities of the Audit Committee include In addition to communicating with shareholders generally from time to time, the Executive Directors and the Director of Group the review of the annual and interim financial statements Corporate Affairs meet regularly with representatives of major consideration of the impact of changes to accounting shareholders in order to foster the mutual understanding of regulations and the financial and accounting policies of the objectives.
The details of these meetings are reported to the Carillion Group Board.
The Chairman and Senior Independent Non-Executive compliance with statutory and other external requirements Director are available for meetings with representatives of major reviewing the systems of internal control including financial, shareholders as required.
operational compliance and risk management reviewing the role of the internal audit function and the Private and institutional shareholders are encouraged to attend results and effectiveness of its audit work and the response the Companys Annual General Meeting.
of management reviewing the scope and results of the external audit and The Company complies fully with the provisions of the its cost-effectiveness Combined Code in respect of the notice, content of agenda ensuring that the internal and external audit functions and conduct of its Annual General Meetings.
The Chairmen are complementary of the Remuneration and Audit Committees will be present at monitoring the independence and objectivity of the external the Annual General Meeting on 6 May 2009 to respond to auditors and ensuring that the services provided including shareholders questions.
non-audit services provide a proper balance between objectivity and value for money Accountability and Audit recommending to the Board the external auditors to be Report of the Audit Committee proposed to shareholders for appointment.
The Audit Committee consists entirely of independent NonExecutive Directors: The Committee is authorised by the Board to i seek any information necessary to fulfil its duties, ii call any member of David Maloney, Chairman staff to be questioned at a meeting of the Committee as and David Garman when required and iii obtain external professional advice, at Steve Mogford the Companys expense, which might be necessary for the Vanda Murray fulfilment of its duties.
David Maloney is an accountant who previously held a number of senior finance posts including Chief Financial Officer for Le Meridien Hotels and Resorts Limited, Chief Financial Officer for the Thomson Travel Group Holdings plc and Group Finance Director of Avis Europe plc.
David was appointed to the Audit Committee in December 2005.
Section 04 Governance 49 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 In 2008, the Committee met on four occasions and dealt with Assurance over the design and operation of internal controls the following matters across the Group is provided through a combination of the following techniques internal audit reports including control of risk annual and interim financial statements Internal Audit carries out audits to assess the adequacy and KPMG audit review effectiveness of internal controls over the key risks faced by the reappointment of KPMG business and reports its findings to management, the Executive 2008 audit plan Directors and the Audit Committee.
The Audit Plan is internal audit review presented to and approved by the Audit Committee annually assessment of the going concern basis recommendations to improve the system of control are made review of compliance with the Combined Code by Internal Audit.
The implementation of these the external audit fee.
recommendations is followed up and reported on quarterly Internal Audit independently reviews the risk identification The members of the Committee receive fees as Non-Executive procedures and control processes implemented by Directors which also reflect their membership of the Audit management Committee and other Board committees.
a process of Control Risk Self-Assessment is used in the Group where Directors and senior managers are required to detail and Main activities of the Audit Committee in the year certify controls in operation to ensure the control environment to 31 December 2008 in their business areas is appropriate.
They also confirm Financial statements annually, in writing, that risk management processes and The Audit Committee reviews and discusses with management appropriate controls are in place and are operating effectively and the external auditors the annual and interim statements.
Internal Audit advises on aspects of the design and In this context, the Committee also reviews the written reports application of internal controls in key business projects and of KPMG on issues arising from the annual audit and the review on policy and procedure changes.
Internal Audit reports to the Audit Committee on a regular basis.
Internal controls The Audit Committee reviews the assurance procedures and The Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups system of ensures that the level of confidence required by the Board is internal control.
This responsibility includes clearly determining obtained.
It also ensures the financial reporting process is the control environment and reviewing annually the effectiveness credible and reliable.
The Audit Committee presents its findings of the internal control system.
However, such a system can to the Board regularly and the Head of Internal Audit has direct provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against access to the Audit Committee members.
Any significant internal control issues would be disclosed in In accordance with the Turnbull Guidance for Directors Internal this report.
Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code, the Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, Risk management evaluating and managing the significant risks both financial The Group Head of Risk is responsible for advising on strategic and non-financial and including Corporate Social Responsibility risk issues across the Group, and for oversight of risk training.
risks faced by the Group including joint ventures and overseas The Group Head of Risk is also responsible for carrying out an businesses.
The process has been in place for the year under independent appraisal of all projects before submission to the review and up to the date of approval of the annual report and Major Projects Committee see page 50.
This appraisal ensures accounts and is regularly reviewed by the Board.
that the differentiating factors of the Groups offer have been properly identified so maximising the opportunities available: it also involves ensuring that all inherent and residual risks associated with the project have been properly identified and considered.
In addition, the Risk Forum, a committee of risk professionals from each of the business groups, meets on a quarterly basis to assess the strategic risks facing the Carillion Group.
The conclusions of the Risk Forum are reported to the Board.
50 Carillion plc Governance Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Corporate Governance report continued The Major Projects Committee, a committee of the Board, acts The overall performance of the auditor is reviewed annually as the sanctioning body for major commitments and transactions by the Audit Committee, taking into account the views of including capital expenditure, major contracts and company and management, and feedback is provided to senior members business acquisitions and disposals.
This committee has delegated of KPMG unrelated to the audit.
This activity also forms part of authority up to specified levels of risk as determined by a risk KPMGs own system of quality control.
The Audit Committee assessment matrix, beyond which Board approval is required.
also has discussions with the auditor, without management being present, on the adequacy of controls and on any judgmental Practical guidance for all staff is maintained in Group policy areas.
These discussions have proved satisfactory to date.
and procedure documents regarding the authorisation levels for commitments, contract selectivity and bidding, the provision of The scope of the forthcoming years audit is discussed in guarantees and management accounting as well as reporting advance by the Audit Committee.
Audit fees are reviewed by and resolution of suspected fraudulent activities.
The Board has the Audit Committee after discussions between the businesses a policy to prosecute individuals found to have defrauded the and the local KPMG offices and are then referred to the Board Company or its subsidiaries.
Learning points for management for approval.
Rotation of audit directors responsibilities within are identified and action plans implemented to minimise the KPMG is required by their professions ethical standards.
current audit director responsible for the Carillion engagement is in his fourth year of signing the report.
There is also rotation Employees are encouraged to raise genuine concerns about of key members within the audit team.
malpractice at the earliest possible stage and a confidential whistleblowing hotline provided by an independent third Assignments awarded to KPMG and its associates have been party is available.
and are subject to controls by management that have been agreed by the Audit Committee so that audit independence Management is responsible for the identification and evaluation is not compromised.
In summary, the procedures are of significant risks applicable to its areas of business together with the design, operation and monitoring of suitable internal audit related services: as auditor this is the main area of work controls.
These risks are assessed on a continual basis and may of KPMG and its associates.
If any additional accounting be associated with a variety of internal or external sources, support is required then this is considered competitively including control breakdowns, disruption in information systems, tax consulting: in cases where they are best suited, Carillion competition, corporate social responsibility, natural catastrophe uses KPMG and its associates but the Group also uses and regulatory requirements.
Management is also responsible other tax consultancies.
Significant pieces of tax work are for timely and accurate reporting of business performance and evaluated competitively for ensuring compliance with the policies set by the Board in general and systems consulting: all significant consulting its areas of business.
Regular performance review meetings projects when permissable are subject to competitive tender.
are held where management reports to the Executive Directors on business performance, risk and internal control matters.
Other than audit, the Group Finance Director is required to give The results of these meetings are presented to the Board.
prior approval of work carried out by KPMG and its associates in excess of a predetermined threshold: part of this review is The Executive Directors report to the Board on material to determine that other potential providers of the services have changes in the business and the external environment that been adequately considered.
The Group Finance Director provides the Board with regular financial information, which includes With regard to the provision of non-audit services, relevant key performance indicators and a summary of risk.
These ethical guidance is taken into account.
key performance indicators and risks are listed in the Group Chief Executives review on pages 16 to 21.
Where areas The proceedings of the Audit Committee are reported to the for improvement are identified, the Board considers the Board, identifying any matters in respect of which action or recommendations made both by the Executive Directors improvement is required.
and by the Audit Committee.
These controls provide the Audit Committee with adequate This report is reviewed and approved by the Audit Committee.
confidence in the independence of KPMG in their reporting on the audit of the Group.
Audit independence The Audit Committee and Board place great emphasis on the Health and safety objectivity of the Groups auditor, KPMG Audit Plc, in their A review of the Groups progress on health and safety is provided reporting to shareholders.
in the Group Chief Executives review on pages 16 to 21 and the Groups Sustainability performance is contained in the The KPMG audit director and manager are present at Audit Sustainability review on pages 35 to 37.
Committee meetings to ensure full communication of matters relating to the audit.
