214443 Report & Accounts 2008 FRONT SEC:214443 Report & Accounts 2008 FRONT SEC 12 3 09 01:16 Page 55 Corporate Governance Report continued Activities During the year, the Committee received regular management reports from senior executives on risk identification and mitigation within their areas of the business.
These included an update from the Group Legal Director on risk mitigation in relation to professional indemnity insurance for St. Jamess Place Partners, an update from management on risk mitigation in training and competence across the business, a review of the business plan for the year ahead and a report from an independent consultancy on the risk management function.
The Committee reviewed and approved the risks identified on the Emerging, Topical and Corporate Risk Schedules as well as the annual Risk Appetite Statement and Internal Audit plan.
The Committee also reviewed St. Jamess Place UK plcs Individual Capital Assessment.
The annual Money Laundering Reporting Officers report was presented to and reviewed by the Committee.
The report included an examination of the governance framework, operation of systems and controls and training requirements in respect of anti-money laundering activities within the Company.
Where appropriate the Committee made suggestions and the report and procedures were duly updated.
One meeting during the year was devoted to the consideration of the implications for clients affected by AIGs decision to close the Enhanced Fund of AIGs Premier Access Bond.
The Committee played a valuable role in considering and influencing the Companys response to clients on this issue.
Internal Control The Directors of St. Jamess Place plc retain responsibility for the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control including, financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management.
The Audit and Risk Committees of the Board along with appropriately structured, staffed and qualified Internal Audit, Risk Management and Compliance functions support the Directors in the discharge of these responsibilities and oversee their outcome.
The Group has fully complied with provision C. 2.1 of the Combined Code throughout the financial year and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
In accordance with the Turnbull Guidance on Internal Control, the Directors and senior managers of the Group are committed to maintaining a strong control culture within all business areas and have processes for evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
Adherence to regulatory codes of conduct is required at all times and the Board actively promotes a culture of quality and integrity.
In addition to these ongoing procedures, the Audit Committee conducts an annual review that considers the effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal control including financial, operational, compliance and other risk management systems.
The review also includes the nature and scope of the ongoing monitoring processes, including the effectiveness of the Internal Audit function, and the potential impact on these processes as a result of any changes during the year to the risks that the Group faces.
St. Jamess Place utilises a number of outsourced service providers to provide administration services to the Company.
These services are detailed in formal contracts and their delivery is monitored by dedicated relationship managers against documented Service Level Agreements and Key Performance Indicators.
Each year the outsourced service providers are required to confirm and evidence the adequacy and effectiveness of their internal control framework as assessed against the requirements of the COSO Internal Control Integrated Framework and to confirm that no material control issues have been identified in their operations over the course of the year that would require notification to St. Jamess Place.
55 St. Jamess Place plc Report & Accounts 2008
