214443 Report & Accounts 2008 FRONT SEC:214443 Report & Accounts 2008 FRONT SEC 12 3 09 01:16 Page 54 Corporate Governance Report continued the Accounts on page 99.
The Committee held a private meeting with the external auditor during the year independently of management to review key issues and responsibilities.
Other activities undertaken by the Committee during the year include consideration of the Internal Audit function audit plan.
This included reviewing the Companys system of internal financial controls and discussing key findings in relation to the timeliness of managements response and subsequent resolution of any issues.
Committee members received updates from the chair of the Risk Committee on developments at Risk Committee meetings.
Committee members also considered and discussed risks identified on the Emerging, Topical & Corporate risk schedules.
The chairman of the Audit Committee is the point of contact for employees making disclosures under the Public Interest Disclosure Act 1998 or whistle-blowing policy.
The policy determines that the chairman of the Audit Committee receive, in confidence, complaints in relation to breaches or proposed breaches of the Companys rules, policies or procedures.
The Committee reviewed the policy during the year.
The Committee received and considered the Individual Capital Assessment report of the life company, St Jamess Place UK plc SJPUK.
SJPUK is required by the regulator to maintain a capital assessment for regulatory purposes and one of the responsibilities of the Committee is to review and consider the report.
Risk Committee The members of the Committee who held office during the year and at the date of this report are: Mike Power Chairman Sarah Bates Roger Walsom All members of the Committee are independent non-executive Directors who have considerable financial risk based experience.
Biographies for each Director can be found on pages 38 to 40.
Attendees at meetings during the year included the Chief Executive, the Sales Director and the Risk Director.
Members of the Internal Audit and Risk Management teams also attended meetings, as did an HBOS representative.
Duties The responsibilities of the Committee include fostering a culture of effective risk identification and management and reviewing material and emerging risks affecting the Company.
The Committee can call for reports from management on how material risks are being managed and annually reviews the procedures for the identification, recording and mitigating of material risks and where necessary makes recommendations for changes in risk related practices and procedures.
The Risk Appetite Statement and risk policies are reviewed and all material areas of concern or weakness reported to the Audit Committee and the Board.
The terms of reference that set out the Committees role and authority can be found on the corporate website.
54 St. Jamess Place plc Report & Accounts 2008
