214443 Report & Accounts 2008 FRONT SEC:214443 Report & Accounts 2008 FRONT SEC 12 3 09 01:16 Page 53 Corporate Governance Report continued Audit Committee The members of the Committee who held office during the year and at the date of this report are: Derek Netherton Chairman Mike Power Michael Sorkin All members of the Audit Committee are independent non-executive Directors who have considerable financial experience.
Biographies for each Director can be found on pages 38 to 40.
Attendees at meetings during the year included the Finance Director, the Risk Director, members of the Internal Audit and Risk Management teams and members of the KPMG audit team.
Steve Colsell also attended meetings as the representative of HBOS plc.
Duties The Committee is responsible for reviewing the Companys internal and external audit resource and examining any matters that relate to the financial affairs of the Company.
This includes advising the Board on the Companys interim and annual financial statements, its accounting policies and compliance with accounting standards.
The Committee also assists the Board to ensure that the financial and non-financial information supplied to shareholders provides a balanced assessment of the Companys position.
Other duties include maintaining an appropriate relationship with the Companys external auditors, reviewing the nature and scope of the work performed by them and the results of their work and the response to management.
The terms of reference that set out the Committees role and authority can be found on the corporate website.
Activities During the year, a formal review of the draft interim and annual reports and associated announcements was undertaken.
These reviews considered the accounting principles, policies and practices adopted in the Companys financial statements and proposed changes where necessary.
The Committee also considered significant accounting issues and areas of judgement as well as contingent liabilities and potential tax obligations and contingencies affecting the Company.
The Committee considered the appropriateness and independence of the external auditor and the services provided by them.
Areas considered by the Committee in relation to the external auditors included: The terms, areas of responsibility, associated duties and scope of the audit as set out in the external auditors engagement letter: The overall work plan for the year ahead: The external auditors fees: Issues that arose during the course of the audit and their resolution: Key accounting and audit judgements: and Recommendations made by the external auditors in their management letters and the adequacy of managements response.
In order to maintain the external auditors independence and objectivity, the Committee has established a financial limit of 100,000 in fees for non-audit related advice and consultancy work by the external audit firm.
Details of the amount paid to the external auditors during the year for audit and non-audit related services are set out in the Notes to 53 St. Jamess Place plc Report & Accounts 2008
