214443 Report & Accounts 2008 FRONT SEC:214443 Report & Accounts 2008 FRONT SEC 12 3 09 01:16 Page 46 Corporate Governance Report This report explains the approach the Company has taken to apply the principles and provisions set out in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
The Financial Services Authority requires listed companies to disclose, in relation to section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Combined Code how they have applied its principles and whether they have complied with its provisions throughout the accounting year.
St. Jamess Place is committed to high standards of Corporate Governance and supports the principles set out in the Combined Code.
The Board considers that the Company has achieved compliance with all the provisions of the Combined Code throughout the financial year except in respect of provision A.
The Board currently comprises an executive Chairman, four executive Directors, five independent non-executive Directors and two non-independent non-executive Directors appointed by the Companys largest shareholder Lloyds Banking Group plc.
During the year, Simon Gulliford resigned as an independent non-executive Director resulting in the Company no longer being able to comply with provision A.
Since the resignation of Simon Gulliford from the Board in February 2008, the Nominations Committee of the Board has been seeking to identify candidates to enable the Board to appoint an independent non-executive Director to replace Simon Gulliford.
A job specification was prepared and a firm of recruitment consultants with experience of recruiting non-executive candidates was appointed.
Several candidates have been identified and interviewed as part of the process but, to date, the Nominations Committee have not identified a candidate who they feel is suitable to recommend to the Board as an additional independent non-executive Director.
In addition, the search for suitable candidates was affected in 2008 by the uncertainty caused by the doubts surrounding the financial strength of the Companys major shareholder, HBOS plc, and more recently the acquisition of HBOS plc by Lloyds TSB to form the Lloyds Banking Group and the impact this might have on the 60% shareholding in the Company.
Now that the acquisition has been completed, the Nominations Committee is more confident that a suitable independent non-executive Director can be identified to replace Simon Gulliford and the aim of the Nominations Committee is to recommend suitable candidates to the Board as soon as possible.
The Board The Board is responsible for providing entrepreneurial leadership and direction to the Company and is custodian of the Companys strategic aims, vision and values.
The Board ensure controls are in place to deliver value to shareholders and the wider community of individuals and organisations which benefit from the Companys activities.
The Board also assesses whether the necessary financial and human resources are in place to enable the Company to meet its objectives.
The Board met seven times during the year, with additional meetings arranged on an ad hoc basis as required.
During 2008 there were six formal Board meetings plus an additional all day strategy meeting.
A table containing the Directors attendance at Board meetings can be found on page 49.
46 St. Jamess Place plc Report & Accounts 2008
