Client-led strategy Strengthening regional headquarters Standard Chartered opened the Middle Easts largest trading floor in the Dubai International Financial Centre.
The trading floor hosts over 200 trading seats and will support the continued build out of the Banks global Financial Markets business.
As one of the Banks global hubs, it is geared to be a centre of excellence for the Middle East and Africa region.
Strengthening capabilities Aircraft finance expertise Standard Chartered acted as joint arranger, facility agent and security trustee in a $500 million, 12-year finance lease for the purchase of three Boeing 777 aircraft by Qatar Airways.
Boosted by the acquisition of Pembroke Group in late 2007, Standard Chartereds expertise in aircraft finance has led to transactions totalling over $1 billion in the past year.
Deepening relationships in theMiddleEast We continued to invest for the long term in the Middle East, opening the regions largest trading floor in the Dubai International Financial Centre and augmenting our Islamic Banking services across the region.
Markets 11 People 8,662 Branches 245 ATMs 528 Female employees 26% Community investment Standard Chartered launches A New Vision As part of our commitment to help 20 million people by 2015, Standard Chartered launched one of its biggest projects in Pakistan.
Around 20,000 female healthcare workers are being trained to provide primary healthcare at the community level, delivering eye care to millions.
Transaction convenience Bringing modern lifestyle banking to growing customer base Standard Chartered opened a spacious flagship Financial Centre in Abu Dhabi, boasting a dedicated Saadiq Islamic Banking Centre, a Priority Banking Centre, and a SME team.
The new state-of-the-art branch is part of a dynamic expansion plan the Bank has embarked on to increase its distribution footprint in convenient locations in the UAE.
Market innovation A milestone in the development of the UAEs capital markets Standard Chartered arranged a landmark Sukuk Islamic bond programme for the Government of Ras Al Khaimah, UAE.
The Bank also acted as ratings adviser and is managing the inaugural Sukuk issuance.
