Corporate governance Pursuing the highest standards of corporate governance Strong governance is dependent upon a board of directors that is cohesive, independent in nature, fully engaged and committed to the role and, as a result, operates effectively.
Annemarie Durbin, Group company secretary Highlights The board of Standard Chartered PLC believes that strong Highly engaged cohesive board operating effectively corporate governance is essential for delivering sustainable during turbulent times value, enhancing a culture of business integrity and maintaining investor confidence.
Intensified focus on strategic capital, liquidity, cost and risk management In pursuit of the highest standards of corporate governance, the directors confirm that the Company applies a governance Rigorous oversight of the Groups performance approach that complies with all of the provisions of the UK Continued focus on acting in our stakeholders Financial Reporting Councils Combined Code on Corporate best interests Governance the Code and with Appendix 14 of the Hong Kong Listing Rules, except that under the Code, non-executive Strategic reviews of various country, regional, business directors are formally required to meet major shareholders as segment and product areas part of their induction programme.
However, there were Adoption of rigorous procedures in relation to conflicts meetings between non-executive directors, major shareholders of interests and other matters arising from the and analysts during the year and the non-executive directors implementation of the Companies Act 2006 received regular information reflecting the views of the Companys institutional shareholders and other stakeholders.
Ongoing consideration of strategic opportunities arising Also, and on terms no less exacting than required by Appendix 10 from the market turmoil of the Hong Kong Listing Rules, the Company has in place a code of conduct regarding directors securities transactions Our priorities in 2009 and confirms that the directors of the Company complied with this code of conduct.
This report explains how the Companys Rigorous focus on delivery during ongoing turbulent times approach to governance is applied throughout the Group.
Maintain focus on strategic, capital, liquidity, cost and risk management The board Continued review of the role of the board, its Board composition composition and the responsibilities of directors Strong governance is dependent upon a board of directors Identification and smooth transition for an incoming that is cohesive, independent in nature, fully engaged and chairman committed to the role and, as a result, operates effectively.
Proactive participation in the Walker review of corporate The board currently has 13 members: the acting chairman, four governance executive directors and eight non-executive directors.
A list of the individual directors and their biographies are set out on page 67.
Ongoing assessment of strategic opportunities, within Details of their committee membership are set out on pages 76 the context of acting in our stakeholders best interests to 80 of this report.
This year the board has welcomed Steve Bertamini and John Paynter who were appointed directors on 1 June 2008 and 1 October 2008 respectively.
The board would like to express its thanks to Sir CK Chow, Mike DeNoma and Lord Turner, www.
com 73 Financial statements and notes Corporate governance Business review Corporate governance continued all of whom stepped down during the year, for their dedication The full schedule of matters reserved for the decision and valuable contributions during their years of service.
of the board is available on the Companys website.
Lord Davies stepped down from the board and as chairman Chairman, deputy chairman and Group chief executive on 14 January 2009 following his appointment to the UK The separate roles and objectives of the chairman, deputy Government as Minister for Trade and Investment.
The board chairman and the Group chief executive are clearly defined would like to congratulate Lord Davies on his appointment and in written role descriptions which have been approved by express their sincere thanks and gratitude for his outstanding the board and are available on the Companys website.
leadership and devotion to the Group over the past 15 years.
These roles will be reviewed as part of the board nomination Following Lord Davies departure, John Peace was appointed committee process for the appointment of a new chairman.
as acting chairman on 14 January 2009.
The search for a new Independent non-executive directors chairman has commenced.
This process is being led by the The board considers all of the non-executive directors to be board nomination committee and includes extensive independent and free of any business relationship or other stakeholder consultation.
circumstance that could materially interfere with the exercise The board considers that there is an appropriate balance of of objective, unfettered or independent judgement.
In executive and non-executive directors on the board as shown determining their independence, the board reviews all directors in the diagram below.
Given due regard to the complexity and interests which may give rise to a potential or perceived geographical spread of the Group, the size and balance of the conflict, and any circumstances relevant to their current board is appropriate.
There has been an ongoing review of board or ongoing independence as set out in the Code.
composition during the year and this will continue during 2009, The Company has received from each independent director part of which will involve the appointment of a new chairman.
annual confirmation of independence as required under the Hong Kong Listing Rules.
Balance of non-executive and executive directors Non-executive directors are appointed for an initial three-year term.
Where a non-executive director has served on the board for more than six years, their reappointment is subject to a rigorous review by the board nomination committee.
Executive directors 4 John Peace was considered independent both upon appointment to the board and upon appointment as acting Non-executive chairman.
Oliver Stocken and Richard Meddings are both directors 9 non-executive directors of 3i Group plc.
Having regard to all the circumstances, the board is satisfied and has determined that Oliver Stocken remains an independent director.
The board is aware of the other commitments of its non-executive directors and is satisfied that these do not conflict with their duties and time commitments as directors of the Company.
Prior to any Role and responsibilities changes to their commitments, non-executive directors are Collectively, the directors have a diverse range of skills and required to give advance notification and confirmation that the experience which enable them to operate as a cohesive unit.
changes will not affect their ability to continue to devote They each bring independent judgement and considerable appropriate time to their duties to the Company.
knowledge to the boards discussions and are committed to the collective decision-making processes.
Senior independent director During the year, John Peace was the senior independent The board as a whole provides strategic input and leadership director in addition to being deputy chairman.
Following to the Group through oversight, review, and counsel.
It sets Lord Davies departure from the board and John Peaces the strategic direction for the Group and is the primary consequent appointment as acting chairman, Rudy Markham decision-making body for all matters considered as was appointed the acting senior independent director on significant to the Group as a whole.
Shareholders may discuss any issues or There is a formal schedule of matters reserved for the concerns with the senior independent director where they decision of the board.
The board is responsible for the have been unable to resolve them through existing channels overall management of the Group including the approval of for investor communications.
the Groups long-term objectives and commercial strategy.
Board effectiveness It oversees the Groups compliance with statutory and An effective board is crucial to the success of the Group.
To regulatory obligations and its capital and corporate structure.
assess the performance of the board, its principal committees It also reviews performance in light of the Groups strategy, and individual directors, the Company conducts a rigorous objectives, business plans and budgets.
The process is led by the The board has a rolling agenda to ensure that each key chairman and supported by the Group company secretary.
strategic business, functional product and geographic segment In 2008, the directors completed an online qualitative is reviewed on a periodic basis.
During 2008, amongst other questionnaire devised in conjunction with external professional items, the board focused on strategic capital, liquidity, cost input.
As part of the evaluation, the directors performed a selfand risk management: strategic opportunities arising from the evaluation which was used by the chairman in performance market turmoil: employee engagement: and the Groups overall conversations.
The evaluation of the chairman, led by the performance including key markets where acquisitions have senior independent director, formed part of the overall been made.
Also the board undertook a number of country, board effectiveness review.
regional, business segment and product reviews.
The board was constantly mindful of acting in the best interests of the Groups stakeholders.
74 Standard Chartered 2008 The board has discussed the outcome of the evaluation.
The The chairman met regularly with the non-executive directors conclusion was that the board operated effectively, was highly without the executive directors being present.
In addition, engaged and that communication was of a high standard.
It opportunities were provided during the year for non-executive was acknowledged that the time commitment associated with directors to discuss matters without the chairman or executive the directors role, particularly in light of the current economic directors being present.
It was agreed that a The following table shows the number of board meetings review of the arrangements in respect of the directors would held during the year and the attendance by individual directors.
Induction and ongoing development On appointment, each director receives a comprehensive and Number of board meetings held in 2008 tailored induction covering the Groups business and operations Scheduled Ad hoc and also the legal, regulatory and other obligations of a director Number of meetings in 2008 87 1 of a dual-listed company.
J W Peace acting chairman 7 8 6 7 The induction programme consists of meetings with the FSA, P A Sands 8 8 7 7 the Companys legal and financial advisors and a series of R H Meddings 8 8 7 7 meetings with other directors and senior executives from G R Bullock 8 8 6 7 across all key areas of the business.
Each programme is 2 S P Bertamini 5 5 7 7 tailored to the individual directors specific needs and J F T Dundas 8 8 6 7 requirements and further meetings are arranged where a director requires a deeper understanding of a particular area.
V F Gooding 8 8 6 7 R H P Markham 7 8 7 7 Where an independent non-executive director is appointed to one of the boards committees, additional relevant training is R Markland 8 8 6 7 provided.
S B Mittal 4 8 5 7 3 Opportunities to update and develop skills and knowledge, J G H Paynter 2 2 7 7 through briefings by senior executives and the Companys P D Skinner 8 8 5 7 advisors and other means, are provided to all directors.
During O H J Stocken 8 8 7 7 the year, the directors received briefings on new requirements 4 Sir CK Chow 3 3 n a introduced by the Companies Act 2006, including the 5 codification of their duties, the need to have regard to third M B DeNoma 3 3 n a parties when deliberating matters, and conflicts of interest.
In 6 Lord Turner 5 6 n a addition, all directors have access to the services and advice 7 Lord Davies 8 8 7 7 of the Group company secretary and may take independent 1 appointed acting chairman 14 January 2009 professional advice at the expense of the Company in 2 appointed 1 June 2008 furtherance of their duties.
3 appointed 1 October 2008 4 retired 7 May 2008 5 As part of their ongoing development, several independent resigned 1 June 2008 6 resigned 19 September 2008 directors attended key management meetings focusing on risk, 7 resigned 14 January 2009 capital and liquidity issues in order to gain an enhanced understanding of how these are managed on a daily basis.
External directorships Board meetings and attendance The boards executive directors are not permitted to hold more than one non-executive directorship of a FTSE 100 company.
The directors meet regularly and receive accurate, timely and Details of the directors other directorships can be found in clear information between meetings so that they can maintain their biographies on page 67. full and effective oversight of strategic, financial, operational, compliance and governance issues.
Re-election of directors The board has regular scheduled meetings.
During 2008, one meeting was held in Hong Kong, a key territory where the All directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first Group operates.
The directors used this overseas visit to meet AGM following their appointment, and to re-election thereafter staff, corporate customers and local government and regulatory at intervals of no more than three years.
At least one-third of officials.
In addition to the overseas board meeting, the directors stand for re-election at each AGM.
directors also met senior management covering the Greater China region to review key strategic matters for that region.
Board committees Furthermore, during the year, many of the non-executive The board has established four committees: the audit and risk directors undertook other overseas visits to a number of committee: the board nomination committee: the board countries in the Groups footprint for a similar purpose.
remuneration committee and the sustainability and responsibility Eight scheduled meetings were held during 2008, one of committee.
Each committee is responsible for the review and which was a two-day offsite meeting devoted to the review oversight of the activities within its defined terms of reference.
Given the turbulent nature of the Copies of each committees terms of reference can be found financial markets, particularly in the latter half of 2008, the at the companys website.
directors also held seven ad hoc meetings and a number of At the scheduled board meetings, the chairman of each informal calls.
Regular updates were also provided to the noncommittee provides the board with a summary of key executive directors in between scheduled board meetings.
issues considered at the meetings of the committees.
com 75 Financial statements and notes Corporate governance Business review Corporate governance continued Board governance structure Standard Chartered PLC Audit and risk Board nomination Board remuneration Sustainability committee committee committee and responsibility committee Delegated authorities: Delegated authorities: Delegated authorities: Delegated authorities: Monitors the Groups integrity Ensures that the board and Sets remuneration Ensures that the Groups in financial reporting and committee composition has the and incentives for the sustainability and responsibility reviews the effectiveness of the optimum balance of skills, executive directors: approves strategy and business risk management framework.
and monitors remuneration and activities are aligned and in.
incentive plans for the Group.
Audit and risk committee Role and focus The audit and risk committee primarily focuses on the quality and integrity of the Companys external financial reporting: the Members appropriateness of the Groups accounting policies and the effectiveness of the internal control function and the risk control framework.
Evaluation of finance, risk, internal audit and legal and compliance is carried out through regular meetings with senior management.
The committee held six scheduled meetings during the year Scheduled Ad Hoc Number of meetings in 2008 62 and considered all matters under its remit.
The committees activities included the consideration of reports in respect of risk R H P Markham chairman 6 6 2 2 control and management in general.
Particular areas of focus J F T Dundas 6 6 2 2 in the year were: R Markland 6 6 1 2 1 the monitoring of risks associated with the Groups rapid J G H Paynter 1 1 n a growth in geographies such as China and products such J W Peace 6 6 1 2 as wealth management: 2 Lord Turner 3 3 1 2 close monitoring of the Groups capital and liquidity position: 1 appointed 1 November 2008 2 resigned 23 June 2008 lessons to be learnt from control failures at other companies: Highlights review of progress and risks associated with the implementation of Basel II: Continual monitoring of the Companys capital and sufficiency of resources in key business areas: liquidity position during market turmoil the integration of the new businesses including through Additional focus on the management of risk acquisitions such as American Express Bank: Reviewed progress with the integration of the business interest rate management: and acquired through American Express Bank worldwide money laundering issues.
Monitored the integration of acquisitions in Korea and Taiwan The committee received regular reports from the Group head of internal audit, compliance, risk and legal, and on the Monitored the comprehensive implementation of Basel II assurance framework.
Full implementation of the results of the external evaluation of the committee 76 Standard Chartered 2008 Following an external review of the committees performance Board nomination committee in 2007, the committee reviewed its forward agenda planning process and allocated additional time to discussing risk Members management and mitigation.
It also reviewed its links with, and the role of, subsidiary company audit committees.
During the year the committee met separately with the external auditor and the Group head of internal audit without management being present to discuss matters relating to the auditors remit and any issues arising from the audit.
In addition, Scheduled Ad Hoc Number of meetings in 2008 31 committee members, whilst visiting a number of countries 1 during the year, met with local external auditors.
The committee J W Peace acting chairman 2 2 1 1 also met privately with the FSA.
The committee chairman held J F T Dundas 3 3 1 1 separate meetings with the external auditor and the Group R H P Markham 3 3 1 1 heads of internal audit, compliance, risk and legal to discuss R Markland 3 3 1 1 matters within their areas of responsibility.
2 Lord Davies 3 3 1 1 A half-day informal meeting was held in May to consider certain 1 matters where the committee felt it wished to obtain greater appointed as acting chairman on 27 January 2009 and as a member on 20 February 2008 2 resigned 14 January 2009 understanding.
An informal meeting was held during April to discuss the outcome of the committee evaluation, the Highlights governance of subsidiary companies and the use of the external auditor for non-audit work.
Continued and ongoing focus on board composition with The chairman of the committee, Rudy Markham, is a member the objective of maximising the balance of skills of the of the board of the Financial Reporting Council and a former directors appointed to the board chief financial officer of Unilever.
Accordingly the board is Led the process for the appointment of two new directors satisfied that he has recent and relevant financial experience.
The committee members have broad experience and Significant deepening of the breadth, depth and scope of knowledge of financial reporting and knowledge of international succession planning whilst at the same time the Group businesses which they bring to the committees deliberations.
continued to expand both geographically and in terms of The committee has also received regular technical updates as product diversity well as training on specific matters as required.
Consideration and recommendation for authorisation as The Groups internal and external auditors have direct access appropriate of directors situational conflicts of interest to the committee to raise any matters for discussion.
as required by the Companies Act 2006 Arrangements are in place by which the Groups employees Detailed review of the effectiveness of non-executive may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties directors during 2008 and ongoing reviews in light of the in matters of financial reporting or other areas.
These current environment arrangements are covered in the Groups Speaking Up Policy.
The committee has reviewed these arrangements during the year and ensured that any matters of concern have been investigated appropriately.
Role and focus The board nomination committee primarily focuses on the The committee monitored and assessed the role and existing and future composition and balance of the board and effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function and its committees and aims to ensure that they are comprised of approved the functions budget.
The committees remit includes individuals who are best able to discharge the responsibilities consideration of the appointment, resignation or dismissal of required by the Group at any particular time.
It also makes the Group head of internal audit.
recommendations to the board concerning the ongoing When considering its recommendation on the re-appointment succession plans of both executive and non-executive directors of the external auditor, the committee carried out a review of and other senior executives across the Group.
the performance and effectiveness of the external auditor.
During 2008, the committee identified and recommended to The review included an assessment of the external auditors the board the appointments of Steve Bertamini as an executive independence and objectivity.
The review comprised of a director with responsibility for Consumer Banking and John survey conducted by internal audit, the committees own Paynter as an independent non-executive director of the experiences of dealing with the external auditor both at a Company.
An external search consultant was used to assist Group and local level and the results of the review by the in the identification of potential candidates, taking into account Audit Inspection Unit part of the Professional Oversight Board the skills, knowledge and experience required to enhance of the Financial Reporting Council of KPMGs audit of the the existing composition of the board.
Following the resignation of Lord Davies, the committee has commenced the process of identifying potential candidates to succeed Lord Davies and will be using an external search consultant to assist in this process.
During the year, the structure, size and composition of the board and its ongoing leadership needs were continuously reviewed.
Appropriate plans are in place to facilitate orderly succession to the board and other senior management positions.
The plans are designed to ensure the continued ability of the Company to compete effectively in the external marketplace.
com 77 Financial statements and notes Corporate governance Business review Corporate governance continued Following the implementation of the directors conflicts of interest The report on sustainability is set out on pages 30 and 31.
A full provision of the Companies Act 2006, the committee reviewed description of the Groups sustainability activities can be found the directors actual and potential situational conflicts of interest in the Sustainability Review on the Companys website.
and made recommendations on authorisations to the board.
During 2009 the committee will actively engage with the Walker Conflicts of interest independent review of corporate governance of the UK banking In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, the Company industry.
In doing so it will also seek input from other board has established a robust process requiring directors to disclose committees, particularly the board remuneration committee.
proposed outside business interests before they are entered The final conclusions arising from the review, which are into.
This enables prior assessment of any conflict or potential expected at the end of 2009, will also be considered by the conflict of interest and any impact on time commitment.
Actual committee and recommendations made as appropriate to or potential conflicts of interest are reviewed by the board ensure the most effective board and governance structures nomination committee and recommendations on authorisation remain in place throughout the Group.
A review of all authorisations is carried out by the committee twice each year to consider if the Board remuneration committee authorisations continue to be appropriate and to revisit the terms upon which such authorisations are provided.
The role and activities of the committee are set out in the Directors remuneration report on pages 80 to 93.
Internal control Sustainability and responsibility committee The board is committed to managing risk and to controlling its business and financial activities in a manner which enables it Members to maximise profitable business opportunities, avoid or reduce risks which can cause loss or reputational damage, ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations, and enhance resilience to external events.
To achieve this, the board has established a process for the identification, evaluation and management of the risks faced by the Group which operated throughout the year ended 31 December 2008 and to 3 March Scheduled 2009.
It should be recognised that such a process can only Number of meetings in 2008 3 provide reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material 1 J F T Dundas acting chairman 3 3 misstatement or loss.
V F Gooding 2 3 This process is reviewed regularly by the board and meets P A Sands 3 3 the requirements of the guidance entitled Internal Control: O H J Stocken 3 3 Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code issued by 2 Lord Davies 3 3 the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales in 1999 and revised in 2005.
The system of internal control 1 appointed as acting chairman on 27 January 2009 2 of the Group is also subject to regulatory oversight in the resigned 14 January 2009 United Kingdom and overseas.
Highlights The effectiveness of the Groups internal control system is reviewed regularly by the board, its committees, Group Significant improvement in employee engagement management, and Group internal audit.
The audit and risk around sustainability issues committee has reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups Additional focus on financial inclusion through enterprise system of internal control during the year ended 31 December and sustainable development 2008 and reported on its review to the board.
The committees review was supported by an annual business self-certification Established an environment committee to focus on process, which was managed by Group internal audit.
environmental issues Group internal audit monitors compliance with policies and standards and the effectiveness of internal control structures across the Group through its programme of business audits.
The Role and focus work of Group internal audit is focused on the areas of greatest The committees purpose is to have oversight and input into risk as determined by a risk-based assessment methodology.
the Groups strategy to build a sustainable business that is managed responsibly and that focuses on the long-term Group internal audit reports regularly to the audit and risk success of the business whilst having regard to its stakeholders committee, the chairman and to the Group chief executive.
It aims to achieve this objective through findings of all adverse audits are reported to the audit and risk its consideration of environmental impact, social investment, committee, the chairman and to the Group chief executive economic development and other sustainability and where immediate corrective action is required.
responsibility matters which are an integral part of enhancing The risk review on pages 43 to 63 describes the Groups risk the Companys long-term success.
The Groups business is conducted It is also responsible for identifying emerging sustainability within a developed control framework, underpinned by policy and responsibility issues that could pose business risks and statements, written procedures and control manuals.
This opportunities and for ensuring the best interests of the ensures that there are written policies and procedures to Group and shareholders are addressed.
identify and manage risk, including operational risk, country risk, liquidity risk, regulatory risk, legal risk, reputational risk, market risk and credit risk.
The board has established a 78 Standard Chartered 2008 management structure that clearly defines roles, responsibilities associated with SEE risk.
Significant exceptions and emerging and reporting lines.
Delegated authorities are documented and risks are escalated to senior management through clearly communicated.
Executive risk committees regularly review the documented internal reporting procedures such as MANCO.
Key areas of risk are those associated with customers The performance of the Groups businesses is reported activities and potential impacts on the natural environment.
The regularly to senior line management and the board.
board recognises its responsibility to manage these risks and Performance trends and forecasts, as well as actual that failure to manage them adequately would have an adverse performance against budgets and prior periods, are monitored impact on the Groups business.
These risks are recognised in closely.
Financial information is prepared using appropriate reaching lending decisions explicitly identified in the Groups accounting policies, which are applied consistently.
The Group has adopted the revised Equator procedures and controls have been established to facilitate Principles 2 that set procedures, based on the international complete, accurate and timely processing of transactions and finance corporation guidelines, for recognising the the safeguarding of assets.
These controls include appropriate environmental and social impacts and risks associated with segregation of duties, the regular reconciliation of accounts and project finance.
The principles have been embedded in the the valuation of assets and positions.
Groups project finance lending policy and procedures.
Compliance and regulatory matters The Group continues to review and, where appropriate, On 29 February 2008, the Group completed the acquisition strengthen its money laundering prevention policies, of American Express Bank.
Prior to the acquisition, subsidiaries procedures and training.
of the American Express Bank group located in New York and The board is not aware of any material exceptions to Miami had entered separately into a Written Agreement with the its policies.
New York State Banking Department and a Cease and Desist Order with the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta to address Auditor independence and objectivity deficiencies relating to compliance with applicable federal and The Company has adopted a policy on the use of non-audit state laws and regulations governing anti-money laundering.
services provided by the Companys external auditor, KPMG.
Both the Written Agreement and the Cease and Desist Order The audit and risk committees pre-approval is required before remained in place during 2008.
However, the board believes the Company uses non-audit services that fall within definitions that during the year the Group achieved substantial compliance contained in the policy.
The non-audit services of KPMG will with the terms of both documents.
The status of this matter only be used where the Company benefits in a cost-effective continues to be monitored closely by the board.
manner and the auditor maintains the necessary degree of independence and objectivity.
Group code of conduct The Group has adopted a refreshed Group code of conduct In addition to audit-related services, KPMG provided the relating to the lawful and ethical conduct of business and this following types of services in 2008: is supported by the Groups core values.
The Group code tax advisory and compliance: of conduct has been communicated to all directors and employees, all of whom are expected to observe high standards advice and support with due diligence exercises: of integrity and fair dealing in relation to customers, staff and advice on IFRS accounting: regulators in the communities in which the Group operates.
regulatory reviews and reporting: Social, ethical and environmental responsibilities The Group complies with the guidelines issued by the corporate recovery services: Association of British Insurers on responsible investment risk and compliance advisory services: and disclosure and is committed to the communities and environments in which it operates.
The board is responsible for reporting accountants work for capital raising.
ensuring that high standards of responsible business are Details of the amounts paid to KPMG during the year for audit maintained and that an effective control framework is in place.
and non-audit services are set out in note 8 on page 113.
The Group has established and maintains policies and procedures in relation to SEE related risks.
com procedures can be found on the Companys website.
Through the Groups risk management structure and control framework, the board receives regular and adequate information to identify and assess significant risks and opportunities arising from SEE matters.
Designated policy owners monitor risks in their area.
They also work with line management to assist them in designing procedures to ensure compliance with these requirements.
In every country, the country management committee MANCO, supported by the country operational risk group CORG, is responsible for ensuring there are risk management frameworks in place to monitor, manage and report SEE risk.
The country chief executives chair both the MANCOs and CORGs.
Compliance with these policies and procedures is the responsibility of all managers.
In assessing, incentivising and rewarding performance, guidance to managers was published during 2002.
This explicitly states that account should be taken of adherence to all relevant Group policies, including those www.
com 79 Financial statements and notes Corporate governance Business review
