214032 Temple Bar pp01-pp26 20 2 09 20:50 Page 24 Corporate governance APPLICATION OF AIC CODE PRINCIPLES committee meetings held during the year and the attendance by the directors was as follows: The Board attaches great importance to ensuring that the Company operates to high ethical and Number of meetings attended Audit Nomination compliance standards.
In addition, the Board Board Committee Committee seeks to observe the principles set out in the AIC John Reeve 7 2 2 Code of Corporate Governance, established June fide Moller 7 2 2 specifically for investment trust companies and Richard Jewson 6 1 2 endorsed by the Financial Reporting Council.
By Martin Riley 7 2 2 following the Code, the Company continues to Field Walton 7 2 2 meet its obligations in relation to the FRCs Independence of the Directors Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
Each of the directors is independent of any The Code provides a guide to best practice in association with the management company and certain areas of governance where the specific has no other relationships or circumstances characteristics of investment trusts suggest that which might be perceived to interfere with the alternative approaches to those set out in the exercise of independent judgement.
Two of the Combined Code may be preferable.
five directors throughout the year Mr Reeve and COMPLIANCE WITH THE PRINCIPLES OF THE Mr Walton have served on the Board for more AIC CODE OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE than nine years from the date of their first election, but given the nature of the Company as Operation of the Board an investment trust and the strongly Each of the directors is independent of any independent mindset of the individuals involved, association with the management company the Board is firmly of the view that all of the which might interfere with the exercise of directors can be considered to be independent.
There is a formal arriving at this conclusion the Board makes a schedule of matters to be specifically approved clear distinction between the activities of an by the Board and individual directors may seek investment trust and a conventional trading independent advice at the expense of the company.
An investment trust has no employees Company within certain limits.
The Board has or executive directors, the only delegated the investment management, within significant relationship being with the clearly defined parameters and dealing limits, management company.
In overseeing this and the administration of the business to relationship it is the view of the Board that long Investec Investment Management Limited IIM.
service aids the understanding, judgement, The Board makes all strategic decisions, reviews objectivity and independence of the directors the performance of the Company at Board and in no way detracts from any of these meetings and sets the objectives for the qualities.
Since the year end Mr Webster has Manager.
The directors have a range of business been appointed as an additional director and he and financial skills or experience relevant to the is also considered to be fully independent.
Mr R W Jewson is the Senior Independent Director.
Re-election of directors The Company Secretary is responsible to the Directors are subject to re-election by Board, inter alia, for ensuring that Board shareholders at the first AGM following their procedures are followed and for compliance with appointment and, thereafter, are subject to applicable rules and regulations including the AIC retirement by rotation at intervals of no more Code.
Appointment or removal of the nominated than three years.
In addition, the appointment of representative of the Corporate Company each director is reviewed by other members of Secretary the Company Secretary is a matter the Board every year.
Directors are not, for the Board as a whole.
therefore, subject to automatic reappointment.
The content and presentation of Board papers Non-executive directors are not appointed for circulated before each meeting contain sufficient specified terms.
Because of the nature of an information on the financial condition of the investment trust the Board believes that the Company.
Key representatives of IIM attend each contribution and independence of a director is Board meeting enabling directors to probe on not diminished by long service and, conversely, matters of concern or seek clarification on that a more detailed knowledge of the Company certain issues.
and its business has a beneficial impact.
There were seven Board meetings, two audit The directors due to stand for re-election at the committee meetings and two nomination forthcoming AGM are Mrs fide Moller, Mr Webster, 24 24 T Temple B emple Bar In ar Inv five es stment T tment Trus rust t 214032 Temple Bar pp01-pp26 20 2 09 20:50 Page 25 Mr Reeve and Mr Walton.
The Board has carefully Board Audit Committee Nomination considered the position of each of these Committee Director ongoing evaluation directors and believes it would be appropriate for On an annual basis the Board formally reviews its them to be proposed for re-election.
Each of the performance, together with that of the audit and directors continues to be effective and to display nomination committees and the effectiveness an undiminished enthusiasm and commitment to and contribution of the individual directors, the role.
including the Chairman, within the context of service on those bodies.
The review encompasses Audit Committee an assessment of how cohesively these bodies The audit committee is a formally constituted work as a whole as well as the performance of committee of the Board with defined terms of the individuals within them.
On the basis of these reference which are available for inspection at reviews the Board has concluded that it has a the AGM and can be inspected at the Registered proper balance of skills and is operating Office of the Company.
It normally meets twice effectively.
yearly and among its specific responsibilities are a review of the audit plan for the year, the Relations with Shareholders review of the Companys annual and half yearly Shareholder relations are given high priority by results, together with associated documentation, both the Board and the Manager.
The principal and the review of the internal and financial medium by which the Company communicates controls applicable to the management with shareholders is through the half yearly company.
The Committee also reviews the cost reports, annual reports and interim management effectiveness, independence and objectivity of statements.
The information contained therein is the auditors with particular regard to non-audit supplemented by regular NAV announcements fees, of which there were none in either the and by a monthly fact sheet available on the current or prior financial years.
All of the Companys website.
directors are members of the audit committee The Board largely delegates responsibility for and the Chairman is Mr Jewson.
The Board is communication with shareholders to the satisfied that members of the audit committee management company and, through feedback, have relevant and recent financial experience to expects to be able to develop an understanding fulfil their role effectively.
The auditors, who the of their views.
All members of the Board are Board has identified as being independent, are willing to meet with shareholders at any time for invited to attend the audit committee meeting at the purpose of discussing matters in relation to which the annual accounts are considered and the operation and prospects of the Company.
any other meetings that the committee deem necessary.
The Board welcomes investors to attend the AGM and encourages questions and discussion on Nomination Committee issues of concern or areas of uncertainty.
In A nomination committee has been established to addition, special arrangements have been oversee a formal review procedure governing the established to allow Temple Bar Savings Scheme appointment of new directors and to evaluate the investors to participate fully at Annual General overall composition of the Board from time to Meetings.
A separate resolution will be proposed time, taking into account the existing balance of at the AGM in respect of each substantially skills and knowledge.
During the year it was separate issue.
Following the formal AGM decided to appoint a new director to the Board.
A proceedings the Manager makes a presentation search consultant was not used for these to the meeting outlining the key investment purposes as it was felt that the directors could issues that face the Company.
identify a candidate of sufficient quality from a list of contacts already known to them without Accountability, Internal Controls and Audit recourse to external advisers.
The Board pays careful attention to ensuring that The committee is also responsible for assessing all documents released by the Group and the the individual performance of directors and for Company, including the Annual Report, present a making recommendations as to whether they fair and accurate assessment of the Group and should remain in office.
This committee is chaired the Companys position and prospects.
Remuneration Committee As all the directors are fully independent of the management company, the Board as a whole fulfils the function of a remuneration committee.
T Temple B emple Bar In ar Inv five es stment T tment Trus rust t 25 25 214032 Temple Bar pp01-pp26 20 2 09 20:50 Page 26 Corporate governance continued After making enquiries, the directors have a and its shareholders.
While the Board takes reasonable expectation that the Group and the account of the ethical stance of investee Company has adequate resources to continue in companies on matters such as the environment operational existence for the foreseeable future, or society as a whole, the ultimate objective is to including recourse to a 25 million overdraft deliver superior investment returns for facility with HSBC Bank.
directors continue to adopt the going concern Exercise of Voting Rights basis in preparing the accounts.
The Manager has been instructed to vote on The directors are responsible for the Group and behalf of the Company in accordance with the Companys system of internal control and for recommendations put forward by the National reviewing its effectiveness.
In order to facilitate Association of Pension Funds NAPF.
Should the the control process the Board has requested the Manager wish to vote in a different way to the Manager to confirm annually that they have recommendation of the NAPF this requires the conducted the Group and the Companys affairs specific approval of the Board.
in compliance with the legal and regulatory obligations which apply to the Group and the Company and to report on the systems and procedures within Investec which are applicable to the management of Temple Bars affairs.
The Board meets on seven scheduled occasions in each year and at each meeting receives sufficient financial and statistical information to enable it to monitor adequately the investment performance and status of the business.
The Board has also established a series of investment parameters, which are reviewed annually, designed to limit the risk inherent in managing a portfolio of investments.
The safeguarding of assets is entrusted to an independent reputable custodian with whom the holdings are regularly reconciled.
The effectiveness of the overall system of internal control is reviewed on an annual basis by the Board.
Such a system can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board believes that there is a robust framework of internal controls in place to meet the requirements of the AIC Code.
The Board receives reports from its advisers on internal control matters and does not believe that there is scope or necessity for an internal audit function in addition to that employed by the Manager.
Based on the foregoing the Group and the Company has a continuing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the risks it faces.
This process has been in place for the reporting period and to the date of this report and is regularly reviewed by the Board in accordance with the requirements of the Internal Control Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code the Turnbull Guidance and the Combined Code.
Socially Responsible Investment The Board believes that its primary duty is to act in the best financial interests of the Company 26 Temple Bar Investment Trust
