Directors Report: Business Review Operating Review continued Other Financial Information Joint ventures and associates Amortisation of acquisition intangibles and goodwill expense The share of results of joint ventures and associates in the income The amortisation charge in respect of acquisition intangibles amounted statement comprises our share of post-tax profits or losses from to 75.2m 2007: 54.3m, reflecting the full year impact of the AOL our joint venture and associate operations.
During the year, these acquisition.
A goodwill expense of 1.0m 2007: 0.5m has been were composed of four separate interests: Virgin Mobile, our recognised in respect of historical acquisitions.
These figures are excluded from Headline profit before taxation and earnings per share figures.
French MVNO: The Phone House Services, our French facilities management operation: Best Buy Mobile, our mobile retail profitExceptional reorganisation costs sharing arrangement in the US with Best Buy: and The Geek Squad, The Group acquired AOLs UK internet access business in December our UK home technology support business.
The Group has commenced the reorganisation of the business, 2008, net losses from joint ventures amounted to 6.1m 2007: 9.9m.
initially through a programme to transfer network operations, hosting, Virgin Mobile had a second successful year of customer growth, and billing and customer management away from a transitional platform finished the period with more than 800,000 active customers, split evenly provided by AOL Time Warner onto the Groups own systems and between subscription and pre-pay.
It continued to invest significantly infrastructure.
Reorganisation costs of 15.2m have been incurred in brand-building and customer recruitment, and is looking to broaden in the year and have been separately disclosed given their size and its distribution channels heading into its third year of operation, as it one-off nature.
The transition is expected to be completed in the year heads towards the necessary scale for long-term profitability.
The Groups to March 2009. share of post-tax losses in the year was 5.9m.
While it will record further Interest and taxation losses in 2008-09 as it continues to invest in growth, we expect it to Net interest of 42.8m was payable during the year 2007: 26.3m.
reach break-even in the year to March 2010.
Further significant investment in capital expenditure, and deferred During the year we disposed of a majority stake in The Phone House consideration relating to the AOL acquisition, were funded out of Services.
For the ten and a half months during which we accounted operating cash flow and debt facilities.
for it as an associate business, our share of net profits was 0.9m.
The effective tax rate on a Headline basis was 15.5% 2007: 14.3%.
The US mobile retail venture Best Buy Mobile, made excellent progress The tax rate benefited from the recognition of tax losses incurred in during the year.
Stores converted to the new format achieved significant previous years and profits arising in low tax rate jurisdictions.
sales uplifts and our market share grew strongly through the course Earnings per share EPS of the year.
We aim to have the whole of Best Buys US store portfolio Headline EPS was 20.1p, a rise of 70.3% year-on-year 2007: 11.8p.
converted by the end of the calendar year 2008 and we are well on Statutory EPS was 13.0p 2007: 7.5p.
course to achieve this goal.
We formalised the terms of our commercial agreement with Best Buy for the development of our US mobile retail venture, Best Buy Mobile, during the year.
Under the agreement, Best Buy will fund the operation, with the venture paying a finance charge to Best Buy for the cost of funds.
The Group will receive a share of incremental profits above the historical profitability of Best Buys mobile retail operations, based on a sliding scale.
The venture has not had a material impact on financial performance in the current year, but has the potential to provide significant profitability in the future.
Our joint venture with Best Buy to bring The Geek Squad to Europe continued to run a trial home visit service in certain regions of the UK, with nationwide call centre coverage, providing customers with user support for home technology problems.
In January we launched services in Spain, and we expect The Geek Squad to be a key part of the future of the Distribution business.
18 The Carphone Warehouse Group PLC Annual Report 2008 Business Review Cashflow and dividend There was also continued significant investment in the Groups IT systems 2008 2007 and network infrastructure, to support the development of the UK Fixed Summary Cash Flows m m Line business, as well as ongoing investment in the Groups retail estate.
Operating cash flow 468.1 256.3 Tax and interest 55.0 32.9 Balance sheet Net operating cash flow 413.1 223.4 The investment described above, together with an increase in the value of non-Sterling assets, resulted in an increase in non-current assets from Property, plant and equipment net 169.7 147.8 1,555.3m to 1,774.3m year-on-year.
Intangibles 228.8 148.1 Stock increased from 161.5m to 211.6m over the year, reflecting our Acquisitions JVs 74.2 266.7 strategy of improving handset availability and stocks of laptops.
Total investment 472.7 562.6 Dividends 31.4 24.2 Trade and other receivables rose from 743.8m to 812.5m, while trade Shares 14.0 9.1 and other payables increased from 919.9m to 1,086.9m year-on-year, Net dividends and shares 17.4 15.1 both reflecting organic growth across the business.
Provisions decreased Net cash outflow 77.0 354.3 from 109.9m to 90.7m, largely as a result of lower cashback activity.
Opening net debt 616.9 273.4 Foreign exchange Foreign exchange and A large proportion of the Groups borrowings are held in Euros and non-cash movements 148.8 10.8 Swiss Francs, as a hedge against non-Sterling assets.
The significant Closing net debt 842.7 616.9 weakening of Sterling against these currencies from December 2007 onwards resulted in an increase of 156.6m in the value At 29 March 2008, the Group had net debt of 842.7m 2007: 616.9m.
At the end of March 2008 we had Euro During the year the Group generated cash from operations of 468.1m denominated borrowings of 432.9m and Swiss Franc denominated 2007: 256.3m.
Cash generation remains a prime objective of the Group and we expect The offset of the strengthening of the Euro and Swiss Franc is principally to generate significant levels of free cash flow in the future, allowing us to seen in the values of the net assets denominated in those currencies, re-invest in the growth of the business and pursue a progressive dividend which have increased in value by the same amount.
To the extent that policy.
We are proposing a final dividend of 3.00p per share, taking the non-Sterling borrowings do not match non-Sterling net assets on total dividend for the financial year to 4.25p and representing growth consolidation, the offset is seen in the Translation reserve, which saw of 30.8% over last years 3.25p total dividend.
This level of distribution a negative movement of 63.6m in the year, mainly due to Swiss Franc results in a dividend cover of 3.05 2007: 2.33.
The ex-dividend date appreciation against Sterling.
is Wednesday 9 July 2008, with a record date of Friday 11 July 2008 Financing and treasury and an intended payment date of Friday 8 August 2008.
The Groups operations are financed by committed bank facilities, retained Total investment decreased from 562.6m to 472.7m.
There was profits and equity.
During the period, the Group arranged a new 200m a reduction in net outflows on acquisitions and joint ventures from 364-day facility with a one-year term-out option to provide additional 266.7m to 74.2m, with the largest outflow in the year being working capital headroom whilst we arranged a Sterling bond issue: this deferred consideration of 61.5m on AOLs UK customer base, bond issue was subsequently aborted due to the deterioration of the which was acquired in December 2006. bond market during summer 2007 and the facility remains available to fund working capital until June 2009.
The facility was provided by HSBC This reduction was partly offset by a significant increase in year-on-year Bank plc, Barclays PLC and The Royal Bank of Scotland Group PLC, subscriber acquisition costs, from 71.8m to 146.8m, in part reflecting which were the three arrangers of the bond transaction.
our introduction of subsidised laptops into the UK broadband market, as well as substantial growth across the UK Fixed Line and German In March 2008, the Group signed a new five-year 550m revolving credit facility that replaced a similar facility maturing in September 2009. service provider bases.
com 1 Directors Report: Business Review Operating Review continued Cash generation remains a prime objective of the Group and we expect to generate significant levels of free cash flow in the future, allowing us to re-invest in the growth of the business and pursue a progressive dividend policy Roger Taylor, Chief Financial Officer This was arranged by HSBC Bank plc, ING Bank NV, London Branch, Return on capital employed Barclays PLC and The Royal Bank of Scotland Group PLC and was Total shareholders funds at March 2008 were 735.0m, compared to syndicated amongst the Groups core bank group.
The terms of both 689.6m at March 2007.
After taking into account average net debt, new facilities are similar and the covenant packages are identical.
and adjusting for the amortisation of acquisition intangibles and goodwill arising on historic minority acquisitions, the Group generated a return The Group was in compliance with the covenant conditions of all facilities at the period end.
Assuming a weighted average cost of capital for the period of In addition to committed credit facilities, which are set out in full in note 20 to the financial statements, the Group has a number of 6.6% 2007: 6.8%, this represents an economic value added uncommitted loan facilities, overdrafts and guarantee lines, all technically of 121.0m 2007: 56.6m or 8.3% 2007: 5.4%.
repayable on demand, which enable it to optimise cash management efficiency particularly at times of peak working capital requirements.
Within cash and cash equivalents, 65.7m 2007: 79.5m is held by the Groups insurance business, of which 55.0m 2007: 46.0m is required to cover regulatory reserve requirements.
As such, these funds are not Roger Taylor, available to offset other Group borrowings.
Chief Financial Officer Funding of our subsidiaries, both in the United Kingdom and elsewhere, is arranged centrally with an emphasis on tight cash control and efficient cash management.
All cross-border funding is provided on an arms length basis and currency risk is hedged using foreign exchange swaps or currency borrowings, as appropriate, at all times.
Other than intercompany loans and capital funding, balance sheet translational risk is not hedged against adverse movements in exchange rates and the results of any such movements are taken to reserves.
The Group is exposed to limited cross-border transactional commitments and, where significant, these are hedged at inception using forward currency contracts.
Treasury policy permits the use of long-term derivative treasury products for the management of currency and interest rate risk and the Groups interest rate exposures are monitored regularly.
More generally, the Group treasury function seeks to follow treasury best practice as recommended by the Association of Corporate Treasurers and adheres at all times to their Ethical Code.
The Group does not trade or speculate in any financial instruments.
20 The Carphone Warehouse Group PLC Annual Report 2008 Business Review Principal Risks and Uncertainties Operational Risks Potential Impact Mitigation Loss of market share and erosion in We have always focused on reinvesting the benefits of our increasing scale Competitive margins from increased competition.
into our customer proposition to keep barriers to entry high and to maximise value for our customers.
Our pricing in both mobile retail and broadband environment reflects this strategy.
Reduction in customer loyalty and We have made significant improvements to customer service, and external Brand higher churn in our fixed line operations surveys indicate that brand perception is improving.
as a result of poor customer service.
perception Failure to provide adequate service Our investment in IT continues to grow in line with the increasing scale Capacity and levels to customers or to manage and complexity of our business.
Telecoms investment has peaked with back office processes.
the completion of our network roll-out, with further investment in future functionality years addressing the increasing bandwidth demands of customers.
of our IT and telecoms infrastructure Lack of necessary expertise or continuity We have successfully attracted and retained high quality executive management Retention to execute strategy.
through attractive incentive packages and wide-ranging career opportunities.
of key management Financial Risks Potential Impact Mitigation Profits and cash flow We have dedicated credit control functions to manage both residential and Revenue reduced through high levels corporate debt, and credit checking processes that are continuously developed of non-paying customers.
to minimise the risk of non-payment.
Our network operator debtors are highly assurance cash generative, well capitalised businesses.
Financial results impacted by obsolete We have a very high turnover of stock and the subsidised business model Stock retail stock.
management Reported profits distorted by exchange Exchange rate exposures are primarily to the Euro and Swiss Franc.
Exposures Exchange rate movements: value of assets and to exchange rate movements are continuously monitored and transactional liabilities similarly affected.
exposures to exchange rate movements are hedged, where material, to avoid rates volatility in the income statement.
3 To find out more about our risk management processes and internal controls, please refer to page 0. www.
