Corporate Governance Report The directors are responsible for the The Board is responsible to shareholders Relevant training is available to directors corporate governance of the Group.
They for the proper management of the to assist them in the performance of support the principles of good corporate Group.
A Statement of the Directors their duties.
The Audit Committee and governance and code of best practice laid Responsibilities in respect of the accounts the Remuneration Committee receive down by the Combined Code on Corporate is set out on page 43, and a statement on brie ngs on current developments.
The Governance issued by the Financial going concern is set out below.
non-executive directors take advantage Reporting Council in June 2008 the of sector and general conferences and Combined Code.
The directors biographies, shown on seminars and training events organised by pages 26 and 27, demonstrate the Boards professional rms and receive circulars and Throughout the year ended 31 December depth of experience and skill.
The nontraining materials from the Company and 2008 the Board believes it has complied executive directors also have a range of other professional advisors.
with the principles and provisions experience and the calibre to exercise recommended by the Combined Code.
The independent judgement and contribute The Board has established Audit, manner in which the Company has applied to Board discussions.
Four of the directors Remuneration and Nominations the principles of good governance set and three of the non-executive directors Committees to which it has delegated out in the Combined Code during 2008 is have extensive previous experience at a some of its responsibilities.
senior level in the financial services sector the Committees has detailed terms of and three of the directors are chartered reference, which can be viewed on the Directors accountants two of whom were audit Companys website www.
The Board currently comprises two partners in a major rm of accountants, com, and a schedule of business to executive directors, four non-executive one of the non-executive directors was be transacted during the year.
The directors and a non-executive Chairman, a Senior Advisor to the FSA, and both responsibilities of each of the Committees whose biographies are set out on pages the Chairman and Finance Director were together with an overview of their 26 and 27.
There were no changes to the previously finance directors of a number of meetings during the year are described membership of the Board during 2008. other companies.
The average age of the below.
All of the non-executive directors are members of the Board is 54 non-executive considered to be independent under any directors, including the Chairman: 56 In March 2008 and March 2009, the of the relevant codes and regulations.
and the average length of service of the Chairman formally met with the non-executive directors excluding the non-executive directors without the The Chairman, Keith Hamill was, at Chairman including membership of the executive directors being present and appointment, independent of the Board of Collins Stewart Tullett plc is the Senior Independent Non-executive Company and the management.
Director met with the other non-executive Chairman is responsible for the conduct directors without the Chairman being of the Board and its oversight of the Arrangements are made for non-executive present to evaluate the Chairmans Companys affairs and strategy and the directors to meet members of the performance.
Appropriate feedback was administration of the Board.
The Chief management teams and they attend the provided following these meetings.
The Executive, Terry Smith, is responsible Companys management conferences.
Chairman has also provided feedback to for the management of the business, Non-executive directors also visit the the non-executive directors.
the co-ordination of its activities and Companys international of ces, usually in the development of strategy.
The Senior connection with other activities.
The Board The Board regularly considers succession Independent Non-executive Director, regularly considers succession planning planning at senior levels within the Group.
David Clark, has responsibility for dealing at senior levels within the Company.
The The effectiveness of this is evidenced by with any shareholders who have concerns, Company has made appointments of the recent appointment of candidates which contact through the normal internally developed staff to the positions from within the Group to ll the roles of channels of Chairman, Chief Executive or of Chief Operating Of cer and the Chief Group COO Stephen Duckworth, CEO Finance Director has failed to resolve, or for Executive Of cers of all three of its regions.
Europe Angus Wink, and CEO North which such contact is inappropriate.
Board believes that these arrangements facilitate the effective management of the business and provide a strong control environment.
Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2008 31 shareholder information financial statements governance business review Corporate Governance Report continued Board administration All directors receive written reports prior agreed that it is in the Companys interests The Board has a schedule of eight to each Board meeting which enable them that he remain a director until the AGM meetings each year to discuss the Groups to make an informed decision on corporate scheduled to take place in May 2010. ordinary course of business.
Every effort is and business issues under review.
All Board made to arrange these meetings so that all meetings are minuted and any unresolved Reviews of the performance of the Board, directors can attend: additional meetings concerns are recorded in such minutes.
its Committees and individual directors are arranged as required.
Beneath the Board there is a structure of in respect of the previous financial year delegated authority which sets out the have been undertaken.
In this process, The Board and its Committees are provided authority levels allocated to the individual consideration was given to whether the with appropriate information on a timely directors and senior management.
Board or Committee ful lled its terms of basis to enable them to discharge their reference satisfactorily, whether the terms duties.
The Board has a formal schedule The Board monitors actual or potential of reference needed to be revised, whether of matters reserved to it for decision, con icts of interest between the directors the administration operated effectively including, among other things: and the Company and has in place an and whether individual directors effective procedure for managing such performed their roles effectively.
The approval of the Groups strategy: con icts when they arise.
non-executive directors are responsible for assessing the effectiveness of the Board appointments and removals: The terms of the directors service Chairman, with the assessment carried changes to the Groups management agreements and letters of appointment out when the Chairman is not present.
and control structure: are summarised in the Report on Directors Remuneration set out on page 42.
All In the event that any of the executive approval of the Groups financial directors are subject to election by directors wished to take up a nonstatements: shareholders at the first AGM after their executive appointment with another borrowing moneys or accepting credit: appointment.
Thereafter, any director company, the Board would be amenable who has held of ce for three years or to such a proposal, provided that the risk management strategy: and more is required to retire by rotation time commitment involved were not social, ethical and environmental at the AGM but is entitled to seek retoo onerous.
Keith Hamill and Terry Smith of Collins Stewart plc on 19 December will seek re-election at the AGM in May 2006, Terry Smith became Chairman of A schedule of matters reserved to the 2009: the Board is satis ed that, following Collins Stewart plc.
In that capacity, Mr Board is set out in full on the Companys formal performance evaluation, each of Smiths annual fee is 200,000, which he website www.
these directors performance continues is entitled to retain.
to be effective, and each demonstrates commitment to their role.
David Clarks The terms and conditions of appointment length of service as a director of Tullett of the non-executive directors will be Prebon plc, if taken together with his available for inspection during normal service on the board of Collins Stewart business hours on any weekday other Tullett plc, exceeds six years.
Following than public holidays at the Companys rigorous review and taking account of his of ces from the date the notice of AGM experience and contribution, the Board has is posted until the conclusion of the AGM.
The Board and Committee attendance record during 2008 is as follows: Audit Remuneration Nominations Board Committee Committee Committee Executive Directors Terry Smith 8 8 Paul Mainwaring 8 8 Non-executive Directors Keith Hamill 8 8 3 3 David Clark 8 8 5 5 3 3 Michael Fallon 8 8 5 5 3 3 Richard Kilsby 8 8 5 5 3 3 Rupert Robson 8 8 5 5 3 3 excludes meetings of Committees of the Board appointed to complete business approved by the Board or routine business.
For more information please visit: 32 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2008 www.
com All directors have access to the services Throughout 2008 the Committees terms The Audit Committee is responsible for of the Company Secretary and there are of reference included: reviewing the half-year and preliminary procedures in place for taking independent announcements of results and the professional advice at the Companys monitoring the integrity of the financial statutory accounts prior to their approval expense if required.
The Company arranges statements: by the Board.
When conducting the review, insurance cover in respect of legal action the Committee considers the continuing reviewing the scope and findings of the against the directors, and has made suitability of the accounting policies, external audit: qualifying third party indemnity provisions judgements made in the production for the bene t of its directors, which assessing the independence and of the numbers and the adequacy and remain in place at the date of this report.
objectivity of the external auditors appropriateness of disclosures.
The Company Secretary is responsible and making recommendations for for ensuring that the Board keeps up the re-appointment or removal of the The Committee has reviewed to date with key changes in legislation external auditors: arrangements by which staff may, which affect the Company, such as the in con dence, raise concerns about monitoring the effectiveness of the introduction of the Companies Act 2006, improprieties in matters of financial internal audit function: on which the Board was briefed.
The reporting or other matters.
In conducting appointment or removal of the Company reviewing the effectiveness of the the review, the Committee also took into Secretary is a matter reserved for the Companys internal control procedures: account whether the policies were in line Board.
and with the recommendations set out in CP101 published by the FSA.
overseeing and assessing the risk control Audit Committee system and reviewing arrangements The Audit Committee is chaired by Richard Internal audit services are provided by by which staff may, in con dence, raise Kilsby, who has recent and relevant  LLP PwC.
The other members Audit Committee reviewed the schedule of the Audit Committee are David Clark, of work proposed by internal audit and During the year the Audit Committee Michael Fallon and Rupert Robson, all of the resources available to carry out the reviewed the cost effectiveness, objectivity whom are independent non-executive schedule.
The Audit Committee received and independence of the external auditors directors.
reports from internal audit during the and the level of fees received in respect year and summary reports of key findings.
of the various services provided by them The Chairman, the executive directors, the A system of reporting to follow up on in addition to the audit during 2008.
Companys external and internal auditors, all findings raised by both internal and The auditors con rmed to the Audit and the Group Treasurer and Head of external audit was also taken into account Committee that they did not believe that Risk Control may attend Committee in assessing the effectiveness of the the level of non-audit fees had affected meetings by invitation.
The Committee internal audit function.
The Audit Committee has a discussion with the external auditors additionally considered the professional at least once a year without executive The terms of reference of the Audit and regulatory guidance on auditor directors being present, to ensure that Committee will be available for inspection independence and was satis ed with there are no unresolved issues of concern.
during normal business hours on any the auditors representations.
The Audit weekday other than public holidays at the Committees policy is to use the most Companys of ces from the date the notice appropriate advisers for non-audit work, of AGM is posted until the conclusion of taking account of the need to maintain the AGM, and are also available on the independence.
The Audit Committee met five times during 2008.
Meetings are timed to coincide with signi cant points in the annual audit cycle, such as the release of half-yearly and annual results.
Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2008 33 shareholder information financial statements governance business review Corporate Governance Report continued Remuneration Committee Nominations Committee Risk management and internal control The Remuneration Committee comprises The Nominations Committee comprises The Board is responsible for setting the Michael Fallon, who is the Committees Keith Hamill, who is the Committees Groups risk appetite and ensuring that Chairman, David Clark, Richard Kilsby, Chairman, David Clark, Michael Fallon, it has an appropriate and effective risk Keith Hamill and Rupert Robson.
Richard Kilsby and Rupert Robson.
The management framework and monitors terms of reference of the Nominations the ongoing process for identifying, The Board has delegated the following Committee provide that the Chairman of evaluating, managing and reporting responsibilities to the Remuneration the Board would not be permitted to chair the signi cant risks faced by the Group.
Committee: the Committee if it were dealing with the The Board is also responsible for the issue of his replacement.
Groups system of internal control and for developing a formal and transparent reviewing its effectiveness.
In discharging policy on executive remuneration: The Board has delegated responsibility to its responsibilities in this respect, the the Nominations Committee for: Board has appointed the Audit Committee determining the speci c remuneration to carry out the annual review of the packages for each of the executive reviewing the balance and skill, effectiveness of the internal control and directors and Chairman: knowledge and experience of the Board: risk management systems and to report to recommending and monitoring the level the Board thereon.
This process has been agreeing and implementing procedures and structure of remuneration of senior in place for the year under review and for the selection of new Board management: and up to the date of approval of the annual appointments: and report, is reviewed regularly by the Board granting share options under the making recommendations to the Board and accords with the Turnbull guidance Companys share option schemes.
on all proposed new appointments.
appended to the Combined Code.
The Chief Executive attends certain In considering the appointment of new The key risks facing the business are parts of meetings of the Remuneration non-executive directors, the Committee described in the Business Review.
The Chairman takes account of the time commitment risks are assessed before any new does not attend meetings where his own likely to be required of the appointee.
The business is established and monitored on remuneration is being discussed.
During likely time commitment is referred to in all a day-to-day basis as part of the normal 2008 and subsequently, the Remuneration new letters of appointment.
The Group has Committee was advised on executive adopted a single set of policies for the compensation by PwC.
Further details of The terms of reference of the Nominations management of risk to be applied across the Companys policies on remuneration, Committee will be available for inspection all activities, and assesses and monitors service contracts and share options during normal business hours on any week risk through the use of a Group Risk are given in the Report on Directors day other than public holidays at the Framework, which is considered by the Remuneration.
The terms of reference Companys of ces from the date the notice Audit Committee on behalf of the Board of the Remuneration Committee will be of AGM is posted until the conclusion on a regular basis.
available for inspection during normal of the AGM and are also available on the business hours on any week day other Companys website.
Risk management and the operation of than public holidays at the Companys the internal control systems within the of ces from the date the notice of AGM is No new appointments to the Board were Group are primarily the responsibility of posted until the conclusion of the AGM, proposed or made during 2008, and no the executive directors and the senior and are also available on the Companys meetings of the Nominations Committee management.
allowed commercial independence and exibility within parameters agreed by The Remuneration Committee met three the Board to ensure that risks are clearly times during 2008. owned and managed on a day-to-day basis and that systems of control operate effectively.
For more information please visit: 34 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2008 www.
com Under the overall supervision of the Board The Group has investments in a number of Internal audit and the Chief Executive, the management joint ventures and associated companies.
PwC were appointed to act as the team continue to implement their Where the Group is not directly involved in Groups internal auditor in December business development plans and monitor the management of the investment, it can 2007, following an extensive review of operational projects.
The executive in uence, through Board representation, internal audit arrangements by the Audit directors monitor activities on a daily basis but not control, the internal control Committee.
and ensure that appropriate controls are systems present in those entities.
The exercised over the Groups operations.
The Boards review of the effectiveness PwCs objectives, as the Groups internal Board considers the monthly management of the system of internal controls in auditor, are to assess: accounts, budgets and plans and discusses those entities is consequently less any issues arising therefrom.
comprehensive than in its directly owned the effectiveness of the Groups risk subsidiaries.
management, internal controls and The Group Treasury and Risk Committee governance process: is responsible for developing policies and The Audit Committee conducted a whether operational and financial monitoring mechanisms which ensure formal review of the effectiveness of the controls are appropriate and that the Group operates in accordance Groups internal control systems for 2008, consistently applied: with the Boards risk appetite.
The Group considering reports from management Treasurer and Head of Risk Control reports and the work of the Risk and Internal Audit the effectiveness of internal controls for to the Finance Director.
the safeguarding of assets: the Group Treasury and Risk Committee the reliability and integrity of are the Chief Executive, who acts as Compliance management information: and chairman, the Finance Director and the The Group has a compliance function Group Treasurer and Head of Group Risk which ensures that all the Groups entities the adequacy of processes to ensure Control.
The minutes of the Group Treasury meet the rules of the regulators in each compliance with applicable laws and and Risk Committee are circulated to of the jurisdictions in which the Group regulations.
The compliance of cers are in regular contact with the executive PwCs internal audit work during 2008 The systems of internal control operated directors and compliance reports are made covered the full audit universe within by the Group are designed to manage to the Board on a regular basis.
the Group at different levels of intensity rather than eliminate the risk of failure based upon the results of a risk assessment to achieve business objectives, and can The Group is regulated by the FSA.
During exercise carried out and agreed with the only provide reasonable and not absolute the year the Company ensured that Audit Committee in January 2008.
The work assurance against material misstatement its controls were consistent with the included site visits and meetings with senior or loss.
The management, both at the Group level and Group continues to maintain excesses in each of the geographic regions in which The embedded risk management of regulatory capital in all its regulated Tullett Prebon operates.
The findings of processes ensure that the Group entities and also at the Group level.
these audits were reported to the Audit Treasury and Risk Committee, executive Committee and, where appropriate, action directors and senior management receive The Board has put in place an ICAAP, taken by management in response to them appropriate information and exception as required by the FSA.
was tracked and reported to the Audit reports to comply with the Groups risk Committee.
The Audit Committee approved management principles and policies for PwCs internal audit plan for 2009 at its maintaining the Groups risk assessment December 2008 meeting.
The reports provided cover matters including the current status of existing controls, audits, loss events, and any required action plans to remedy any identi ed shortcomings in the control environment.
Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2008 35 shareholder information financial statements governance business review Corporate Governance Report continued Going concern There is regular dialogue with institutional The Groups business activities and investors, fund managers and analysts, performance, and the financial position of including presentations around the time the Group, its cash ows, liquidity position, of the results announcements and also borrowing facilities and hedging strategy, on request.
The Chairman maintains together with the factors likely to affect informal relations with shareholders its future development, performance and when necessary and is available to position, are discussed in the Business those shareholders who have a policy of Review on pages 8 to 24.
Analysis of regular contact or who wish to discuss the Groups key risks and approach speci c matters.
The Senior Independent to risk management is also set out Non-executive Director and the other in the Business Review on pages 18 to 21.
Non-executive Directors are available Details of the Groups interest-bearing to meet with shareholders, should such loans and borrowings, derivative financial meetings be requested.
instruments, obligations under finance leases, long term provisions, other long The Business Review on pages 8 to 24, term payables and financial instruments which is incorporated by reference into are set out in Notes 21 to 26. the Report of the Directors, includes a detailed review of the business and future The Group has considerable financial developments.
resources both in the regions and at the corporate centre to comfortably meet the The Board uses the AGM to communicate Groups ongoing obligations.
with investors and welcomes their participation.
Notice of the AGM, and After making enquiries, the directors related papers, are sent to shareholders at have a reasonable expectation that the least 20 working days before the meeting.
Company and the Group have adequate The Chairman aims to ensure that all of resources to continue in operational the directors, including Chairmen of the existence for the foreseeable future.
Committees of the Board, are available Accordingly, the Annual Report continues at AGMs to answer questions and meet to be prepared on the going concern basis.
The proxy votes cast on each resolution proposed at general meetings Relations with shareholders are disclosed at those meetings.
To The Board recognises the importance encourage shareholder participation, those of communication with shareholders.
shareholders whose shares are held via The Companys website, the CREST system are offered the facility to www.
com, provides submit their proxy votes via CREST.
information for shareholders on the Groups activities, results, products and recent developments.
For more information please visit: 36 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2008 www.
