Directors Report: Report of the Audit Committee The role of the Audit Committee is to assist the directors in The Committee comprises three non-executive directors, applying financial reporting and internal control principles and including its Chairman, who are appointed by the Board.
to maintain an appropriate relationship with the Groups Mr Boyle was appointed Chairman of the Committee in 2007. auditors.
He is a Chartered Accountant and was previously a partner in  LLP.
The other two members are The Committees role and responsibilities are set out in its terms Mr Bruce and Mr Watson, who were appointed in 2002 and 2006 of reference, which comply with the Combined Code.
The terms respectively: details of their qualications and experience are of reference are available on request from the Company given on page 2.
The Committees programme is to meet at least Secretary and can be seen on the Companys website.
three times a year: in advance of the publication of both the annual and the half year results and on at least one other The Committee is responsible for monitoring the integrity of the occasion with an agenda that is focused on its broader Companys financial statements, including consideration of the responsibilities.
Companys accounting policies and significant reporting judgements.
It reviews the Companys internal financial controls The Committee held three meetings during the year, at two of and risk management systems.
It reviews the scope and which representatives of the auditors were present: to consider effectiveness of the audit process and monitors the auditors the outcome of the audit of the Groups 2007 financial independence and objectivity.
It makes recommendations in statements and to consider the plan for the audit of the Groups relation to the appointment of the external auditors, including 2008 financial statements.
their remuneration and the provision by them of any non-audit services.
The Committee has established a procedure to ensure During the year the Committee addressed all the matters set out that the engagement of the auditors to provide non-audit as its responsibilities under its terms of reference.
In particular, services cannot exceed a specified proportion of the annual audit the Committee considered the Boards processes for the review of fees without due consideration being given by the Committee to the Groups internal control and risk management systems and the proposed appointment.
The Committee also reviews the confirmed that the Group should not establish an internal audit process for negotiating and monitoring major contracts function : counterparty risk: the subsidiary companys undertaken by the Company, the Boards investment restrictions compliance with its responsibilities as a regulated entity: and and the values attributed to the unlisted investments.
It ensures compliance with established internal processes.
that the Company maintains appropriate compliance with the requirements of regulators: and it reviews the reporting of investment performance.
The Committee reports to the Board, Robert Boyle identifying matters on which it considers that action is needed Chairman of the Audit Committee and making recommendations on the steps to be taken.
