Directors Report: Corporate Governance Statement Background setting of parameters for and the monitoring of investment The UK Listing Authority requires all listed companies to disclose strategy, the review of investment performance and the extent to how they have applied the principles and complied with the which borrowings may be used.
The Chief Executive Officer is provisions of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance responsible to the Board for the overall management of the the Code.
Company including business development, shareholder relations, marketing, investment trust industry matters, Throughout the year under review the Code in force was the administration and unquoted investments.
During 2008 Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the following a review of the business, the role of Chief Executive Financial Reporting Council in June 2006.
In addition, the AIC Officer was split to create the additional role of Chief Investment Code of Corporate Governance, issued by the Association of Officer.
His duties include leading on investment strategy and Investment Companies in May 2007, applies to the Company asset allocation, on the selection and monitoring of the the AIC Code.
investment managers and their terms of reference and on the use of derivatives.
The Chief Executive Officer works closely with Application of the Principles of the Code the Chief Investment Officer and reports to each meeting of the The Company is committed to high standards of corporate Board.
His report includes confirmation that the Boards governance and the Board attaches importance to the matters set investment limits and restrictions have been adhered to, out in the Code and applies its principles.
However, as an including those which govern the Companys tax status as an investment trust company, many of the Companys day to day investment trust.
The Chief Investment Officer attends each responsibilities are delegated to third parties and all but one of Board meeting.
His report includes confirmation from each of the directors are non-executive.
the investment managers that they have carried out their duties in accordance with the terms of their investment mandates.
The The Board investment managers take decisions as to the purchase and sale The Board is collectively responsible for the success of the Company.
of individual investments and are responsible for effecting those Its role is to provide leadership within a framework of prudent and decisions on the best available terms.
The Chairman is effective controls that enable risk to be assessed and managed.
responsible for ensuring that the directors are provided, in a timely manner, with management, regulatory and financial The Board sets the Companys strategic aims subject to the information that is clear, accurate and relevant, whether from Companys memorandum and articles of association, and to such the Chief Executive Officer or otherwise.
approval of the shareholders in general meeting as may be required from time to time and ensures that the necessary resources are in Representatives of the investment managers attend Board place to enable the Companys objectives to be met.
meetings on a regular basis, enabling the directors to monitor the management of the Companys assets, to seek clarification on As at the date of this report the Board consists of eight directors, specic issues or to probe further on any points of concern.
all of whom are independent of the Companys various Matters specically reserved for decision by the full Board have investment managers.
With the sole exception of the Chief been dened and there is an agreed procedure for directors, in Executive officer, the directors are all non-executive.
Their the furtherance of their duties, to take independent professional biographical details, set out on page 2, demonstrate a breadth of advice, if necessary, at the Companys expense.
The directors investment, industrial, commercial and professional experience have access to the advice and services of the corporate company with an international perspective.
secretary, through its appointed representative, who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed.
The Board meets at least ten times a year and deals with the When a director is appointed he or she is offered a tailored most important aspects of the Companys affairs, including the introductory programme.
Directors are also provided, on a 32 regular basis, with key information on the Companys policies, Nevertheless, the Board considers that, by design, the directors regulatory and statutory requirements and internal controls.
have different qualities and areas of expertise on which they Changes affecting directors responsibilities are advised to the may lead when issues arise.
In addition, the Board has appointed Board as they arise.
Directors are encouraged to attend suitable separate chairmen to lead its two permanent committees.
training courses on an ongoing basis at the Companys Accordingly, any concerns can be conveyed to the director most expense.
qualied to address the subject.
Directors are appointed for specified terms, subject to re-election Board Committees and to the provisions of the Companies Acts.
In accordance with The Board has established Audit and Remuneration Committees.
the Companys Articles of Association, new directors stand for The Remuneration Committee has responsibility for the duties election at the first annual general meeting following their of the Boards former Nominations Committee.
The duties of the appointment.
The Board has agreed that every director will stand former Management Engagement Committee are now the for re-election at intervals of not more than three years.
The responsibility of the Chief Executive officer.
The membership of Boards report on the independence of the directors is set out on the Audit Committee and the Remuneration Committee is set page 23. out on pages 2 and 25.
The Boards tenure and succession policy seeks to ensure that the Audit Committee Board is well-balanced and refreshed regularly by the The report of the Audit Committee is set out on page 36. appointment of new directors with the skills and experience necessary, in particular, to replace those lost by directors Remuneration Committee retirements.
Directors must be able to demonstrate their The Committee comprises three non-executive directors commitment to the Company, including in terms of time.
The appointed by the Board: the Board also appoints the Chairman.
Board seeks to encompass relevant past and current experience The Committee held three meetings during the year.
Its of various areas, the most important skill-sets being investment programme is to meet at least once a year, in advance of the year management, finance, marketing, financial services, risk end, and on other occasions as necessary.
management, custody and settlement, and investment banking.
The role of the Remuneration Committee is to determine and The Boards procedure in 2008 for evaluating the performance of review the Companys remuneration policy, to establish the the Board, its Committees and the individual directors was by incentive arrangements for, and to evaluate the performance of, means of individual meetings of the Chairman with each of the the Chief Executive officer, to assess the effectiveness of the directors.
A meeting of the directors was then held, without the Board and to consider the remuneration of the non-executive Chairman present, to evaluate his performance.
It is also responsible for reviewing the composition of process is designed to show whether individual directors the Board and for proposing nominations for appointment to it.
continue to contribute effectively to the Board and to clarify the Each director is invited to submit nominations and external strengths and weaknesses of the Boards composition and advisers may be used to identify or assess potential candidates.
The Chairman has taken the lead in acting on the The nominations list is considered by the Board as a whole, results of the evaluation process, mindful of the requirement to although the Chairman would not expect to be involved in the refresh the composition of the Board from time to time without selection of his successor.
reducing the stability, sense of purpose and effectiveness of the Board that was highlighted by the evaluation process.
A Board appointment was made early in 2009.
The directors reviewed the skills and experience required of potential new The Chairman of the Company is an independent director.
The Remuneration Committee, assisted by a specialist Mr Watson is appointed as Senior Independent Director.
rm of search consultants, prepared a short list of candidates 33 Directors Report: Corporate Governance Statement continued from which the Board selected the person it considered to be receives and considers regular reports from the investment best suited to the position.
managers and ad hoc reports and information are supplied to the Board from its other contractors as required.
Directors Remuneration The directors remuneration is detailed in the Directors Internal Control Remuneration Report on pages 29 to 31.
The Board has established an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Relations with Shareholders Company.
This process accords with the Turnbull guidance, is The Board seeks to develop an understanding of the views of the subject to regular review by the Audit Committee and was fully major shareholders by receiving reports from the Chief Executive in place during the year under review and up to the date of this officer and from the Witan Marketing Director on meetings that annual report.
The Board remains responsible for the Companys they have with shareholders, investors and analysts and from the system of internal control and has conducted its annual review of Companys stockbrokers on contact it has with shareholders and the effectiveness of the system, covering all the controls, investors.
The Chairman, and other members of the Board if including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk requested, expect to be available to talk to major shareholders.
This review took into account points raised during the year in the regular appraisal of specic areas of risk.
The Board considers that the annual general meeting should provide an effective forum for individual investors to However, such a system is designed to manage rather than communicate with the directors.
The annual general meeting is eliminate the risks of failure to achieve the Companys business chaired by the Chairman of the Board.
The Chairmen of the Audit objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute Committee and the Remuneration Committee also expect to be assurance against material misstatement or loss.
present and able to answer questions from shareholders as appropriate.
Details of the proxy votes received in respect of each The Board routinely reviews the Companys business risks.
These resolution are made available to shareholders.
The Chief Executive are analysed and recorded in a risk map.
The Company receives officer makes a presentation to the meeting.
The Company has from its main contractors formal reports which detail the steps adopted a nominee share code which is set out on page 68. taken to monitor the areas of risk and which report the details of any known internal control failures.
The Board receives each year Accountability and Audit from its investment managers and its investment administrator The directors statement of responsibilities in respect of the reports on their internal controls: with two exceptions each of accounts is set out on page 37. these includes a report from the relevant companys auditors on the control policies and procedures in operation.
The report of the independent auditors is set out on page 38.
The Companys subsidiary, Witan Investment Services Limited, is The Board has delegated contractually to external agents, authorised by the Financial Services Authority to undertake the including the various investment managers, the management of regulated activities necessary to manage savings schemes for the investment portfolio, global custody which includes the investors.
The compliance structures required for these activities, safeguarding of the assets, the investment administration, including a compliance manual and a compliance monitoring management and financial accounting, company secretarial and programme, have been duly put into place.
certain other administrative requirements and the registration services.
Each of these contracts was entered into after full and The Company has a formal policy for staff to raise in confidence proper consideration by the Board of the quality and cost of the any concerns about possible improprieties, whether in matters of services offered, including the control systems in operation in so financial reporting or otherwise, for appropriate independent far as they relate to the affairs of the Company.
Its staff comprises only six people including the 34
