Governance Corporate continued Governance Report The Board of Directors is committed to the highest Board meetings standards of corporate governance and believes that The Board holds regular scheduled meetings throughout the such standards are critical to overall business integrity year.
Unscheduled supplementary meetings also take place as and performance.
During the year, the Company had nine scheduled meetings and three unscheduled supplementary This report explains how the Company applies the meetings.
A committee of the Board, set up solely to consider principles of the 2006 Combined Code on Corporate and approve technical aspects of the Companys Rights Issue, Governance the Code.
met on three further occasions during the year.
Board of Directors The Board continually monitors the development of the Groups The Directors consider that the Board effectively leads and strategy and one of its meetings is specifically devoted to this.
The powers of the Directors are set out Comprehensive papers are presented to, and discussed by, in the Companys Articles of Association Articles, which are the Board during this review.
During the year, the Board available on the Companys website.
To accommodate recent undertook a full review of the Groups overall strategy with the changes in company law, the Company adopted a new set of assistance of an independent external consultant.
Articles at the 2008 Annual General Meeting.
Details of attendance by Directors at Board and committee The Board has a schedule of matters specifically reserved for its meetings during 2008 are set out in the table above.
approval, which is also available for inspection on the Companys website.
In particular, the Board is responsible for: Directors who were unable to attend specific Board or committee x changes in the capital structure of the Company: meetings reviewed the relevant briefing papers and provided x development of strategy and major policies: their comments to the Chairman of the Board or committee, x the appointment and removal of Directors and the as appropriate.
Company Secretary: Board constitution and appointments x reviewing management performance: The Board is made up of an appropriate balance of Executive x interim dividend payments and recommendation of final and independent Non-Executive Directors.
The roles of Chairman dividends: and Chief Executive are separate.
This established division of x approval of the annual operating plan, the financial statements responsibility is formalised in writing and has been approved and major acquisitions and disposals: by the Board.
x the Groups corporate responsibility arrangements including health, safety and environmental matters: The Non-Executive Directors play a key governance role and x the Groups corporate governance and system of internal bring an external dimension to the Boards deliberations through control: and their range of knowledge, experience and insight from other x matters not in the ordinary course of business.
As part of its annual review of corporate governance, the Board considered the independence of each Non-Executive The Chairman and each Non-Executive Director has provided Director other than the Chairman against the criteria specified assurance to the Board that they remain fully committed to their in the Code and determined that each remained independent.
respective roles and can dedicate the necessary amount of time to attend to the Companys affairs.
During the year the Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman, met independently of management on a regular basis.
2008 Board and committee meetings attendance Corporate A formal, rigorous and transparent process is followed during Audit Remuneration Nominations Responsibility the selection and subsequent appointment of new Directors to Board Committee Committee Committee Committee the Board.
This process is described in the section on the Number of Nominations Committee on page 40.
On 14 July 2008, Mark meetings 12 4 5 3 4 Hanafin was appointed to the Board as Managing Director, Roger Carr 12 4 3 Centrica Energy and Europe and he will be seeking reappointment Sam Laidlaw 12 3 4 as a Director of the Company at the 2009 Annual General Meeting Phil Bentley 12 4 AGM.
Mark Hanafin replaced Jake Ulrich, who resigned from the i Board on 12 May 2008.
On 26 February 2009, the Chairman Mark Hanafin 7 announced a number of changes to the composition of the Board.
Nick Luff 12 Chris Weston, who is currently Managing Director of British Gas ii Jake Ulrich 3 Services will be appointed to the Board on 1 July 2009 and will Helen Alexander 11 4 5 2 assume responsibility for the Companys North American business Mary Francis 12 4 5 3 4 following Deryk Kings retirement.
Chris Weston will therefore seek Andrew Mackenzie 11 3 5 3 4 reappointment to the Board at the 2010 Annual General Meeting.
Paul Rayner 11 4 3 2 Phil Bentley will assume responsibility for the newly combined British Gas business and will remain a member of the Board.
Paul Paul Walsh 7 3 2 1 Walsh, who has served as a Non-Executive Director since March i Mark Hanafin joined the Board on 14 July 2008.
2003, will retire from the Board at the conclusion of the AGM.
ii Jake Ulrich resigned from the Board on 12 May 2008.
A search for a suitable replacement has commenced.
indd 38 1 10 3 09 15:47:13 0 3 09 15:47:13 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, the Board The evaluation report concluded that the Board and its considered and authorised each Directors reported actual and committees continue to operate effectively although a small potential conflicts of interest during the year.
Each Director number of actions and improvements were identified.
In particular, abstained from approval of their own reported conflicts.
The Board the Board identified the following enhancements, which will be will continue to monitor and review potential conflicts of interest on incorporated into the future Board programme to ensure that the a regular basis.
operation of the Board and its committees continue to improve: x greater visibility of senior management by the Board: In accordance with the Code and the Companys Articles, x greater focus on global issues and succession in North America: all Directors are subject to reappointment by shareholders at the x site visits: and first AGM following their appointment to the Board and thereafter x post investment reviews.
are subject to reappointment every third year.
Non-Executive Directors are initially appointed for a three-year term and, subject The Chief Executives performance is reviewed regularly by the to review and reappointment by shareholders, can serve up to a Chairman and the Chief Executive reviews the performance of maximum of three such terms.
Upon the recommendation of the the other Executive Directors.
In addition, the Remuneration Nominations Committee, Mark Hanafin, Sam Laidlaw and Andrew Committee assesses the performance of the Executive Directors Mackenzie will be proposed for reappointment at the 2009 AGM, in connection with its determination of senior management each to serve a three-year term.
The Code states that any length remuneration levels as explained in the Remuneration Report on of service beyond six years for a Non-Executive Director should be pages 44 to 55. subject to particularly rigorous review and should take into account The Board and its committees will continue to review critically the need for progressive refreshing of the Board.
In view of this, their procedures, effectiveness and development throughout the Helen Alexander, who joined the Board in January 2003, is and year ahead.
will in future seek reappointment to the Board on an annual basis.
Board development Full details of Directors service contracts, emoluments and All new Directors appointed to the Board receive a comprehensive share interests are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages induction briefing tailored to meet their individual needs.
Directors biographies including their Board committee development and training is provided to Directors at Board membership are set out on pages 36 and 37. meetings and, where appropriate, committee meetings.
During the Directors indemnities and insurance year, Directors received regular updates and presentations on In accordance with the Articles, the Company has granted a deed changes and developments to the business, and to the legislative of indemnity, to the extent permitted by law, to each Director and and regulatory environments in which the Group operates.
the General Counsel & Company Secretary.
The Company also In particular, the Board was briefed on the following key issues maintains directors and officers liability insurance for its Directors during 2008: and officers.
x Companies Act 2006 provisions especially Directors conflicts Board evaluation of interest: The Board conducted a formal evaluation of its own performance x commodity market and hedging strategy: and that of its committees and individual Directors.
The evaluation x health, safety and environmental developments: was carried out with the assistance of an independent external x tax strategy and governance: and facilitator, Egon Zehnder International, in respect of the year ended x smart metering and meter reading developments.
The Directors have full access to the advice and services of the The 2008 Board evaluation process followed up on the previous General Counsel & Company Secretary.
They also have the option years effectiveness review and the Board considered whether to seek independent professional advice in respect of their duties sufficient improvements had been made on the identified issues.
The 2008 Board evaluation focused on the following key themes: Board committees board structure, organisation and dynamics: efficiency and The Board has delegated authority to its committees to carry out effectiveness: strategic review and debate: risk management and certain tasks as defined in each committees respective terms of governance: review of specific decisions made in 2008: business reference.
During the year, the Board conducted a comprehensive performance: people: and key issues for 2009. review of each of its committees terms of reference against best practice and approved revised terms.
The written terms of The facilitator carried out the evaluation process using a reference for the Audit, Remuneration, Nominations, Corporate comprehensive questionnaire, which was considered and Responsibility, Executive and Disclosure Committees are available completed by each of the Directors and the General Counsel & on the Companys website and hard copies are available Company Secretary.
In addition to this, the Senior Independent upon request.
Director chaired a meeting of the independent Non-Executive Directors in the absence of the Chairman to appraise the All of the independent Non-Executive Directors are members of Chairmans individual performance.
the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees.
The Board considers that this membership structure provides a consistency A consolidated report of the output from the evaluation exercise of membership within each of these principal committees and was prepared by the facilitator and this was presented to the avoids undue reliance on particular members.
Minutes of Board for review and consideration.
committee meetings are made available to all Directors on a timely 39 C Centrica p38-42.
indd 39 1 10 3 09 15:47:13 0 3 09 15:47:13 Governance Corporate continued Governance Report continued basis and the chairmen of each of the Audit, Remuneration, The Committee considered a number of key issues during the year Nominations and Corporate Responsibility Committees provide and in particular reviewed: updates to the Board at subsequent Board meetings.
x British Gas Residential revenue recognition: x risk profile of the Groups business model and risk mitigation: A chart setting out the Companys Board and Executive x information technology general controls: Committee structure is set out below.
x management of commodity risk: and Details of each committee, including membership, are set out x ongoing compliance with the undertakings in respect in the following committee reports: of Centrica Storage Limited.
Audit Committee The Board has approved policies that restrict the types of nonThe members of the Audit Committee are Paul Rayner Chairman, audit work that can be undertaken by the external auditors and Helen Alexander, Mary Francis, Andrew Mackenzie and Paul restrict the employment by the Group of former employees of the Walsh.
In accordance with the Code, Paul Rayner is identified as external auditors.
The award of non-audit work, within categories having recent and relevant financial experience.
The Board has that the external auditors are permitted to carry out under the determined that each member of the Committee is independent Board-approved policies, is subject to pre-clearance by the Audit and that the membership meets the requirements of the Code.
Committee if the fee exceeds specified thresholds.
The Groups policy to seek competitive tenders for all major consultancies and The key function of the Audit Committee is to review the advisory projects is set out in note 7 to the Financial Statements effectiveness of the Companys financial reporting and internal on page 84.
In addition, the Committee was provided with reports control policies together with the procedures for the identification, of all non-audit assignments awarded to the external auditors and, assessment and reporting of risks.
In accordance with its terms of on a regular basis, a full breakdown of non-audit fees incurred reference, the Committee is authorised by the Board to: during the year.
x monitor the integrity of the Companys financial statements and any formal announcements relating to the Companys financial In accordance with International Standard on Auditing UK & performance, including a review of the significant financial Ireland 260 and Ethical Statement 1 issued by the Accounting reporting judgements contained within them: Practices Board, and as a matter of best practice, the external x review the Companys internal financial controls, internal control auditors have confirmed their independence as auditors of the and risk management systems: Company, in a letter addressed to the Directors.
x monitor and review the effectiveness of the Companys internal Remuneration Committee audit function: A report detailing the composition, responsibilities and work x establish and oversee the Companys relationship with carried out by the Remuneration Committee during the year, the external auditors, including monitoring their independent including an explanation of how it applies the principles of the status: and Code in setting Executive Directors remuneration, is included x establish and oversee appropriate whistleblowing and fraud within the Remuneration Report on pages 44 to 55. prevention arrangements within the Company.
Nominations Committee During the year the Committee met on four occasions.
At each of The members of the Nominations Committee are Roger Carr these scheduled meetings, the Committee met privately with the Chairman, Helen Alexander, Mary Francis, Sam Laidlaw, external auditors, and separately with the Head of Internal Audit.
Andrew Mackenzie, Paul Rayner and Paul Walsh.
The Committees membership is comprised of a majority of The Committee received regular comprehensive reports from the independent Non-Executive Directors.
The primary Head of Internal Audit, senior management and the external responsibilities of the Committee are to: auditors,  LLP.
The Committee also x make appropriate recommendations to the Board for the requested clear objectives, timescale and achievement milestones appointment of replacement or additional Directors: against which performance could be clearly measured in respect x devise and consider succession planning arrangements of all ongoing issues.
for Directors and other senior executives: and Governance structure Board of Directors Corporate Audit Remuneration Executive Nominations Disclosure Responsibility Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Group Risk Group Financial Health, Safety Investment Management Risk Management and Environment Committee Committee Committee Committee 40 C Centrica p38-42.
indd 40 1 10 3 09 15:47:13 0 3 09 15:47:13 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 x regularly review the structure, size and composition of the Relations with shareholders Board and make recommendations to the Board with regard The Board recognises the importance of maintaining an effective to any proposed changes.
investor relations and communication programme as part of its ongoing relationship with the Companys shareholders.
The Board The Committee met on three occasions during the year and is proactive in obtaining an understanding of shareholder views on considered the proposed appointment of Mark Hanafin as a number of key matters affecting the Group.
Managing Director, Centrica Energy and Europe to replace Jake Ulrich, who resigned from the Board on 12 May 2008.
The Chief Executive and Group Finance Director held regular meetings with the Companys major shareholders during the year.
In making its appointment recommendations to the Board, the A key topic of discussion during the year was the Companys Committee reviews the overall balance of skills, knowledge and Rights Issue, which was succesfully completed during December experience on the Board against current and future requirements 2008, following approval at the Companys General Meeting held of the Company and, as appropriate, draws up a list of required on 21 November 2008. candidate attributes.
The Chairman and the Senior Independent Director attended the In addition to this appointment, the Committee considered: meetings at which the annual and interim results were presented x the reappointment of Directors retiring by rotation at the to major investors and analysts.
The Chairman also met a number 2008 Annual General Meeting: of major institutional shareholders during the year to gain a firstx Board and senior management succession planning: and hand understanding of their concerns and key issues.
x Board constitution changes and appointments.
The Companys AGM provides all shareholders with the Corporate Responsibility Committee opportunity to further develop their understanding of the Company The members of the Corporate Responsibility Committee are and to ask questions of the full Board on the matters put to the Mary Francis Chairman, Phil Bentley, Deryk King, Sam Laidlaw, meeting, including the Annual Report.
At the AGM, the Chairman Andrew Mackenzie and Catherine May.
and the Chief Executive present a review of the Groups business.
A report detailing the work carried out by the Corporate A poll is conducted on each resolution at all Company General Responsibility Committee during the year is included within the Meetings.
All shareholders also have the opportunity to cast their Corporate Responsibility section on pages 24 to 28. votes in respect of proposed resolutions by proxy, either electronically or by post.
Executive Committee The members of the Executive Committee are the Executive Mary Francis, the Senior Independent Director, is available to Directors and those key senior managers whose biographical shareholders if they have concerns that contact through the details are set out on pages 36 and 37.
Sam Laidlaw is Chairman normal channels has either failed to resolve or is deemed of the Committee.
The Committee is responsible for the day-to-day management Formal reports of investor feedback are presented to the Board of the Groups operations within the limits set out in the Groups at each Board meeting.
delegation of authority, which was reviewed and approved by Centricas website contains up-to-date information for the Board during the year.
The Committee also has a schedule shareholders and other interested parties including share price of matters specifically reserved for its approval.
information, news releases, speeches from the AGM, The Committee has delegated certain tasks to the following presentations to the investment community and a section on sub-committees: shareholder services.
The Companys Annual Report and Annual x the Group Risk Management Committee: Review are also published on the website and these are available x the Group Financial Risk Management Committee: to shareholders from the date of publication.
x the Health, Safety and Environment Committee: and Compliance statement x the Investment Committee.
Throughout the year ended 31 December 2008, the Company fully During the year, the Committee conducted a thorough review complied with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Code with of the terms of reference in respect of the Group Financial Risk the exception of provision A.
4.3 which currently states that no Management, Health, Safety and Environment, and Investment individual should be appointed to a second chairmanship of a Committees and approved revised terms.
In July 2008, the Chairman of the Company was appointed as chairman of Cadbury plc following its demerger Disclosure Committee from Cadbury Schweppes plc.
The Board believes that the The members of the Disclosure Committee are Sam Laidlaw Chairmans commitment and contribution to the Company will not Chairman, Nick Luff and Grant Dawson.
suffer as a consequence of this appointment.
This provision has The Committee met on a number of occasions during the year been removed from the new 2008 Combined Code, which the and is responsible for implementing and monitoring systems and Company will report against in 2010. controls in respect of the management and disclosure of inside Risk management and internal control information.
The Committee is also responsible for ensuring that The Board regards the identification and assessment of risks, all regulatory announcements, shareholder circulars, prospectuses together with the mitigating internal controls, to be fundamental to and other documents issued by the Company comply with any achieving the Groups strategic objectives.
It either directly or applicable legal or regulatory requirements.
through its committees, sets objectives, performance targets and 41 C Centrica p38-42.
indd 41 1 10 3 09 15:47:13 0 3 09 15:47:13 Governance Corporate continued Governance Report continued policies for management of key risks facing the Group.
The Board concern basis in preparing the Financial Statements.
Further details has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control of the Groups liquidity position and going concern review are and risk management which is designed to manage rather than provided in note 4 of the Financial Statements on page 78. eliminate the risk of failure to achieve the objectives and can Directors responsibility statement provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against The Directors are responsible for preparing, in respect of each material misstatement or loss.
financial year, the Annual Report and Group Financial Statements.
Across the Group, each business has a Risk Management They are also responsible for ensuring that the Financial Committee that seeks to identify, assess and advise on the Statements give a true and fair view and that they have been management of risks.
These assessments are reported to the properly prepared in accordance with applicable law and Group Risk Management Committee to develop the Companys International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted overall risk profile including those risks that might affect the by the European Union.
Where significant risks have been The Group Financial Statements have been prepared in identified, a control infrastructure has been established to ensure accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and IFRS pursuant to day-to-day monitoring and management of risks.
The Centrica Article 4 of the IAS Regulations.
The parent Company Financial Executive Committee reviews the risks identified by the Group Risk Statements have been prepared in accordance with the Management Committee at its monthly meetings to assure itself Companies Act 1985 and United Kingdom Generally Accepted that the significant risks facing the Group are being managed Accounting Practice.
The Directors Report and the Remuneration appropriately.
Centrica Storage Limited, which is subject to Report have been prepared in accordance with the Companies undertakings given to the Secretary of State for Business, Act 1985 and the UK Listing Authority Listing Rules.
Enterprise and Regulatory Reform, operates separately but to the same standards of internal control and risk management as the In preparing the Financial Statements the Directors are rest of the Group.
The processes of newly-acquired companies required to: are integrated with those of the Group.
x select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: At each of its four meetings in 2008, the Audit Committee received x make judgements and estimates that are reasonable a Group Risk Report providing an assessment of the key risks and prudent: facing the Company including the adequacy of the associated x state whether applicable accounting standards have been controls.
Details of the principal risks and uncertainties are set out followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and on pages 31 to 34 of this report.
In addition, the Audit Committee explained in the Financial Statements: and is provided with the results of internal audit reviews conducted by x prepare the Financial Statements on the going concern the internal audit function according to a plan approved by the basis, unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group Committee.
These reports, supplemented by management will continue in business.
presentations, enable the Audit Committee to track a number of issues, monitor performance against objectives and ensure that The Directors confirm that they have complied with the above necessary actions are taken to remedy any significant failings or requirements in preparing the Financial Statements.
The Directors weaknesses identified from those reports.
The Chairman of the also confirm that the Directors Report contained within the Annual Audit Committee reported the issues discussed and conclusions Report includes a fair review of the development and performance reached at the following Board meeting.
of the business and the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
The Boards review of the system of internal control A process of hierarchical self-certification has been established The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting throughout the Group whereby the effectiveness of internal records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the controls and compliance with Group business principles and financial position of the Company and the Group and enable policies, are assessed.
In 2008 the self-certification process was them to ensure that the Financial Statements and the Directors completed at half year and full year ends.
The results of the annual Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They process, together with the conclusions of the internal reviews by are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company Internal Audit, informs the annual assessment performed by the and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the Audit Committee.
prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Board, with the advice of the Audit Committee, has reviewed Disclosure of information to auditors the effectiveness of the system of internal control, for the period Each of the Directors who held office at the date of approval from 1 January 2008 to the date of this report, and is satisfied that of this Directors Report confirm that: so far as they are aware, the Group complies with the Turnbull Guidance.
The Board will there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys continue routinely to challenge management in order to ensure auditors are unaware: and they have taken all steps that they that the system of internal control is constantly improving.
ought to have taken as Directors to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys Going concern auditors are aware of that information.
After making enquiries, the Board has a reasonable expectation that the parent Company and the Group as a whole has adequate The Company has not entered into an auditor liability limitation resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable agreement with its auditors during the year.
For this reason, the Board continues to adopt the going 42 C Centrica p38-42.
