Corporate governance We are committed to operating in accordance with best practice in business integrity, maintaining the highest standards of financial reporting, corporate governance and ethics.
The directors consider that BT has, throughout the year, complied with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the 2006 Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code and has applied the principles of the Code as described in this report.
Business review Financial review Corporate governance Page 11 Page 37 Page 58 58 Board of Directors and Operating Committee 79 Business policies 58 Board of Directors 79 Responsible business 58 Executive directors 79 Political donations 59 Non-executive directors 79 Pension funds 60 Operating Committee 79 Payment of suppliers 60 Board composition and role 79 Financial statements 61 BTs non-executive directors 79 Takeover Directive disclosure 61 Main Board committees 80 Financial instruments 61 New York Stock Exchange 80 Internal control and risk management 62 Report of the Audit Committee 81 US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 62 Introduction 81 Disclosure controls and procedures 62 Committee role 81 Internal control over financial reporting 62 Committee activities 81 Shareholders and Annual General Meeting 63 Report of the Nominating Committee 81 Relations with shareholders 63 Introduction 81 Substantial shareholdings 63 Committee role and activities 81 AGM resolutions 63 Chief Executive succession 82 Authority to purchase shares 63 Board evaluation 64 Report on directors remuneration 64 Remuneration policy not audited 71 Remuneration review audited 78 Directors information 78 Election and re-election 78 Meetings attendance 78 Service agreements 78 Training and information 78 Independent advice 78 Directors and ofcers liability insurance and indemnity 78 Interest of management in certain transactions Report Report of of the the Directors Directors Corporate governance Sir Michael Rake Ben Verwaayen Franois Barrault Hanif Lalani Ian Livingston Chairman Executive directors............................................................................................................................................................. Francois Barrault Board of Directors and Operating Committee a Chief Executive, BT Global Services Board of Directors Francois Barrault was appointed to the Board and became Chief Sir Michael Rake Executive, BT Global Services on 24 April 2007.
He joined BT in c, d, e, f Chairman April 2004 as President BT International, BT Global Services.
Sir Michael was appointed to the Board as Chairman on Francois was formerly president, Lucent Technologies and 26 September 2007.
He chairs the Nominating Committee and previously held other roles within Lucent including president and the Committee for Responsible and Sustainable Business and is CEO Mobility International, and president and CEO Europe, a member of the Remuneration Committee and the Pension Middle East and Africa EMEA.
Before this, Francois worked for Scheme Performance Review Group.
He was formerly chairman Ascend Communications where he held the position of senior of KPMG International from 2002 to 2007, and previously held vice-president, EMEA and International until its acquisition by other roles in KPMG from 1972.
He previously held executive positions with IBM, He is chairman of the UK Commission for Employment and Computervision Prime and Stratus.
He is a non-executive Skills, and a director of Barclays, McGraw Hill and the Financial director of eServGlobal an Australian corporation.
Sir Michaels appointments include vicenational, he is aged 47. president of the RNIB, member of the board of the TransAtlantic Business Dialogue, member of the CBI International Advisory Hanif Lalani OBE a, f Board, the Chartered Management Institute and BERRs US UK Group Finance Director Regulatory Taskforce.
Hanif Lalani was appointed to the Board on 7 February 2005 as A Chartered Accountant, he was knighted in 2007 for his Group Finance Director.
He was formerly Chief Financial officer services to the accountancy profession.
Since joining BT in 1983, he has held a number of positions, including Chief Executive of BT Northern Executive directors Ireland and Managing Director BT Regions.
Hanif was also Ben Verwaayen chairman of OCEAN Communications BTs subsidiary in the a Chief Executive steps down as Chief Executive on 31 May and Republic of Ireland.
He was awarded the OBE in 2003 for as a director on 30 June 2008 services to business in Northern Ireland.
He is a Chartered Ben Verwaayen was appointed to the Board on 14 January 2002 Management Accountant.
Aged 46. and became Chief Executive on 1 February 2002.
He chairs the Operating Committee.
Ian Livingston a Ben was formerly vice-chairman of the management board of Chief Executive, BT Retail becomes Chief Executive, BT Group Lucent Technologies in the US from October 1999.
He joined on 1 June 2008 Lucent in September 1997 as executive vice-president Ian Livingston was appointed as Chief Executive of BT Retail on international and became chief operating officer the following 7 February 2005.
He was formerly Group Finance Director from month.
Prior to joining Lucent, Ben worked for KPN in the April 2002.
Prior to joining BT, he was group finance director of Netherlands for nine years as president and managing director of Dixons Group from 1997.
He joined Dixons in 1991 after its telecoms subsidiary, PTT Telecom.
From 1975 to 1988, he working for 3i Group and Bank of America International.
His worked for ITT in Europe.
In 2006, he was created an officer of experience at Dixons spanned a number of operational and the Order of Orange-Nassau and appointed a Chevalier fide la financial roles, both in the UK and overseas.
Ian was also a nonLegion dHonneur.
He was appointed an honorary KBE in 2007 executive director of Ladbrokes formerly Hilton Group and a in recognition of his services to the communications industry.
He director of Freeserve from its inception.
He is a non-executive is a non-executive director of UPS a US corporation.
58 BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F Maarten van den Bergh Matti Alahuhta Clay Brendish Eric Daniels Patricia Hewitt Phil Hodkinson Deborah Lathen Carl Symon Non-executive directors............................................................................................................................................................. Non-executive directors and chief executive of Zona Financiera from 2000 to 2001 Maarten van den Bergh before joining Lloyds TSB Group.
A US National, he is aged 56. b, c, d, f Deputy Chairman b, f Maarten van den Bergh was appointed to the Board on Rt Hon Patricia Hewitt MP 1 September 2000.
He was appointed Deputy Chairman on Patricia Hewitt was appointed to the Board on 24 March 2008.
He chairs the Remuneration Committee and the Labour MP for Leicester West, she was Secretary of State for Pension Scheme Performance Review Group.
He is the senior Health from 2005 to 2007 and previously for Trade and Industry independent director.
He is chairman of Akzo Nobel Supervisory and Cabinet Minister for Women from 2001 to 2005.
Before Board and a non-executive director of British Airways and Royal entering Parliament in 1997, she was director of research EMEA Dutch Shell, and former chairman of Lloyds TSB Group.
at Andersen Consulting now Accenture and deputy director of Prior to his retirement in July 2000, Maarten was president of the Institute for Public Policy Research.
Patricia is a senior the Royal Dutch Petroleum Company and vice-chairman of its adviser to Cinven and a special consultant to Alliance Boots.
A committee of managing directors from July 1998, having been British and Australian dual national, she is aged 59. appointed a managing director of the Royal Dutch Shell Group b, d, e, f of companies in July 1992.
A Dutch national, he is aged 66.
Phil Hodkinson Phil Hodkinson was appointed to the Board on 1 February 2006. c Matti Alahuhta He chairs the Audit Committee.
A Fellow of the Institute of Matti Alahuhta was appointed to the Board on 1 February 2006.
Actuaries, he was formerly group finance director of HBOS, He has been president of Kone Corporation since 2005, chairman of Insight Investment, Clerical Medical Investment president and CEO since 2006 and a director since 2003.
He was Group, Halifax Financial Services and the HBOS Foundation, and formerly at Nokia Corporation for more than 20 years, where his previously chief executive of Zurich Life and Eagle Star Life.
most recent roles were executive vice-president and chief Phil is a non-executive director of Business in the Community strategy officer, president mobile phones and president and Travelex, and a trustee of Christian Aid.
c, e Matti is foundation board chairman of the International Deborah Lathen Institute for Management Development IMD, a non-executive .
director of UPM-Kymmene Corporation, a member of the Board  of Helsinki University of Technology and chairman of the ,  Centennial Foundation of the Finland Technology Industries.
A  Finnish national, he is aged 55. companies since2001.
  FCC aschiefoftheCable b, d, e Clayton Brendish  Clay Brendish was appointed to the Board on 1 September , .
He is non-executive chairman of Anite, Close Beacon PriortojoiningtheFCC,  Investment Fund and Echo Research and a non-executive  director of Herald Investment Trust.
He is also a trustee of  Economist Newspapers and the Foundation for Liver Research.
Prior to his retirement in May 2001, Clay was executive deputy b, c, g chairman of CMG having joined the board when it acquired Carl G Symon Admiral.
Clay was co-founder and executive chairman of Carl Symon was appointed to the Board on 14 January 2002, Admiral, incorporated in 1979.
He also acted as an adviser to and was appointed chairman of the Equality of Access Board the Government on the efficiency of the Civil Service.
Aged 61. when it became operational on 1 November 2005.
He retired from IBM in May 2001 after a 32-year career, during which he c, d J Eric Daniels held senior executive positions in the US, Canada, Latin America, Eric Daniels was appointed to the Board on 1 April 2008.
He has Asia and Europe, including chairman and chief executive officer been group chief executive of Lloyds TSB Group since 2003 and of IBM UK.
a director since 2001, and was formerly group executive Carl is chairman of HMV Group and Clearswift Systems and a director, UK retail banking.
He worked for Citibank from 1975 to non-executive director of Rexam, and an advisory board 2000 becoming chief operating officer of Citibanks consumer member of Cross Atlantic Capital Partners.
He was formerly a bank, then chairman and CEO of Travelers Life and Annuity non-executive director of Rolls-Royce.
A US national, he is following its merger with Citibank.
After that, Eric was chairman aged 62.
BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 59 Report of the Directors Governance Report of the Directors Corporate governance Andrew Parker Gavin Patterson Company Secretary............................................................................................................................................................. Board composition and role Operating Committee The names and biographical details of the directors are given on Ben Verwaayen Chief Executive to 31 May 2008 pages 58 to 59 in Board of Directors and Operating Committee.
Francois Barrault Chief Executive, BT Global Services Changes to the composition of the Board since 1 April 2007 Hanif Lalani Group Finance Director Ian Livingston Chief Executive, BT Group from 1 June 2008 are set out in the table below: Sally Davis Chief Executive, BT Wholesale Former directors Date of change Gavin Patterson Chief Executive, BT Retail Paul Reynolds 14 September 2007 Sir Christopher Bland 30 September 2007 Andrew Parker Andy Green 12 November 2007 Company Secretary Margaret Jay 13 January 2008 Andrew Parker, formerly General Counsel, BT Retail from 2004, John Nelson 13 January 2008 was appointed Company Secretary on 1 April 2008.
A solicitor, he has worked for BT since 1988 in a number of legal, New directors regulatory and compliance roles.
He is an employer-nominated Francois Barrault 24 April 2007 trustee of the BT Pension Scheme.
Andrew previously worked in Sir Michael Rake 26 September 2007 the City in legal private practice.
Patricia Hewitt 24 March 2008 Eric Daniels 1 April 2008 a, e Gavin Patterson Gavin Patterson 1 June 2008 Chief Executive, BT Retail joins the Board on 1 June 2008 Gavin Patterson joined BT in January 2004 as Managing Ian Livingston becomes Chief Executive, BT Group on 1 June Director, Consumer Division, BT Retail and was appointed Chief 2008.
Ben Verwaayen steps down as Chief Executive on 31 May Executive, BT Retail on 1 May 2008.
Before joining BT, he was 2008 and leaves the Board on 30 June 2008. managing director of the consumer division of Telewest.
Gavin The Board, which operates as a single team, will from 1 July joined Telewest in 1999 and held a number of commercial and 2008 be made up of the part-time Chairman, the Chief marketing roles, after working for Procter & Gamble since 1990.
Executive, three other executive directors and eight nonAged 40. executive directors.
All the non-executive directors during the 2008 financial year met, and continue to meet, the criteria for independence set out in the Combined Code and are therefore Key to membership of Board committees: considered by the Board to be independent.
The Board a Operating considered that the Chairman was independent at the time of b Audit his appointment.
In line with BTs policy, the Board comprised a c Remuneration majority of independent non-executive directors throughout the d Nominating 2008 financial year.
e Responsible and Sustainable Business The Boards main focus is overall strategic direction, f Pension Scheme Performance Review Group development and control.
It approves BTs values, business g Equality of Access Board practice policies, strategic plans, annual budget, capital expenditure and investments budgets, larger capital expenditure proposals and the overall system of internal controls, governance and compliance authorities.
It also oversees controls, operating and financial performance and reviews the risk register.
These responsibilities are set out in a formal statement of the Boards role which is available at www.
com board The Board has agreed the corporate governance framework, including giving authority to the key management committee, the Operating Committee, to make decisions on operational and other matters.
The roles and powers of this Committee are set out below.
The Board normally meets nine times each year.
The Board met ten times during the 2008 financial year.
The roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive are separate.
They are set out in written job descriptions, approved by the Nominating Committee.
As well as chairing the Board, the 60 BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F Chairman consults the non-executive directors, particularly the Main Board committees Deputy Chairman, on corporate governance issues, matters The Operating Committee, the key management committee, considered by the Nominating Committee, which the Chairman meets weekly and is chaired by the Chief Executive.
The other chairs, and the individual performance of the non-executive members are the Group Finance Director and the Chief directors.
The Chairman and the non-executive directors hold Executives of BT Retail, BT Wholesale and BT Global Services.
regular meetings at which they discuss matters without the The Secretary attends all meetings and the Group HR Director executive directors being present.
With the Chief Executive and normally attends the meetings.
The Committee has collective the Secretary, the Chairman ensures the Board is kept properly responsibility for running the groups business.
To do that, it informed, is consulted on all issues reserved to it and that its develops BTs strategy and budget for Board approval, decisions are made in a timely and considered way that enables recommends to the Board capital expenditure and investments the directors to full their duciary duties.
The Chairman ensures budgets, monitors financial, operational and customer quality of that the views of the shareholders are known to the Board and service performance, reviews the risk register, allocates resources considered appropriately.
He represents BT in specified strategic across BT within plans agreed by the Board, plans and delivers and Government relationships, as agreed with the Chief major programmes and reviews the senior talent base and Executive, and generally acts as the bridge between the Board succession plans.
Within BTs corporate governance framework, and the executive team, particularly on BTs broad strategic approved by the Board, the Operating Committee can approve, direction.
The Chairmans other current significant commitments up to limits beyond which Board approval is required, capital are shown in Board of Directors and Operating Committee expenditure, disposals of xed assets, investments and above.
The Chief Executive has final executive responsibility, divestments.
It can delegate these approvals, up to its own reporting to the Board, for the success of the group.
The Secretary manages the provision of timely, accurate and To meet best corporate governance practice, the Audit considered information to the Board for its meetings and, in Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the Nominating consultation with the Chairman and Chief Executive, at other Committee have long been an established part of BTs system of appropriate times.
He recommends to the Chairman and the governance.
Each committee has written terms of reference, Chief Executive, for Board consideration where appropriate, which are available on our website.
The Report of the Audit corporate governance policies and practices and is responsible Committee, the Report of the Nominating Committee and the for communicating and implementing them.
He advises the Report on directors remuneration are on pages 62 to 77.
Board on appropriate procedures for the management of its The Equality of Access Board EAB was established on meetings and duties and the meetings of the main committees, 1 November 2005, as part of the Undertakings given by BT to as well as corporate governance and compliance within the Ofcom following Ofcoms strategic review of group.
The appointment and removal of the Secretary is a telecommunications, to monitor, report and advise BT on BTs matter for the whole Board: for instance, the Board approved compliance with these Undertakings.
The EAB is a committee of the change of Secretary from 1 April 2008. the Board, which formally approved the formation of the EAB and its terms of reference.
As required by the Undertakings, the BTs non-executive directors EAB comprises five members: Carl Symon, a BT non-executive The Nominating Committee has agreed and reviews from time to director and chairman of the EAB: a BT senior executive, time the combination of experience, skills and other attributes Himanshu Raja, Chief Financial officer, BT Design: and three which the non-executive directors as a whole should bring to independent members: Sir Bryan Carsberg, Stephen Pettit and Dr the Board.
This prole is used by the Committee, when the Peter Radley.
The EAB reports regularly to the Board.
Its terms appointment of a non-executive director is being considered, to of reference are available on BTs website.
assess the suitability of candidates.
Short-listed candidates meet The Board also has a Committee for Responsible and the Committee, which then recommends to the Board candidates Sustainable Business and a Pension Scheme Performance for appointment.
The non-executive directors provide a strong, independent element on the Board.
Between them, they bring experience New York Stock Exchange and independent judgment, gained at the most senior levels of BT, as a foreign issuer with American Depositary Shares listed on international business operations and strategy, finance, the New York Stock Exchange NYSE, is obliged to disclose any marketing, technology, communications and political and significant ways in which its corporate governance practices international affairs.
differ from the corporate governance listing standards of the Maarten van den Bergh, the Deputy Chairman, is the senior NYSE.
In this capacity and his capacity as the We have reviewed the NYSEs listing standards and believe chairman of the Remuneration Committee, he meets with BTs that our corporate governance practices are consistent with major institutional shareholders.
He is available to discuss them, with the following exception where we do not meet the matters with these shareholders where it would be inappropriate strict requirements set out in the standards.
These state that for those discussions to take place with either the Chairman or companies must have a nominating corporate governance the Chief Executive.
committee composed entirely of independent directors and with Non-executive directors are appointed initially for three years, written terms of reference which, in addition to identifying subject to three months termination notice from either BT or individuals qualied to become board members, develops and the director.
At the end of the first three years the appointment recommends to the Board a set of corporate governance may be continued by mutual agreement.
Each non-executive principles applicable to the company.
We have a Nominating director is provided, upon appointment, with a letter setting out Committee chaired by the Chairman, Sir Michael Rake, but this the terms of his or her appointment, including membership of does not develop corporate governance principles for the Board committees, the fees to be paid and the time Boards approval.
The Board itself approves the groups overall commitment expected from the director.
The letter also covers system of internal controls, governance and compliance such matters as the condentiality of information and BTs share authorities.
The Board and the Nominating Committee are made dealing code.
up of a majority of independent, non-executive directors.
BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 61 Report of the Directors Governance Report of the Directors Corporate governance The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the US Securities and its views to the Board to assist it in its approval of the results Exchange Commission SEC and NYSE introduced rules on announcements and the Annual Report & Form 20-F. 31 July 2005 requiring us to comply with certain provisions The Committee also reviews the disclosure made by the Chief relating to the Audit Committee.
These include the independence Executive and Group Finance Director during the certication of Audit Committee members and procedures for the treatment process for the annual report about the design and operation of of complaints regarding accounting or auditing matters.
We are internal controls or material weaknesses in the controls, fully compliant with these requirements.
including any fraud involving management or other employees who have a significant role in the companys financial controls.
Report of the Audit Committee The Board, as required by UK law, takes responsibility for all Introduction disclosures in the annual report.
The Audit Committee is chaired by Phil Hodkinson.
The other members are Maarten van den Bergh, Clay Brendish, Patricia Committee activities Hewitt and Carl Symon.
They are all independent non-executive During the year, the Audit Committee monitored and reviewed directors.
With the exception of Patricia Hewitt, who joined the the standards of risk management and internal control over Committee on 8 May 2008, they were members of the financial reporting, including the processes and procedures for Committee throughout the 2008 financial year.
John Nelson ensuring that material business risks, including risks relating to IT stepped down as a member of the Committee on 13 January security, fraud and related matters, are properly identied and 2008 when he retired from the Board.
The Board considers that managed, the effectiveness of internal control, financial the Committees members have broad commercial knowledge reporting, accounting policies and procedures, and BTs and extensive business leadership experience, having held statements on internal controls before they were agreed by the between them various prior roles in major business and Board for the Annual Report.
financial management, treasury and financial function It also reviewed the internal audit function and its relationship supervision and that this constitutes a broad and suitable mix of with the external auditors, including internal audits plans and business, financial management and IT experience.
has reviewed membership of the Committee and is satisfied that It reviewed the arrangements for dealing, in confidence, with members of the Committee have the recent and relevant complaints from employees and others about accounting or financial experience required for the provisions of the Combined financial management impropriety, fraud, poor business practices Code.
It is the opinion of the Board that the Audit Committee and other matters, ensuring that arrangements are in place for includes a member in the person of Phil Hodkinson who is an the proportionate and independent investigation and appropriate audit committee financial expert for the purposes of the US follow up action.
At each of its meetings, it reviewed with the group chief internal auditor and appropriate executives the implementation Committee role and effectiveness of key operational and functional change and The Committees terms of reference are available from the remedial programmes including major contracts and IT Company Secretary and are posted on our website at programmes.
The Committee also set aside time at every www.
com committees The Committee recommends the meeting to seek the views of the internal and external auditors appointment and reappointment of the external auditors and in the absence of executives.
considers their resignation or dismissal, recommending to the In addition to carrying out those regular tasks described Board appropriate action to appoint new auditors.
It ensures above under the Committees terms of reference, the Committee that key partners are rotated at appropriate intervals.
It also carried out its annual consideration of the groups risk discusses with the auditors the scope of their audits before they register process, and reviewed BTs system of internal control, its commence, reviews the results and considers the formal reports accounting systems, IT security and fraud and related matters.
of the auditors and reports the results of those reviews to the Additionally, the Committee has reviewed at each of its Board.
It reviews the auditors performance, including the scope meetings during the 2008 financial year the steps being taken of the audit, and recommends to the Board appropriate within the group with regard to the application of the Sarbanesremuneration.
Oxley Act dealing with internal control over financial reporting.
As a result of regulatory or similar requirements, it may be An independent review of Committee processes, conducted by necessary to employ the external auditors for certain non-audit Egon Zehnder, assessed performance and processes.
In order to safeguard the independence and objectivity of part of the annual Board and Committee evaluation.
Committee the external auditors, the Board has determined policies as to members, and those others consulted, regard the Committee as what non-audit services can be provided by the external effective on both behaviours and processes.
There is a similar auditors and the approval processes related to them.
Under view too of the external audit process, which is regarded as those policies, work of a consultancy nature will not be offered effective, following an external evaluation by questionnaire.
The to the external auditors unless there are clear efficiencies and Committee also reviewed the experience, skills and succession value-added benets to the company.
The overall policies and planning within the groups finance function.
the processes to implement them were reviewed and The Group Finance Director, the Secretary, the chief internal appropriately modied in the light of the provisions of the auditor and the external auditors attend the Committees Sarbanes-Oxley Act relating to non-audit services that external meetings.
The Committee met four times during the 2008 auditors may not perform.
The Audit Committee monitors the financial year.
The papers and minutes of Audit Committee extent of non-audit work being performed by the external meetings are sent to directors who are not members of the auditors and approves any substantive work before it is Committee.
It also monitors the level of non-audit fees paid to the auditors.
The Audit Committee reviews BTs published financial results, the Annual Report & Form 20-F and other published information for statutory and regulatory compliance.
It reports 62 BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F Report of the Nominating Committee Board evaluation Introduction During summer 2007, the Board carried out, through a The Nominating Committee is chaired by the Chairman.
The questionnaire and discussion with directors, its fifth formal other members are the Deputy Chairman, Clay Brendish, Eric evaluation of Board and Committee performance and Daniels and Phil Hodkinson.
Sir Christopher Bland stepped down effectiveness.
The individual performance of directors was also as chairman and a member of the Committee on 25 September evaluated at one-to-one sessions with the Chairman.
The results 2007 and was succeeded by Sir Michael Rake.
John Nelson of that evaluation were considered by the Board in July 2007. stepped down as a member of the Committee on 13 January The directors continued to consider BTs Board processes and 2008 when he retired from the Board.
Clay Brendish and Eric effectiveness to be good.
Key areas highlighted were the need Daniels joined the Committee on 8 May 2008.
Four of its five for a review of the balance between presentation and debate so members are independent non-executive directors.
The Secretary as to increase the amount of time available for discussion, more and, where appropriate, at the invitation of the Chairman, the focused brieng on technology and competitor analysis, and the Chief Executive attend the Committees meetings.
enduring need to pay attention to the amount of paperwork while not compromising quality.
These matters are being Committee role and activities addressed.
The Committees terms of reference are available from the The Nominating Committee considered options for an Company Secretary and are posted on our website at independent third party conducting the next and sixth formal www.
com committees The Nominating Committee ensures an evaluation in 2008, and following Board discussion this was appropriate balance of experience and abilities on the Board, subsequently carried out by Egon Zehnder during February-April using this evaluation to review the size and composition of the 2008 by way both of questionnaire and interview.
The results of Board and to recommend any proposed changes to the Board.
the work are currently being considered via Board reviews at the It keeps under review the need for appointments to the time of writing.
Board, prepares a description of the specic experience and skills Separate questionnaires about Audit Committee effectiveness needed for an appointment, considers candidates who are put were also completed and the results are reviewed in the Report forward by the directors and external consultants, and of the Audit Committee.
recommends to the Board the appointments of all directors after having met short-listed candidates.
It also reviews the time required from the Deputy Chairman and other non-executive directors to carry out their duties and advises the Board on succession planning for the positions of the Chairman, Deputy Chairman, Chief Executive and all other Board appointments.
The process for the appointment of Sir Michael Rake as Chairman was detailed in last years Annual Report & Form 20-F.
The Committee met six times during the 2008 financial year.
It reviewed Board succession, the size, prole and composition of the Board, and the Board and Committee evaluation questionnaire and process.
Under the leadership of the Chairman, the Committee, supported by the Committees appointed search consultants, MWM, conducted a thorough international search process to identify candidates for the position of Chief Executive and consequently of CEO BT Retail, and recommended to the Board the appointments of Ian Livingston and Gavin Patterson respectively.
The Committee also reviewed and recommended to the Board, following rigorous review, the continued appointment of Carl Symon for a further three years, and the new appointments of Patricia Hewitt and Eric Daniels.
The minutes of Nominating Committee meetings are sent, at their request, to directors who are not members of the Committee, where appropriate to do so.
Chief Executive succession The Board approved the recommendation of the Nominating Committee to appoint Ian Livingston as Chief Executive, in succession to Ben Verwaayen, and consequently Gavin Patterson in succession to Ian Livingston as CEO BT Retail, as announced on 8 April 2008.
Ian Livingston becomes Chief Executive and Gavin Patterson joins the Board on 1 June 2008.
Ben Verwaayen steps down as a director on 30 June 2008.
BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 63 Report of the Directors Governance Report of the Directors Corporate governance Report on directors remuneration directors.
"The Deputy Chairman, Maarten van den Bergh, has The Report on directors remuneration is divided into the been chairman of the Committee since October 2006 and the following sections: other members who served during 2006 07 and 2007 08 were: Sir Michael Rake appointed 26 September 2007 "" "" Remuneration policy not audited Matti Alahuhta i Role of the Remuneration Committee "" ii Remuneration principles Baroness Jay retired 13 January 2008 "" iii Remuneration in 2007 08, 2008 09 and 2009 10 Deborah Lathen iv Other matters "" Executive share ownership Carl Symon "" Pensions Other benets Eric Daniels was appointed as a member of the Committee on Service agreements 8 May 2008."
Outside appointments Non-executive directors letters of appointment In addition, the Chief Executive is invited to attend meetings, Non-executive directors remuneration except when it would be inappropriate for him to be there, for Directors service agreements and contracts of example, when his own remuneration is discussed.
"Nonappointment executive directors who are not members of the Committee are Directors interests entitled to receive the papers discussed at meetings and the Performance graph minutes. """
Remuneration review audited The Committee has received advice during the year from Directors emoluments independent remuneration consultants, Kepler Associates, who Former directors were appointed by the company.
Kepler advises both the Loans Committee and the company and attends Committee meetings Pensions when major remuneration issues are discussed.
They provide no Share options other services to the company.
The Committee also regularly Share awards under long-term incentive plans consults the Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director, the Vesting of outstanding share awards and options Group HR Director, the Director Reward and Employee Relations, Deferred Bonus Plan awards and the Secretary.
Share awards under the Employee Share Investment Plan and Allshare International ii Remuneration principles BTs policy is to reward its senior executives competitively, taking account of the performance of the individual lines of business and the company as a whole, remuneration of other Remuneration policy FTSE 30 companies and the competitive pressures in the global This part of the Report on directors remuneration is not information and communications technology ICT industry.
ICT comparison is increasingly important as BTs revenues from its traditional business have fallen and new wave services, Shareholders will be asked to vote on this Report at generated mainly from networked IT services and broadband, the 2008 AGM.
have been developed to provide revenue growth.
i Role of the Remuneration Committee In order to both recruit and retain key people, base salaries The Remuneration Committee, under delegated authority from are aimed to be broadly consistent with market rates with the the Board, agrees the framework for the remuneration of the remuneration package as a whole basic salary, annual bonus Chairman, the executive directors and certain senior executives.
in cash and deferred shares and the expected value of any This includes the policy for all cash remuneration, executive long-term incentives having the potential to deliver upper share plans, service contracts and termination arrangements.
The quartile rewards only for sustained and excellent performance.
Committee approves changes to the executive share plans and A significant and increasing proportion of the total recommends to the Board any changes which require remuneration package bonuses and long-term incentives is shareholder approval.
The Committee also determines the basis variable and is linked to corporate performance.
The on which awards are granted under the executive share plans to performance targets are reviewed regularly to ensure that they executives reporting to the senior management team.
The Board has reviewed compliance with the Combined Code The Committee is satisfied that the structure for the on reward-related matters and confirms that the company has remuneration of the senior executives does not raise complied with all aspects.
The Chairman, Sir Michael Rake, is a environmental, social and governance risks by inadvertently member of the Committee, in accordance with the provision of motivating irresponsible behaviour.
As members of the Board, all the Combined Code permitting a company chairman to be a Committee members receive and review an annual corporate member of, but not chair, the remuneration committee.
social responsibility report detailing the way in which the The terms of reference of the Committee are available on the company manages social, ethical and environmental issues.
com committees Board committee for responsible and sustainable business, The Committee met four times during 2007 08.
In addition to chaired by Sir Michael Rake, meets three or four times each the Chairman, the members of the Committee are non-executive year.
64 BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F iii Remuneration in 2007 08, 2008 09 and 2009 10 The structure of the remuneration and the changes to be phased in during 2008 09 and 2009 10 are set out below: Structure of remuneration and changes year on year 2007 08 2008 09 2009 10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Base salary increases to align with the increases to align with the increases to align with the market market market Annual bonus Chief Executive target 85% salary target 100% salary target 125% salary 1 maximum 130% salary maximum 200% salary maximum 200% salary Executive directors target 60% salary target 80% salary target 100% salary maximum 110% salary maximum 120% salary maximum 150% salary Deferred bonus in shares Chief Executive 2x cash bonus 1x cash bonus 1x cash bonus 2 Executive directors 75% of cash bonus 75% of cash bonus 75% of cash bonus Incentive shares Chief Executive 2x salary 3x salary 3x salary Executive directors 1x-2x salary 2.5x salary 2.5x salary Retention shares granted for retention none no change Share options none none no change 1 The Chief Executives total bonus cash and deferred shares was subject in 2007 08 to an overall cap of 3x salary.
2 For 2007 08 the deferred bonus for Ian Livingston will have a value of 1x cash bonus.
Note: Under his contract, the Chairman is not entitled to a bonus or an annual grant of share awards or options.
Remuneration in 2007 08 Salaries a retention measure and contributes to the alignment of Salaries are reviewed annually but increases are made only management with the long-term interests of the shareholders.
where the Committee believes the adjustments are appropriate The deferred awards for Ben Verwaayen, Hanif Lalani, Ian to reect the contribution of the individual, increased Livingston and Francois Barrault at the end of the financial year responsibilities and market conditions.
In 2007 08, salaries of all 2007 08 are contained in the table on page 76. the executive directors were increased to bring the overall packages more into line with the market.
Changes for 2008 09 and 2009 10 The Committee has reviewed the senior executive remuneration Annual bonus package.
BT has enjoyed a period of relative success over recent The annual bonus is linked to corporate performance targets set years and its total shareholder return for the past three to four at the beginning of the financial year.
In 2007 08, 35% of the year period has tracked the top half of the European telecoms scorecard related to earnings per share EPS, 35% related to companies.
This performance has been delivered despite free cash ow and 30% related to customer service, all of which significant cost pressures and structural changes in the markets support BTs strategy for transformation and growth.
In in which the company operates and the business model has calculating EPS for purposes of the annual bonus, volatile items been restructured to meet these challenges.
which would be reported under IFRS are excluded.
The impact In comparison with the remuneration of executive directors of of market movements in foreign exchange and financial information and communications and technology companies and instruments plus the net finance income relating to the groups the FTSE 30, the remuneration of BTs executive directors was pension liabilities were excluded from the target.
In recent years, the Committee has made The outcome measured against corporate targets in 2007 08 additional grants of deferred and retention shares overlay is set out below: arrangements to both attract and retain key talent.
For 2008 09, the Committee decided to implement over a two-year Earnings per Free cash Customer period, a revised remuneration structure, which would eliminate share - ow - service - weighting weighting weighting Total % the need for overlay arrangements and would provide the 35% of target 35% of target 30% of target of target Committee with more exibility as to the value of long-term................................................................................................................ performance related incentive shares which could be granted.
35 64.4 24.8 124.2 The Committee believes that the new simpler structure would Note: threshold reflects 50% of target: target is 100%: and stretch is 200% provide strong alignment with the interests of the shareholders, would be sufciently competitive to enable the company to The deferred element of the annual bonus is paid in shares attract top talent, increase the proportion of variable under the Deferred Bonus Plan DBP.
The shares vest and are performance-related remuneration and increase the proportion transferred to the executive after three years if still employed by of remuneration dependent upon long-term performance, based the company.
There are no additional performance measures for on comparative shareholder return.
the vesting of deferred share awards.
The Committee considers A number of key investors and the main representative bodies that deferring a part of the annual bonus in this way also acts as were consulted about the new structure.
BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 65 Report of the Directors Governance Report of the Directors Corporate governance Details of the revised package are set out in the table on the Openreach executives participate in the BT all-employee share previous page.
The revised salaries for each of the executive plans on the same terms as other BT employees.
directors are given on page 72.
None of the executive directors participates in the Openreach incentive plans.
Annual bonus For annual bonuses, the structure of the corporate scorecard has Long-term incentives been revised.
10% of the weighting will be allocated to a new The BT Equity Incentive Portfolio comprises three elements: behavioural values measure which will relate to the contribution share options, incentive shares and retention shares.
Incentive of each individual to the companys strategic objectives, in shares were used for equity participation in the financial year particular, demonstration of the companys values, including 2007 08.
Retention shares are used by exception only, and each individuals contribution to the companys environmental, principally as a recruitment or retention tool.
social and governance ESG objectives.
The Chairman and, Normally, awards vest and options become exercisable only if where appropriate, the Chief Executive, will assess such ESG a predetermined performance target has been achieved.
The performance whilst making an overall assessment of an performance measure for outstanding awards and options is TSR, individuals broader contribution to the companys strategy, calculated on a common currency basis and compared with a values and governance objectives.
This assessment will be relevant basket of companies.
TSR for these purposes was reviewed and overseen by the Committee.
The EPS and cash calculated by the law rm, Allen & Overy.
TSR links the reward ow elements will each be 30% and customer service will given to directors with the performance of BT against other remain at 30%.
For grants in the financial year 2003 04, the As in the previous two financial years, for purposes of comparator group was the FTSE 100 at 1 April 2003.
For grants calculating EPS for the scorecard, volatile items reported under in the financial year 2005 06, 2006 07 and 2007 08, TSR was IFRS will be excluded from the target.
measured against a group of companies from the European The Committee believes that the group performance targets Telecom Sector.
This comparator group was chosen because the for the financial year 2008 09 are very challenging.
companies face similar market sector challenges to BT and are within the sector in which BT competes for capital.
Proportion of xed and variable remuneration At 1 April 2007, the group contained the following The targeted composition of each executive directors companies: performance-related remuneration, excluding pension, for the financial year 2008 09, comprising annual and long-term BT Group Swisscom Belgacom Telecom Italia incentives, will be: Cosmote Mobile Telecommunications Telecom Italia RNC Fixed Deutsche Telekom Telefonica base pay Variable Total............................................................................................................ France Telecom Telekom Austria Hellenic Telecom Telenor Chief Executive 24% 76% 100% Portugal Telecom TeliaSonera Executive directors 30% 70% 100% Royal KPN Vodafone Group Total remuneration comprises base salary, annual bonus cash and deferred shares and the expected value of awards under All of the above companies were members of the group as at BTs long-term incentive plans, excluding retention shares.
Telecom Moviles was also a member at that date.
All the above companies were members of the comparator Recent executive changes group at 1 April 2005.
Cable & Wireless, 02 and TDC were also Ben Verwaayen will step down as Chief Executive on 31 May members of the group on 1 April 2005.
2008 and will cease to be a director on 30 June 2008.
He will The TSR for a company is calculated by comparing the return receive a termination payment of 700,000 in accordance with index RI at the beginning of the performance period to the RI the terms of his contract and a bonus of 300,000 for his at the end of the period.
The RI is the TSR value of a company contribution in 2008 09.
His awards under the Deferred Bonus measured on a daily basis, as tracked by independent analysts, Plan will vest on cessation of employment.
It uses the ofcial closing prices for a companys incentive share awards will vest, subject to the companys total shares, adjusted for all capital actions and dividends paid.
The shareholder return TSR performance up to 30 June 2008, on initial RI is determined by calculating the average RI value taken cessation of employment.
The 2007 incentive share award will, daily over the six months prior to the beginning of the in addition, be pro-rated to reect his service during the performance period, the end value is determined by calculating performance period.
Ian Livingston will be Chief Executive from the average RI over the six months up to the end of the 1 June 2008.
He will receive a salary of 850,000 per annum performance period.
This mitigates the effects of share price and bonus and share awards as described above.
A positive change between the initial and end values has been appointed Chief Executive of BT Retail and will join the indicates growth in TSR.
Incentive shares Openreach For the financial year 2007 08, the Committee granted incentive In the Undertakings given to Ofcom on 22 September 2005, BT shares to executive directors, senior executives, key managers agreed that the incentive elements of the remuneration of and professionals.
executives within Openreach should be linked to Openreach performance rather than BT targets or share price.
These incentives cannot be provided by way of BT shares.
As a result, special arrangements were put in place for Openreach executives in 2005 06.
The annual bonus is linked to Openreach targets and long-term incentives are paid in cash instead of shares.
66 BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F Other share plans Awards of incentive shares vest after a performance period of three years, if the participant is still employed by BT and a The executive directors and the Chairman may participate in BTs performance measure has been met.
Dividends paid on the all-employee share plans, the Employee Sharesave Scheme, shares during the three-year period are reinvested in further Employee Share Investment Plan and Allshare International, on shares and added to the awards.
For awards of incentive shares the same basis as other employees.
There are further details of granted in the financial years, 2005 06, 2006 07 and 2007 08, these plans in note 31 to the accounts.
TSR at the end of the three-year period must be in the upper quartile relative to the comparator group for all of the shares to Dilution vest.
At median, 25% of the shares under award will vest.
Below Treasury shares are generally used to satisfy the exercise of share that point, none of the shares under award will vest.
The options, the grant of share awards and for the all-employee proportion of shares that vests reduces on a straight-line basis share plans.
At the end of the 2007 08 financial year, treasury between the upper quartile and median positions.
There is no shares equivalent to 4.9% of the issued share capital would be re-testing, and no matching shares are offered to any executive required for these purposes.
It is estimated that treasury shares equivalent to approximately 2% of the issued share capital will on vesting of the incentive shares.
At 31 March 2008, the TSR for the 2005 06 awards was at be required for all the employee share plans in 2008 09. median against the comparator group of 19 companies.
As a iv Other matters result, 25% of the share awards will vest in May 2008.
The details of incentive share awards held by Ben Verwaayen, Executive share ownership Francois Barrault, Hanif Lalani and Ian Livingston at the end of The Committee believes that the interests of the executive the financial year 2007 08 are contained in the table on directors should be closely aligned with those of shareholders.
The deferred and incentive shares provide considerable alignment.
The directors are encouraged to build up a Share options shareholding in the company over time by retaining shares No share options were granted in 2007 08.
The last grant of which they have received under an executive share plan other share options was in the financial year 2004 05. than shares sold to meet a National Insurance or income tax The price at which shares may be acquired under the Global liability or from a purchase in the market.
The Chief Executive is Share Option Plan GSOP is the market price at the date of required to build up a shareholding of 2x salary and the grant.
Options are exercisable after three years, subject to a remaining directors 1.5x salary.
Progress towards meeting these performance target being met.
The exercise of the options is subject to a TSR measure.
BTs Current shareholdings are set out on page 70.
TSR at the end of the three-year period must be in the upper quartile for all of the options to be exercisable.
At median, 30% Pensions of the options will be exercisable.
Below that point, none of the Those directors and other employees who joined the company options may be exercised.
For options granted in the financial prior to 1 April 2001 are eligible for membership of the BT year 2003 04, TSR had reached 85th position at the first Pension Scheme, which is a dened benefit scheme.
Hanif Lalani measurement relative to the FTSE 100 and the performance was is the only executive director who is a member of the Scheme, re-tested in the financial year 2007 08.
At 31 March 2008, BTs although he has opted out of future pensionable service accrual.
TSR was at 53rd position against the FTSE 100.
As a result, the The executive directors, who joined the company after 1 April options lapsed on that date.
2001 and executive directors who have opted out of future Since June 2007, 58% of the options granted in 2004 05 pensionable service accrual following the pension simplication have been exercisable and there are no further options legislation which came into force on 6 April 2006, receive, as an outstanding.
The benets for executive The details of the options held by Ben Verwaayen, Francois directors who are covered by this are set out on page 72.
This is Barrault, Hanif Lalani and Ian Livingston at the end of the broadly cash neutral for the company.
financial year 2007 08 are contained in the table on page 73.
BT closed the BT Pension Scheme to new members from 1 April 2001.
From this date, provision is generally made on a Retention shares dened contribution basis.
The company agrees to pay a xed Retention shares are granted exceptionally under the Retention percentage of the executives salary each year which can be put Share Plan RSP to individuals with critical skills, as a towards the provision of retirement benets.
Additionally, a recruitment or retention tool.
In some cases, they are granted to lump sum equal to four times salary is payable on death in key employees who have contributed to excellent corporate service.
None of the executive directors are members of the performance to assist retention.
As a result, shares currently dened contribution scheme.
under award are not generally linked to a corporate performance Pension provision for all executives is based on salary alone target.
The length of the retention period before awards vest is bonuses, other elements of pay and long-term incentives are exible although this would normally be three years unless the excluded.
The shares are transferred at the end of the specified period if the individual is still employed by Other benets BT and any performance conditions are met.
Other benets for the Chairman and the senior management Retention shares are used in special circumstances and, in the team include some or all of the following: company car, fuel or financial year 2007 08, 17 awards were granted of which eight driver, personal telecommunications facilities and home security, awards were made for recruitment purposes.
medical and dental cover for the director and immediate family, Details of the awards under the RSP granted to Ian Livingston special life cover, professional subscriptions, and personal tax and Francois Barrault and which vested during the financial year planning and financial counselling.
The company has a 2007 08 are contained in the table on page 75. permanent health insurance policy to provide cover for the Chairman and certain executive directors who may become permanently incapacitated.
BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 67 Report of the Directors Governance Report of the Directors Corporate governance Non-executive directors remuneration Service agreements It is the policy for the Chairman and executive directors to have Eight of the directors on the Board are non-executive directors service agreements providing for one years notice.
It may be who, in accordance with BTs articles of association, cannot necessary on recruitment to offer longer initial periods to new individually vote on their own remuneration.
Non-executive directors from outside BT, or circumstances may make it remuneration is reviewed by the Chairman and the Chief appropriate to offer a longer xed term.
All of the service Executive and discussed and agreed by the Board.
Nonagreements contain provisions dealing with the removal of a executive directors may attend the Board discussion but may not director for poor performance, including in the event of early participate in it.
termination of the contract by BT.
Sir Michael Rake, who The Board reviewed fees for the non-executive directors in replaced Sir Christopher Bland as Chairman, entered into a January 2008. service agreement as a director and Chairman which was The basic fee for non-executive directors is 60,000 per year.
The contracts of the There is an additional fee for membership of a Board committee Chairman, Francois Barrault, Hanif Lalani and Ian Livingston of 5,000 per year and a further 5,000 for chairing a committee, with the exception of the Audit Committee, for entitle them on termination of their contract by BT to payment of salary and the value of benets until the earlier of 12 months which the membership fee is 10,000 and the additional from notice of termination or the director obtaining full-time chairmanship fee is 15,000.
Furthermore, the membership fee employment.
With the changes in the directors contracts for the Remuneration Committee is 10,000 and the additional following the appointment of Ian Livingston as Chief Executive chairmanship fee is 10,000.
Maarten van den Bergh, as Deputy and the appointment of Gavin Patterson as a director, no Chairman and senior independent director, chairman of the director will receive a bonus or other payments on a change of Remuneration Committee and chairman of the Pension Scheme control.
Performance Review Group, receives total fees of 150,000 per When Ben Verwaayen leaves the company on 30 June 2008, year.
Carl Symon receives an annual fee of 70,000 as chairman he will receive a termination payment of 700,000, in of the Equality of Access Board a Board committee, which was accordance with the terms of his contract.
An additional fee of 2,000 per trip is paid to those Outside appointments non-executive directors travelling regularly from overseas to Board meetings on an inter-continental basis.
The Committee believes that there are significant benets, to both the company and the individual, from executive directors To align further the interests of the non-executive directors accepting non-executive directorships of companies outside BT.
with those of shareholders, the companys policy is to encourage The Committee will consider up to two external appointments these directors to purchase, on a voluntary basis, 5,000 of BT of which only one may be to the Board of a major company, shares each year.
The directors are asked to hold these shares for which a director may retain the fees.
Ben Verwaayen as a until they retire from the Board.
This policy is not mandatory.
non-executive director of United Parcel Service UPS, receives No element of non-executive remuneration is performancean annual fee of US$75,000.
In addition, in 2007 he received related.
Non-executive directors do not participate in BTs bonus an annual restricted stock grant of class A common stock with a or employee share plans and are not members of any of the value of US$110,000.
Ian Livingston receives an annual fee of company pension schemes.
25,000 as a non-executive director of Celtic plc and an additional annual fee of 5,000 for chairing the audit committee.
Francois Barrault, as a director of eServGlobal in Australia, receives an annual fee ofE40,660 28,678.
Paul Reynolds, who resigned as a director on 14 September 2007, received an annual fee of 3,200,000 approximately 15,700 as a director of EAccess in Japan.
Andy Green, who resigned as a director on 12 November 2007, received an annual fee of US$60,000, as a director of NAVTEQ in the US.
He also received an annual grant of restricted stock units to the value of US$25,000.
Non-executive directors letters of appointment Non-executive directors have letters of appointment.
They are appointed for an initial period of three years.
During that period, either party can give the other at least three months notice.
At the end of the period the appointment may be continued by mutual agreement.
Further details of appointment arrangements for non-executive directors are set out in Board composition and role on page 60.
The letters of appointment of nonexecutive directors are terminable on notice by the company without compensation.
68 BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F Directors service agreements and contracts of appointment The dates on which directors initial service agreements letters of appointment commenced and the current expiry dates are as follows: Chairman and executive directors Commencement date Expiry date of current service agreement or letter of appointment Sir Michael Rake 26 September 2007 The contract is terminable by the company on 12 months notice and by the director on six months notice.
B Verwaayen 14 January 2002 The contract is terminable by the company on 12 months notice and by the director on six months notice.
The contract will terminate on 30 June 2008. a F Barrault 24 April 2007 The contract is terminable by the company on 12 months notice and H Lalani 7 February 2005 by the director on six months notice. }
b I Livingston 8 April 2002 Sir Christopher Bland 1 May 2001 The contract was extended on 19 February 2007 and terminated on 30 September 2007.
A Green 19 November 2001 The contract was terminable by the company on 12 months notice and by the director on six months notice.
P Reynolds 19 November 2001 The contract was terminable by the company on 12 months notice and by the director on six months notice.
Non-executive directors M van den Bergh 1 September 2000 Letter of appointment was for an initial period of three years.
The appointment was extended for three years in 2003 and extended for a further three years in 2006.
The appointment is terminable by the company or the director on three months notice.
C Brendish 1 September 2002 Letter of appointment was for an initial period of three years.
The appointment was extended for a further three years in 2005 and is terminable by the company or the director on three months notice.
C G Symon 14 January 2002 Letter of appointment was for an initial period of three years.
The appointment was extended for three years in 2005 and extended for a further three years in 2008.
M Alahuhta 1 February 2006 P Hodkinson 1 February 2006 Letters of appointment are for an initial period of three years and are D Lathen 1 February 2007 terminable by the company or the director on three months notice.
J E Daniels 1 April 2008 The appointment is renewable by mutual agreement. }
P Hewitt 24 March 2008 Baroness Jay 14 January 2002 Letters of appointment were for an initial period of three years.
The J F Nelson 14 January 2002 appointments were extended for a further three years.
Terminated on } 13 January 2008. a Francois Barrault also has a management agreement, dated 26 April 2004, which he entered into when he was appointed President, BT International.
This agreement is terminable by the company on 12 months notice and by Francois Barrault on six months notice.
b Ian Livingston has entered into a new contract which will be effective from 1 June 2008 when he becomes Chief Executive.
There are no other service agreements or material contracts, existing or proposed, between the company and the directors.
There are no arrangements or understandings between any director or executive officer and any other person pursuant to which any director or executive officer was selected to serve.
There are no family relationships between the directors.
BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 69 Report of the Directors Governance Report of the Directors Corporate governance Directors interests The interests of directors holding ofce at the end of the year and their families in the companys shares at 31 March 2008 and 1 April 2007, or date of appointment if later, are shown below: No.
They each also had a non-beneficial interest in 31,898 shares 2007:30,378 held in trust by Halifax Corporate Trustees Limited for participants in the BT Group Employee Share Investment Plan.
b Includes free shares awarded under the BT Group Employee Share Investment Plan and Allshare International.
c Sir Michael Rake was appointed as a director on 26 September 2007. d Francois Barrault was appointed as a director on 24 April 2007. e Eric Daniels was appointed as a director on 1 April 2008. f Patricia Hewitt was appointed as a director on 24 March 2008. g Deborah Lathen was appointed as a director on 1 February 2007.
During the period from 1 April 2008 to 14 May 2008, there were no movements in directors beneficial holdings.
The directors, as a group, beneficially own less than 1% of the BTs total shareholder return TSR performance over the five financial years to 31 March 2008 companys shares.
250 Performance graph 230 This graph illustrates, as required by the Companies Act 1985, the performance of BT Group plc measured by TSR relative to a 210 broad equity market index over the past five years.
We consider 190 the FTSE 100 to be the most appropriate index against which to 170 measure performance for these purposes, as BT has been a constituent of the FTSE 100 throughout the five-year period and 150 the index is widely used.
TSR is the measure of the returns that 130 a company has provided for its shareholders, reecting share 110 price movements and assuming reinvestment of dividends.
90 70 1 Apr 31 Mar 31 Mar 31 Mar 31 Mar 31 Mar 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 BT FTSE 100 1 April 2003 100 Source: Datastream 70 BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F Remuneration review This part of the Report on directors remuneration is subject to audit.
b Deferred annual bonuses payable in shares in three years time, subject to continued employment.
c Sir Michael Rake was appointed as Chairman and a director on 26 September 2007. d Other benefits include some or all of the following: company car, fuel or driver, personal telecommunications facilities and home security, medical and dental cover for the director and immediate family, special life cover, professional subscriptions and personal tax planning, and financial counselling.
In addition, Paul Reynolds had an interest-free loan.
e Francois Barrault was appointed as a director on 24 April 2007 and his salary and fees are in respect of the period from that date until 31 March 2008.
He received additional expatriate benefits which included a housing allowance, school fees, international tax preparation and equalisation, social club and representation allowance.
f Expenses allowance in the above table includes a monthly cash allowance in lieu of a company car or equivalent to 19,000 per annum received by Ian Livingston and Paul Reynolds.
g Hanif Lalani received an additional cash payment of 150,000 on 30 June 2006 in respect of a special retention arrangement established, before he was appointed as a director, on 1 July 2004 when he was Chief Financial Officer, BT Wholesale.
h Patricia Hewitt was appointed as a director on 24 March 2008. i Deborah Lathen was appointed as a director on 1 February 2007. j Sir Christopher Bland retired as a director on 30 September 2007. k Andy Green resigned as a director on 12 November 2007 and left the company on 31 December 2007. l Paul Reynolds resigned as a director on 14 September 2007. m Baroness Jay retired as a director on 13 January 2008, but continues as a member of the Board Committee for Responsible and Sustainable Business for which she receives an annual fee of 6,500. n John Nelson retired as a director on 13 January 2008. o Sir Anthony Greener retired as a director on 30 September 2006.
BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 71 Report of the Directors Governance Report of the Directors Corporate governance Pensions During the financial year 2007 08, Ben Verwaayens annual salary was increased from 750,000 to 800,000, Ian Sir Michael Rake is not a member of any of the company Livingstons salary was increased from 525,000 to 560,000 pension schemes and the company made no payments towards and Hanif Lalanis annual salary was increased from 460,000 to retirement provision.
BT provides him with a lump sum death in 520,000, all on 1 June 2007.
Andy Greens salary was service benefit of 1 million.
increased from 500,000 to 520,000 and Paul Reynolds salary Ben Verwaayen is not a member of any of the company was increased from 450,000 to 475,000 from the same date.
pension schemes, but the company has agreed to pay an annual Following this years review of annual salaries, Ben amount equal to 30% of his salary towards pension provision.
Verwaayens salary will remain at 800,000, Hanif Lalanis salary The company paid 33,840 into his personal pension plan, plus will be increased from 520,000 to 585,000, Ian Livingstons a cash payment of 203,660 representing the balance of the salary will be increased from 560,000 to 850,000 upon his pension allowance for the financial year 2007 08.
BT also appointment as Chief Executive and Francois Barraults provides him with a lump sum death in service benefit of four management fee will be increased fromE750,000 times his salary.
Ian Livingston is not a member of any of the company approximately 528,170 toE850,000 approximately 654,000.
All increases will be effective from 1 June 2008. pension schemes, but the company has agreed to pay an annual Annual cash bonus awards in respect of the financial year amount equal to 30% of his salary towards pension provision.
2007 08, which are not pensionable, to executive directors The company paid 166,250 into his personal pension plan, ranged from 72.1% to 95.89% of current salary 2006 07 representing the total pension allowance for the financial year 96.5% to 117.85%.
BT also provides him with a lump sum death in service benefit of four times his salary.
Former directors Hanif Lalani is a member of the BT Pension Scheme but has Sir Peter Boneld received, under pre-existing arrangements, a opted out of future pensionable service accrual.
A two-thirds pension of 375,736 payable in the financial year 2007 08 widows pension would be payable on death.
The company has 2006 07 359,900. agreed to pay an annual amount equal to 30% of his salary Paul Reynolds resigned as a director on 14 September 2007. towards pension provision.
A cash payment of 153,000 was In accordance with the terms of his contract, he was eligible to therefore made for the financial year 2007 08.
Francois Barrault is not a member of any of the companys receive a bonus of 150,000, for his contribution in 2007 08, and a payment of 180,460 in lieu of benets.
His awards pension schemes but the company has agreed to pay an amount under the Deferred Bonus Plan vested on 17 September 2007: equal to 30% of his salary towards pension provision.
A cash his incentive share awards vested on the same date based on payment ofE209,613 148,000 was therefore made in the the TSR performance to 14 September 2007, with the exception financial year 2007 08.
BT also provides him with a lump sum of the award which was granted in 2007 which, in addition to death in service benefit of four times his management fee.
being subject to TSR performance, was pro-rated for the period Sir Christopher Bland resigned as a director on 30 September from 1 April 2007 to 31 August 2007.
Sir Christopher Bland was not a member of any of the which were granted under the GSOP in 2003 and 2004 were company pension schemes, and the company did not pay any preserved so that they would be exercisable for 12 months from amount towards retirement provision for the financial year the date of termination.
He Andy Green resigned as a director on 12 November 2007 and .
From31December1997 left the company on 31 December 2007.
In accordance with the ,  terms of his contract, he was eligible to receive part of his  annual bonus for 2007 08 of 234,000 for his contribution .
His outstanding awards under the Deferred .
AndyGreenleft Bonus Plan vested at the end of December 2007.
All his other , onwhichdateallfuture share awards and options lapsed on his date of termination.
Details of the share awards and options which were held by Paul Reynolds resigned as a director on 14 September 2007.
Paul Reynolds and Andy Green are set out in the tables on He was a member of the BT Pension Scheme but opted out of pages 73 and 75-77. future pensionable service accrual.
A two-thirds widows pension Baroness Jay retired as a non-executive director on would have been payable on his death.
The company agreed to 13 January 2008 but continues as a member of the Board pay an amount equal to 30% of his salary towards pension Committee for Responsible and Sustainable Business, for which provision.
A cash payment of 63,667 was therefore made for she receives an annual fee of 6,500. the financial year 2007 08.
The table at the top of page 73 shows the increase in the Loans accrued benets, including those referred to above, to which Prior to the date of his appointment to the Board on each director, who is a member of the BT Pension Scheme, has 19 November 2001, Paul Reynolds had an interest-free loan of become entitled during the year and the transfer value of the 300,000 from the company to assist with relocation.
The loan increase in accrued benets.
was repaid when he left the company on 14 September 2007.
There are no outstanding loans granted by any member of the BT Group to any other of the directors or guarantees provided by any member of the BT Group for their benefit.
a-b The values for Hanif Lalani represent the deferred pension to which he would have been entitled had he left the company on 31 March 2008 and 2007, respectively.
The amounts for Andy Green and Paul Reynolds represent the actual deferred pension entitlement at 31 March 2008 and the amount of deferred pension they would have been entitled to at 31 March 2007 had they left the company on those dates, respectively.
c Transfer value of the deferred pension in column a as at 31 March 2008 calculated on the basis of actuarial advice in accordance with Actuarial Guidance Note GN11.
The transfer value represents a liability of the BT Pension Scheme rather than any remuneration due to the individual and cannot be meaningfully aggregated with annual remuneration, as it is not money the individual is entitled to receive.
d The equivalent transfer value but calculated as at 31 March 2008 on the assumption that the director left service at that date or the actual leaving service date, as appropriate.
e The increase in pension built up during the year, net of inflation.
The gross amount can be calculated by deducting the amount under column b from the amount under column a. f The transfer value of the pension in column e, less directors contributions.
g Directors contributions in the financial year 2007 08 were as follows: Andy Green, 23,200 2007: 30,000 : Hanif Lalani nil 2007: nil and Paul Reynolds nil 2007: nil.
h Paul Reynolds resigned as a director on 14 September 2007 and Andy Green left the company on 31 December 2007.
Share options held at 31 March 2008, on date of appointment, if later No.
a Options granted under the GSOP on 24 June 2003.
The exercise of options was subject to a performance measure being met.
The performance measure was relative TSR compared with the FTSE 100 as at 1 April 2003.
BTs TSR had to be in the upper quartile for all of the options to become exercisable.
At median, 30% of the options would be exercisable.
Below that point, none of the options could be exercised.
The three-year performance period ended on 31 March 2006.
At that time, BTs TSR was at 85th position against the FTSE 100.
The TSR was re-tested against a fixed base on 31 March 2008.
On that date, BTs TSR was at 53rd position against the FTSE 100.
As a result, all of the options have lapsed.
BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 73 Report of the Directors Governance Report of the Directors Corporate governance b Options granted under the GSOP on 24 June 2004.
The performance measure was relative TSR compared with a group of 20 companies from the European Telecom Sector as at 1 April 2004.
BTs TSR had to be in the upper quartile for all the options to become exercisable.
At median 30% of the options would be exercisable.
Below that point no part of the options could be exercised.
On 31 March 2007, BTs TSR was at 8th position against the comparator group and as a result, 42% of each option lapsed and 58% of each option became exercisable on 24 June 2007. c Option granted to Francois Barrault under the GSOP on 21 May 2004.
The exercise of the option was subject to the same performance measure as options granted on 24 June 2004 see b above.
58% of the option became exercisable on 21 May 2007 and 42% of the option lapsed on that date.
d Option granted on 26 June 2007 under the International Employee Sharesave Scheme, an all-employee share plan for employees outside the UK.
e Option granted on 23 June 2006 under the Employee Sharesave Scheme, in which all employees of the company are eligible to participate.
f Option granted under the GSOP Special Incentive Award on 24 June 2003, prior to Hanif Lalanis appointment as a director.
This option is not subject to a performance measure as the grant was linked to personal performance.
g Option granted on 25 June 2002 under the Employee Sharesave Scheme, in which all employees of the company are eligible to participate.
h Option granted on 26 June 2007 under the Employee Sharesave Scheme, in which all employees of the company are eligible to participate.
i Option granted under the GSOP on 22 June 2001.
The option is not subject to a performance measure.
It was a term of Sir Christopher Blands initial service contract that i he purchased BT shares to the value of at least 1 million: and ii as soon as practicable after the purchase of the shares invested shares, the company would grant a share option over shares to the value of at least 1 million.
Sir Christopher Bland was the legal and beneficial owner of the invested shares on 1 May 2004, so the option became exercisable on that date.
The option was preserved for 12 months from 30 September 2007, the date on which he left the company.
j Option granted on 21 December 2001 under the Employee Sharesave Scheme, in which all employees of the company are eligible to participate.
k The option granted under the GSOP lapsed on 31 December 2007 when Andy Green left the company.
l Option granted on 25 June 2004 under the Employee Sharesave Scheme, in which all employees of the company are eligible to participate.
m Option granted to Paul Reynolds under the GSOP in 2004 was preserved for 12 months from 14 September 2007, when he resigned as a director.
The aggregate value of gains realised on the exercise of share options in 2007 08 was 819,000 2006 07: 114,000.
Unrealised gains on share options The market price of BT shares at 31 March 2008 was 217.25p 2007: 303.75p and the range during the financial year 2007 08 was 205.5p-336.75p 2006 07: 209.25p-321.75p.
BTs TSR position was at 53rd position against the FTSE 100.
b The performance period for the ISP 2005 ended on 31 March 2008.
BTs TSR position was at 10th position against the European Telecom Sector.
As a result, 75% of shares awarded lapsed on that date and 25% of the shares will be transferred to participants in May 2008. c The performance periods for the ISP 2006 and ISP 2007 end on 31 March 2009 and 31 March 2010 respectively.
The number of shares subject to awards was calculated using the average middle market price of a BT share for the three days prior to the grant.
The awards will vest, subject to meeting a performance condition, on 31 March 2010.
The performance measure is relative TSR compared with a group of companies from the European Telecom Sector as at 1 April 2007.
BTs TSR must be in the upper quartile for all shares to vest.
At median, 25% of the shares will vest.
Below that point, no shares would vest.
b Awards under the ISP granted in 2004 were subject to a performance target.
BTs TSR had to be in the upper quartile for all the shares to vest.
At median, 25% of the shares would vest.
At 31 March 2007, BTs TSR was at 8th position against the comparator group.
As a result, 45% of the awards lapsed on that date and 55% of the awards were transferred to participants on 21 May 2007. c Awards under the ISP were granted in June 2005.
The performance measure was relative TSR compared with a group of companies from the European Telecom Sector as at 1 April 2005.
Below that point no shares would vest.
On 31 March 2008, BTs TSR was at 10th position and as a result, 75% of shares awarded lapsed on that date and 25% of the shares will be transferred to participants in May 2008. d Ben Verwaayen will leave the company on 30 June 2008 and his awards under the ISP will vest, subject to performance, on that date.
The 2007 award will be pro-rated to reflect his service during the performance period.
e Vesting of RSP awards is not subject to a performance target being met.
f The RSP award granted to Francois Barrault in 2004 vested on 21 May 2007. g Ian Livingston was granted an award under the RSP on 31 May 2005.
The second half of the award vested on 9 November 2007. h The RSP award granted to Sir Christopher Bland on 1 September 2003 vested on 1 August 2007. i Andy Greens awards under the ISP and RSP lapsed on 31 December 2007, the date on which he left the company.
j Paul Reynolds resigned as a director on 14 September 2007.
His 2005, 2006 and 2007 awards under the ISP vested on 17 September 2007 subject to performance.
In addition, his 2007 award was pro-rated for the five months from 1 April 2007 to 31 August 2007.
BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 75 Report of the Directors Governance Report of the Directors Corporate governance Deferred Bonus Plan awards at 31 March 2008, or date of appointment, if later The following deferred bonuses have been awarded to the directors under the DBP.
These shares will normally be transferred to participants at the end of the three-year deferred period if those participants are still employed by BT Group.
b Ben Verwaayen will leave the company on 30 June 2008.
All of his awards will vest on that date.
c Andy Green left the company on 31 December 2007 and his awards vested on 2 January 2008. d Paul Reynolds resigned as a director on 14 September 2007.
All his awards vested on 17 September 2007.
Details of deferred bonus awards in respect of the financial year 2007 08 are given in the table on page 71.
Awards in respect of the deferred bonuses will be granted in June 2008.
The number of shares subject to the awards will be calculated using the average middle market price of a BT share for the three days prior to the grant.
On that date, the market price of a BT share was 315.25p.
b Sir Christopher Bland retired as a director on 30 September 2007. c Andy Green left the company on 31 December 2007. d Paul Reynolds resigned as a director on 14 September 2007.
By order of the Board Maarten van den Bergh Deputy Chairman and Chairman of Remuneration Committee 14 May 2008 BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 77 Report of the Directors Governance Report of the Directors Corporate governance Directors information Back to the Floor programme, an activity that demonstrates Election and re-election commitment to our customers and the people who serve them.
All directors are required by BTs articles of association to be Directors are continually updated on BTs business, the elected by shareholders at the first annual general meeting competitive and regulatory environments in which it operates, AGM after their appointment, if appointed by the Board.
A technology and corporate social responsibility matters and other director must subsequently retire by rotation at an AGM at changes affecting BT and the communications industry as a intervals of not more than three years.
The director may seek whole, by written briengs and meetings with senior BT re-election.
The Board also has two lengthy sessions annually to Accordingly, Sir Michael Rake, Gavin Patterson, Eric Daniels discuss strategy.
Directors are also advised on appointment of and Patricia Hewitt, having been appointed as directors by the their legal and other duties and obligations as a director of a Board, retire at the forthcoming AGM and will be proposed for listed company, both in writing and in face-to-face meetings election.
Hanif Lalani and Carl Symon retire by rotation and will with the Secretary.
They are reminded of these duties each year be proposed for re-election.
Details of these directors contracts and they are also updated on changes to the legal, accounting of appointment are included in the Report on directors and governance requirements affecting the company and remuneration.
During the 2008 financial year, for example, they received briengs on changes to UK company law Meetings attendance and various corporate governance proposals from the European The following table shows the attendance of directors at Commission through monthly Secretarys Reports.
The Chairman meetings of the Board and Audit, Nominating and Remuneration also sends a weekly e-mail to non-executive directors with Committees during the 2008 financial year.
Guidelines govern the content, presentation and delivery of Audit Nominating Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee papers for each Board meeting, so that the directors have enough information to be properly briefed sufciently far ahead Number of meetings held 10 4 6 4 of each Board meeting and at other appropriate times, and to Number of meetings attended maximum possible................................................................................................................ take account of their duties as directors.
a Sir Michael Rake 6 6 3 3 3 4 b Sir Christopher Bland 4 4 3 3 Independent advice Matti Alahuhta 8 10 3 4 The Board has a procedure for directors, in carrying out their c Francois Barrault 9 9 duties, to take independent professional advice if necessary, at Maarten van den Bergh 9 10 3 4 5 6 4 4 BTs expense.
All directors also have access to the advice and Clay Brendish 10 10 4 4 services of the Secretary.
d Eric Daniels e Andy Green 6 6 Directors and ofcers liability insurance and f Patricia Hewitt 1 1 indemnity Phil Hodkinson 10 10 4 4 6 6 For some years BT has purchased insurance to cover its directors g Baroness Jay 6 7 1 2 and ofcers against their costs in defending themselves in civil Hanif Lalani 10 10 legal proceedings taken against them in that capacity and in Deborah Lathen 9 10 4 4 respect of damages resulting from the unsuccessful defence of Ian Livingston 10 10 any proceedings.
At the date on which this report was approved, g John Nelson 6 7 2 3 4 4 and throughout the 2008 financial year, the companys whollyh Paul Reynolds 3 4 owned subsidiary, British Telecommunications plc, has provided Carl Symon 10 10 4 4 4 4 an indemnity in respect of all the companys directors.
Neither Ben Verwaayen 10 10 the insurance nor the indemnity provides cover where the a Appointed to the Board on 26 September 2007 director has acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
b Retired as a director on 30 September 2007 c Appointed to the Board on 24 April 2007 d Appointed to the Board on 1 April 2008 Interest of management in certain e Resigned as a director on 12 November 2007 f transactions Appointed to the Board on 24 March 2008 g Retired as directors on 13 January 2008 During and at the end of the 2008 financial year, none of BTs h Resigned as a director on 14 September 2007 directors was materially interested in any material transaction in relation to the groups business and none is materially interested Service agreements in any presently proposed material transactions.
The Chairman and executive directors have service agreements, which are approved by the Remuneration Committee.
Information about the periods of these contracts is in the Report on directors remuneration.
Training and information On appointment, directors take part in an induction programme when they receive information about BT, the role of the Board and the matters reserved for its decision, the terms of reference and membership of the main Board committees, and the powers delegated to those committees, BTs corporate governance policies and procedures, including the powers reserved to the groups most senior executives, and the latest financial information.
There are also visits to key BT locations and meetings with members of the Operating Committee and other key senior executives.
Each year, directors participate in BTs 78 BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F Business policies company, which make an important contribution to their Responsible business understanding of BT.
These activities have been carried out on To reinforce our commitment to achieve best practice in our an even-handed basis over a four-year period related broadly to standards of business integrity and ethics, we have had in place the major UK political parties electoral strength.
The authority for nearly nine years a written statement of business practice we are requesting at the AGM is not designed to change the The Way We Work.
This covers all our operations and applies above policy.
It will, however, ensure that BT acts within the worldwide to all employees, and to all agents and contractors provisions of the 2006 Act requiring companies to obtain when representing BT, and is available in nine languages.
A copy shareholder authority before they can make donations to EU has been sent to every employee and copies are also sent to the political parties and or political organisations as dened in the employees of newly-acquired subsidiaries.
During the 2008 financial year the companys whollyWe measure our performance against these principles through owned subsidiary, British Telecommunications plc, made the our Ethics Performance Measure EPM, one of our CSR key following payments to cover the cost of hosting brieng performance indicators.
The EPM comprises a measure of meetings with MPs and MEPs about the companys activities: employee awareness of The Way We Work, our ranking in an Labour Party 9,085: Conservative Party 8,025: Liberal external benchmarking of a selection of FTSE 100 companies Democrats 6,612: Scottish National Party 5,767: Plaid Cymru and the results of a survey on the extent to which employees 500.
No loans were made to any political party by any consider our activities ethical.
In the 2008 financial year, the company in the BT group.
Global sourcing, a key aspect of which is managing a complex Pension funds global supply chain, is increasingly important to BT.
Through our BTs two main pension funds the BT Pension Scheme and the Sourcing with Human Dignity initiative, we seek to ensure that BT Retirement Plan are not controlled by the Board but by working conditions in our supply chain meet internationally separate and independent trustees.
The trustees look after the recognised human rights standards.
We investigate potential assets of the funds, which are held separately from those of the social and environmental shortcomings and are committed to company.
The pension funds assets can be used only in achieving 100% follow-up within three months for all suppliers accordance with their respective rules and for no other purpose.
During the 2008 financial year, we conducted 25 risk assessments in India, China, Taiwan, Payment of suppliers the Philippines and Romania.
We also conduct a survey every BT subscribes to the Better Payment Practice Code for all two years to establish the effectiveness of our relationships with suppliers, the four principles of which are: to agree payment suppliers.
The next survey will be carried out in the 2009 terms at the outset and stick to them: to explain payment financial year.
procedures to suppliers: to pay bills in accordance with any During the 2008 financial year, we have increased the contract agreed with the supplier or as required by law: and to emphasis on the environmental aspects of our supply chain by tell suppliers without delay when an invoice is contested and reinforcing our new 2007 procurement principles which cover settle disputes quickly.
Details of this code can be found at the energy consumption and environmental impacts of products www.
co. uk In the UK, BTs normal payment terms are and services through the whole life cycle.
We have committed 60 days from the date of receipt of a due and valid invoice, that any replacement products will have a lower energy rating although these terms may be different in some of the local than the previous version: this year saw the launch of our low markets in which BT operates.
BT will make payment to the energy phones in the UK.
supplier on the next payment run following expiry of this term.
The high-level principles in The Way We Work are supported In 2008, the average number of days between the invoice date by a continuing and comprehensive communications programme and the date of the payment run for the invoice was 47 and on-line training.
A condential helpline and dedicated e- 2007: 44. mail facility are also available to employees who have questions about the application of these principles.
The helpline number is Financial statements also published externally.
BTs Undertakings code of practice It So far as each of the directors is aware, there is no relevant matters forms part of our statement of business practice and is information that has not been disclosed to the auditors and each consistent with it.
of the directors believes that all steps have been taken that A Board committee the Committee for Responsible and ought to have been taken to make them aware of any relevant Sustainable Business, chaired by Sir Michael Rake and audit information and to establish that the auditors have been comprising representatives from BT businesses, three nonmade aware of that information.
executive directors and two independent members with input A statement by the directors of their responsibilities for and recommendations from executive management, oversees our preparing the financial statements is included in the Statement corporate social responsibility, environment and community of directors responsibility.
The directors statement on going activities including charitable expenditure and the strategy for concern is included in Financial review Capital resources.
maximising our contribution to society.
More information, including details of charitable donations made by the group, is Takeover Directive disclosure available in Business review Our wider responsibilities on Following the implementation of the EU Takeover Directive by page 30. certain provisions of the 2006 Act, we are required to make additional disclosures.
"A number of these disclosures can be Political donations found elsewhere in this Report as set out below: Our continuing policy is that no company in the group will make structure of BTs share capital see page 120 including the "" contributions in cash or kind to any political party, whether by rights and obligations attaching to the shares see page 159 : gift or loan."
"However, the denition of political donations used restrictions on the transfer of BT shares and voting rights see in the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act is very much broader "" pages 159 and 160 : than the sense in which these words are ordinarily used."
"It covers activities such as making MPs and others in the political significant direct or indirect shareholdings see page 81 : and "" world aware of key industry issues and matters affecting the BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 79 Report of the Directors Governance Report of the Directors Corporate governance "" appointment and replacement of directors see page 161 : underlying governance processes are dealt with in the Business review Our people."
The disclosures which are not covered elsewhere in this Report We have enterprise wide risk management processes for include the following: identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the group.
"These processes have been in place for the whole BT has two employee share ownership trusts which hold BT "" of the 2008 financial year and have continued up to the date on shares for the purpose of satisfying awards made under the which this document was approved."
The processes are in various employee share plans.
The trustee of the BT Group accordance with the Revised Guidance for Directors on the Employee Share Investment Plan may invite participants on Combined Code published by the Financial Reporting Council whose behalf it holds shares to direct it how to vote in the Turnbull Guidance.
respect of those shares, and if there is an offer for the shares Risk assessment and evaluation takes place as an integral part or other transaction which would lead to a change of control of BTs annual strategic planning cycle.
We have a detailed risk of BT, participants may direct it to accept the offer or agree management process, culminating in a Board review, which to the transaction.
In respect of shares held in the BT Group identies the key risks facing the group and each business unit.
Employee Share Ownership Trust, the trustee abstains from This information is reviewed by senior management as part of voting those shares, and if there is an offer for the shares the the strategic review.
Our current key risks are summarised in trustee is not obliged to accept or reject the offer but will Business review Group risk factors.
"have regard to the interests of the participants, may consult The key features of the enterprise wide risk management them to obtain their views on the offer and may otherwise process comprise the following procedures: take the action with respect to the offer it thinks fair: senior executives collectively review the groups key risks and "" we are not aware of any agreements between shareholders "" have created a group risk register describing the risks, owners that may result in restrictions on the transfer of shares or on and mitigation strategies."
"This is reviewed by the Operating voting rights: Committee before being reviewed and approved by the Board: proxy appointment and voting instructions must be received "" the lines of business carry out risk assessments of their "" by the registrars not less than 48 hours before a general operations, have created registers relating to those risks, and meeting: ensure that the key risks are addressed: the amendment of BTs articles of association requires "" senior executives with responsibilities for major group "" shareholder approval in accordance with legislation in force operations report quarterly with their opinion on the from time to time: effectiveness of the operation of internal controls in their area the powers of the directors are determined by UK legislation "" of responsibility: and the articles of association."
"They are authorised to issue the groups internal auditors carry out continuing assessments "" and allot shares, and to undertake purchases of BT shares of the quality of risk management and control, report to subject to shareholder approval at the AGM: management and the Audit Committee on the status of we are not party to any significant agreements that take specic areas identied for improvement and promote "" effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control following effective risk management in the lines of business operations: a takeover: and and following the changes to the Board anounced in April 2008, the Audit Committee, on behalf of the Board, considers the "" "" we do not have any agreements with directors or employees effectiveness of the operation of internal control procedures providing for compensation for loss of ofce or employment in the group during the financial year."
It reviews reports from that occurs because of a takeover.
the internal and external auditors and reports its conclusions to the Board.
The Audit Committee has carried out these actions for the 2008 financial year.
Financial instruments Details of the financial risk management objectives and policies New subsidiaries acquired during the year have not been of the group and exposure to interest risk, credit risk, liquidity included in the above risk management process.
They will be risk and price risk are given on page 50 and note 33 on pages included for the 2009 financial year.
Joint ventures and 134 to 138. associates, which BT does not control, have not been dealt with as part of the group risk management process and are Internal control and risk management responsible for their own internal control assessment.
The Board is responsible for the groups systems of internal The Board has approved the formal statement of matters control and risk management and reviews each year the which are reserved to it for consideration, approval or oversight.
Such systems are designed to It has also approved the groups corporate governance manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve framework, which sets out the high level principles by which BT business objectives: any system can provide only reasonable and is managed and the responsibilities and powers of the Operating not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Committee and the groups senior executives.
As part of this The process in place for reviewing BTs systems of internal framework, the development and implementation of certain control includes procedures designed to identify and evaluate powers relating to group-wide policies and practices are failings and weaknesses, and, in the case of any categorised as reserved to identied senior executives.
significant, procedures exist to ensure that necessary action is taken to remedy the failings.
The Board also takes account of significant social, environmental and ethical matters that relate to BTs businesses and reviews annually BTs corporate social responsibility policy.
The companys workplace practices, specic environmental, social and ethical risks and opportunities and details of 80 BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the Chief Executive, meetings with shareholders during the BT has securities registered with the US Securities and Exchange year: this may also include meetings with investors to discuss Commission SEC.
As a result, we must comply with those overall remuneration policies and plans in his role as chairman of provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act applicable to foreign the Remuneration Committee.
All non-executive directors have issuers.
We comply with the legal and regulatory requirements an invitation to attend investors meetings if they wish.
Contact introduced pursuant to this legislation, in so far as they are with institutional shareholders and with financial analysts, applicable.
brokers and the media is controlled by written guidelines to It is the opinion of the Board that the Audit Committee ensure the protection of share price sensitive information that includes in the person of Phil Hodkinson a member who is an has not already been made generally available to shareholders.
audit committee financial expert, and who is independent as The directors are provided with either full or summarised reports dened for this purpose.
The Board considers that the and other written briengs from major shareholders and analysts Committees members generally have broad commercial and and are regularly informed by the Secretary about the holdings business leadership experience, having held various roles in of the principal shareholders.
The Secretary also surveys accountancy, financial management and supervision, and individual shareholders about the quality of our shareholder treasury and that there is a broad and suitable mix of business, communications and share registration services.
financial and IT experience on the Committee.
Established procedures ensure the timely release of share The code of ethics adopted for the purposes of the Sarbanesprice sensitive information and the publication of financial Oxley Act is posted on the companys website at www.
com results and regulatory financial statements.
All external ethics The code applies to the Chief Executive, Group Finance announcements are also reviewed for accuracy and compliance Director and senior finance managers.
requirements by a committee of senior executives, the Disclosure Committee, which is chaired by the Secretary.
Disclosure controls and procedures The Chief Executive and Group Finance Director, after evaluating Substantial shareholdings the effectiveness of BTs disclosure controls and procedures as of At 14 May 2008, BT had received notications from Invesco the end of the period covered by this Annual Report & Form Limited, Legal & General Group plc, Barclays PLC and Brandes 20-F, have concluded that, as of such date, BTs disclosure Investment Partners LLC, under the Disclosure and Transparency controls and procedures were effective to ensure that material Rules issued by the Financial Services Authority, in respect of information relating to BT was made known to them by others holdings of 393,297,674 shares, 393,009,200 shares, within the group.
The Chief Executive and Group Finance 360,935,363 shares and 330,627,819 shares respectively, Director have also provided the certications required by the representing holdings of 5.08%, 4.69%, 4.66% and 4.27% of Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
Internal control over financial reporting AGM resolutions BTs management is responsible for establishing and maintaining We are continuing our policy that shareholders vote on the adequate internal control over financial reporting for the group.
Shareholders will also again be asked Internal control over financial reporting is designed to provide to vote separately on the Report on directors remuneration.
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial It is part of our policy to involve shareholders fully in the reporting and the preparation of financial statements for affairs of the company and to give them the opportunity at the external reporting purposes in accordance with IFRS.
AGM to ask questions about BTs activities and prospects.
We Management conducted an assessment of the effectiveness of also give shareholders the opportunity to vote on every internal control over financial reporting based on the framework substantially different issue by proposing a separate resolution for internal control evaluation contained in the Turnbull for each issue.
The proxy votes for and against each resolution, as well as Based on this assessment, management has concluded that as votes withheld, will be counted before the AGM and the results at 31 March 2008, BTs internal control over financial reporting will be made available at the meeting after the shareholders was effective.
have voted on each resolution on a show of hands, and at the There were no changes in BTs internal control over financial end of the meeting.
They will also be posted on our website as reporting that occurred during the 2008 financial year that have soon as possible after the meeting.
It is our policy for all materially affected, or are reasonably likely to have materially directors to attend the AGM if at all possible.
Whilst, because of affected, the groups internal control over financial reporting.
ill health or other pressing reasons, this may not always be Any significant deficiency, as dened by the US Public Company possible, in normal circumstances this means that the chairmen Accounting Oversight Board PCAOB, in internal control over of the Audit, Nominating and Remuneration committees are at financial reporting, is reported to the Audit Committee.
the AGM and are available to answer relevant questions.
All the  LLP, which has audited the directors attended the 2007 AGM.
consolidated financial statements of the group for the 2008 The resolutions to be proposed at the AGM at The Barbican financial year, has also audited the effectiveness of the groups Centre on 16 July 2008, together with explanatory notes, internal control over financial reporting under Auditing Standard appear in the separate Annual Review & Notice of Meeting 2008 No.
Their report is on page 86. which is sent to all shareholders together with the Annual Report & Form 20-F if requested.
These documents are sent Shareholders and Annual General Meeting out in the most cost-effective fashion, given the large number Relations with shareholders of shareholders.
We aim to give as much notice as possible and Senior executives, led by the Chief Executive and the Group at least 21 clear days notice, as required by our articles of Finance Director and including, as appropriate, the other association.
In practice, these documents are being sent to executive directors, hold meetings with BTs major institutional shareholders more than 20 working days before the AGM.
shareholders to discuss BTs strategy, financial performance and Resolutions to reappoint  LLP as BTs specic major investment activities.
The Deputy Chairman also auditors and to authorise the directors to agree their attends, at his discretion and in consultation with the Chairman remuneration will also be proposed at the AGM.
BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 81 Report of the Directors Governance Report of the Directors Corporate governance Authority to purchase shares The authority given at last years AGM of the company held on 19 July 2007 for BT to purchase in the market 827 million of its shares, representing 10% of the issued share capital, expires on 18 October 2008.
Shareholders will be asked to give a similar authority at the AGM.
During the 2008 financial year, 540 million shares of 5 pence each were purchased under this authority 6.4% of the share capital for a consideration of 1,498 million, at an average price of 2.78 per share.
For more details, see the table on page 158.
250 million treasury shares have been cancelled and 53 million treasury shares have been transferred to meet BTs obligations under our employee share plans.
A further 51 million shares have been bought during the close period starting on 1 April 2008 so that on 14 May 2008 a total of 657 million shares were retained as treasury shares.
All the shares were purchased in an on-market programme of buying back BT shares, started in November 2003, as part of our shareholder distribution strategy.
By order of the Board Andrew Parker Secretary 14 May 2008 82 BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F
