Vodafone Financials Audit Report on Internal Controls Report of Independent Registered Public Because of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, Accounting Firm to the Members of material misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis.
Also, projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of the Vodafone Group Plc internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk We have audited the internal control over financial reporting of Vodafone Group Plc that the controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or and subsidiaries and applicable joint ventures the Group as of 31 March 2008 that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
based on criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.
In our opinion, the Group maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of 31 March 2008, based on the criteria As described in Managements Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting, established in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee management excluded from its assessment the internal control over financial of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.
reporting at Vodacom Group Pty Limited Vodacom, as the Group does not have the ability to dictate, modify or assess the controls.
Vodacom constitutes We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company 0.5 percent and 0.9 percent of net assets and total assets, respectively, 4.5 percent Accounting Oversight Board United States, the Consolidated Financial Statements of revenue, and 3.9 percent of net income of the consolidated financial statement of the Group as of and for the year ended 31 March 2008, prepared in conformity amounts as of and for the year ended 31 March 2008.
Accordingly, our audit did with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, as adopted by the not include the internal control over financial reporting at Vodacom.
The Groups European Union and IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial Board IASB.
Our report dated 27 May 2008 expressed an unqualified opinion reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over on those financial statements.
financial reporting, included in the accompanying Managements report on internal control over financial reporting.
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Groups internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Deloitte & Touche LLP Accounting Oversight Board United States.
Those standards require that we plan Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective London internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects.
United Kingdom Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial 27 May 2008 reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances.
We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
A companys internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the companys principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by the companys board of directors, management, and other personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
A companys internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that 1 pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company: 2 provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorisations of management and directors of the company: and 3 provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorised acquisition, use, or disposition of the companys assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
84 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2008
