Corporate Governance The Board of the Company is committed to high standards of corporate governance, which it considers are critical to business integrity and to maintaining investors trust in the Company.
The Group expects all its directors and employees to act with honesty, integrity and fairness.
The Group will strive to act in accordance with the laws and customs of the countries in which it operates: adopt proper standards of 1 business practice and procedure: operate with integrity: and observe and respect the culture of every country in which it does business.
For each of the annual reports issued since 2004, Governance Metrics Board meetings International, a global corporate governance ratings agency, ranked the Company The Board meets at least eight times a year and the meetings are structured to amongst the top UK companies, with an overall global corporate governance allow open discussion.
All directors participate in discussing the strategy, trading rating of eight and a half and above out of ten.
and financial performance and risk management of the Company.
All substantive agenda items have comprehensive briefing papers, which are circulated one In the Companys profile report by Institutional Shareholder Services Inc.
ISS, week before the meeting.
dated 1 May 2008, the Companys governance practices outperformed 95.9% of the companies in the ISS developed excluding US universe, 88.1% of companies The following table shows the number of years directors have been on the Board in the telecommunications sector group and 96.5% of the companies in the UK.
at 31 March 2008 and their attendance at scheduled Board meetings they were eligible to attend during the 2008 financial year: Compliance with the Combined Code Years Meetings on Board attended The Companys ordinary shares are listed in the UK on the London Stock Exchange.
Sir John Bond 3 8 8 In accordance with the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority, the Company John Buchanan 5 8 8 confirms that throughout the year ended 31 March 2008 and at the date of this Arun Sarin 8 8 8 Annual Report, it was compliant with the provisions of, and applied the principles Vittorio Colao 1 8 8 of, Section 1 of the 2006 FRC Combined Code on Corporate Governance Andy Halford 2 8 8 the Combined Code.
The following section, together with the Directors Dr Michael Boskin 8 8 8 Remuneration section on pages 71 to 81, provides details of how the Company Alan Jebson 1 8 8 applies the principles and complies with the provisions of the Combined Code.
Nick Land 1 8 8 Anne Lauvergeon 2 7 8 Board organisation and structure Simon Murray from 1 July 2007 1 6 7 Professor Jrgen Schrempp 7 7 8 The role of the Board Luc Vandevelde 4 8 8 The Board is responsible for the overall conduct of the Groups business and has Anthony Watson 2 8 8 the powers, authorities and duties vested in it by and pursuant to the relevant Philip Yea 2 8 8 laws of England and Wales and the Articles of Association.
The Board: Lord Broers until 24 July 2007 n a 2 2 has final responsibility for the management, direction and performance In addition to regular Board meetings, there are a number of other meetings to of the Group and its businesses: deal with specific matters.
Directors unable to attend a Board meeting because is required to exercise objective judgement on all corporate matters of another engagement are nevertheless provided with all the papers and independent from executive management: information relevant for such meetings and are able to discuss issues arising in is accountable to shareholders for the proper conduct of the business: and the meeting with the Chairman or the Chief Executive.
is responsible for ensuring the effectiveness of and reporting on the Groups system of corporate governance.
Division of responsibilities The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are separate and there is a division The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it for its decision and of responsibilities that is clearly established, set out in writing and agreed by the these include: Board to ensure that no one person has unfettered powers of decision.
The Chairman is responsible for the operation, leadership and governance of the Board, ensuring Group strategy: its effectiveness and setting its agenda.
The Chief Executive is responsible for the major capital projects, acquisitions or divestments: management of the Groups business and the implementation of Board strategy annual budget and operating plan: and policy.
Group financial structure, including tax and treasury: annual and half-yearly financial results and shareholder communications: Board balance and independence system of internal control and risk management: and The Companys Board consists of 14 directors, 13 of whom served throughout the senior management structure, responsibilities and succession plans.
At 31 March 2008, in addition to the Chairman, Sir John Bond, there were three executive directors and ten non-executive directors.
The schedule is reviewed periodically.
It was last formally reviewed by the Nominations and Governance Committee in September 2005, at which time The Deputy Chairman, John Buchanan, is the nominated senior independent it was determined that no amendments were required.
Its continued validity director and his role includes being available for approach or representation by was assessed as part of the performance evaluations conducted in the 2008 directors or significant shareholders who may feel inhibited from raising issues financial year.
He is also responsible for conducting an annual review of the performance of the Chairman and, in the event it should be necessary, Other specific responsibilities are delegated to Board committees which operate convening a meeting of the non-executive directors.
within clearly defined terms of reference.
Details of the responsibilities delegated to the Board committees are given on pages 67 to 68.
The Company considers all of its present non-executive directors to be fully independent.
The Board is aware of the other commitments of its directors and is satisfied that these do not conflict with their duties as directors of the Company.
The names and biographical details of the current directors are given on pages 62 and 63.
Changes to the commitments of the directors are reported to the Board.
Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2008 65 Vodafone Governance Corporate Governance continued Under the laws of England and Wales, the executive and non-executive directors The Company Secretary provides a programme of ongoing training for the are equal members of the Board and have overall collective responsibility for the directors, which covers a number of sector specific and business issues, as well direction of the Company.
In particular, non-executive directors are responsible for: as legal, accounting and regulatory changes and developments relevant to individual directors areas of responsibility.
Throughout their period in office, the bringing a wide range of skills and experience to the Group, including directors are continually updated on the Groups businesses and the regulatory independent judgement on issues of strategy, performance, financial controls and industry specific environments in which it operates.
These updates are and systems of risk management: by way of written briefings and meetings with senior executives and, where constructively challenging the strategy proposed by the Chief Executive and appropriate, external sources.
executive directors: scrutinising and challenging performance across the Groups business: The Company Secretary ensures that the programme to familiarise the nonassessing risk and the integrity of the financial information and controls of the executive directors with the business is maintained over time and kept relevant Group: and to the needs of the individuals involved.
The Company Secretary confers with ensuring appropriate remuneration and succession planning arrangements the Chairman and senior independent director to ensure that this is the case.
are in place in relation to executive directors and other senior executive roles.
Performance evaluation Performance evaluation of the Board, its committees and individual directors takes Board effectiveness place on an annual basis and is conducted within the terms of reference of the Nominations and Governance Committee with the aim of improving individual Appointments to the Board contributions, the effectiveness of the Board and its Committees and the Groups There is a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure, which is based on merit performance.
Prior to the 2007 financial year, the evaluation was internally facilitated.
and against objective criteria, for the appointment of new directors to the Board.
This is described in the section on the Nominations and Governance Committee Following on from the externally facilitated evaluation of the Boards performance set out on page 67.
Individual non-executive directors are generally expected to during the 2007 financial year, the Board has undertaken a formal self-evaluation serve two three-year terms.
At the end of the second three-year term, a rigorous of its own performance.
The process involved the Chairman: and detailed analysis is undertaken and only then would a non-executive director be invited to serve a third term.
The non-executive directors are generally not sending a template questionnaire to each Board member which was completed expected to serve for a period exceeding nine years.
The terms and conditions and returned: of appointment of the non-executive directors are available for inspection at the undertaking individual meetings with each Board member on Board Companys registered office and will be available for inspection at the AGM from performance: 15 minutes before the meeting until it ends.
producing a report on Board performance, with the assistance of an external agency, using the completed questionnaire and notes from the individual Information and professional development meetings: and Each member of the Board has immediate access to a dedicated online team room preparing a summary which was sent with the report to Board members for and can access monthly information including actual financial results, reports discussion at the following Board meeting.
from the executive directors in respect of their areas of responsibility and the Chief Executives report which deals, amongst other things, with investor relations, giving The evaluation was designed to determine whether the Board continues to be Board members an opportunity to develop an understanding of the views of major capable of providing the high level judgement required and whether, as a Board, investors.
These matters are discussed at each Board meeting.
From time to time, the directors were informed and up to date with the business and its goals and the Board receives detailed presentations from non-Board members on matters understood the context within which it operates.
The evaluation also included of significance or on new opportunities for the Group.
Financial plans, including a review of the administration of the Board covering the operation of the Board, budgets and forecasts, are regularly discussed at Board meetings.
The nonits agenda and the reports produced for the Boards consideration.
The Board executive directors periodically visit different parts of the Group and are provided will continue to review its procedures, its effectiveness and development in the with briefings and information to assist them in performing their duties.
The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that induction and training programmes The Chairman leads the assessment of the Chief Executive and the non-executive are provided and the Company Secretary organises the programmes.
Individual directors, the Chief Executive undertakes the performance reviews for the directors are also expected to take responsibility for identifying their training executive directors and the senior independent director conducts the review of needs and to take steps to ensure that they are adequately informed about the the performance of the Chairman by having a meeting with all the non-executive Company and their responsibilities as a director.
The Board is confident that all its directors together and individual meetings with the executive directors and the members have the knowledge, ability and experience to perform the functions Company Secretary.
Following this process, the senior independent director required of a director of a listed company.
produces a written report which is discussed with the Chairman.
On appointment, individual directors undergo an induction programme covering, The evaluation of each of the Board committees was undertaken using an online amongst other things: questionnaire that each member of the committees and others who attend committee meetings or interact with committee members are required to the business of the Group: complete.
The results of the questionnaires were discussed with the Chairman their legal and regulatory responsibilities as directors of the Company: of the Board and the members of the committees.
briefings and presentations from relevant executives: and opportunities to visit business operations.
The evaluations found the performance of each director to be effective and concluded that the Board provides the effective leadership and control required If appropriate, the induction will also include briefings on the scope of the Internal for a listed company.
The Nominations and Governance Committee confirmed Audit function and the role of the Audit Committee, meetings with the external to the Board that the contributions made by the directors offering themselves auditor and other areas the Company Secretary deems fit, considering the for re-election at the AGM in July 2008 continue to be effective and that the directors area of responsibility.
Company should support their re-election.
66 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2008 Re-election of directors The Audit Committees responsibilities include the following: Although not required by the Articles, in the interests of good corporate governance, the directors have resolved that they will all submit themselves for overseeing the relationship with the external auditors: annual re-election at each AGM of the Company.
Accordingly, at the AGM to be reviewing the Companys preliminary results announcement, half-yearly results held on 29 July 2008, all the directors will be retiring and, with the exception of and annual financial statements: Arun Sarin, Michael Boskin and Jrgen Schrempp who will not offer themselves monitoring compliance with statutory and listing requirements for any for re-election, being eligible and on the recommendation of the Nominations exchange on which the Companys shares and debt instruments are quoted: and Governance Committee, will offer themselves for re-election.
reviewing the scope, extent and effectiveness of the activity of the Group Internal Audit Department: Independent advice engaging independent advisers as it determines is necessary and to perform The Board recognises that there may be occasions when one or more of the investigations: directors feel it is necessary to take independent legal and or financial advice at reporting to the Board on the quality and acceptability of the Companys the Companys expense.
There is an agreed procedure to enable them to do so.
accounting policies and practices including, without limitation, critical accounting policies and practices: and Indemnification of directors playing an active role in monitoring the Companys compliance efforts for In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association and to the extent Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and receiving progress updates at each permitted by the laws of England and Wales, directors are granted an indemnity of its meetings.
from the Company in respect of liabilities incurred as a result of their office.
In respect of those matters for which the directors may not be indemnified, At least twice a year, the Audit Committee meets separately with the external the Company maintained a directors and officers liability insurance policy auditors and the Group Audit Director without management being present.
This policy has been renewed for the next financial Further details on the work of the Audit Committee and its oversight of the year.
Neither the Companys indemnity nor the insurance provides cover in the relationships with the external auditors can be found under Auditors and the event that the director is proven to have acted dishonestly or fraudulently.
Report from the Audit Committee which are set out on pages 69 and 70.
Nominations and Governance Committee Board committees The members of the Nominations and Governance Committee during the year, The Board has established an Audit Committee, a Nominations and Governance together with a record of their attendance at scheduled meetings which they were eligible to attend, are set out below: Committee and a Remuneration Committee, each of which has formal terms of reference approved by the Board.
The Board is satisfied that the terms of Meetings attended reference for each of these committees satisfy the requirements of the Combined Sir John Bond, Chairman 6 6 Code and are reviewed internally on an ongoing basis by the Board.
The terms Lord Broers until 23 July 2007 2 2 of reference for all Board committees can be found on the Companys website John Buchanan 5 6 at www.
com or a copy can be obtained by application to the Company Arun Sarin 6 6 Secretary at the Companys registered office.
Professor Jrgen Schrempp 4 6 Luc Vandevelde 6 6 The committees are provided with all necessary resources to enable them to undertake their duties in an effective manner.
The Company Secretary or his The Nominations and Governance Committees key objective is to ensure that the delegate acts as secretary to the committees.
The minutes of committee Board comprises individuals with the requisite skills, knowledge and experience meetings are circulated to all directors.
to ensure that it is effective in discharging its responsibilities.
The Nominations and Governance Committee: Each committee has access to such information and advice, both from within the Group and externally, at the cost of the Company as it deems necessary.
This may leads the process for identifying and making recommendations to the Board include the appointment of external consultants where appropriate.
Each committee of candidates for appointment as directors of the Company, giving full undertakes an annual review of the effectiveness of its terms of reference and makes consideration to succession planning and the leadership needs of the Group: recommendations to the Board for changes where appropriate.
makes recommendations to the Board on the composition of the Nominations and Governance Committee and the composition and chairmanship of the Audit Committee Audit and Remuneration Committees: The members of the Audit Committee during the year, together with a record of regularly reviews the structure, size and composition of the Board, including their attendance at scheduled meetings which they were eligible to attend, are set the balance of skills, knowledge and experience and the independence of the out below: non-executive directors, and makes recommendations to the Board with Meetings attended regard to any change: and is responsible for the oversight of all matters relating to corporate governance, Dr Michael Boskin, Chairman 4 4 John Buchanan 4 4 bringing any issues to the attention of the Board.
Alan Jebson from 23 July 2007 3 3 Nick Land 4 4 The Nominations and Governance Committee meets periodically when required.
No one other than a member of the Nominations and Governance Committee is Anne Lauvergeon 3 4 Lord Broers until 23 July 2007 1 1 entitled to be present at its meetings.
Other non-executive directors and external advisers may be invited to attend.
The Nominations and Governance Committee The Audit Committee is comprised of financially literate members having the usually meets two or three times each year but this year, in order to address the matter of the Chief Executives succession, it met six times as a body.
Committee necessary ability and experience to understand financial statements.
Solely for the purpose of fulfilling the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the members were also additionally involved in the assessment and interview of potential successors to the Chief Executive, a process in which they were supported Combined Code, the Board has designated Nick Land, who is an independent non-executive director satisfying the independence requirements of Rule 10A-3 by MWM Consulting.
of the US Securities Exchange Act 1934, as its financial expert on the Audit Committee.
Further details on Nick Land can be found in Board of Directors and Group Management on page 63.
Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2008 67 Vodafone Governance Corporate Governance continued Remuneration Committee hosting investors and analysts sessions at which senior management from The members of the Remuneration Committee during the year, together with relevant operating companies deliver presentations which provide an overview a record of their attendance at scheduled meetings which they were eligible of each of the individual businesses and operations: to attend, are set out below: attendance by senior executives across the business at relevant meetings and conferences throughout the year: Meetings attended responding to enquiries from shareholders and analysts through the Luc Vandevelde, Chairman 5 5 Companys Investor Relations team: and Simon Murray from 23 July 2007 3 4 a section dedicated to shareholders on the Companys corporate website, Professor Jrgen Schrempp 4 5 www.
Anthony Watson 5 5 Philip Yea 5 5 Overall responsibility for ensuring that there is effective communication with Dr Michael Boskin until 23 July 2007 2 2 investors and that the Board understands the views of major shareholders on matters such as governance and strategy rests with the Chairman, who makes The responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee include the following: himself available to meet shareholders for this purpose.
determining, on behalf of the Board, the Companys policy on the The senior independent director and other members of the Board are also remuneration of the Chairman, the executive directors and the senior available to meet major investors on request.
The senior independent director has management team of the Company: a specific responsibility to be available to shareholders who have concerns, for determining the total remuneration packages for these individuals, including whom contact with the Chairman, Chief Executive or Chief Financial Officer has any compensation on termination of office: and either failed to resolve their concerns, or for whom such contact is inappropriate.
appointing any consultants in respect of executive directors remuneration.
At the 2007 AGM, the shareholders approved amendments to the Articles which The Chairman and Chief Executive may attend the Remuneration Committees enabled the Company to take advantage of the provision in the Companies Act meetings by invitation.
They do not attend when their individual remuneration 2006 effective from 20 January 2007 to communicate with its shareholders is discussed and no director is involved in deciding his own remuneration.
Following that approval, unless a shareholder has specifically asked to receive a hard copy, they will receive notification of the availability of the Further information on the Remuneration Committees activities is contained Annual Report on the Companys website www.
For the 2008 in Directors Remuneration on pages 71 to 81. financial year, shareholders will receive the Notice of Meeting and form of proxy in paper through the post unless they have previously opted to receive email Executive Committee communications.
Shareholders continue to have the option to appoint proxies The executive directors, together with certain other Group functional heads and and give voting instructions electronically.
regional chief executives, meet 12 times a year as the Executive Committee under the chairmanship of the Chief Executive.
The Executive Committee is responsible The principal communication with private investors is via the Annual Report and for the day-to-day management of the Groups businesses, the overall financial through the AGM, an occasion which is attended by all the Companys directors performance of the Group in fulfilment of strategy, plans and budgets and Group and at which all shareholders present are given the opportunity to question the capital structure and funding.
It also reviews major acquisitions and disposals.
Chairman and the Board as well as the Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and The members of the Executive Committee and their biographical details are set Nominations and Governance Committees.
After the AGM, shareholders can meet out on pages 62 and 64. informally with directors.
Company Secretary A summary presentation of results and development plans is also given at the AGM The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Board and to the committees before the Chairman deals with the formal business of the meeting.
The AGM is of the Board and, with the consent of the Board, may delegate responsibility for broadcast live on the Groups website, www.
com, and a recording of the the administration of the Committees to other suitably qualified staff.
He: webcast can subsequently be viewed on the website.
All substantive resolutions at the Companys AGMs are decided on a poll.
The poll is conducted by the Companys assists the Chairman in ensuring that all directors have full and timely access Registrars and scrutinised by Electoral Reform Services.
The proxy votes cast in to all relevant information: relation to all resolutions, including details of votes withheld, are disclosed to those is responsible for ensuring that the correct Board procedures are followed and in attendance at the meeting and the results of the poll are published on the advises the Board on corporate governance matters: and Companys website and announced via the regulatory news service.
Financial and administers the procedure under which directors can, where appropriate, other information is made available on the Companys website, www.
com, obtain independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
The appointment or removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for the Board Political donations as a whole.
At the 2006 AGM, the directors sought and received a renewal of shareholders approval for a period of three years until the AGM in 2009 to enable the Group Relations with shareholders to make donations to EU Political Organisations or EU Political Expenditure, under The Company is committed to communicating its strategy and activities clearly the relevant provisions of the Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act to its shareholders and, to that end, maintains an active dialogue with investors 2000.
The approval given restricts such expenditure for each year until the AGM through a planned programme of investor relations activities.
The investor in 2009 to an aggregate amount of 100,000 50,000 in respect of donations to relations programme includes: EU Political Organisations and 50,000 in respect of EU Political Expenditure.
formal presentations of full year and half-yearly results and interim Neither the Company nor any if its subsidiaries have made any political donations management statements: during the year.
briefing meetings with major institutional shareholders in the UK, the US and in Continental Europe after the half-yearly results and preliminary announcement, With effect from 1 October 2007, the relevant provisions governing political to ensure that the investor community receives a balanced and complete view donations in the Companies Act 1985 have been replaced by similar provisions of the Groups performance and the issues faced by the Group: in Part 14 of the Companies Act 2006.
Although the existing shareholder approval regular meetings with institutional investors and analysts by the Chief in respect of political donations does not expire until the Companys AGM in 2009, Executive and the Chief Financial Officer to discuss business performance: Part 14 of the Companies Act 2006 is technically different to the relevant 68 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2008 provisions of the Companies Act 1985 and, consequently, to avoid any confusion, Disclosure controls and procedures the directors, on a precautionary basis, are bringing this matter again to The Company maintains disclosure controls and procedures, as such term is shareholders and the terms of this years resolution have been adjusted to reflect defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15 e, that are designed to ensure that the different technical requirements of Part 14 of the Companies Act 2006. information required to be disclosed in reports the Company files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarised and reported within It remains the policy of the Company not to make political donations or incur the time periods specified in the Securities and Exchange Commission rules political expenditure as those expressions are normally understood.
However, the and forms, and that such information is accumulated and communicated to directors consider that it is in the best interests of shareholders for the Company management, including the Companys Group Chief Executive and Chief Financial to participate in public debate and opinion-forming on matters which affect its Officer, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
To avoid inadvertent infringement of the Companies Act 2006, the directors are seeking shareholders authority for the Company and its subsidiaries The directors, the Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Officer have evaluated to make political donations and to incur political expenditure during the period the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures and, based on that from the date of the AGM to the conclusion of the AGM in 2012 or 29 July 2012, evaluation, have concluded that the disclosure controls and procedures are whichever is the earlier, up to a maximum aggregate amount of 100,000 per year.
effective at the end of the period covered by this Annual Report.
Internal control Auditors The Board has overall responsibility for the system of internal control.
A sound Following a recommendation by the Audit Committee and, in accordance with system of internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk Section 384 of the Companies Act 1985, a resolution proposing the reappointment of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and of Deloitte & Touche LLP as auditors to the Company will be put to the 2008 AGM.
not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The process of managing the risks associated with social, environmental and ethical impacts is In its assessment of the independence of the auditors and in accordance with the also discussed under Performance Corporate Responsibility on pages 59 to 61.
US Independence Standards Board Standard No.
1, Independence Discussions with Audit Committees, the Audit Committee receives in writing details of The Board has established procedures that implement in full the Turnbull Guidance relationships between Deloitte & Touche LLP and the Company that may have a Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code for bearing on their independence and receives confirmation that they are independent the year under review and to the date of approval of the Annual Report.
These of the Company within the meaning of the securities laws administered by the SEC.
procedures, which are subject to regular review, provide an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
In addition, the Audit Committee pre-approves the audit fee after a review of both See page 83 for managements report on internal control over financial reporting.
the level of the audit fee against other comparable companies, including those in the telecommunications industry, and the level and nature of non-audit fees, Monitoring and review activities as part of its review of the adequacy and objectivity of the audit process.
There are clear processes for monitoring the system of internal control and reporting any significant control failings or weaknesses together with details In a further measure to ensure auditor independence is not compromised, policies of corrective action.
These include: provide for the pre-approval by the Audit Committee of permitted non-audit services by Deloitte & Touche LLP.
For certain specific permitted services, the a formal annual confirmation provided by the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Audit Committee has pre-approved that Deloitte & Touche LLP can be engaged Financial Officer of each Group company certifying the operation of their by Group management subject to specified fee limits for individual engagements control systems and highlighting any weaknesses, the results of which are and fee limits for each type of specific service permitted.
For all other services, reviewed by regional management, the Audit Committee and the Board: or those permitted services that exceed the specified fee limits, the Chairman of a review of the quality and timeliness of disclosures undertaken by the Chief the Audit Committee, or in his absence another member, can pre-approve services Executive and the Chief Financial Officer which includes formal annual which have not been pre-approved by the Audit Committee.
meetings with the operating company or regional chief executives and chief financial officers and the Disclosure Committee: In addition to their statutory duties, Deloitte & Touche LLP are also employed periodic examination of business processes on a risk basis including reports where, as a result of their position as auditors, they either must, or are best placed on controls throughout the Group undertaken by the Group Internal Audit to, perform the work in question.
This is primarily work in relation to matters such Department who report directly to the Audit Committee: and as shareholder circulars, Group borrowings, regulatory filings and certain business reports from the external auditors, Deloitte & Touche LLP, on certain internal acquisitions and disposals.
Other work is awarded on the basis of competitive tender.
controls and relevant financial reporting matters, presented to the Audit Committee and management.
During the year, Deloitte & Touche LLP and its affiliates charged the Group 7 million 2007: 7 million, 2006: 4 million for audit and audit-related services and a further Any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can 2 million 2007: 3 million, 2006: 4 million for non-audit assignments.
An analysis provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance of achieving the desired of these fees can be found in note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Management is required to apply judgement in evaluating the risks facing the Group in achieving its objectives, in determining the risks that are considered acceptable to bear, in assessing the likelihood of the risks concerned materialising, in identifying the Companys ability to reduce the incidence and impact on the business of risks that do materialise and in ensuring that the costs of operating particular controls are proportionate to the benefit.
Review of effectiveness The Board and the Audit Committee have reviewed the effectiveness of the internal control system, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management, in accordance with the Code for the period from 1 April 2007 to the date of approval of this Annual Report.
No significant failings or weaknesses were identified during this review.
However, had there been any such failings or weaknesses, the Board confirms that necessary actions would have been taken to remedy them.
Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2008 69 Vodafone Governance Corporate Governance continued US listing requirements The Companys Nominations and Governance Committee and Remuneration Committee have terms of reference and composition that comply with the The Companys ADSs are listed on the NYSE and the Company is, therefore, Combined Code requirements.
subject to the rules of the NYSE as well as US securities laws and the rules of the The Nominations and Governance Committee is chaired by the Chairman of SEC.
The NYSE requires US companies listed on the exchange to comply with the Board, and its other members are non-executive directors of the Company the NYSEs corporate governance rules but foreign private issuers, such as the and the Chief Executive.
Company, are exempt from most of those rules.
However, pursuant to NYSE Rule The Audit Committee is composed entirely of non-executive directors whom 303A.
11, the Company is required to disclose a summary of any significant ways the Board has determined to be independent and who meet the requirements in which the corporate governance practices it follows differ from those required of Rule 10A-3 of the Securities Exchange Act.
by the NYSE for US companies.
The differences are as follows: The Company considers that the terms of reference of these committees, which Independence are available on its website at www.
com, are generally responsive to the relevant NYSE rules but may not address all aspects of these rules.
NYSE rules require that a majority of the Board must be comprised of independent directors and the rules include detailed tests that US companies Corporate governance guidelines must use for determining independence.
The Combined Code requires a companys board of directors to assess and Under NYSE rules, US companies must adopt and disclose corporate make a determination as to the independence of its directors.
Vodafone has posted its statement of compliance with the Combined Code on While the Board does not explicitly take into consideration the NYSEs detailed its website at www.
The Company has also adopted a Group tests, it has carried out an assessment based on the requirements of the Combined Governance and Policy Manual which provides the first level of the framework Code and has determined in its judgement that all of the non-executive directors within which its businesses operate.
The Manual applies to all directors and are independent within those requirements.
At the date of this Annual Report, employees.
the Board comprised the Chairman, three executive directors and ten nonexecutive directors.
The Company considers that its corporate governance guidelines are generally responsive to, but may not address all aspects of, the relevant NYSE rules.
Committees The Company has also adopted a corporate Code of Ethics for senior executives, NYSE rules require US companies to have a nominating and corporate financial and accounting officers, separate from and additional to its Business governance committee and a compensation committee, each composed Principles.
A copy of this code is available on the Groups website at entirely of independent directors with a written charter that addresses the www.
Report from the Audit Committee External auditors The composition of the Audit Committee is shown in the table on page 67 The Committee reviewed the letter from Deloitte & Touche LLP confirming and its terms of reference are discussed under Board committees Audit their independence and objectivity.
It also reviewed and approved the Committee.
scope of non-audit services provided by Deloitte & Touche LLP to ensure that there was no impairment of independence.
During the year ended 31 March 2008, the principal activities of the Committee were as follows: The Committee approved the scope and fees for audit services provided by Deloitte & Touche LLP and confirmed the wording of the recommendations Financial statements put by the Board to the shareholders on the appointment and retention of The Committee considered reports from the Chief Financial Officer and the external auditors.
the Director of Financial Reporting on the half-year and annual financial statements.
It also considered reports from the external auditors, Deloitte Private meetings were held with Deloitte & Touche LLP to ensure that there & Touche LLP, on the scope and outcome of the half-year review and were no restrictions on the scope of their audit and to discuss any items the annual audit.
auditors did not wish to raise with management present.
The financial statements were reviewed in the light of these reports and Internal audit the results of that review reported to the Board.
The Committee engaged in discussion and review of the Group Audit Departments audit plan for the year, together with its resource Risk management and internal control requirements.
Private meetings were held with the Group Audit Director.
The Committee reviewed the process by which the Group evaluated its control environment, its risk assessment process and the way in which Audit Committee effectiveness significant business risks were managed.
It also considered the Group Audit The Audit Committee conducts a formal review of its effectiveness Departments reports on the effectiveness of internal controls, significant annually and concluded this year that it was effective and able to fulfil its frauds and any fraud that involved management or employees with a terms of reference.
significant role in internal controls.
The Committee was also responsible for oversight of the Groups compliance activities in relation to section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
Dr Michael Boskin The Committee also reviewed arrangements by which staff could, in On behalf of the Audit Committee confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters.
This was achieved through using existing reporting procedures and a website with a dedicated anonymous email feature.
70 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2008
