44 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 1 Compliance with the Combined Code present at meetings of the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration The Company monitors its compliance with the requirements Committees, although others including the Executive Directors, of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance dated Head of Internal Audit, Head of Taxation and the external June 2006 the Combined Code on a continuous basis.
Auditors may attend at the prior invitation of the relevant This report, in addition to the Remuneration Report on pages committee chairman.
Committee 49 to 55 and the Audit Committee report on page 48, describes Board Audit Nominations Remuneration how the Company has applied and complied with the principles, Meetings attended: supporting principles and provisions contained in the Combined Code, and in accordance with the Combined Codes comply or Lars Emilson 11 11 n a 2 2 7 8 explain principle, further explains where the Company has not Michael Foster 11 11 n a 2 2 n a complied with the provisions of the Combined Code.
The Board is of the opinion that in respect of the period from 1 January 2008 Robert Careless 11 11 n a n a n a to 22 October 2008 being the effective date of the Scheme, James Deeley 11 11 n a n a n a Charter plc, and, in respect of the period from 22 October 2008 to 31 December 2008, the Company, has been in compliance John Biles 10 11 4 4 2 2 8 8 with the provisions of the Combined Code with only one exception.
James Bruce 9 11 4 4 2 2 7 8 The service contracts of Michael Foster and Robert Careless contain liquidated damages clauses, which are in contrast to Grey Denham 10 11 4 4 2 2 8 8 requirement B.
1.5 of the Combined Code for outgoing directors John Neill 10 11 n a n a n a to mitigate their loss.
The Board feels that these arrangements are not excessive and serve to balance the interests of Andrew Osborne 10 11 4 4 2 2 8 8 shareholders with the need to ensure the retention of these The powers and authorities retained by the Board include: individuals.
The policy has been revised with regard to the Service Contracts of new Executive Directors and hence the the approval of annual and interim results, interim service contract of James Deeley contains no such provision.
management statements and associated announcements: 2 Directors the membership, authority and terms of reference a The Board of Board committees: The Board conducts itself in such a way as to provide leadership corporate strategy: to the Company and its subsidiaries and their respective employees.
It is committed to the highest standards of corporate significant financing arrangements: governance and to the delivery of enhanced shareholder value matters relating to share capital including employee share in a manner consistent with sound business practices and schemes and share options : proper standards of CSR.
In providing such leadership, the Board focuses on integrity and personal responsibility with the contracts or expenditures in excess of certain overriding objective of creating shareholder value.
The Board monetary thresholds: operates in accordance with a Management and Governance adoption of annual budgets: and Framework the Framework.
This has been approved and adopted by the Board, and consolidates those policies which appointment and removal of the Company Secretary.
govern the management and governance of the Company and Subject to these retained powers and authorities, the day-to-day its subsidiaries.
The Framework contains details of: a the management of the Companys subsidiaries resides with the specific powers that the Board has retained, b the authority boards of those subsidiaries.
Any concerns that the Non-Executive that has been delegated to the Board Committees and their Directors may have regarding either the administration of the terms of reference and c the role of the Board, the Chairman Company and its subsidiaries, or any proposed actions, are and the Chief Executive.
The Framework is kept under regular recorded in the minutes of the Company where an alternative review and modified as and when new situations, requirements resolution cannot be found.
The Company has provided its or developments in best practice arise.
The Board ensures that Directors with appropriate insurance cover in respect of legal the membership of its committees is refreshed so that undue proceedings and other claims against them.
reliance is not placed on individual Directors.
The Board meets regularly and there are nine scheduled meetings for 2009. b Board committees Three meetings of the Board of the Company have been held i Standing Committee since the implementation of the Scheme.
Prior to this date, Composition: Any two Directors of the Company.
Charter plc held nine meetings during the year.
Role: The Committee is responsible for taking necessary The Board hosts an annual strategy conference at which it steps that are ancillary to and required in order to progress considers and determines the strategic plans for the Companys transactions that have been approved in principle by the Board businesses.
Details of attendance at meetings of the Board and and which relate to the Company, to review and make its Nominations, Audit and Remuneration Committees including recommendations to the Board in respect of the Policies and those of Charter plc prior to 22 October 2008 are shown in the Procedures Manual and determine the remuneration and other following table.
Agendas and supporting papers are distributed terms and conditions of appointment of the Non-Executive to Directors in advance of each meeting so that the meeting Directors of the Company.
can benefit from informed debate.
No individuals other than the committee chairman and the members are entitled to be CHARTER INTERNATIONAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008 DIRECTORS AND OTHER REPORTS 45 ii Nominations Committee d Chairman and Chief Executive Composition: Lars Emilson Chairman, Michael Foster, Lars Emilson is Chairman and Michael Foster is Chief Executive John Biles, The Hon.
James Bruce, Grey Denham and of the Company.
Mr Emilson was appointed Chairman of the Andrew Osborne.
All members were appointed to the Company on 27 August 2008 having previously been Chairman Committee on 27 August 2008, having previously been of Charter plc since 1 November 2007, and Mr Foster was members of the Nominations Committee of Charter plc prior appointed Chief Executive on 27 August 2008 having previously to the Scheme.
All of the members of the Committee, excluding been Chief Executive of Charter plc since 1 July 2006.
Michael Foster, are considered independent Non-Executive The Board believes that the two roles carry different Directors pursuant to the Combined Code and accordingly responsibilities and has approved a clear division of a majority of the members are independent.
responsibilities between the Chairman and Chief Executive which are reflected in the Framework.
The Chairman has Role: The Committee is responsible for making primary responsibility for leading the Board, for ensuring its recommendations to the Board concerning appointments effectiveness, and for ensuring that good communications are to the Board, including evaluating the skills, knowledge maintained with shareholders, while the Chief Executive has and experience required and setting a job description for responsibility for running the Companys businesses.
In fulfilling its role in respect of new Emilson has no significant commitments that require disclosure appointments, the Committee generally seeks advice and in relation to his Chairmanship.
The Chairman periodically assistance from external search consultants to identify, meets with the Non-Executive Directors without the other benchmark and select appropriate candidates.
Executive Directors present as well as maintaining contact The Board of Charter plc reviewed plans for orderly should they wish to raise any issues with him outside of the management succession in relation to both Board and senior formal setting of the Board meetings.
management appointments at its annual strategy conference e Board balance and independence in September 2008.
The Board believes that this provided The Board currently comprises nine Directors, three of whom the necessary reassurance that appropriate plans have been are Executive and six of whom are Non-Executive.
The Board adopted to ensure that the correct balance of skills and believes that this structure provides the correct balance of skills experience are maintained on the Board and within the and experience for the business and would allow for any senior management of the Company and its subsidiaries.
changes to the Boards composition to be managed without iii Remuneration Committee undue disruption, whilst ensuring that the presence of six Composition: The Hon.
James Bruce Chairman, John Biles, Non-Executive Directors prevents a concentration of power Grey Denham, Lars Emilson and Andrew Osborne, all of whom and influence in a small number of individuals.
The Board has are considered independent Non-Executive Directors pursuant determined that, with the exception of John Neill who is no to the Code.
longer considered to be independent by virtue of his length of service on the Boards of the Company and Charter plc and Role and activities: A detailed explanation of the role and his relationship with the Unipart Group of Companies, all of the activities of the Committee can be found in the Remuneration Non-Executive Directors including the Chairman are regarded report on pages 49 to 55. as independent.
The Board does not consider that there exist iv Disclosure Committee any relationships or circumstances likely to affect the judgement Composition: The Committee comprises the three Executive of any Non-Executive Director.
The Board greatly values the Directors.
All members were appointed to the Committee contribution and experience of John Neill and recommends on 27 August 2008 having previously been members of the his re-election at the forthcoming AGM as a Non-Executive Disclosure Committee of Charter plc prior to the Scheme.
No Executive Director currently holds a non-executive directorship of a FTSE 100 company.
Role: The Committee is primarily responsible for the creation and maintenance of appropriate procedures, systems and controls f Information and professional development to ensure compliance by the Company with its obligations The Company Secretary, under the guidance of the Chairman, under the DTR and the Listing Rules of the Financial Services is responsible for ensuring good information flows within the Authority.
In particular, it has responsibility for the determination, Board and its committees.
All Directors of the Company have on a timely basis, of the disclosure treatment of material access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and information and designing, implementing and evaluating may take independent professional advice on any matter relating disclosure controls and procedures that operate within the to the Company at the Companys expense.
In advance of Board Company and its subsidiaries.
The Committee also has and committee meetings, Directors and relevant committee responsibility for identifying inside information, for the purpose members receive detailed papers on the matters to be considered, of maintaining the Companys insider lists as required by the DTR.
enabling them to request further clarification or additional information and to participate fully in discussions.
The Company v Audit Committee Secretary is responsible for advising the Board, through the Details regarding the membership, role, responsibilities and Chairman, on all governance matters and best practice.
work of the Committee during the year under review can be found in the Audit Committee report on page 48.
The Company has a comprehensive induction process for all Non-Executive Directors when they join the Board.
This includes c North American operations a detailed information pack, which combines publicly available Following an internal reorganisation in February 2009, the information, such as the Annual Report and product information, operations of ESAB and Howden in North America are now with confidential briefing notes on the Companys financing managed by the boards of The ESAB Group, Inc. and Howden arrangements, corporate structures, management accounts, Buffalo, Inc. respectively.
At the same time, Neil Schemm advisers and other relevant information.
In addition briefing ceased to be a key manager of the business but continues to meetings are organised with key members of the Board fulfil an important role as General Counsel to the operations and senior management and visits are arranged to the of ESAB and Howden in North America.
CHARTER INTERNATIONAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008 46 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED g Performance evaluation In preparing both the consolidated financial statements for the Group and the financial statements for the Company, Evaluation of the Board and its principal committees is the Directors were required to: conducted by gathering feedback from the relevant members of the Board and committees on a questionnaire prepared 1 select appropriate accounting policies and apply them internally, the results of which are collated and presented to consistently: the Board by the Chairman.
In addition, the Chairman holds 2 make judgements and estimates that are reasonable a number of meetings with individual Directors to consider their and prudent: comments and general impression of the performance of the Board and the Committees.
The Chairman is responsible for 3 state whether applicable accounting standards have been conducting the performance evaluation of the Chief Executive.
followed, subject to any material departures being disclosed The Non-Executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent and explained: and Director, are responsible for evaluating the performance of the 4 prepare those financial statements on the going concern Chairman and in doing so take account of the views of the basis, unless they consider that to be inappropriate.
The Chief Executive conducts individual evaluations of the Executive Directors against a number of The Directors are responsible under the Jersey Companies Law pre-agreed performance objectives.
for ensuring that the Company keeps accounting records which are sufficient to show and explain its transactions and that are The results of the questionnaires and the individual meetings such as to disclose with reasonable accuracy, at any time, the were summarised in a paper submitted to the Board by the financial position of the Company and to enable the Directors Chairman on 9 December 2008.
This considered the areas that to ensure that the Companys financial statements comply with the Directors identified for improvement and set out the manner the Jersey Companies Law.
The Directors are required to have in which these were to be addressed going forward.
The Board the Companys financial statements for each of the Companys was unanimous in its agreement with the Chairmans financial periods audited, and for this purpose, to provide the assessment that the Board, its committees and individuals Auditors with a right of access to the Companys records and continued to be effective.
to provide them with such information and explanations as they h Re-appointment think necessary for the performance of their duties as auditors.
Under Article 93 of the Articles of Association of the Company, The Directors are also responsible for taking reasonable steps at every Annual General Meeting any Director who has been to safeguard the assets of the Company and its subsidiaries appointed by the Board since the last Annual General Meeting, and, in that context, to have proper regard to the establishment or who held office at the time of the two preceding Annual of appropriate systems of internal control with a view to the General Meetings and who did not retire at either of them, or prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
who has held office with the Company, other than employment The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity or executive office, for a continuous period of nine years or of the Companys website.
more at the date of the meeting, shall retire from office and may The requirements of Jersey Companies Law and UK legislation offer himself for re-appointment by the members.
As the AGM which govern the preparation and dissemination of financial will be the Companys first Annual General Meeting, all Directors statements may differ from the requirements of applicable will retire and offer themselves for re-appointment at this meeting.
3 Accountability and Audit The Directors consider that they have taken the actions necessary a Financial reporting to meet their responsibilities as set out in the paragraphs above.
The following paragraphs set out the responsibilities of the Directors in relation to the consolidated financial statements for Going concern the Group and the financial statements for the Company.
The After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable reports of the external Auditors, shown on pages 56 and 57, set expectation that the Company and its subsidiaries have adequate out their responsibilities in relation to those financial statements.
resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern Under the Companies Jersey Law 1991 as amended the basis in preparing both the consolidated financial statements for Jersey Companies Law, the Directors are responsible for the Group and the financial statements for the Company.
preparing financial statements for the Company in respect of each of its financial periods.
The Companys financial b Internal control statements are required to show a true and fair view of, or be The Board has overall responsibility for the maintenance presented fairly in all material respects, so as to show: i the of a system of internal control.
The Audit Committee has been profit or loss of the Company for the financial period covered formally delegated responsibility for reviewing the effectiveness by such financial statements: and ii the state of affairs of the of the system of internal control.
The processes to manage the Company at the end of such financial period.
The Companys key risks to the success of the Company and its businesses are financial statements for each of its financial periods are required reviewed and improved as necessary.
There is an organisational to be prepared in accordance with the generally accepted structure with clearly defined lines of responsibility and delegation accounting principles adopted by the Company and to specify of authority and there are also established policies and procedures such generally accepted accounting principles.
The Companys for monitoring each business.
While the operational control financial statements are prepared in accordance with UK is largely decentralised and responsibility is delegated, the generally accepted accounting principles UK GAAP.
businesses are subject to the overall internal control framework.
This, by its nature, can provide reasonable but not absolute Although the Company is not required to prepare consolidated assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Detailed financial statements for the Group under the Jersey Companies policies and procedures have been established by the Board Law, it is required to prepare them under the Listing Rules of the dealing with numerous issues, including internal controls.
The consolidated financial statements for Examples of internal control procedures are summarised the Group are prepared in accordance with International Financial on the following pages: Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
CHARTER INTERNATIONAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008 DIRECTORS AND OTHER REPORTS 47 i Assessment of business riskas part of its audit visits to operating companies, the internal A system of risk identification assessment and identification audit function evaluates the effectiveness of internal controls.
and evaluation of controls is embedded within the Companys The Audit Committee reviews the findings of the internal management processes.
Strategic risks and opportunities audit process: arising from changes in the business environment are regularly the Audit Committee has specific responsibility for reviewing reviewed by the senior management and formally discussed by the effectiveness of internal controls and monitors the the Board.
Risks relating to key activities within the operating process of assessing the internal controls on behalf of the businesses and at the Companys head office are assessed on Board: and a continuous basis and reported to the Board as appropriate.
the Audit Committee reviews the process by which risks are ii Control environment identified and assessed by operating units, operational Under the Framework described on page 44, the Board sets management and the Board.
overall policy and approves the core Policies and Procedures to be adopted by all of its subsidiaries.
A well-defined The Board confirms it has carried out a review of the effectiveness organisational structure with clear operating procedures and of the system of internal controls described above for the financial lines of responsibility and delegated authority has been year ended 31 December 2008 and up to the date of this Report established.
There are procedures for appraisal, review and in accordance with the guidance set out in Internal Control: authorisation of matters of significance, including investments, Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code the capital expenditure, borrowings, guarantees, indemnities and Turnbull Guidance.
The review encompassed operational, material contracts.
financial and compliance controls as well as risk management.
iii Information and communication The system used included the following key elements: i as part The Companys operating procedures include a comprehensive of their ongoing reviews of the business, the Executive Directors system for reporting financial and non-financial information and Key Management reviewed the effectiveness of strategic, to the Board, including: operational and compliance internal controls and risk management.
This involved considering reports on key risk areas concentrating the preparation and review of annual budgets: on significant changes in the risk profile and in the light of such a review of the businesses at each Board meeting, reviews making appropriate amendments to policies and focusing on any new risks arising for example, those procedures to control risks: and ii the Board considered reports relating to proposed major investments and key changes from the Audit Committee and the Executive Directors on these in the markets : and areas during the year and, at the time of approving the Annual Report, considered a summary of the assessments of the meetings between various Executive Directors and effectiveness of the controls on the key risks identified.
4 Relations with shareholders iv Control procedures The Company has a policy of maintaining an active dialogue Detailed operational procedures are developed for each key with institutional shareholders through individual meetings.
activity that embody key controls.
The implications of changes Communications with private shareholders are conducted in law and regulations are taken into account within these through the Annual Report, Company announcements, procedures.
Procedures are established to safeguard the presentations at the AGM and the Companys website which assets of the Company and its subsidiaries and to ensure that includes descriptions of the Companys business operations.
all financial transactions are properly recorded.
Accounting The Board receives regular updates on all meetings and policies and practices are widely disseminated throughout the communications with major shareholders and major shareholders Companys subsidiaries and its affiliates.
are offered the opportunity to meet with the Non-Executive v Monitoring process Directors from time to time.
The Senior Independent Director There are clear procedures for monitoring the system of internal is available to shareholders if they have concerns that cannot controls.
The significant components of these are: be addressed through regular channels such as the Chairman, Chief Executive or Finance Director.
the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer of each operating company are required to review internal controls and to return a self-certified internal control questionnaire confirming the effectiveness of internal control systems: each operating company deploys a variety of risk identification and assessment processes and develops mitigating actions.
Major, high or medium risks are escalated and progress on action plans is reviewed at least quarterly as part of management meetings.
The Board reviews every six months the major and high risks and monitors progress against action plans: CHARTER INTERNATIONAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008
