48 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Composition Financial reporting The Committee presently comprises John Biles Chairman, During 2008 the Committee reviewed a wide range of financial the Hon.
James Bruce, Grey Denham and Andrew Osborne, reporting and related matters, including the interim and annual all of whom are considered independent Non-Executive Directors financial statements prior to their submission to the Board.
pursuant to the Combined Code.
Their biographical details are The Committee focused in particular on key accounting policies set out on page 37.
There were no changes to the membership and practices adopted by the Company and its subsidiaries and of the Audit Committee of Charter plc between 1 January and significant areas of judgement that impacted reported results.
22 October 2008 or to that of the Committee since 22 October External Auditors 2008 when the Scheme became effective.
The Company The Committee is responsible for the development, Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
The Board, as implementation and monitoring of the Companys policies part of the review of the effectiveness of the Board and its on external audit.
The Committee has reviewed those services committees, has satisfied itself that the Hon.
James Bruce, provided by the external Auditors throughout the year in John Biles and Andrew Osborne all have recent and relevant accordance with the Companys policy on the provision of nonfinancial experience, as required by the Combined Code.
audit services by the external Auditors.
This policy notes that Role of the committee such services are likely to fall within the following types: The primary role of the Committee, which reports its findings a financial statements and external reports, b acquisitions, to the Board, is to ensure the integrity of the financial reporting c disposals, d taxation and e other services.
It identifies three and audit processes, and the maintenance of a sound internal categories of non-audit services: permitted engagements that control and risk management system.
In pursuing these require no specific approval: permitted engagements requiring objectives, the Committee: the approval of the Committee Chairman: and engagements that are not permitted.
The total fees paid to the external Auditor monitors the integrity of the financial statements of the were 5.8 million of which 3.0 million related to the audits Company and any formal announcements relating to of the parent company, consolidated accounts and subsidiary the Companys financial performance: undertakings.
Non-audit fees of 2.8 million included 1.6 million makes recommendations to the Board regarding the in relation to services rendered for the Scheme of Arrangement.
adoption of Annual and Interim Financial Reports: The remaining non-audit fees of 1.2 million represent 21 per cent reviews the Companys internal financial controls and internal of the total fees paid to the external Auditor.
In accordance control and risk management systems: with its remit, the Committee reviewed and adopted the external monitors and reviews the effectiveness of the Companys Auditors plans for the audit of the Companys 2008 financial internal audit function: statements.
In approving the terms of engagement for the audit, makes recommendations to the Board regarding the external the Committee considered the proposed audit fee and associated Auditors and their terms of appointment: expenses.
The Committee performed a review of the effectiveness reviews and monitors the external Auditors independence of the Companys external Auditors, and has recommended to and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process: the Board that  LLP be re-appointed is responsible for developing and implementing a policy on as the external Auditors of the Company.
The Committee remains the engagement of the external Auditors to supply non-audit satisfied as to the independence of the external Auditors services: and following a review at its meeting on 25 February 2009, and has makes recommendations to the Board in relation to received written confirmation from the external Auditors to this whistleblowing policies and procedures.
In the performance of its duties, the Committee has independent Internal audit and monitoring of control issues access to the services of the internal audit function and to the The Committee has reviewed the results of the audits external Auditors: and may obtain outside professional advice undertaken by the internal audit function and considered the as necessary.
Both the Head of Internal Audit and the external adequacy of managements response to the matters raised, Auditors have direct access to the Chairman of the Committee including the implementation of recommendations made by the outside formal Committee meetings.
The Committee has written function.
It also reviewed and approved the internal audit plan terms of reference that outline its authority and responsibilities.
for the coming year and the level of resources allocated to the These are considered annually by the Committee and any internal audit function.
The review of the effectiveness of the proposed changes are referred to the Board for approval.
internal audit function was based primarily on guidelines issued by the Institute of Internal Auditors.
The Committee reviewed the Report on the Committees activities in 2008 Meetings and attendance reports from the internal audit function and the external Auditors The Committee met on four occasions in 2008, three as the Audit on the Companys systems of internal control and reported to the Board on the results of these reviews.
Further details of the Committee of Charter plc prior to the Scheme becoming effective and once as the Audit Committee of the Company.
Meetings of Companys system of internal control and its policies and procedures can be found in the Corporate Governance Report the Committee are timed to coincide with the financial and reporting cycles of the Company.
Committee members on pages 44 to 47. attendance at the meetings held during the year is set out in the Whistleblowing table contained in the Corporate Governance Report on page 44.
The Companys whistleblowing policy was monitored by the The Chairman, Chief Executive, Finance Director, representatives Committee at its meetings following the Scheme and by the of the external Auditors, the Head of Internal Audit and senior Audit Committee of Charter plc prior to this date.
Issues raised financial executives from head office and the operations attended through the Companys whistleblowing procedures during the meetings by invitation for appropriate business.
In addition, the year were considered and any follow-up actions taken as and members of the Committee met separately with the external when required.
Auditors and the Head of Internal Audit to discuss matters without the Executive Directors being present.
During the year the On behalf of the Committee Chairman of the Committee has had additional meetings with the John Biles Companys senior financial managers to review a range of Chairman of the Audit Committee financial matters, and has also met with external and internal 26 February 2009 Auditors prior to Committee meetings.
CHARTER INTERNATIONAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008
