CHEMRING GROUP PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 STATEMENT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 47 Statement on Corporate Governance This statement sets out how the Company has applied the main and supporting principles of good governance set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued in 2006 by the Financial Reporting Council the Combined Code, and whether or not the Company has complied throughout its accounting period with the provisions of Section 1 of the Combined Code.
The Board The Board currently comprises the Chairman, the Chief Executive, the Finance Director and four non-executive directors.
The Board considers that three of the current non-executive directors, The Rt Hon Lord Freeman, Mr Much and Air Marshal Sir Peter Norriss, are independent in character and judgment, and meet the criteria for independence set out in the Combined Code.
The directors biographical details are set out on pages 32 and 33.
The Board, which meets at least ten times a year, approves the Groups long term goals and strategies and provides overall financial and organisational control.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters speci cally reserved to it for consideration and approval, including: approval of the Groups corporate plan: approval of the annual operating budgets: acquisitions, disposals and major capital expenditure: nancing and treasury: pensions: ethical policies: health and safety strategy: reviewing the Groups systems of financial control and risk management: approving appointments to the Board and approving policies relating to directors remuneration: and maintaining an effective dialogue with shareholders.
All directors take decisions objectively in the interests of the Company.
The Board delegates certain responsibilities to the Executive Committee, including: implementation of the Groups strategies and policies as determined by the Board: monitoring of operational and financial results against budget: allocation of resources across the Group within the overall plan approved by the Board: capital expenditure within limits imposed by the Board: and developing and implementing risk management systems.
Further details of the Executive Committee are set out in the section of this report covering Board Committees.
Procedures are in place covering the content, presentation and timely delivery of papers to the Board for each Board meeting, to ensure that directors have suf cient information to make expedient and considered decisions in ful lment of their duciary duties.
Where directors have concerns which cannot be resolved about the running of the Company or a proposed action, such concerns are recorded in the Board minutes.
Each director has full access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary who, under the direction of the Chairman, is responsible for maintaining good information ows within the Board and its committees, assisting with induction and keeping the directors informed about changes to their duties and responsibilities, and advising the Board on all governance matters.
The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole.
All directors are entitled to take independent professional advice in furtherance of their duties at the Companys expense, if the need should arise.
An internal induction programme on the Groups operations and its strategic and business plans is provided for newly-appointed directors.
The Company Secretary also provides detailed information on directors legal duties and responsibilities on appointment, and updates the Board on a regular basis with regards to regulatory changes affecting the directors and the Groups operations generally.
Directors are continually updated on the Groups businesses and the matters affecting the market in which they operate.
The Company meets the cost of appropriate external training for directors, the requirement for which is kept under review by the Chairman.
The Company separates the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive in accordance with the recommendations of the Combined Code.
The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive, and their respective job descriptions, are set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
In addition to chairing the Board, the Chairman is responsible for: ensuring that the Board is kept properly informed and is consulted on all decisions reserved to it: promoting constructive relations between the executive and non-executive directors: ensuring that the development needs of directors are identi ed and the performance of the Board evaluated on a regular basis: and ensuring effective communication with shareholders and acting as a conduit to ensure that the views of shareholders are communicated to the Board.
The Chairman has no signi cant business commitments other than his chairmanship of the Company.
The non-executive directors perform an essential role in safeguarding shareholders interests.
They actively participate in the development of strategic objectives and monitor the performance of executive management in achieving these objectives.
The non-executive directors also review financial performance, and consider the integrity of the financial information produced by the Group and whether the financial controls and risk management systems are robust and defensible.
They meet periodically with the management of the Groups operating companies.
In addition to participating in Board meetings, the three independent non-executive directors are the members of the standing committees set up to deal with audit and the remuneration of executive directors and senior management.
The Board considers that the current balance of executive and non-executive in uence which exists is appropriate for the Company, taking into account its size and status.
The Board has not appointed a senior independent director, as it does not consider this to be appropriate at the present time in view of the size of the Board.
During the financial year, the Chairman met regularly with the non-executive directors without the executives present.
48 STATEMENT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CHEMRING GROUP PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 Statement on Corporate Governance CONTINUED Mr Evans, The Rt Hon Lord Freeman, Mr Much and Air Marshal Sir Peter Norriss all have letters of appointment covering, amongst other items, their terms of appointment and expected time commitment.
These letters of appointment provide for a three year appointment, unless terminated earlier by and at the discretion of either party upon three months written notice.
The non-executive directors letters of appointment are available for inspection on request to the Company Secretary.
In accordance with the Combined Code and the Companys Articles of Association, all directors submit themselves for re-election every three years.
The Chairman will now offer himself for re-election annually, having reached the age of 70 and having served for more than nine years as a non-executive director.
The papers accompanying the Notice of Annual General Meeting include a statement from the Chairman con rming that the performance of each non-executive director seeking re-election at the meeting continues to be effective and that each such director continues to demonstrate commitment to their role.
A full evaluation of the performance of the Board and its committees was undertaken during the year.
The process adopted involved each of the directors considering a structured questionnaire, the responses to which were discussed at a full Board meeting.
In addition, the Chairman and the non-executive directors considered the individual performance of the Chief Executive and the Finance Director as part of the annual remuneration review.
Similarly, the performance of the Chairman was considered by the non-executive directors during the annual review of his remuneration, and the Chairman and the Chief Executive reviewed the performance of the non-executive directors.
No signi cant issues were identi ed but minor areas for improvement are being addressed.
The Company maintains directors and of cers liability insurance in respect of legal action against its directors.
Meetings attendance The following table shows the attendance of directors, who served during the year, at meetings of the Board, the Audit Committee, the Nomination Committee and the Remuneration Committee: Nomination Remuneration Board Audit Committee Committee Committee 11 meetings 4 meetings 0 meetings 6 meetings K C Scobie 11 11 - - 6 6 D R Evans 11 11 --- The Rt Hon Lord Freeman 11 11 4 4 - 6 6 I F R Much 10 11 4 4 - 6 6 11 11 4 4 - 6 6 Air Marshal Sir Peter Norriss D J Price 11 11 --- P A Rayner 11 11 --- The maximum number of meetings which each director could have attended is shown in brackets.
Board Committees The terms of reference of the Audit Committee, the Nomination Committee and the Remuneration Committee are posted on the Companys website and are available on request from the Company Secretary.
Audit Committee The Rt Hon Lord Freeman, Mr Much and Air Marshal Sir Peter Norriss all served as members of the Audit Committee during the year.
The Rt Hon Lord Freeman is Chairman of the Committee.
The Committee met four times during the year and operates within formal written terms of reference.
As referred to above, the terms of reference are available on the Companys website.
Meetings of the Committee are attended, at the invitation of the Committee, by the external auditors, the Chairman, the Finance Director and representatives from the Group finance and internal audit function.
The Committee meets with the auditors on a regular basis without executive directors present.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee and minutes of meetings are circulated to all Board members.
The Committee is authorised to seek any information it requires from any employee of the Company in order to perform its duties, and to obtain any outside legal or other professional advice it requires at the Companys expense.
The Committee monitors the integrity of the Groups financial statements and the effectiveness of the external audit process.
It is responsible for ensuring that an appropriate relationship between the Group and the external auditors is maintained, including reviewing non-audit services and fees.
The Committee keeps under review the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls and financial risk management systems, and on an annual basis, considers the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function.
The Committee reviews annually its terms of reference and its effectiveness, and recommends to the Board any changes required as the result of such review.
CHEMRING GROUP PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 STATEMENT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 49 During the year, the Committee, operating under its terms of reference, discharged its responsibilities by: reviewing the Groups draft 2007 financial statements and 2008 interim results statement prior to Board approval and reviewing the external auditors detailed reports thereon: reviewing the appropriateness of the Groups accounting policies, and reviewing various accounting matters raised by management and the external auditors in the context of financial disclosures: considering and approving changes to the Groups accounting policy manual: reviewing the potential impact in the Groups financial statements of certain matters such as impairments of xed asset values and International Financial Reporting Standards: reviewing the external auditors plan for the 2007 and 2008 financial statements and the 2008 interim report, including key risks on the accounts, con rmation of auditor independence and the proposed audit fee, and approving the terms of engagement for the audit: considering the Groups transfer pricing policy and certain other tax-related matters: receiving reports from the Risk Committee and reviewing the Groups risk register: approving a revised whistleblowing policy and procedures for employees: and reviewing the work undertaken by the Groups internal audit function.
The Company appointed an Internal Auditor in 2007.
The initial internal audit programme focused on a review of financial controls across the Group.
These activities have now been widened to include an audit of certain nonfinancial controls and procedures.
The Committee reviews the internal audit plan and receives regular reports from the Internal Auditor.
The Board has accepted the Committees recommendation that Deloitte LLP be proposed for re-appointment as auditors at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Committee keeps under review the level of non-audit services which are provided by the external auditors, to ensure that this does not impair their independence and objectivity.
The Committee, in conjunction with the Finance Director, also ensures that the Group maintains a suf cient choice of appropriately quali ed audit rms.
During the year, work on corporate finance matters was sourced from the external auditors only where there was no direct con ict with their role as external auditors and where there were clear ef ciencies and value added bene ts for the Company.
The Committee has now adopted a policy which states that the external auditors should no longer be appointed to provide services in relation to corporate finance matters, unless the Committee agrees that their appointment would be in the best interests of the Companys shareholders in particular circumstances.
Details of the amounts paid to the external auditors during the year for audit and other services are set out in the notes to the financial statements on page 66.
Nomination Committee Mr Scobie, Mr Much and Air Marshal Sir Peter Norriss all served on the Nomination Committee during the year.
Mr Scobie is Chairman of the Committee but, in accordance with the Committees terms of reference, is not permitted to chair meetings when the Committee is dealing with the appointment of his successor.
As referred to above, the Committees terms of reference are available on the Companys website.
With regards to the recruitment and appointment of new directors to the Board, the Committee considers the speci c knowledge and expertise which would be of bene t to the Groups current operations and future strategy, and provides a brief to external search agents based upon its conclusions.
The search agents put forward a short list of candidates for the Committee to interview before making its recommendations to the Board.
The Board interviews preferred candidates prior to making any formal offers of appointment.
Remuneration Committee The Rt Hon Lord Freeman, Mr Much, Air Marshal Sir Peter Norriss and Mr Scobie all served on the Remuneration Committee during the year.
Mr Much is Chairman of the Committee.
The Committee met six times during the year.
Further details on the Committee and the Companys policy on directors remuneration are included within the Directors Remuneration Report.
Executive Committee The Chief Executive, Dr Price, chairs the Executive Committee, which meets monthly.
The other members are the Finance Director, the Company Secretary, the Business Development Director, the Group Director of Safety, the Managing Director of the European Energetics Division and the President of the Groups US operations.
The Executive Committee is responsible for the executive day-to-day running of the Company, submission to the Board of strategic plans and budgets for the Groups operations, and monitoring the day-to-day performance of the Group as a whole.
Relations with shareholders The Company maintains an active dialogue with institutional shareholders through regular brie ng meetings and formal presentations following the release of interim and annual results.
Meetings are usually attended by the Chairman, the Chief Executive and the Finance Director.
However, the non-executive directors are offered the opportunity to meet with major shareholders and attend meetings if so requested by major shareholders.
No such requests were received during the year.
Communication with private investors is achieved largely through the medium of the interim report and the financial statements.
50 STATEMENT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CHEMRING GROUP PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 Statement on Corporate Governance CONTINUED The Companys website www.
co. uk provides financial and business information on the Group.
The directors are provided with reports and other written brie ngs from the Companys principal shareholders and analysts, and are regularly informed by the Company Secretary about changes to signi cant shareholdings.
It is the Companys policy that all directors should attend and make themselves available to take questions from shareholders or address any concerns at the Annual General Meeting.
At other times of the year, the directors can be contacted via the Companys head of ce.
All substantial issues, including the adoption of the annual report and financial statements, are proposed on separate resolutions at the Annual General Meeting.
The number of proxy votes received for and against each resolution, together with the number of abstentions, are indicated after votes have been dealt with on a show of hands.
The Notice of the Annual General Meeting is sent to shareholders at least twenty working days before the meeting.
Financial reporting The Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the financial statements and accounting records maintained by the Company is set out on page 36.
Internal control and risk management The Board has continued to review the effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal control, including financial, operational and compliance controls, and risk management systems.
The Board acknowledges its responsibility for the Groups systems of internal control and attaches considerable importance to these systems, which are designed to meet the Groups particular needs and identify those risks to which it is exposed.
However, the systems can only provide reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material misstatement, loss or mismanagement of the Groups assets.
In carrying out its review of the effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal control in compliance with provision C2.1 of the Combined Code, the Board has taken into consideration the following key features of the Groups risk management systems and control procedures which operated during the year: The Board assesses the key risks associated with achievement of the Groups business objectives as part of the annual strategic planning process.
Out of this process, each business establishes a five year plan and annual budget, which are subject to approval by the Board.
The performance of each business against budget and prior years is reviewed on a monthly basis at both operational level and by the Board.
Achievement of strategic business objectives and the associated risks are monitored by the Board on an ongoing basis.
All businesses hold monthly operating meetings, which are attended by at least one main Board director, either in person or, in the case of the overseas companies, by video conference.
In the case of the US businesses, formal Board meetings are held quarterly and these are attended by main Board directors and external non-executive directors appointed in the US.
The US non-executive directors are available to provide guidance and monitor governance in the US businesses throughout the year.
External non-executive directors have also been appointed to the Board of the Groups Italian subsidiary, Simmel Difesa S. p. A.
Each business is required to comply with the Groups accounting policy manual, which sets out formal procedures for incurring certain types of expenditure and making contractual commitments.
Compliance with the accounting policy manual is audited by the Internal Auditor, who reports regularly to the Audit Committee on his findings.
The Board retains primary responsibility for acquisitions and disposals, and nancing arrangements for the Group.
Treasury management, IT strategy, insurance and signi cant legal matters are dealt with centrally from the Group head of ce, and the Board receives regular reports on each of these items.
Reviews of the Groups pensions, insurance and risk management arrangements are carried out by external advisors on a regular basis.
The Group Director of Safety, supported by two divisional Health and Safety Management Committees, co-ordinates and controls the activities of each business in relation to health and safety and environmental matters, which are a key focus for the Board in view of the nature of the Groups operations.
The Chief Executive is the Board member nominated with speci c responsibility for health and safety.
The Chief Executive meets formally with health and safety professionals from each business on an annual basis.
The Group committed to adherence with the European Aerospace and Defence Associations Common Industry Standards on Anti-Corruption in the year, and is now reviewing all its business policies and procedures to ensure compliance.
The Groups Risk Management Committee meets on a quarterly basis.
The Chief Executive, the Finance Director, the Company Secretary, the Business Development Director, the Director of Safety, the Managing Director of the Energetics Division and the President of the Groups US operations serve on the Committee.
The Committee reviews the key risks associated with the achievement of the annual budget and the five year plan for each business, and the risk control procedures implemented.
It also considers the top five health and safety risks which have been identi ed at each site and agrees the action plan to address these.
The Risk Management Committee reports biannually to the Audit Committee and the Board on the top ten risks from a Group perspective, and monitors the actions being taken to mitigate these.
CHEMRING GROUP PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 STATEMENT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 51 The Board con rms that it has reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal control and risk management which were in place during the financial year ended 31 October 2008, and it con rms that systems of internal control and risk management compliant with the Combined Code and the Turnbull Guidance were in place throughout the year and have remained in place up to the date of approval of these financial statements.
Notwithstanding this, the Board will continue to take steps to embed internal control and risk management further into the operations of the Group and to deal with any areas of improvement which come to the attention of management and the Board.
Compliance with the provisions of the Combined Code Throughout the year ended 31 October 2008, the Company has been in compliance with the code provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Council in 2006, with the exception that the Board has not nominated a non-executive director as the senior independent director provision A.
3.3, as it does not consider this to be appropriate at the present time in view of the size of the Board.
This requirement will be kept under review.
Procedures to deal with directors con icts of interest With effect from 1 October 2008, all directors have a duty under the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act to avoid a situation in which he or she has or can have a direct or indirect interest that con icts or possibly may con ict with the interests of the Company.
The Company has procedures in place to deal with situations where directors may have con icts of interest.
The Company will be seeking shareholder approval at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting to amend its Articles of Association to include updated provisions for dealing with directors con icts of interest in accordance with the 2006 Act.
In accordance with these amended provisions, the members of the Board will endeavour to: consider each con ict situation separately on its particular facts: consider the con ict situation in conjunction with the rest of their duties under the 2006 Act: keep records and Board minutes as to authorisations granted by directors and the scope of any approvals given: and regularly review con ict authorisation.
Going concern The directors have acknowledged the latest guidance on going concern.
They have made appropriate enquiries and taken into account factors such as: the strong order book of 409 million as at the year end: the Groups operating cash ow of 83.7 million during the year: the strong balance sheet at the year end of 230.6 million: and the Groups available banking facilities, which amount to 107.1 million with maturities through to March 2012 see Note 21.
The Groups banking covenants have all been met with a comfortable margin during the past year and the expectation is that this will continue.
Details of how the Group manages its liquidity risk can be found in Note 24 of the financial statements.
Whilst the current volatility in financial markets has created general uncertainty in respect of the current economic outlook, the long term nature of the Groups business, taken together with the Groups forward order book, provide a satisfactory level of con dence to the Board in respect of trading in the year ahead.
The directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Approved by the Board of Directors on 20 January 2009 S L Ellard COMPANY SECRETARY
