Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Statement of compliance with the Code of Best Practice British Land Board performance evaluation The Company has complied throughout the year with the Provisions The formal Board Performance Appraisal process requires each of The Combined Code on Corporate Governance 2006. director to give detailed input annually, the results of which are considered by the Chairman, Senior Independent Non-executive Board effectiveness Director and Board as appropriate and relevant consequential The Board is responsible for the strategy, effective control changes made.
and management of the Group.
There is a written division of The Senior Independent Non-executive Director meets to responsibilities at the head of the Company between the Chairman discuss the performance of the Chairman with other directors and Chief Executive, which has been approved by the Board.
annually, or more frequently as necessary.
The Chairman meets with There is a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for each non-executive director annually to discuss their contribution.
Board approval, which includes approval of the annual and quarterly The Chairman provides the Remuneration Committee with a written accounts, the approval of authority levels below the Board and appraisal of the Chief Executives performance for the year.
Similarly material acquisitions, disposals and financing arrangements.
The the Chief Executive provides the Remuneration Committee with a Board delegates authority to the Approvals Committee of the Board, written assessment of the executive directors performance.
which consists of the executive directors of the Company, in respect of certain transactions within defined, limited parameters.
The Board Committees of the Board has a regular schedule of meetings together with further meetings The Board has established Audit, Remuneration and Nomination as required by the ongoing business of the Company.
The executive Committees which operate within defined terms of reference, which directors and senior executives who comprise the Executive are made available on the Companys website www.
com, Committee meet weekly, chaired by the Chief Executive, to deal and their minutes are circulated to the Board.
The Audit and with the ongoing management of the Group.
Remuneration Committees are entirely composed of independent The Chairman of the Board and individual directors meet non-executive directors.
Sir David Michels is the Senior Independent regularly, outside formal Board meetings, as part of each directors Non-executive Director.
continuing contribution to delivery of the Companys strategy and Attendance at Board or Committee meetings during the year to 31 March 2008 superior returns for shareholders.
This process also allows for whereis shown, the director listed is not a member of the Committee open two-way discussion about the effectiveness of the Board, Audit Remuneration Nomination its committees and individual directors, both executive and nonName Board Committee Committee Committee executive.
By this means the Chairman is continuously aware of the Chris Gibson-Smith 7 1 views of individual directors and can act as necessary to deal with Stephen Hester 7 1 Robert Bowden 5 any issues relating to Board effectiveness before they can become 2 Michael Cassidy 3 a risk to the Company.
3 Clive Cowdery 60 There is a strong and independent non-executive element on Andrew Jones 7 the Board as shown by the details of directors on page 64.
Sir David Michels 6 4 2 1 Graham Roberts 7 Tim Roberts 7 Kate Swann 6 3 Robert Swannell 7 5 1 4 John Travers 1 Lord Turnbull 7 5 3 No.
of meetings during the year 7 5 3 1 1 Five Board meetings held during Board membership to 31 December 2007 2 Three Board meetings held during Board membership to 13 July 2007 3 Seven Board meetings held since Board appointment on 10 May 2007, no Audit Committees held since appointment to Committee, 18 March 2008 4 One Board meeting held during Board membership 10 May 2007 to 21 June 2007 The British Land Company PLC 65 Nomination Committee Non-executive directors The Nomination Committees responsibilities include making The Board considers that Clive Cowdery, Sir David Michels, recommendations to the Board on all new Board appointments Kate Swann, Robert Swannell and Lord Turnbull are independent and succession planning.
It consists of Chris Gibson-Smith, non-executive directors.
In making this determination the Board has Sir David Michels and Robert Swannell.
considered whether each director is independent in character and The Nomination Committee during the year has also considered judgement and whether there are relationships or circumstances inter alia, the structure, size and composition of the Board and its which are likely to affect, or could affect, the directors judgement.
committees, the recommendations to the Board of directors retiring The Board believes that it is evident from consideration of the by rotation for re-election by shareholders and the renewal of non-executive directors biographies detailed on page 64 that they non-executive directors letters of appointment.
are of the integrity and stature to perform their roles of independent non-executive directors.
Remuneration policy and Committee The terms and conditions of appointment of non-executive Details of the Group remuneration policy and Committee are set directors are available for inspection at the Companys registered out in the remuneration report on pages 69 to 77. office and at the AGM.
Audit Committee Internal Control The Audit Committee meets regularly during the year.
It has been The directors are responsible for the maintenance of a sound system chaired by Robert Swannell throughout the year and includes three of internal control.
The Board continues to apply the internal control other non-executive directors, Sir David Michels, Lord Turnbull and provisions of The Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Clive Cowdery appointed 18 March 2008.
The Committees Code through a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and responsibilities include: managing the significant risks the Group faces.
This process has monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the been in place throughout the year and up to the date of approval Company and any formal announcements relating to the of this report, and the Group has been in compliance with the Companys financial performance: provisions set out in Section 1 of the Code.
The Board is responsible reviewing the Companys internal financial controls and the for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its Companys internal control and risk management systems: effectiveness.
Such a system is designed to manage rather than monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and internal audit function: can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against making recommendations to the Board in relation to the material misstatement or loss.
appointment of the external auditor and approving the The Group applies two fundamental control principles: remuneration and terms of engagement of the external auditor: a defined schedule of matters reserved for decision by the reviewing and monitoring the external auditors independence, Board: and objectivity and effectiveness: a detailed authorisation process which ensures that no material reviewing and monitoring the valuation process: and commitments are entered into without competent and proper developing and implementing policy on the engagement of authorisation by more than one approved executive.
the external auditor to supply non-audit services, taking into account relevant ethical guidance.
In compliance with the provisions of the Code, the Board continuously reviews the effectiveness of the Groups system of The Audit Committee has undertaken each of the above internal control.
The key risks that the Group faces and features responsibilities during the year on which it has received and of the internal control system that operated throughout the period reviewed relevant reports from management, the valuers, the covered by the accounts are described below: internal and the external auditors.
It has agreed a schedule of internal audit reviews of various of the Groups processes and Identification and evaluation of commercial risks controls to be undertaken, and has reviewed the results of those and related control objectives reviews already completed.
British Land has undertaken a comprehensive risk assessment, which has identified 19 principal risks that affect the Group.
The Rotation of directors responsibility for management of each key risk has been clearly Under the Articles of Association of the Company, each director identified and delegated by the Board to specific executive directors retires at the third Annual General Meeting AGM after the and senior executives within the Group.
The executive directors have general meeting at which he was last elected.
close involvement with the day-to-day operational matters of the Group.
In addition to the meetings of the Board frequent meetings of the executive directors take place to review the Groups activities.
66 The British Land Company PLC Corporate Governance Corporate Governance During the course of a year, shareholders are kept informed The Board and the executive directors consider the risk implications of the progress of the Company through results statements and of business decisions.
These include matters such as treasury other announcements that are released through the London Stock policies and major transactions.
The control environment is Exchange and other news services.
Company announcements and supported by the various committees of the Board including the presentations are made available simultaneously on our website, Audit Committee, the Corporate Responsibility Committee and affording all shareholders full access to material information.
The way each risk is managed within Shareholders can also raise questions directly with the Company the Group is considered at least annually by the executive directors at any time through a facility on the website.
The Group re-assesses these risks on Additionally there is an opportunity at the AGM for individual a regular basis to ensure that any risk arising from changes in the shareholders to question the Chairman and the Chairmen of the Groups operations or the external environment are identified and Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
At the meeting, appropriately managed.
the Company complies with the Code as it relates to voting, In order to provide relevant and timely information to the including votes withheld, the separation of resolutions, the directors and executives with responsibility for managing risks, the attendance of committee chairmen and voting by poll.
The Group has the following key information systems which generate Annual Report and Notice of Meeting are sent to shareholders reports as follows: at least 20 working days prior to the AGM.
The voting results are a management reporting system which includes regular working capital reports and forecasts: operational reporting on property announced to the London Stock Exchange and are available on purchases, sales, rental income and portfolio management: and the website and on request.
In July 2007, all AGM resolutions were regular reporting to the Board on financial and treasury matters.
passed on a poll and were approved by substantial majorities in excess of 85% in each case.
Monitoring The Audit Committee meets regularly throughout the year and has Going concern reviewed the Groups internal controls.
The Audit Committee has After making enquiries and examining major areas which could give agreed a schedule of internal audit reviews of several of the Groups rise to significant financial exposure the directors are satisfied that processes and controls to be undertaken, and has reviewed the no material or significant exposures exist, other than as reflected results of those reviews already completed.
The Head of Internal in these financial statements, and that the Group has adequate Audit reports directly to the Audit Committee.
resources to continue its operations for the foreseeable future.
The Group continues to adopt the going concern basis and the Investor Relations accounts have been prepared in accordance with Going Concern The directors place considerable importance on maintaining open and Financial Reporting: Guidance for Directors of listed companies and clear communication with investors.
The Companys Investor registered in the United Kingdom published in November 1994.
Relations department is dedicated to facilitating communication with shareholders.
The Company has an ongoing programme of dialogue and meetings between the executive directors and its shareholders, where a wide range of relevant issues including strategy, performance, the market, management and governance are discussed within the constraints of the information already known to the market.
In addition, the Company undertakes regular roadshows to the US, Europe and Japan and participates in sector conferences.
The directors consider it is important to understand the views of shareholders, and at each scheduled Board meeting the directors receive a written report of the major issues which have been raised with management.
Meetings are also held between shareholders and the Senior Independent Non-executive Director and other non-executive directors, and the Company facilitates such meetings on request.
The British Land Company PLC 67 Statement of directors responsibilities The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial remuneration report and the financial statements in accordance position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the parent with applicable law and regulations.
company financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company statements for each financial year.
The directors are required by and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and the IAS Regulation to prepare the Group financial statements detection of fraud and other irregularities.
under IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
The Group financial The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of statements are also required by law to be properly prepared in the corporate and financial information included on the Companys accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation IAS Regulation.
and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation International Accounting Standard 1 requires that IFRS financial in other jurisdictions.
statements present fairly for each financial year the Companys financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
This Auditors and valuers requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, The Audit Committee meets with the auditors and valuers to discuss other events and conditions in accordance with the definitions and with them the scope and conclusions of their work.
The Committee recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set is specifically charged under its terms of reference with considering out in the International Accounting Standards Boards Framework matters relating to the audit appointment, the independence and for the preparation and presentation of financial statements.
In objectivity of the auditors, and reviewing the results and effectiveness virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by of the audit.
With respect to other services provided by the auditors compliance with all applicable IFRSs.
However, directors are also the following framework is in place: required to: Audit related services the auditors are one of a number of firms properly select and apply accounting policies: providing audit related services, which include formal reporting present information, including accounting policies, in a manner relating to borrowings, shareholder and other circulars and various that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable other regulatory reports and work in respect of acquisition and information: and disposals.
Where they must carry out the work because of their provide additional disclosures when compliance with the office or are best placed to do so, the auditors are selected.
In other specific requirements in IFRS are insufficient to enable users circumstances the selection depends on which firm is best suited: to understand the impact of particular transactions, other Tax advisory the auditors are one of a number of firms that events and conditions on the entitys financial position and provide tax advisory services.
The selection depends on who financial performance.
is best suited in the circumstances: and General consulting the auditors do not provide general The directors have elected to prepare the parent company financial consultancy services except in rare circumstances, and then statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted only after consideration that they are best placed to provide Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and the service and that their independence and objectivity would applicable law.
The parent company financial statements are not be compromised.
required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company.
In preparing these financial statements, the directors An analysis of fees paid to the auditors is set out in note 5 on page 86. are required to: The arrangements with auditors and valuers have been approved  by the Audit Committee and are regularly reviewed in the light of consistently: changing requirements and best practice.
make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
68 The British Land Company PLC Corporate Governance
