Section 3:Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMPLIANCE WITHTHE COMBINED CODE The Board recognises its accountability to shareholders and is committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance.
The Board considers that throughout the year under review the Company has complied with the Code provisions set out in Section 1 of the 2006 FRC Combined Code on corporate governance the Combined Code.
APPLICATION OF THE PRINCIPLES OFTHE COMBINED CODE This report explains how the Company has applied the principles of the Combined Code to its activities.
Section 1 of the Combined Code sets out the main and supporting principles of good governance for companies, which are split into the following topics: directors: remuneration: accountability and audit: and relations with shareholders.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS The Company currently operates with a Board of eight directors comprising the non-executive Chairman, four non-executive directors, including the Senior Independent Director, and three executive directors.
On the recommendation of the Nomination Committee Tim Cobbold was appointed as an executive director and Chief Operating officer on 1 June 2007, and Paul Lester was appointed as a non-executive director on 1 September 2007.
Keith Hodgkinson and Robin Southwell have both indicated their intention of retiring as directors with effect from the AGM on 29 July 2008.
The number of directors and the balance between executives and non-executives provides for effective operation and is considered appropriate to the Companys size and scope of activities.
A schedule of formal meetings of the Board, the Audit Committee and the Remuneration Committee is arranged each year in line with the Companys management reporting, and interim and annual reporting cycle.
During the year, the Board met formally seven times, together with a further meeting to review strategy.
Attendance at meetings was as follows: Board Strategy Audit Remuneration Nomination seven meetings one meeting three meetings four meetings two meetings 1 Norman Broadhurst 71 n a 42 Gary Bullard 71342 Tim Cobbold 71 n a n a n a Keith Hodgkinson 71 n a n a 2 Paul Lester 2 3 122 Robin Southwell 3 61341 Eric Tracey 71342 Neil Warner 71 n a n a n a Notes 1 n a means that the director is not a member of the Committee.
Certain directors who are not committee members have attended meetings by invitation.
Details are not included in the table.
2 Paul Lester joined the Board on 1 September 2007.
He was appointed a member of the Audit Committee, Nomination Committee and Remuneration Committee on 25 October 2007 after the date of the October Audit and Remuneration Committee meetings.
3 Robin Southwell missed one Board meeting and one Nomination Committee meeting, held on the same day, due to an unanticipated commitment.
In addition to the formal schedule of meetings, the Board held discussions with senior operational managers on strategy, business development, and other topics important to the Companys progress.
The Board has reserved to itself powers relating to matters that it considers significant to the Groups business, operational and financial risks.
These are set out in a formal schedule and include the approval of corporate policies, strategy, plans and budgets: major acquisitions and disposals of companies or businesses: major investment and financial decisions: appointments to the Board: executive remuneration policy and major management or organisational changes.
The Chairman and Chief Executive have dened roles, providing for a division of responsibilities between them, which have been documented and approved by the Board.
The Chairman is responsible primarily for the running of the Board, while the Chief Executives primary role is the running of the business and the development and implementation of strategy.
The Chairman has been appointed for successive xed terms totalling 11 years.
The other non-executive directors have each been appointed for a terms or successive terms totalling less than nine years.
The effective dates of the current terms of appointment are set out in the remuneration report on page 42.
ANNUAL REPORT 2008 35 Section 3:Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Chairman met the Combined Code criteria for independence on his appointment in 2001.
The Board considers that the other non-executive directors are independent of management and free of any business or other relationship that could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
Under the Companys Articles of Association all directors below the age of 65 are required to submit themselves for re-election every other year.
Directors aged 65 or over must submit themselves for re-election each year.
At the forthcoming AGM, Norman Broadhurst, Gary Bullard, Paul Lester and Eric Tracey retire in accordance with the Articles of Association and will seek re-election.
The Board has reviewed their performance and strongly supports their re-election, and recommends that the shareholders vote in favour.
All the directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and senior managers generally, and may take independent professional advice at the Companys expense if they consider it necessary to do so in the furtherance of their duties.
The non-executive directors held one meeting during the year with the Chairman, without the executive directors present.
BOARD COMMITTEES The Board has three standing committees the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees, each with a different Chairman.
The Chairman chairs the Nomination Committee and is a member of the Remuneration Committee.
All the independent non-executive directors are permanent members of the Committees.
The Board considers that this is the most appropriate way of enabling the non-executives to participate in monitoring governance issues, including executive remuneration, succession planning and risk management, without placing undue reliance on any one individual.
The terms of reference of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees, which are based on the model terms of reference published by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators, are published on the Companys website www.
AUDIT COMMITTEE The Committees activities and responsibilities are described in the Audit Committee report on pages 39 and 40.
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE The Committees activities and responsibilities are described in the remuneration report on page 41.
NOMINATION COMMITTEE The Committees terms of reference include the following responsibilities: making recommendations to the Board in respect of new appointments of executive and non-executive directors: succession planning for directors and senior executives: and making recommendations on reappointment of non-executive directors at the end of their term of appointment.
The Committee has a process for recommending Board appointments, based on a review of the skills of the other directors, development of a specication and employment of a rm of recruitment specialists to draw up a shortlist.
Given that the Nomination Committee consists of all the non-executive directors, the Chairman and the Chief Executive, matters relating to reappointment of non-executives and succession planning are also handled within meetings of the main Board.
ACTIVITIES During the year the Committee was asked to oversee the appointment of an additional non-executive director with broad industrial experience.
A leading rm of recruitment consultants was engaged and this resulted in the appointment of Paul Lester, whose biographical details appear on page 31.
The Committee also reviewed the induction process and performance of the Chief Operating officer, before recommending to the Board his appointment as Chief Executive on the retirement of Keith Hodgkinson.
36 ANNUAL REPORT 2008 PERFORMANCE EVALUATION The Board has a process for performance evaluation which has been applied to the Board and its Committees since 2003 2004.
As in previous years, in 2007 2008, the process was based on the completion of a questionnaire by the directors in relation to the Board and each of the Committees of which they were members.
Certain attendees at committee meetings were also asked to complete a questionnaire.
The responses were collated, reviewed by the Chairman and distributed to the directors for discussion at a Board meeting.
In addition, the Senior Independent Director conducted personal reviews with individual non-executive directors.
Actions implemented as a result of the review in 2006 07 included a presentation to the Board on the Companies Act 2006 and the introduction of a new statement on health and safety policy, and Group framework for implementing health and safety policy.
Performance evaluation relating to the Audit and Remuneration Committees is discussed in the Audit Committee Report on page 40 and remuneration report on page 41.
REMUNERATION The Remuneration Committee is responsible for compliance with the Combined Code in determining executive directors remuneration.
The remuneration report on pages 41 to 48 demonstrates how Chloride applies the principles of the Combined Code relating to the level and make-up of remuneration and to disclosure.
ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT FINANCIAL REPORTING The Board seeks to present a balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys position and prospects, through the Chairmans statement, the directors report, which includes the business review comprising the Chief Executives review, the financial review, the risk management report and corporate social responsibility report.
INTERNAL CONTROLS The directors are responsible for the Companys system of internal control which aims to: safeguard the Companys assets: ensure that proper accounting records are maintained: ensure compliance with statutory and regulatory requirements: and ensure the effectiveness and efficiency of operations, including the assessment and management of risk.
A system of internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance particularly against misstatement or loss.
Chloride has a well established and embedded framework of internal financial and operational control for identifying, evaluating and managing the risks faced by the Company.
The Audit Committee carries out an annual review of the effectiveness of the material controls, and the Board receives regular information about the Companys operations, enabling it to evaluate the nature and extent of the risks faced by the Company.
The Board is therefore able to confirm that the system of internal control has been in place throughout the year under review, and up to the date of approval of the annual report.
The key elements of the framework of internal and operational control, which complies with the Turnbull guidance, Internal Control Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code published in September 1999, are as follows: Directors have responsibility for setting the strategy and monitoring the conduct of the Company.
The directors and the executive management of the Company are accountable for their conduct and performance within the agreed strategies.
A management structure exists with clearly dened lines of responsibility and the appropriate levels of delegation.
The Company and its operations are subject to a detailed annual budget process and ongoing formal capital investment appraisal process.
Actual performance during the year is monitored monthly against budget, forecast and previous year, and full-year forecasts are updated at regular intervals during the year, based on trended historical data and realistic macroeconomic forecasts.
These forecasts and results are presented to the Board regularly.
The Chief Executive, Chief Operating officer and Finance Director each prepare Board reports monitoring performance and actions to achieve objectives.
ANNUAL REPORT 2008 37 Section 3:Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Company and its subsidiaries operate control procedures designed to ensure complete and accurate accounting of financial transactions, and to limit the risk of loss of assets or fraud.
Measures taken include physical controls, segregation of duty in key areas and internal reviews and checks.
The identication, mitigation and monitoring of material risks are primarily the responsibility of operating company management.
During the budget and reporting cycle, general managers and financial controllers are required to identify risks the business is exposed to, assess any potential impact and to put in place actions to reduce them.
The Audit Committee agrees the key risks to the business, which are endorsed by the Board and monitored throughout the year.
It is assisted by the Risk Committee, the functions of which are set out in the risk management report on page 25.
Key functions such as tax, treasury, insurance, legal, personnel and systems are controlled centrally.
Further information on policies to manage financial risk is contained in the financial review on pages 23 to 24.
EXTERNAL AUDIT The external auditors are engaged to express an opinion on the Companys annual report and accounts.
They independently and objectively review managements reporting of the operational results and financial position.
They also review and test the systems of internal control and the data contained in the annual report and accounts to the extent necessary for expressing their audit opinion.
The policy on independence of auditors is included in the Audit Committee report on page 40.
INTERNAL AUDIT The Board has reviewed the need for an internal audit function and considers that the Group Risk Manager whose role is described in the Risk Management report on page 25 fulls this function.
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS Relations with shareholders receive the highest priority.
The Company promotes dialogue with institutional shareholders and analysts through regular meetings following the announcement of interim and final results, and responds positively to invitations to enter into dialogue whenever it considers it to be in the best interests of shareholders generally to do so.
All directors are available to attend meetings with shareholders if requested.
The Chairman and Senior Independent Director attend analysts presentations, and the Chairman also attends meetings with institutional shareholders when possible.
The views of shareholders and analysts are reported back to the Board.
The Company routinely communicates with shareholders six times a year, through the preliminary and interim results announcements, interim management statements, and trading updates issued at the start of the close period before announcement of the full and half year results.
At the AGM there is an opportunity, following the formal business, for informal communication between investors and directors.
In addition, information, including the presentations made to institutional shareholders and analysts and recent announcements, is readily available to shareholders on the Companys website www.
It is the Companys practice to send the notice of Annual General Meeting to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
