Section 3:Governance AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT This report has been prepared in accordance with the Combined Code by the Audit Committee of the Company and has been approved by the Board.
MEMBERSHIP The Committee is made up of four non-executive directors, all of whom the Board considers to be independent.
The members at 31 March 2008 were Eric Tracey Chairman, Gary Bullard, Paul Lester and Robin Southwell.
Mr Tracey has recent and relevant financial experience gained through his former positions as a partner in Deloitte and finance director of Amey PLC and Wembley PLC, and through his current roles at Governance for Owners, Quintain Estates & Development PLC, Xero Live Ltd and NZ Trade & Enterprise.
The members bring extensive experience of corporate management in senior executive positions to the Committee.
RESPONSIBILITIES The role and responsibilities of the Audit Committee are set out in written terms of reference based on the model published by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators.
The terms of reference are available on the Companys website and include the following: monitoring the integrity of the financial statements, reviewing the annual and interim reports in detail to ensure that they present a balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys position and prospects: reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys internal controls and risk management systems: overseeing the relationship with the external auditors, monitoring their independence, agreeing the scope of audit and monitoring the effectiveness of the audit process: making recommendations to the Board on the requirement for an internal audit function and reviewing the effectiveness of internal audit: and reviewing the Companys arrangements for whistleblowing.
The Committee has authority to investigate any matters within its terms of reference and has access to the resources and information it requires for this purpose.
The Committee is entitled to obtain independent professional advice on matters within its terms of reference.
MEETINGS The Committee met three times during the year in May, October and January.
The Company Secretary acted as secretary to the Committee and the meetings were attended by invitation by the Chairman, Chief Executive, Chief Operating officer, Finance Director, Group Risk Manager and other senior finance staff.
The external auditors also attended the Committee meetings.
During the year, the Committee met once with the auditors without executive managers being present.
It also held a private meeting with the Group Risk Manager.
In addition, the Committee Chairman met regularly with the Group Risk Manager to review matters arising from his site visit reports, and with the external auditors.
Attendance at meetings by the Committee members was as set out in the corporate governance report on page 35.
ACTIVITIES The meeting that took place in May 2007 was principally concerned with the draft financial statements for the year ending 31 March 2007 together with the draft preliminary results announcement.
The Audit Committee also considered the report of the external auditors on the full-year audit, concentrating on issues of judgement and audit focus identied in the audit plan.
The steps taken to ensure that all relevant audit information had been disclosed to the auditors were reviewed, enabling the directors to make the statement in the directors report on page 34.
In addition, the Committee was updated on internal control and risk management issues, in accordance with normal procedure.
At the October meeting, in addition to an update on internal control and risk management issues, the Committee considered the draft interim financial statements for the period ending 30 September 2007, together with the draft interim results announcement.
In addition the audit scope and fee proposal for 2007 2008 and audit expectations were reviewed.
The meeting in January 2008 was concerned primarily with the review of the risk management process including the activities of the Risk Committee, the outcome from risk control visits and the agreement of the Group Risk Managers visit plan for the forthcoming year.
The external audit plan for 2007 2008 was also considered, and the external auditors reported on the structure in place to ensure their independence.
The insurance arrangements for 2008 2009 were also considered.
ANNUAL REPORT 2008 39 Section 3:Governance AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT PERFORMANCE EVALUATION COMMITTEE PERFORMANCE During the year, the Committee reviewed its performance through the process described on the corporate governance report on page 37.
The Committee considered it had the skills to perform its responsibilities, particularly through Mr Traceys financial and audit experience.
Actions for improvement focused on training requirements and adding resource to the Group Risk Management function to ensure that the scope of activity could be maintained in busy periods.
AUDIT EFFECTIVENESS The Committee reviewed the effectiveness of the audit process following the 2006 2007 audit, and shared its findings with the auditors.
The Committee considered that in addition to a high level of technical competence and objectivity, the auditors demonstrated a clear understanding of the business and communicated the issues of judgement and focus effectively to the Committee.
Recommendations were made to improve the interface between the Group Risk Manager and the external auditors, which were actioned in the year.
Based on the Committees view of the performance of the external auditors and on the planning and execution of the annual audit, the Committee has recommended to the Board that a resolution to reappoint Deloitte & Touche LLP be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
AUDITOR INDEPENDENCE In order to maintain the independence of the external auditors, the Company has a policy for determining the types of non-audit work for which it is appropriate to use the external auditors, including a clearance procedure for fees.
The Committee is satisfied that these procedures have been followed during the year, and that the external auditors have in place robust procedures, including the rotation of audit staff and partners, to ensure their independence, preserve objectivity and comply with regulatory and professional requirements.
As stated in note 5 to the financial statements, audit fees of 353,000 were payable to Deloitte together with non-audit fees of 6,000 relating to interim review procedures.
The Audit Committee considers that this balance is appropriate and does not constitute a threat to the auditors independence.
This report was approved by the Board on 2 June 2008 and signed on its behalf by EricTracey 40 ANNUAL REPORT 2008
