Report of the audit committee 84 Membership Work of the committee Mr Neathercoat was chairman of the committee which During the year, the committee has carried out the following: was served throughout 2008 by Messrs Corbyn, Farnes Reviewed the interim and annual financial statements and and Newell together with Mrs fide Moller.
All members considered the appropriateness of the accounting policies are considered independent by the company having no used, assumptions adopted and estimates made.
day-to-day involvement with the company.
Mr Neathercoat is a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Reviewed the groups published interim England and Wales and considered to have appropriate management statements.
recent and relevant financial experience.
The committee H eld meetings with the groups external valuers.
has access to further financial expertise at the companys expense, if required.
Reviewed the scope of the annual audit and the level of associated fees.
Roles and responsibilities C onsidered the adequacy of the auditors statement of The terms of reference for the committee are available on the independence and monitored the operation of the groups companys website.
policy regarding the use of the external auditors for non-audit work which helps to protect the auditors independence Meetings and objectivity.
The committee meets at least three times a year to discharge its responsibilities.
Meetings are attended by the groups external A major source of non-audit work each year for the groups auditors and members of the groups senior management auditors is tax compliance work.
The committee has when invited.
During 2008, four meetings were held.
considered this arrangement and continues to be of the opinion that this is an efficient arrangement that does not compromise the auditors independence.
A fter due consideration of the conduct of the audit and the matters raised in the management letter, recommended the re-appointment of the groups external auditors.
C ommissioned a review of the operation of certain specific aspects of the groups internal controls system.
Considered the need for an internal audit function.
Reviewed the groups conflict of interest register.
Reviewed, commented upon and approved the preparation of the groups risk register.
S. J. Neathercoat Chairman of the audit committee 17th March 2009 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2008
