46 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2008 Corporate governance Statement by the directors on compliance with the provisions At least once a year the Board reviews the nature and magnitude of the Combined Code of matters reserved for its decision.
After each Board meeting the Chairman and the other non-executives meet without the Executive A summary of the system of governance adopted by the Company Directors, and at least three times a year the non-executives meet is set out below.
Throughout the year ended 31 March 2008, the without the Chairman.
In addition, individual directors meet Company complied with the Code provisions set out in Section 1 regularly outside the formal Board meetings as part of each of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the directors contribution to the delivery of the Companys strategy Financial Reporting Council in June 2006. and review of operations.
The Executive Directors also meet The Board of Directors weekly as the Executive Committee, chaired by the Chief Executive, The Board comprises the Chairman, four Executive Directors and to deal with the ongoing management of the Group with copies four Non-Executive Directors.
The Chairman is responsible for the of the minutes of these meetings distributed to the Chairman and effectiveness of the Board, and the Chief Executive for the day-to-day Non-Executive Directors.
management of the Company, with the division of responsibilities The biographies of all members of the Board are set out on pages 40 approved by the Board.
Richard Peskin, who was Managing Director until March 2000, The Board is responsible to shareholders for the management and is Non-Executive Chairman of the Board, Toby Courtauld is Chief control of the Groups activities and good corporate governance.
Executive and Kathleen ODonovan is the Senior Independent The Board meets for scheduled Board meetings at least six times Director.
Each of the Non-Executive Directors is considered to a year.
Key matters reserved for the Board include: be independent of the executive management and free from any business or other relationship which could materially interfere with the setting and monitoring of strategy, including dividend policy: the exercise of their independent judgement.
reviewing performance and implementation of the strategy by the To enable the Board to discharge its duties, all directors receive Executive Directors: appropriate and timely information, including briefing papers significant financing arrangements: distributed in advance of Board meetings and regular property examining major potential acquisitions and disposals: tours.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the approval of major developments: Company Secretary, who is responsible to the Chairman on matters of corporate governance.
The directors may, at the Companys interim, half year and annual reporting to shareholders: expense, take independent professional advice and are offered approving policy on key areas including corporate responsibility, formal training in specific areas relevant to either their speciality objectives and targets, health and safety and the environment: or Committee roles or to the Board as a whole.
On appointment, Board appointments and the appointment and removal of the new Non-Executive Directors, who are expected to provide a time Company Secretary: and commitment to the Company of at least 24 days a year, are provided with a detailed induction programme on the Companys operations, corporate governance and Board evaluation.
including social, ethical and environmental matters, and meet with senior management as part of a guided tour of the Groups main properties.
Attendance at Board and Committee meetings during the year was as follows: Board Board Nomination Remuneration Audit scheduled other Committee Committee Committee 6 meetings 6 meetings 2 meetings 3 meetings 6 meetings Chairman Richard Peskin 66 2 Executive Directors Toby Courtauld 6 6 Robert Noel 6 6 Timon Drakesmith 6 6 Neil Thompson 6 6 Non-Executive Directors Kathleen ODonovan 66 236 Charles Irby 65 36 Phillip Rose 6 62 4 1 Jonathan Short 66 34 1 Appointed on 2 April 2007.
The Company maintains directors and officers liability insurance and pension trustee liability insurance, both of which are reviewed annually.
Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2008 Corporate governance 47 Board performance evaluation Remuneration Committee Each year the Board undertakes a formal evaluation of its The Remuneration Committee, which comprises Charles Irby own performance and that of its Committees and individual Chairman, Jonathan Short and Kathleen ODonovan, has directors either internally, by the Senior Independent Director, or by responsibility for determining the remuneration, bonuses, contract external consultants.
This year, in order to maintain objectivity and terms and other benefits in respect of the Executive Directors, and to ensure best practice following three years of internal Board the remuneration of the Chairman.
It also considers and establishes review: the performance evaluation was undertaken externally by Company policy on remuneration, with access to professional advice Dr Tracy Long of Boardroom Review based on all the directors, outside the Company, as required.
Its role is described further in the including the Chairman, completing a comprehensive questionnaire Directors remuneration report on pages 49 to 54. and then having one-to-one interviews with Dr Long.
The process Audit Committee covered Board, Committee and personal performance and the The Audit Committee comprises Kathleen ODonovan Chairman, output was reviewed at the March Board meeting as part of a wider Charles Irby, Phillip Rose and Jonathan Short who was appointed corporate governance review.
Overall, it was concluded that the to the Committee on 22 January 2008.
Miss ODonovan is also Board and its Committees continued to operate effectively with Chairman of the Audit Committee of Prudential plc and Trinity appropriate procedures put in place for minor areas identified Mirror plc and a member of the Audit Committee of Arm for improvement.
The Audit Committee provides a forum for reporting Committees of the Board by the Groups external auditors and meetings are also attended The Board has Nomination, Remuneration and Audit Committees by certain Senior Executives, by invitation.
During the year, the which deal with specific aspects of the Groups affairs, each of which Committee was responsible for reviewing, and reporting to the has written terms of reference which are regularly reviewed and Board on, a range of matters including: which deal with their authorities and duties.
Copies of these terms the interim management statements, the half year and annual of reference are available on written request and on the Companys financial statements and significant reporting judgements therein: website at www.
meetings with the Company auditors and property valuers: Nomination Committee developments in accounting and reporting requirements: The Nomination Committee comprises Kathleen ODonovan the review of the Companys internal control and risk Chairman, Phillip Rose and Richard Peskin.
It undertakes an management systems: annual review of succession planning for Senior Executives and ensures that the membership and composition of the Board, the scope, effectiveness independence and objectivity of the including the balance of the skills, continue to be appropriate.
external audit: In making recommendations to the Board of Non-Executive the external auditors management letter: Directors, it specifically considers the expected time commitment the level of fees paid to the external auditors: of the proposed Non-Executive and other commitments they the potential need for an internal audit function: and already have.
Agreement of the Chairman of the Company is also required before a Non-Executive Director may accept any additional the Companys whistleblowing policy.
commitments which could affect the time available to devote to The Audit Committee advises the Board on the appointment the Company.
of the external auditors, their remuneration for audit and Non-Executive Directors are not appointed for specified terms but non-audit work, and their cost effectiveness, independence are subject to re-election by the shareholders at least every three and objectivity, and discusses the nature, scope and results years.
Under the current Articles of Association at least a third of the audit with the external auditors.
As part of the review of the Board, not including directors appointed during the year, of the effectiveness of the auditors, a formal evaluation process must retire by rotation from the Board each year and all proposed incorporating feedback from the Audit Committee and relevant reappointments to the Board are formally considered by the members of management is provided to the auditors.
Under the proposed new Articles The auditors are responsible for the annual audit and other services of Association, a director will retire from office at the third annual which the Audit Committee believe they are best placed to undertake general meeting following the annual general meeting at which he due to their position as auditors.
During the year these included was appointed or last reappointed.
compliance reporting for transactions, debentures, bonus plans and As outlined in the Chairmans statement on page 5, it is intended the long-term incentive plans.
that Richard Peskin, who has been Non-Executive Chairman since Deloitte & Touche LLP have confirmed to the Audit Committee that March 2000, will retire on 16 March 2009 and recruitment of a new they remain independent and have maintained internal safeguards Chairman has begun using external consultants Whitehead Mann.
48 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2008 Corporate governance Due to its size and structure, the Group does not have an internal Relations with shareholders audit function, a matter which is kept under review by the Communications with shareholders is given a high priority and the Committee.
Although there is no formal internal audit function, Company undertakes a regular dialogue with shareholders and fund a rolling programme of review of key controls is conducted managers.
Visits are also arranged to buildings of particular interest through a combination of the external audit process or through or significance, particularly in relation to developments, to assist reviews by members of the finance team and or external advisers investors understanding of the Companys business.
Directors are the Companys principal spokesmen with investors, analysts, fund managers, press and other interested parties, and Internal controls independent feedback on presentations by the Executive Directors The Board recognises that it is responsible for the Groups system of to all major shareholders is provided to the Non-Executive Directors internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness, at least annually.
Presentations to analysts and the accompanying Such a system can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, script are simultaneously posted on the Companys website at assurance against material misstatement or loss, as it is designed www.
As Chairman and to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve Senior Independent Director, respectively, Richard Peskin and business objectives.
Kathleen ODonovan are each available, as appropriate, as a contact There are ongoing processes and procedures for identifying, for shareholders.
evaluating and managing the principal risks faced by the Group: The Annual General Meeting provides the Board with an these processes and procedures were in place throughout the year opportunity to communicate with, and answer questions from, under review and up to the date of the approval of the Annual private and institutional shareholders and the whole Board is Report, and accord with the Turnbull guidance Internal Control available before the meeting, in particular, for shareholders to meet Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code.
The Chairman of each of the Audit, Nomination Key features of the system of internal control include: and Remuneration Committees is available at the Annual General Meeting to answer questions.
Details of the resolutions to be a comprehensive system of financial reporting and proposed at the Annual General Meeting on 3 July 2008 can be business planning: found in the Notice of Meeting on pages 84 to 85.
Details of a defined schedule of matters for decision by the Board: the number of proxy votes for, against and withheld for each an organisational structure with clearly defined levels of authority resolution, will be disclosed at the meeting and posted to the and division of responsibilities: Companys website.
formal documentation procedures: Going concern the close involvement of the Executive Directors in all aspects After making due enquiries, the directors have a reasonable of day-to-day operations, including regular meetings with expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue senior management to review all operational aspects of the in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, business and risk management systems: and they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The Board reviewing Group strategy and progress on developments at each scheduled Board meeting.
By order of the Board The Audit Committee carries out a twice yearly review of the framework of how the Groups risks are managed through operational management procedures authorisations, ongoing review by the Executive Committee, and Board review and oversight, formally considering the scope and effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control and reporting to the Board.
This involves the identification of risks specific to the areas of property and Desna Martin financial markets which impact on the Groups objectives, together Company Secretary with the controls and reporting procedures designed to minimise 21 May 2008 those risks, which are reviewed, formalised and updated throughout the year, as appropriate.
These include business risks, financial controls, social, ethical and environmental issues and policy, and the regulatory environment.
Key risks to the business and the processes in place by which the Company aims to manage those risks are included on page 31.
