CORPORATE GOVERNANCE THE COMBINED CODE The Board is committed to maintaining high agreed on an annual basis and information is standards of corporate governance and the supplied to them in a manner that enables them to Company has complied with section 1 of the 2006 fulfil their responsibilities.
This includes the Combined Code on Corporate Governance circulation of comprehensive briefing papers one throughout the year ended 31 December 2008. week prior to Board and Committee meetings.
The Board also takes account of the corporate Presentations on business and operational issues governance guidelines of institutional shareholders are made regularly to the Board by senior and their representative bodies.
Each year, the programme of Board meetings is tailored to enable some meetings to BOARD OF DIRECTORS be held at the Company's properties.
During 2008, The Board currently consists of the Chairman, four the Board made visits to several of the Company's Executive Directors and five Non-Executive properties in Paris.
The Board meets not less than ten times during the year.
Non-Executive Directors are RESOURCES encouraged to communicate directly with All Directors have access to independent Executive Directors between formal Board professional advice at the Company's expense and meetings and, in addition to these regular Board to the advice and services of the Company meetings, the Board holds an annual strategy Secretary who is responsible to the Board for meeting at which it considers the future direction of advice on corporate governance matters and for the Company as part of the business planning ensuring that Board procedures are followed and process.
All Directors are expected to attend all that the Company and the Board operate within meetings of the Board, and of those Committees applicable legislation, rules and regulations.
The on which they serve, and to devote sufficient time Company Secretary is also responsible for to the Company's affairs to enable them to facilitating the programme of directors' induction properly fulfil their duties as Directors.
All Directors and professional development and Board were present at all meetings of the Board held performance evaluation.
The appointment and during the year with the exception of John Hirst, removal of the Company Secretary is a matter who was unable to attend one meeting because of requiring approval of the Board.
a commitment entered into during the previous year, and Peter Cole, who was unable to attend In accordance with the Company's Articles of one meeting because of illness.
When Directors Association, Directors are required to submit are unable to attend meetings, their comments on themselves for election at the first opportunity after briefing papers to be considered at the meeting their appointment and thereafter for re-election at are provided in advance to the Chairman.
TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT The roles and responsibilities of the Chairman, All Directors are kept informed of changes in Chief Executive, Executive Directors and Nonrelevant legislation and changing commercial risks Executive Directors are clearly defined and with the assistance of the Company's legal documented.
advisers and auditors where appropriate.
The professional development requirements of The Board, which has ultimate responsibility for Executive Directors are identified and progressed Hammerson's overall management and its as part of each individual's annual appraisal.
Nonbusiness and financial strategy, operates within Executive Directors are encouraged to attend the terms of its written authorities, which include a seminars and undertake external training at the formal schedule of matters reserved for its Company's expense in areas they consider to be approval, including: appropriate for their own professional development strategy: and a record of this is maintained.
acquisition and divestment policy: BOARD EFFECTIVENESS approval of major capital expenditure The effectiveness of the Board and its Committees projects: is vital to the success of the Company and they risk management: therefore monitor and evaluate their own internal control: performance and the contribution made by treasury and the raising of finance: individuals.
In particular, the contribution of John human resources: and Clare, who retires having been a Director for more corporate governance.
than ten years and who seeks re-election at the Specific responsibilities are delegated to the Audit, Annual General Meeting has been fully considered Remuneration and Nomination Committees and by the Board.
The Board has concluded that he documented in their terms of reference.
The remains independent and makes an effective procedures and accountability for these matters contribution to the Board as Senior Independent are set out in the Company's operations and Director and to the Committees on which he control manuals.
A schedule of routine matters to serves and that he continues to demonstrate be addressed by the Board and its Committees is commitment to these roles.
His commercial experience has been particularly valued.
ANNUAL REPORT 2008 36 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED An external evaluation of the Board's effectiveness with institutional shareholders together with regular and procedures, and those of its Committees, was market reports and brokers' circulars.
During 2008, a further the Directors to obtain the required understanding evaluation was undertaken by the Company of the views of shareholders.
John Clare is the Secretary.
This evaluation concluded that the Senior Independent Director as defined in the Code Board and its Committees were operating and is available to shareholders if the normal effectively.
channels of contact are inappropriate for whatever reason.
In this role he would deputise for the The Chairman meets as necessary, but at least Chairman in his absence and is available to advise once each year, with the Non-Executive Directors and counsel particularly Non-Executive, but also without Executive Directors present.
He is a member of the Independent Director, having first sought the views Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
of Executive Directors, chairs an annual meeting Shareholders are invited to ask questions at the of Non-Executive Directors without the Chairman Company's Annual General Meeting and meet the in order to appraise his performance and to Directors informally after the meeting.
The number provide an opportunity to address any other of proxy votes cast in resolutions is announced at matters which the Non-Executive Directors might the Annual General Meeting and published on the wish to raise.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS EXTERNAL APPOINTMENTS The Board is satisfied that the Non-Executive Executive Directors are encouraged to take nonDirectors, each of whom is independent from executive positions in other companies, subject to management and has no material, commercial or the approval of the Board, to broaden their other connection with the Company, are able to experience.
Their experience, gained from varied commercial Simon Melliss is a member of the Committee of backgrounds, enables them to make a valuable Management of Hermes Property Unit Trust, for contribution to the Company.
The Chairman holds which he received a fee of 20,000 in 2008 and a other positions which are set out on page 8.
The non-executive director and chairman of the Audit Board is satisfied that these appointments do not Committee of Whitbread PLC, for which he adversely affect his commitment as the Company's received a fee of 65,000 in 2008.
are retained in recognition of the personal commitment and expertise required for such There is an induction programme in place which is positions.
based on the guidelines issued by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators tailored STANDING COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD to the specific requirements of newly appointed The Board has Audit, Remuneration and Non-Executive Directors.
On their appointment, Nomination Committees, each of which has written Non-Executive Directors meet with the Chairman terms of reference which are modelled closely on and the Chief Executive and are provided with those recommended by the Institute of Chartered briefings on their responsibilities as Directors and Secretaries and Administrators.
They deal clearly on the Company's business, finances, risks, with the authorities and duties of each Committee strategy, procedures and the markets in which the and are formally reviewed annually.
Copies of these Company operates.
Non-Executive Directors also terms of reference are available on the Company's meet with members of senior management who website.
Each of these Committees is comprised of provide further information on the Company's Non-Executive Directors of the Company who are operations, including visits to the Company's appointed by the Board on the recommendation of properties, and with representatives from the the Nomination Committee.
Company's auditors and advisers.
The Company Secretary is secretary to each RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS Committee.
The Company has an active dialogue with its shareholders through a programme of investor The Chairman of each Committee reports the meetings which includes formal presentations of outcome of meetings to the Board.
the full and half-year results.
Non-Executive Directors are available to attend meetings if requested to do so by shareholders and may attend meetings between shareholders and management if desired.
The Board receives reports of meetings ANNUAL REPORT 2008 37 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED THE AUDIT COMMITTEE REVIEW OF THE YEAR The Audit Committee is responsible for ensuring During the year, the Committee reviewed the that management has systems and procedures in draft half-year and annual reports and associated place to ensure the integrity of financial results announcements prior to their approval by information.
The Committee maintains an the Board.
appropriate relationship with the Group's external auditors and reviews the effectiveness, objectivity These reviews considered the application of the and independence of the external auditors and Company's accounting policies and practices and considers both the scope of their work and the any changes to them, major judgemental areas, fees paid to them for audit and non-audit services.
adjustments resulting from the audit and going The Committee reviews the Company's internal concern assumptions.
The reviews also included audit arrangements, internal financial controls and consideration of the Group's compliance with the audit process.
statutory tax obligations, compliance with accounting standards and with regulatory The Committee has access to employees and all requirements, the statement on internal control, documentation and information it may require.
property valuations and clarity of disclosure.
COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP The Committee is required to assist the Board to The Committee comprises: fulfil its responsibilities relating to the adequacy and effectiveness of the control environment and Name Date of appointment the Group's compliance with the Combined Code.
To fulfil these duties, the Committee reviewed: John Hirst Chairman 19 August 2004 John Clare 14 January 1999 David Edmonds 8 May 2003 the external auditors' management letters: internal audit reports, including Jacques Espinasse 1 May 2007 recommendations arising from them and the review of progress in implementing previous John Hirst, the Chairman of the Committee, is a recommendations: Chartered Accountant and the Board is satisfied reports on the systems of internal controls that he has the required recent and relevant and the risk management framework: and experience.
All Audit Committee members are the Company's approach to compliance with expected to be financially literate.
legislation and regulations and to the prevention of fraud including arrangements John Clare has been a Non-Executive Director for staff to raise concerns in confidence.
and a member of the Committee for over ten years.
As explained, his contribution to the Board The Audit Committee is responsible for the and to the Committees on which he serves, development, implementation and monitoring of continues to be valued and it is intended that he the Group's policy on external audit in which is set should remain a member of the Committee until he out the categories of non-audit services which the retires as a Non-Executive Director.
external auditors will, and will not, be allowed to MEETINGS provide to the Group.
To fulfil its responsibilities regarding the external auditors, the Committee The Committee meets at least four times each reviewed: year with agendas organised around the Company's reporting cycle.
During 2008 it met on the scope of the audit as set out in the four occasions and all members of the Committee external auditors' engagement letter for the attended all meetings.
forthcoming year: the external auditors' overall work plan for The Chairman of the Company, the Chief the forthcoming year: Executive, the Group Finance Director and other the external auditors' fee proposal: senior finance management together with senior a report from the external auditors describing representatives of the external auditors are invited to attend all meetings.
In order to fulfil its duties as their arrangements to ensure objectivity and to identify, report and manage any conflicts defined in its terms of reference, the Audit of interest: and Committee receives presentations and reviews the extent of non-audit services provided by reports from the Group's senior management, the external auditors to ensure that they are consulting as necessary with the external auditors.
not placed in a position to audit their own work.
The Committee meets with the external auditors in the absence of management at least once each year.
ANNUAL REPORT 2008 38 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED The Committee has recommended to the Board EXTERNAL AUDITORS that the external auditors should be reappointed.
The Company's external auditors are Deloitte LLP.
The audit partner responsible for the Company's REMUNERATION COMMITTEE audit matters is changed every five years in The Remuneration Committee comprises: accordance with the Ethical Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
In forming their Name Date of appointment opinion on the independence and objectivity of the external auditors, the Audit Committee takes into John Clare Chairman 8 May 2003 John Nelson 21 July 2006 account the safeguards operating within Deloitte Tony Watson 1 February 2006 LLP.
Under the Company's policy governing the provision of non-audit services by the external auditors, they may not provide a service which The Committee met four times during 2008 and all places them in a position where they may be members of the Committee attended all meetings required to audit their own work.
which they were eligible to attend.
Full details of the responsibilities of the Remuneration Where non-audit services are provided, the fees Committee and a review of its activities during the are based on the work undertaken and are not year are included in the report of the success related.
Consideration is given to the Remuneration Committee on pages 45 to 52.
The nature of and remuneration received for other Chief Executive other than in respect of his own services provided by Deloitte LLP to the Company remuneration is invited to attend the meetings.
and confirmation is sought from them that the fee payable for the annual audit is adequate to enable NOMINATION COMMITTEE them to perform their obligations in accordance The Nomination Committee comprises: with the scope of the audit.
The auditors' remuneration in respect of the year ended Name Date of appointment 31 December 2008, comprised 555,000 for year John Nelson Chairman 7 April 2005 end audit and half-year review work and 44,000 John Clare 1 January 2006 for other work.
The Audit Committee has reviewed Tony Watson 3 May 2007 the briefing paper on effective communication between audit committees and external auditors All members of the Committee were present on issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
Having the two occasions on which the Committee met in considered the recommendations of the briefing 2008.
The Committee undertakes an annual paper with the external auditors, the Audit review of succession planning and ensures that Committee has concluded that the relationship the membership and composition of the Board, with Deloitte LLP meets the recommendations.
including the balance of Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors, continues to be TRUSTEES OF THE PENSION SCHEME appropriate.
In addition to identifying potential The Company's defined benefit pension scheme successors for executive board level positions, was closed to new entrants on 31 December 2002 the review considers senior functional positions following which a Group Personal Pension Plan was within the Company.
The Committee considers the established for new employees.
independence of Non-Executive Directors and of the balance of skills and knowledge required of The defined benefit pension scheme, The both Executive Directors and Non-Executive Hammerson Group Management Limited Pension Directors.
& Life Assurance Scheme, is administered by two corporate trustees.
One is an independent trustee.
OTHER COMMITTEES The other is a subsidiary of the Company which has In addition to the principal committees referred to four directors.
The Chairman of this subsidiary is above, the Board has established committees to David Edmonds, one of the Company's Nondeal with share plan administration, compliance Executive Directors.
Graham Pimlott, a former with the Companies Act and the Listing, Non-Executive Director, is also a director of this Prospectus, Disclosure and Transparency Rules subsidiary and the remaining directors are and other relevant regulatory requirements and employees, but not directors, of the Company.
The the administrative arrangements required for Scheme's funds are invested and managed financing.
ANNUAL REPORT 2008 39 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED INTERNAL CONTROL The Board has ultimate responsibility for the Other key elements of the Group's system of Group's system of internal control and for internal control include: reviewing its effectiveness.
This system is designed to safeguard assets against unauthorised regular meetings of the Board and the Audit use or disposition, ensure the maintenance of Committee whose overall responsibilities are proper accounting records, provide reliable set out above: financial information and ensure compliance with a management structure that is designed to relevant legislation and regulations.
enable effective decision making with clearly defined responsibilities and limits of authority.
There is a regular review process throughout the Monthly meetings of the Executive Directors year of the effectiveness of the Group's system of and of the management boards in the UK and internal controls, including financial, operational and France are an important part of this structure: compliance controls and risk management.
the maintenance of operational control However, it must be recognised that any such manuals setting out a control framework for system can only provide reasonable and not management to operate within and containing absolute assurance against material misstatement guidance and procedures for the Group's or loss.
This system is designed to manage the operations: and achievement of business objectives.
the measurement of the Group's financial performance on a regular basis against Management has established a risk management budgets and long-term financial plans.
framework and procedures necessary to enable the Directors to report on internal controls in The Company has 'whistleblowing procedures' compliance with the Code.
The risk management under which staff may report any suspicion of procedures involve the analysis, evaluation fraud, financial irregularity or other malpractice.
and management of the key risks to the Group and The Company subscribes to the independent include plans for the continuance of the Company's charity, Public Concern at Work, so that staff may business in the event of unforeseen interruption.
have free access to its helpline.
The Board, which reviews the framework and procedures regulation, has allocated responsibility The system of internal control and the for the management of each key risk to Executive effectiveness thereof have been reviewed by the Directors and senior executives within the Group Board for the year under review and during the who report on these risks to the Board.
period up to the date of this report and the process accords with the Turnbull guidance.
The Company conducts internal audit activities through a programme of reviews.
These reviews, By Order of the Board which are principally undertaken by BDO Stoy Hayward LLP, but also on occasion by Company employees, are overseen and co-ordinated by an Stuart Haydon Internal Controls and Risk Management Secretary Committee.
This Committee comprises executives 9 February 2009 from the finance and operational parts of the business, is chaired by the Group Finance Director, and is intended to ensure that internal control is integrated into Hammerson's daily operations.
The Audit Committee considers these arrangements annually and is satisfied that they provide an appropriate overview of the Company's internal control procedures.
