Corporate governance Corporate governance This part of the Annual Report, together with the Directors remuneration to the Company Secretary and will be available for inspection at report set out on pages 40 to 46, describes how the Company has the AGM.
Under the Articles, Directors are subject to re-election by both applied the principles contained in the revised Combined Code on shareholders at the first AGM after their appointment by the Board Corporate Governance amended in June 2008 the Code and complied if they have held office for three years or more since their previous with the provisions contained in section 1 of the Code.
appointment by shareholders and, in the case of Non-executive Directors, if they have held office for nine years or more since first being Statement of Compliance with the provisions of the appointed by shareholders.
Non-executive Directors are subject to Combined Code Companies Act provisions relating to the removal of a director.
The Companys Ordinary Shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
In accordance with the Listing Rules of the UK Listing The Chairman is, among other things, responsible for chairing Board Authority, the Company confirms that throughout the year ended meetings and leading the Board.
The Chief Executives responsibilities 31 December 2008 and at the date of this Annual Report, it was include operational performance, Corporate Social Responsibility and compliant with the provisions of the Code.
the development and implementation of the Groups strategy.
He focuses also on long term growth and development of the Group, its Board composition people and customer relationships.
The Boards policy is that the roles of The Board comprises an Independent Non-executive Chairman David Chairman and Chief Executive should be performed by different people.
Turner, a Chief Executive Allan Cook, two other Executive Directors The division of responsibilities between the Chairmans role and that of and five other Non-executive Directors of whom Marcus Beresford is the the Chief Executive is documented and clearly understood.
All Non-executive Directors are considered to be independent.
The Senior Independent Directors responsibilities include the provision of an additional channel of communication between the Chairman and Biographies of the Directors, giving details of their experience and the Non-executive Directors.
He also provides another point of contact other significant commitments, are set out on page 31 and, in relation for shareholders if they have concerns which communication through to those Directors offering themselves for re-election at the AGM, in the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive or Chief Financial the accompanying shareholder circular.
The wide ranging experience Officer has failed to resolve, or where these contacts are inappropriate.
and backgrounds of the Non-executive Directors enable them to debate and constructively challenge management in relation to both The Directors have the benefit of a Directors and officers liability the development of strategy and the performance of the Group.
insurance policy and the Company has entered into qualifying third-party The attendance of Directors at Board and principal Board committee indemnity arrangements with them, as permitted by the Companies Act meetings during the year is set out in the following table.
The Directors are permitted to take independent legal advice at the Companys expense within set limits in furtherance of their duties.
Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Number held 8 4 3 4 The Board and its proceedings Number attended Board meetings scheduled in accordance with the annual timetable G F Page 7 1 3 take place eight times a year and otherwise as required.
There is A E Cook 8 3 contact between meetings to progress the Groups business as W G Tucker 8 required.
Meetings were held at the head office in Wimborne, at the A J Stevens 8 Companys London office and at operational locations in the UK and M W Hagee 1 USA.
In addition, the Senior Independent Director held a meeting with P Hooley 8 4 3 4 the Non-executives in the absence of the Chairman to appraise the M Beresford 8 4 3 4 Chairmans performance, but in view of the impending retirement of J S Patterson 7 3 3 3 the then Chairman no formal appraisal was completed.
In addition, the M H Ronald 7 3 4 Chairman has held meetings with the Non-executives in the absence of D J Turner 8 1 2 4 the Executive Directors.
Gordon Page retired on 17 November 2008.
The Boards role is to lead the Group with a view to the creation of Mike Hagee joined the Board on 3 December 2008. strong, sustainable financial performance and long term shareholder value.
In doing so, it reviews and agrees Group strategy, ensures that the Non-executive Directors are appointed for specified terms of three years necessary resources are in place, monitors management performance, which can be extended by agreement provided that the individuals and supervises the conduct of the Groups activities within a framework performance continues to be effective.
All Non-executives have of prudent and effective internal controls.
During the year, the Board and confirmed they will have sufficient time to meet what is expected of senior management participated in a two day meeting devoted to the them and copies of their appointment letters are available on request consideration and development of the Groups strategy.
36 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 www.
com Corporate governance The Board has adopted a schedule of matters reserved for its specific The duties of the general purposes committee are varied and include approval.
The schedule provides the framework for those decisions the discharge of obligations arising under the Companys share plans, which can be made by the Board and those which can be delegated the determination of the remuneration of the Non-executive Directors, either to committees or otherwise.
Among the key matters on which and the approval of banking facilities.
the Board alone may make decisions are the Groups business strategy, its five year plan, its consolidated budget, Group policies, dividends, The PSI committees main function is to establish and implement acquisitions and disposals, and all appointments to and removals from internal policies, systems and controls to ensure that potential inside the Board.
Authority is delegated to management on a structured basis information is communicated to it, considered, verified and released in accordance with the provisions of the Corporate Framework ensuring to the market where required.
that proper management oversight exists at the appropriate level.
Matters delegated in this way include, within defined parameters, the approval of The general purposes and PSI committees, under the chairmanship bids and contracts, capital expenditures and financing arrangements.
of the Chief Executive, meet as and when required.
The Board has adopted procedures relating to the conduct of its business, Nomination committee report including the timely provision of information, and the Company Secretary David Turner is the Chairman of this committee.
The other members are is responsible for ensuring that these are observed and for advising the Allan Cook, Peter Hooley, Marcus Beresford, John Patterson, Mark Ronald Board on corporate governance matters.
The Company Secretary is and Mike Hagee appointed effective 3 December 2008.
Gordon Page was appointed, and can only be removed, by the Board.
a member of the committee until his retirement on 17 November 2008.
The majority of the members of the committee are independent.
Details If a Director were to have a concern which cannot be resolved such of their qualifications and experience are set out on page 31.
During the would be recorded in the board minutes.
On resignation, Non-executive year the committee met on four occasions.
Directors are invited to provide a written statement to the Chairman for circulation to the Board if they have concerns.
No such statements were The committees terms of reference, which were updated during the made during 2008. year, are available on the Companys website or on application to the Company Secretary.
The committees main duties are to review the The Board considered its position in relation to conflicts of interest structure, size and composition of the Board and to consider succession ahead of the new rules becoming effective on 1 October 2008.
All planning for Directors and other senior executives.
The committee dealt potential situational and transactional conflicts were disclosed, noted with these matters during the year and, in addition, reviewed the Groups and authorised.
Procedures are in place and operating effectively to talent management processes, made recommendations regarding the keep such disclosures up to date.
re-appointment of certain Directors at the 2008 AGM, and was engaged in searching, with the assistance of external search consultants, for new Board committees Non-executive Directors.
The Board is supported in its work by a number of committees.
Information relating to the nomination and audit committees appears The nomination committee evaluates the balance of skills, knowledge below and the activities of the remuneration committee are described and experience of the Board.
in the Directors remuneration report on pages 40 to 46.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to all Board committees.
Committee Mike Hagee was appointed a Non-executive Director with effect from chairmen provide oral reports on the work undertaken by their 3 December 2008.
Mike was initially identified as a potential appointee committees at the following Board meeting.
to the Board by a committee member and was recommended for appointment following meetings with external search consultants.
Other Board committees include the executive committee, the general purposes committee and the price sensitive information PSI The Chairmans other significant commitments were disclosed to committee.
The Executive Directors are members of these committees.
the Board before his appointment and any changes are reported to The Board committees are provided with sufficient resources to the Board as they arise.
There were no such changes during the year.
The other significant commitments of Non-executive Directors were disclosed to the Board before appointment.
The purpose of the executive committee is to assist the Chief Executive in the performance of his duties.
The executive committees terms of Directors professional development reference include developing the Groups strategy for Board consideration On appointment, Directors undertake a structured induction and approval, making recommendations as to acquisitions and disposals, programme in the course of which they receive information about the reviewing operational activities and managing the significant risks operations and activities of the Group, the role of the Board and the faced by the Group.
This committee met on ten occasions during the matters reserved for its decision, the Companys corporate governance year and its membership comprises the Executive Directors under the practices and procedures and their duties, responsibilities and chairmanship of the Chief Executive.
obligations as Directors of a listed public limited company.
Cobham plc 37 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Corporate governance Corporate governance continued This is supplemented by visits to key locations and meetings with, and The principal risks identified by the Board are highlighted on page 26. presentations by, senior executives.
The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control, the Training for Directors is available as required and is provided mainly by aim of which is to manage risks that are significant to the fulfilment of means of external courses or in-house presentations.
During the year the the Groups business objectives and to contribute to the safeguarding of Board participated in the Groups Code of Conduct Awareness Programme.
shareholders investment and the Companys assets.
It is also responsible In addition, Directors knowledge of the legal and regulatory environment is for reviewing the effectiveness of the system.
However, such a system updated through the provision of information by the Groups advisers and is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve by means of regular briefings from the Company Secretary.
business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Performance evaluation The principal Board committees and the Board evaluated their own The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, performance during 2008.
In addition, the performance of individual evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
Directors was considered by the former Chairman and the Chief This process, which has been in place for the year under review Executive.
The reviews involved the use of structured questionnaires, and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and financial the results from which were discussed at a meeting of the Board in June statements, is reviewed in accordance with the guidance for 2008.
For the current year, the Board has commissioned a thorough Directors on internal control issued by the Turnbull Committee.
and objective evaluation of its own performance and that of individual Directors and of the audit, remuneration and nomination committees The audit committee monitors the adequacy of internal financial using an external evaluator.
controls and compliance with Group standards through a selfassessment process involving all subsidiaries supplemented by regular Financial reporting financial assurance reviews and visits.
The Board receives reports on In the Directors view, the Annual Report and Accounts for 2008, a regular basis from the executive and audit committees in relation together with the interim management statements, the interim report to the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control and and other reports made during the year, present a balanced and has, accordingly, reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system understandable assessment of the Groups position and prospects.
of internal control in respect of 2008.
The review covered all material controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls and The Directors have adopted the going concern basis in preparing risk management systems.
the Annual Report and Accounts as stated in the Financial review on pages 20 to 25.
Audit committee report The Chairman of the committee is Peter Hooley.
He is an independent Internal control and risk management Director and the Board is satisfied, since he was a Finance Director of The Group operates under a system of internal controls which has been a FTSE 100 company until mid-2006, has been Chairman of the audit developed and refined over time to meet its needs and the risks and committee for six years and is a chartered accountant, that he has opportunities to which it is exposed.
It includes a strategic planning recent and relevant financial experience as required by the Code.
process involving the preparation of a five year plan, a comprehensive budgeting system with an annual budget which is approved by the The other members of the committee, all of whom are independent Board, the regular revision of forecasts for the year, the monitoring of Directors, are Marcus Beresford and John Patterson.
David Turner was financial performance and the appropriate delegation of authorities to a member of the committee until his appointment as Chairman of the operational management.
Delegations and other operational controls Company on 7 May 2008.
Details of their experience are set out on are contained in the Corporate Framework and the Group Finance page 31.
During the year, the committee met on four occasions.
The audit committee has delegated to it the review of the effectiveness of the internal controls, including, but not limited to, The committees terms of reference, which were reviewed during financial controls, and the risk management process.
the year, are available on the Companys website or on application to the Company Secretary.
The committees main duties are to monitor Risk management is an integral part of the system of internal control.
the integrity of the Companys financial statements and any formal Divisional Presidents are required to ensure that appropriate processes, announcements relating to its financial performance, to consider including the maintenance of divisional risk registers, exist to identify the effectiveness of the Groups internal financial control systems, and manage risks and to regularly carry out formal risk assessments.
The to monitor and review the effectiveness of the Groups internal executive committee undertakes a top-level review of significant risks and audit activities, to make recommendations as to the appointment, the Chief Executive reports regularly to the Board on their mitigation.
remuneration and terms of engagement of the external auditors, to monitor and review the external auditors independence and objectivity 38 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 www.
com Corporate governance and the effectiveness of the audit process and to review arrangements Shareholder relations by which the Groups employees may confidentially raise concerns about During the year the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer held possible improprieties.
In relation to the latter, it is the committees regular meetings with fund managers and other shareholders to discuss objective to ensure that arrangements are in place for the proportionate information made public by the Group.
and independent investigation of such matters and for appropriate follow up action to be taken.
In October 2008, a presentation for shareholders on Cobham Defence Systems and its strategic business unit, Cobham Defence Meetings of the committee are normally attended by the Chairman Communications Limited, took place in London.
In January 2009, of the Company, the Chief Financial Officer, senior employees with a further presentation on Cobham Analytical Solutions, a strategic responsibilities in relation to finance, accounting and internal control, business unit of Cobham, took place in London.
In addition, the committee holds meetings with the external auditors and the Head of Financial Assurance in the Presentations were given on the announcement of the preliminary absence of executive management.
Attendance of non-members is at and interim results.
Copies of the presentation materials, together with the discretion, and by invitation, of the committee.
webcasts of the events, referred to above, can be accessed via the Companys investor relations website at www.
At the majority of its meetings the committee considered reports from the external auditors, the Head of Financial Assurance and on risk The Chairman wrote to and held introductory meetings with a management and internal controls.
Reports were also considered on a number of major shareholders during the year.
In addition, a survey of number of matters including the pension scheme treasury and funding shareholder opinion was commissioned and the results of this were plans, taxation, disaster recovery planning and corporate governance presented to the Board.
The Board is kept informed of investors views issues.
The Group has an anti-fraud policy and arrangements for handling through the receipt of regular reports from the Companys brokers whistle-blowing and the committee regularly receives and considers and updates from the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer.
Any reports on these matters.
significant correspondence with shareholders is also made available.
The committee believes that the current arrangements comprising Communication with shareholders takes place via RNS announcements, a rotational programme of internal financial control reviews, visits to the Companys website, the annual and interim reports, the interim subsidiaries by the financial assurance function, business reviews carried management statements and the AGM.
The AGM is attended by all out by the Chief Executive, Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Directors and shareholders have the opportunity to hear a statement Officer and a process of self-assessment of internal financial controls as to progress made during the year, to question the Board on its by all subsidiaries provides appropriate internal audit coverage of the stewardship of the Company and to meet Directors informally.
Where weaknesses have been identified, plans for results of the votes on the resolutions proposed at the AGM are remedying them are developed and progress monitored.
published on the Companys website.
The committee and the external auditors have safeguards to avoid the During the year, the layout and format of the shareholder section of the possible compromise of the auditors objectivity and independence.
website was changed to reflect the Companys new brand and has been These include the adoption by the committee of a policy regarding enhanced with additional content.
the supply of audit and non-audit services and of a policy on the employment of external audit staff.
Non-audit services involving the Responsibility statements review of interim financial information, tax services and accounting Statements relating to the responsibilities of the Directors are on page advice, and acquisition-related due diligence can be provided subject 47 and those relating to the auditors are on pages 48 and 106. to pre-approval by the committee where the cost of any individual engagement exceeds a pre-defined limit.
The committee has received reports from the external auditors confirming their independence and objectivity.
Fees paid to the external auditors during the year ended 31 December 2008 are set out in note 2 to the Group financial statements.
Cobham plc 39 Annual Report and Accounts 2008
