Report of the Directors Corporate governance continued 63 Francis Salway, as Group Chief Executive, is The Company Secretary, through the Chairman, Groups activities.
In addition, one Board meeting responsible for all aspects of the operation and is responsible for advising the Board on governance each year is held at an off-site location which management of the Group and its business.
His matters and for ensuring good information ows incorporates a visit to one of the Groups principal role includes developing, for Board approval, an within the Board.
All Directors have access to the properties or developments.
appropriate business strategy and ensuring that advice and services of the Company Secretary, as The Board supports Executive Directors taking the agreed strategy is implemented in a timely well as access to external advice, if required, at the up Non-executive Directorships as part of their and effective manner.
expense of the Group the procedure for Directors continuing development which will ultimately There exists a strong Non-executive element on wishing to seek such external advice is published bene t the Company.
As a matter of policy such the Board which currently consists of the Chairman, on the Groups website.
No such external advice appointments are normally limited to one Nonfive Executive Directors and seven Non-executive was sought by any Director during the year.
David Rough is the Senior Independent Director.
The Board regards each of the seven Information and professional development Board performance evaluation Non-executive Directors as being independent The Board is supplied with information in a form The formal annual evaluation of the performance of and the Chairman was independent at the time and quality to enable it to take informed decisions the Board, its Committees and individual Directors of his appointment to that position.
During the and to discharge its duties.
All Directors are was undertaken in early 2008.
This consisted of an year under review, Sir Winfried Bischoff served encouraged to make further enquiries as they internally run exercise led by the Chairman with as a Non-executive Director, retiring from the consider appropriate of the Executive Directors or the assistance of the Company Secretary, although Board on 1 April 2008.
Directors are provided with detailed the Board will consider using external facilitation was Citigroup, for whom he served in a number brie ngs on the Groups businesses, the markets in from time to time in the future.
The appraisal of roles including acting Chief Executive and which they operate and the overall economic and questionnaire was wide-ranging and based on Chairman of Citigroup Inc. Citigroup provides competitive environment.
Other areas addressed the process and questions outlined in the Code, investment banking services to the Group and, include legal issues and responsibilities of directors, covering Board and Committee performance.
as a consequence, he did not fully meet the the Groups governance arrangements and its The appraisal output is used to highlight independence criteria set out in the Code.
strengths and weaknesses and revealed that the the unanimous view of his colleagues on the Board In the case of newly appointed Directors, an Board and its Committees were judged to be was that, by virtue of his character and experience, induction programme, which includes training on operating effectively.
It identi ed a number of he was robustly independent.
the responsibilities of a Director, occurred prior to opportunities to develop Board processes in the The Board is satis ed that no individual or group or immediately following their appointment to the future.
In addition, individual performance as of Directors has unfettered powers of discretion Board, if that appointment was the first occasion Board Directors is appraised each year, based and that an appropriate balance exists between that they have been appointed to the Board of a on one-to-one interviews with the Chairman, the Executive and Non-executive members of the listed company.
A tailored induction programme or in the case of the Chairman, with the Board, while not being so large as to be unwieldy.
is provided for Non-executive Directors on Senior Independent Director.
Details of the roles, backgrounds and other appointment, co-ordinated by the Company commitments of the Directors are shown Secretary in accordance with guidelines issued Nominations Committee in the Directors biographies on pages 52 and 53. by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and The Nominations Committee, which, until 30 April The Chairman holds at least two meetings a Administrators.
Non-executive Directors are 2008, comprised the Chairman, David Rough year with the Non-executive Directors without encouraged to visit the Groups major properties to and Bo Lerenius, met twice during the year Executive Directors being present.
enable them to gain a greater understanding of the under review to consider Board structure, size, composition and succession needs, keeping under review the balance of membership and Table 46 the required blend of skills, knowledge and Attendance at Board and Committee meetings experience of the Board.
T he number of principal Board and Committee meetings attended by each Director during the financial year was as follows: While the membership of the Nominations Audit Nominations Remuneration Committee was until May 2007 non-compliant Board Committee Committee Committee 9 meetings 5 meetings 2 meetings 3 meetings with the Code, all key outputs and decisions relating to appointments and membership of Board Paul Myners Chairman 9 9 2 2 3 3 Francis Salway Group Chief Executive 9 9 Committees were relayed to and considered by the Martin Greenslade 9 9 full Board which includes a strong representation of Ian Ellis 9 9 experienced independent Non-executive Directors.
Mike Hussey 9 9 Richard Akers 9 9 In May 2007 Bo Lerenius was appointed to this David Rough Senior Independent Director 9 9 5 5 2 2 3 3 Committee and Francis Salway stood down from Sir Winfried Bischoff 7 9 2 5 2 3 the Committee so that its membership satis ed the Sir Stuart Rose 8 9 4 5 2 3 Bo Lerenius 9 9 5 5 2 2 3 3 requirements of the Code.
The Committee reviewed Alison Carnwath 8 9 3 5 3 3 the time required from Non-executive Directors Actual attendance maximum number of meetings a Director could attend as a Board Committee member and the annual performance evaluation was used to assess whether Non-executive Directors were spending suf cient time to ful l their duties.
Land Securities Annual Report 2008 64 Corporate governance continued The Committee reviewed succession plans for The Senior Independent Director normally attends The Committee met five times during the year.
Executive Directors and senior managers.
It also the preliminary and interim results meetings to The Audit Committee Chairman invited all other made recommendations to the Board on the which investors were invited and his attendance is Group Board Directors to attend every meeting reappointment of Non-executive Directors at the noti ed to investors in advance.
The Senior and from time to time other senior management.
conclusion of their speci ed terms of of ce, after Independent Director was available to shareholders In addition, the Director of Risk Management and first considering the effectiveness and should they have had any concerns which could Internal Audit and representatives from the commitment of those Non-executive Directors.
not be resolved through the normal channels of external auditors,  LLP Where Non-executive Directors are proposed for communication with the Chairman or Chief PwC, were also present at each meeting.
The reappointment after having served on the Board Executive.
No such concerns were raised by Committee also met separately with the external for more than six years, a particularly rigorous shareholders during the year ended 31 March 2008. and internal auditors.
review is undertaken by the Committee.
In relation to private shareholders, we actively The Committee undertook the following During the year under review the Committee encourage feedback and communication, both activities at these meetings: initiated a process to identify additional on the Annual Report page 132, at the reviewed the interim and annual results and Non-executive Directors.
A rm of executive Annual General Meeting and through considered any matters raised by management search consultants was used to identify and regular meetings with the United Kingdom and the external auditors help assess potential external candidates for Shareholders Association.
reviewed and approved the audit plans for these positions.
As a result of this process, The Annual General Meeting provided all the external and internal auditors Sir Christopher Bland, Rick Haythornthwaite and shareholders with an opportunity to question monitored the scope, effectiveness, independence Kevin OByrne were appointed to the Board on the Company on matters put to the meeting and objectivity of the external audit 1 April 2008. including the Annual Report.
Shareholders discussed the results of internal audit reviews, When considering candidates the Committee attending the Annual General Meeting were given a signi cant findings, management action plans uses objective criteria and all appointments are detailed presentation by the Chief Executive on the and the timeliness of resolution made on merit.
activities and performance of the Group over the reviewed the Groups Turnbull Report to On 30 April 2008, the Board agreed that preceding year.
From the 2007 Annual General support the Boards sign-off on the system of Sir Christopher Bland, Rick Haythornthwaite and Meeting onwards, voting has been conducted by internal control see page 65 for more details Sir Stuart Rose should join the Committee and poll instead of by show of hands, since the result is reviewed reports on the Groups risk that David Rough should step down from the more democratic because all shares represented at management measures and actions Committee.
Paul Myners continues to chair this the meeting are voted and added to the proxy vote in conjunction with the Board appraisal Committee, with Bo Lerenius remaining as a lodged in advance of the meeting.
The results of detailed on page 63, the Committee reviewed member of the Committee.
proxy voting at general meetings were published its own effectiveness and concluded that it on the Companys website as required by the Code.
had continued to operate as an effective Remuneration Committee Audit Committee.
While the Board is ultimately responsible for Audit Committee Directors remuneration, the Remuneration The Audit Committee was chaired by David Rough External auditors Committee, which comprised solely of Nonwith the other members of the Committee being The Audit Committee appraised the effectiveness executive Directors, determined the remuneration Sir Winfried Bischoff, Sir Stuart Rose, Bo Lerenuis of the external auditors and the external audit and conditions of employment of the Executive and Alison Carnwath.
Although all of the Committee process.
The evaluation process included feedback Directors and senior employees.
The Committees members are considered to be appropriately from relevant members of management and the activity is described in detail in the Directors experienced to ful l their role, Alison Carnwath results were reported to the Board and Audit remuneration report on pages 66 to 76. is considered as having signi cant, recent and Committee.
relevant financial experience in line with the The Company had a policy and procedures in Investor Relations Code.
Further details of each of the independent place to monitor and maintain the objectivity Land Securities has a comprehensive Investor Directors are set out on pages 52 and 53.
On 30 and independence of the external auditors, PwC.
Relations programme which aims to provide April 2008, the Board agreed that Kevin OByrne The policy requires prior approval by the Audit existing and potential equity and bond investors and Rick Haythornthwaite should join and that Committee of non-audit work above a fide minimis with a means of developing their understanding Sir Stuart Rose should step down from this threshold level.
On a six monthly basis, the Audit of the Company and raising any concerns or issues Committee.
The Audit Committees written terms Committee reviewed a summary of all non-audit they may have.
Further detail on the Groups of reference are available on the Companys website.
In addition to the audit related services, PwC Investor relations activity is provided in the Its principal oversight responsibilities cover: provided the following services during the year: Corporate responsibility section of this Report.
internal control and risk management taxation advice, including planning and internal audit compliance external audit including auditor independence advice on IFRS accounting financial reporting pension fund audit advice on a number of Trillium bids due diligence and related advice in relation to the proposed demerger due diligence work in relation to the disposal of the Trillium Investment Partners fund Land Securities Annual Report 2008 Report of the Directors Corporate governance continued 65 PwC were appointed to work on the demerger The Board con rms that this system is designed Chart 47 process after a tender process with another to be in accordance with the 2005 version of the Risk management process accountancy rm.
This appointment was approved Turnbull guidance and has been in place for the by the Audit Committee.
year under review and up to the date of approval Identify risks Details of the amounts paid to PwC are set out of the Report and Financial statements.
in note 7 to the financial statements.
The key features of our system of internal The external auditors reported to the Committee control include: that they remained independent and had maintained Strategic and business planning: the Group Report risks and Assess and internal safeguards to ensure their objectivity.
and each business unit produce and agree mitigation to Board qualify risks We contextualise a business plan each year, against which the risk in terms of our Valuers performance of the business is regularly goals and objectives The Committee had a policy in place to monitor monitored.
Balanced scorecards are prepared the objectivity of the external valuers, Knight Frank.
that set out targets for a wide variety of The Group gives the valuers and external auditors key performance indicators, including risk Re-assess risks Develop action plans access to each other.
These advisers have a dialogue management and internal audit actions.
post mitigation to mitigate risks and exchange of information which is entirely Investment appraisal: capital projects, major independent of the Group.
The Audit Committee contracts and business and property acquisitions Chairman attends key valuation meetings as do are reviewed in detail and approved by the the external auditors to be assured of the Investment Committee and or the Board where independence of the process.
In addition, Knight appropriate, in accordance with delegated The Director of Internal Audit and Risk Frank presented to the Audit Committee following authority limits.
Management reports to the Group Chief Executive completion of their 2007 08 valuation process.
Financial monitoring: pro tability, cash ow and and has direct access to the Audit Committee In line with the Carsberg Committee report we capital expenditure are closely monitored and key Chairman.
The internal audit function operates a have a xed fee arrangement with our Valuers, financial information is reported to the Board on a risk-based audit approach and provides a summary Knight Frank LLP.
The proportion of total fees paid monthly basis, including explanations of variances report on the operation of the system of risk by the Company to the total fee income of Knight between actual and budgeted performance.
management and internal control to support the Frank LLP was less than 5%.
The Audit Committee Systems of control procedures and delegated Boards annual statement.
regularly reviews the total fees which the Company authorities: there are clearly fide ned guidelines The Company has established a whistleblowing pays to Knight Frank as a proportion of the total and approval limits for capital and operating policy and hotline to enable employees to raise fees paid to all its property advisers.
The Committee expenditure and other key business transactions public interest issues on a con dential basis.
is satis ed it represents only a small proportion and decisions.
Operational and financial The Audit Committee reviews the effectiveness of the total.
procedures and controls are maintained on the of internal audit activities including the scope Groups intranet.
of work, authority and resources of the internal Financial reporting Risk management: we have an ongoing process audit function.
The Board seeks to present a balanced and to identify, evaluate and manage the risks faced The Audit Committee on behalf of the Board understandable assessment of the Groups position by the Group.
The risk management process is has reviewed the effectiveness of the systems of and prospects, and details are given in the Report set out in Chart 47.
We rate each risk in terms of internal control and risk management.
The review of the Directors.
probability of occurrence and potential impact on covered all material areas of the business including performance, and we identify mitigating actions, financial, operational and compliance controls and Going concern control effectiveness and management risk management and no signi cant failings in After making enquiries, the Directors have a responsibility.
Our approach is supported by control were found.
In performing its review of reasonable expectation that the Company has an oversight structure.
This includes the Audit effectiveness, the Audit Committee took into adequate resources to continue in operational Committee, which reviews on behalf of the Board account the following reports and activities: existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, the effectiveness of our risk management process.
Internal audit reports on reviews of business they continue to adopt the going concern basis in processes and activities, including action plans preparing the accounts.
Risk management process to address any identi ed control weaknesses.
Six monthly assessments: a compliance Managements own assessments of the Internal control questionnaire is completed twice a year before strengths and weaknesses of the overall control The Board is responsible for the Groups system of external reports are issued, which is signed off by environment in their area, with action plans internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
senior managers, providing assurances that controls to address the weaknesses.
Such a system is designed to manage rather than are both embedded and effective within the External auditors report on any issues identi ed eliminate the risk of failure to meet business business a similar questionnaire is completed in the course of their work, including internal objectives and can provide only reasonable and not annually in respect of joint ventures.
control reports on control weaknesses, which absolute assurance against material misstatement Internal audit: responsible for reviewing and were provided to the Audit Committee as well or loss.
testing key business processes and controls, as executive management.
including following up the implementation of Risk management reporting, including the status management actions and reporting any overdue of actions to mitigate major risks and the actions to the Audit Committee.
quanti cation of selected risks.
The Board con rms that no signi cant failings or weaknesses have been identi ed from that review.
Land Securities Annual Report 2008 66 Directors remuneration report Dear fellow shareholder, I would like to introduce our Directors remuneration report for 2008.
Over the following pages we set out the principles and practice for Director remuneration, with information on what has been paid to whom and why.
Throughout the report you will see a clear alignment between the rewards for Directors and the relative performance of the Company against a set of independent industry benchmarks.
As a Board we are committed to operating with transparency: in line with this commitment we have provided a question and answer section with concise responses to some of the most common queries.
Alison Carnwath Chair, Remuneration Committee What are the Companys pay principles in terms of remuneration for Directors?
Our pay and rewards should attract the best people to the business and incentivise them to produce superior returns for our shareholders.
Therefore we believe we should reward people for achieving and exceeding Company targets.
This is why a substantial part of our Executive Directors reward is performance-related pay, with incentives to exceed industry benchmarks.
There are three key elements to the remuneration we provide: Salaries re ect an individuals consistent performance and contribution to the business, as fide ned and decided by the Remuneration Committee.
We aim to pay salaries at a mid-market level.
Please see page 68 for more details on basic salaries.
Annual bonuses reward performance according to a set of key performance indicators, aimed at ensuring the Company delivers on its key priorities for the year.
There is a bonus opportunity of up to 100% of basic salary and, at the Remuneration Committees discretion, this can be increased to 130%.
There is also an additional bonus opportunity of up to 200% of basic salary for exceptional performance.
However, no Director may earn a bonus of more than 300% of basic salary in total.
Tables 51 and 52 on page 69 set out the criteria for each type of bonus.
Long-term incentive plan rewards for Directors are aligned with our long-term business objectives and the level of value created for shareholders.
Please see page 70 for more on long-term incentives.
Why do you pay salaries in the mid-range for the industry?
With salary levels in the mid-range for our industry there is very strong motivation for Directors to achieve outperformance and so secure a bonus.
We believe this medium salary high bonus approach creates greater value for shareholders.
What were the Executive Directors paid this year?
This table details the salaries and bene ts, annual bonuses and long-term incentives excluding pensions given to our Executive Directors this year.
