Aegis Group plc 2008 Annual Report and Accounts 25 Corporate governance The following sections explain how the Company applies the main and supporting In accordance with the Articles of Association, one-third of the Board are required principles and the provisions of Section 1 of the Combined Code 2006 to retire by rotation each year.
The Board confirms that throughout 2008 we have complied The division of responsibilities between the chairman and chief executive officer with the relevant provisions of the Code save as where detailed below and is set out in writing and has been agreed by the Board.
on page 30 of the remuneration report.
The chairman is responsible for: the composition and leadership of the Board: The Board monitoring corporate governance processes: All directors are collectively responsible for the overall success of the Company and for the creation of long-term shareholder value.
Executive directors have direct ensuring effective communication with shareholders and other stakeholders: and responsibility for business operations, whereas the non-executive directors have supporting the chief executive officer by acting as confidant, advisor and mentor a responsibility to bring independent, objective judgement to bear on Board as requested.
This includes constructively challenging management and helping to develop the Companys strategy.
The chief executive officer is responsible for: The Board comprises ten directors a chairman, three executive directors and six the development and execution of the Groups strategy and its independent non-executive directors.
Details of the directors and their biographies operational performance: are set out on pages 20 and 21.
The directors have a broad range of expertise leading the executive team: and experience, which we believe contributes significantly to the effectiveness of the Board.
leading the management of relationships with external stakeholders: and Each of the non-executive directors has confirmed that they have been throughout being accountable for the execution of strategy and the Groups the year, and continue to be, independent of the management of the Group and operating performance.
free from any business or other relationship that could materially affect the exercise In the normal course of business the roles of chairman and CEO are performed by of their independent judgement.
The chairman was independent at the time of separate individuals in accordance with A.
the departure of Robert Lerwill at the end of November 2008, the chairman, The other commitments of the chairman and non-executive directors are set out in John Napier, was appointed to the additional role of interim CEO as it was their biographies.
unanimously considered by the Board to be the most appropriate short-term arrangement.
The Board expects to be in a position to be able to announce The Board believes, in principle, in the benefit of executive directors and other the appointment of a new Group CEO by the end of 2009. senior employees accepting external non-executive directorships in order to broaden their skills and knowledge for the benefit of the Company.
The Board has adopted a policy on external appointments which is designed to ensure Board meetings that employees remain able to discharge their responsibilities to the Group.
Directors and employees are usually permitted to retain any fees in respect of The Board meets at least seven times a year and more frequently when business such appointments.
One Board meeting is usually followed by a second day devoted entirely to the ongoing development of the Companys strategic plans.
Directors must not vote in respect of any contract or other proposal in which they Board meetings are structured to allow open discussion and all directors or any person connected with them have a material interest otherwise than by participate in discussing the strategy, trading and financial performance and virtue of their interests in securities of the Company.
The Articles of Association risk management of the Company.
were not amended by shareholders at the 2008 Annual General Meeting and so were not updated to address the new statutory provisions regarding directors There is a list of matters that have been reserved to the Board for decision.
duties in relation to conflicts of interest which came into force on 1 October 2008 These include approval of: under the Companies Act 2006.
However, the Company has taken steps to Group strategy, annual budget and operating plans: ensure compliance with the new law on conflicts of interest and has procedures in place to identify and deal with any conflict situations should they arise.
formal results announcements: Those procedures have operated effectively throughout 2008.
They do not dividend policy: include procedures for the Board to authorise any conflicts that may arise as the Board does not have such authority under the current Articles of Association.
all circulars and listing particulars: However, if shareholders approve the proposed adoption of new Articles of matters relating to share capital: and Association at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, the Company intends to implement a set of procedures that reflect best practice in this regard in light major capital projects, investments and commitments.
All directors are fully briefed on important developments in the various business To avoid potential conflicts of interest, non-executive directors are expected to activities which the Group undertakes and regularly receive information concerning inform the chairman before taking up any additional external appointments.
the Groups operations, finances, key risks and its employees, enabling them to fulfil their duties and obligations as directors.
Bernard Fournier is the senior independent director and he is responsible for undertaking the annual review of the chairmans performance and chairing the The Board is supplied in advance of each meeting with an agenda and Nominations Committee when considering the role of chairman.
He is available supporting documentation.
At each Board meeting there are a number of standard to shareholders if they need to convey concerns to the Board other than through agenda report items.
External advisors are also invited to attend meetings where the chairman or chief executive officer.
As reported on page 22 he will retire from relevant input is needed.
The Board also receives briefings from the chairmen of the Board at the conclusion of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
the Audit and Remuneration Committees following meetings of those Committees.
26 Corporate governance continued The attendance of directors at meetings of the Board and at Board committees Director liability of which they were members during the year is set out below: The Company has in place an appropriate level of directors and officers insurance Board AuditRemuneration Nomination meetings Committee Committee Committee cover in respect of legal action against the directors.
In addition, the Company has given an indemnity to its directors in respect of third party claims.
of meetings in year 8333 about the indemnities is set out in the directors report on page 22.
Lord Sharman All directors have access to the advice and services of the company secretary and, retired 17.07.08 5 3 if required, external professional advice at the Companys expense.
If a director John Napier has particular concerns, he or she can have these recorded in the Board minutes.
appointed 30.06.08 4 Jerry Buhlmann Board committees appointed 02.06.08 5 Terms of reference for all Board committees are regularly reviewed and are Adrian Chedore 7 available on the Companys website at www.
com and from the Daniel Farrar 6 2 1 company secretary on request.
Bernard Fournier 8 3 3 Audit Committee Robert Lerwill Brendan ONeill is chairman of the Audit Committee.
He is a chartered resigned 27.11.08 7 2 management accountant and the Board is satisfied that he has appropriate recent and relevant financial experience to lead the Committee in its duties and Alicja Lesniak 8 deliberations.
His colleagues on the Committee during 2008 were Bernard Mainardo fide Nardis Fournier and Leslie Van fide Walle.
Details of the members of the Audit Committee, resigned 05.09.08 2 all of whom are independent non-executive directors, are set out on pages 20 Brendan ONeill 8 3 3 and 21.
Charles Strauss 7 3 1 At the invitation of the chairman, meetings of the Committee were also attended, in whole or in part, by the CFO, the external auditors, the Group CEO as well as Lorraine Trainer 8 3 3 the company secretary and head of internal audit.
In addition, other members of David Verklin senior management were invited to attend as necessary to provide updates and resigned 21.04.08 1 background information on matters considered by the Committee.
Leslie Van fide Walle 8 3 2 The chairman of the Committee regularly meets with the auditors without executive directors or management present.
Note The Board considers that, through the Audit Committee, it has an objective and In addition to the above, Robert Lerwill and Alicja Lesniak regularly attended, by professional relationship with the Companys external auditors.
invitation, meetings of the Audit Committee and Robert Lerwill regularly attended Work carried out by the Committee during 2008, in accordance with its meetings of the Remuneration Committee.
responsibilities, included: From time to time the non-executive directors, including the chairman, meet in the monitoring the integrity of the Companys financial statements and reviewing absence of the executive directors to consider matters of relevance to the running significant reporting judgements: of the Board and the operation of the Company.
reviewing internal audit and risk management and controls, and considering progress reports from the Risk Committee and head of internal audit: Performance appraisal process reviewing the Companys internal financial controls and procedures: The non-executives, led by the senior independent director, continued the process of meeting annually without the chairman being present to appraise the chairmans reviewing the external auditors independence, objectiveness and effectiveness: performance.
As a result of this the senior independent director meets with the approving the external auditors terms of engagement, the scope of the audit chairman to discuss any particular issues where it is felt that improvements could and the applicable levels of materiality: and be made.
prior to the release of the preliminary announcement of the annual results, In the normal course of business an annual performance review of the Board reviewing the years results and audit findings.
and its committees is undertaken in accordance with A.
However, following the change of chairman mid-way through the year and with In reviewing the half year and annual financial statements the Committee focused the other changes in the Board it was not considered appropriate to undertake the in particular on: performance review of the Board and its committees during 2008.
It is expected any changes in accounting policies and practices: that this process will be reintroduced either late in 2009 or early in 2010. major judgemental areas: issues resulting from the external audit: Induction and training the going concern assumption: Directors undertake an induction programme when they join the Board and receive a range of information about the Group.
The induction programme also includes compliance with accounting standards and the Code: and meetings with other members of the Board and various briefings and presentations compliance with stock exchange and legal requirements.
regarding the Groups operations from senior executives.
Ongoing training needs for all directors are met as required.
Aegis Group plc 2008 Annual Report and Accounts 27 Based on written reports submitted to it, the Committee reviewed with the external Nomination Committee auditors the findings of their audit work, and confirmed that all significant matters The Nomination Committee comprises all of the non-executive directors together had been satisfactorily resolved.
with the CEO and is chaired by the chairman of the Board.
The Committee meets as and when required but at least once a year.
The Committee has responsibility for making recommendations to the Board in relation to the external auditors independence and implements policy on the The Committee is responsible for: engagement of the supply of non-audit services.
Details of amounts paid to the reviewing the Board structure, size and composition: external auditors in respect of audit and non-audit services are given in Note 6 to the financial statements.
The Committee has confirmed that the policy concerning identifying and nominating to the Board candidates for appointment or rotation of audit partner complies with current guidance issued by the Institute of re-appointment as directors: and Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
reviewing the renewal or otherwise of terms of appointment for non-executive The Committee has considered the balance between fees for audit and non-audit directors, with any individual in question not taking part in the discussion.
work for the Group in the year and concluded that the nature and extent of the During the year the principal business of Committee meetings included non-audit fees do not present a threat to the external auditors independence.
the following: Remuneration Committee considering and recommending to the Board the appointment of Jerry Buhlmann During the year the Remuneration Committee comprised Charles Strauss as CEO of Aegis Media: chairman, Daniel Farrar and Lorraine Trainer.
All three are independent non-executive directors.
Members of the Committee have no personal financial undertaking the search and recruitment of candidates for the position of interest, other than as shareholders, in the Committees decisions and they have chairman to replace Lord Sharman who retired on 17 July 2008 and no conflict of interest arising from cross directorships.
recommending that John Napier be appointed chairman.
The Committee was led in this process by the senior independent director and used the Meetings of the Committee were also attended, in whole or in part, by the Group services of an external search and recruitment consultancy: and human resources director, the company secretary and a senior representative from Kepler Associates, advisors to the Committee.
The Group CEO is invited reviewing and renewing the terms of appointment of Brendan ONeill and to attend all meetings of the Committee.
Also, the chairman of the Board may Lorraine Trainer who did not take part in the deliberations.
attend meetings and is consulted by the Committee on proposals relating to the remuneration of the CEO.
The Committee, with advice from Kepler Associates, Internal control and risk management determined the additional fee payable to John Napier on his taking on the additional interim CEO role and John Napier was not party to such discussions.
The Group operates a system of internal control, which is maintained and The non-Committee attendees are not present as of right and do not attend when reviewed in accordance with the Combined Code 2006, the revised Listing Rules, their own remuneration is discussed.
the Disclosure and Transparency Rules and the guidance contained in the Turnbull Report revised.
The Committee meets three times a year and other times as required.
Its main responsibilities are: Internal control governance Responsibilities determining and recommending the policy and framework for the The Board has ultimate responsibility for ensuring that the Group adopts a suitable remuneration of the chairman, CEO, executive directors and other senior system of internal control and reviews this annually to ensure its effectiveness.
executive management: It delegates some of this responsibility to the Audit Committee.
In turn, the within policy terms and in consultation with the chairman, CEO and external Audit Committee places reliance on reports it receives from the Group internal advisors as appropriate, determining the total remuneration packages of the audit function.
Day-to-day responsibilities for embedding the Groups system of chairman, CEO and other executive directors: and internal controls lie with the executive and senior management teams.
overseeing the design and operation of the Groups share-based long-term Internal control framework incentive schemes, including approving the value and timing of awards and The Groups system of internal controls is designed to manage, but may not overseeing the operation of performance conditions.
eliminate, the risk of the Group not achieving its overall objectives.
The Groups internal control framework can only be expected to provide reasonable assurance During the year the principal business of Committee meetings included that the Groups assets and reputation are safeguarded and we are not subject to the following: material loss or financial misstatement.
The Groups system incorporates controls conducting the annual review of base salaries for executive directors and the designed to mitigate against strategic, financial, commercial, operational, CEOs recommendation for his executive team based on review of actual governance and other risks.
performance and suitably robust benchmarking: The CEO and CFO of each company is required to complete an annual certificate the consideration and approval of bonus payments for 2007: to confirm, in relation to such company, that: ongoing review and monitoring of performance conditions for vesting awards the accounts as submitted were accurate and complete and prepared in and approving new awards under the Groups share option scheme and accordance with Group accounting policies: performance share plan: there were no actual or potential breaches of laws or regulations: reviewing the Groups executive reward arrangements in the context of an there were no known frauds: economic downturn: there were no related party transactions other than those properly disclosed: determination of the termination arrangements for those members of the senior executive team who left the Group: there were no conflicted directorships: and drafting of the remuneration report: all relevant information was disclosed to the auditors.
reviewing the effectiveness of the Committee: and Similar certifications have been required of regional, global and Group management.
comprehensive review of the Groups share schemes design.
28 Corporate governance continued The Audit Committee reports to the Board on the adequacy of the Groups internal Internal audit reports controls system.
The Audit Committee receives reports from the head of internal The Groups internal audit function is charged with assessing whether controls audit on the integrity of the control environment.
The external auditors report to the expected to mitigate risks are being implemented and operating effectively.
Audit Committee on the control environment by exception following their half year Where any common gaps are identified across a number of business units, a review and full year audit.
Copies of minutes of all Risk Committee meetings are solution is agreed through discussion at the Risk Committee meetings and a risk also provided to members of the Audit Committee.
champion is assigned to improve the required controls, as appropriate.
Given that the Group operates in a fast-moving environment with frequent new offerings to The Group continues to operate an annual risk self assessment questionnaire clients, particularly via acquisitions, we accept that risks are constantly evolving to confirm the adequacy of controls in place to mitigate identified risks and and additional controls are required as a result.
To try and identify these risks as compliance with Group policies and practices.
The results of the assessments quickly as possible, the internal audit functions remit is to visit newly acquired are provided to the Audit Committee.
subsidiary companies within 12 months of their joining the Group.
The Board confirms that in 2008 it has reviewed the effectiveness of the system Risk self-assessments of internal controls and considers that there are ongoing processes in place for Aegis Media and Synovate operate under different business models, so the risk identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group self-assessment questionnaires are tailored for each of our divisions.
Each year, the and that these processes have been in place during 2008 and up to the date risks to be included are reviewed to make sure they are up-to-date and relevant of approval of the annual report and accounts.
Following its review, the to each business and that they will help management to assess how well their Board confirms that no significant weaknesses or deficiencies were identified.
The committees will provide input into the risks to be included The Board considers that the information received was sufficient to monitor the in their separate risk self-assessment surveys and will assign risk champions as process and review its effectiveness in accordance with the Turnbull Guidance required for any risks not being appropriately managed.
Employee concerns Internal audit The Group has arrangements in place that allows employees, in confidence, to Our internal audit function is considered independent to the operations and raise concerns about possible wrongdoing in matters of financial reporting or other monitors the business units application of the Companys principles and policies matters, without fear of reprisal, provided that such concerns are raised in good and their overall control of risks.
The Audit Committee regularly reviews these arrangements to ensure that The overall effectiveness of the internal audit function is monitored by the Audit there is proportionate and independent investigation of any reported concerns and Committee, which receives regular reports detailing the findings arising from the that appropriate follow up is taken.
There were no such material reports in 2008. internal audit functions work.
Risk Committee Relations with shareholders The Board has ultimate responsibility for ensuring that the Group has an effective The Group wants its shareholders to understand its prospects and to be able framework in place for managing its risks.
The Risk Committee structure supports to interact with it constructively.
the Board in fulfilling these responsibilities.
Executive directors meet regularly with major shareholders.
In 2008 Aegis had The Groups Risk Committee meets three to four times a year and in 2008 was a total of 301 investor contacts, consisting of one-to-one meetings, groups and attended by head office senior and executive management, as well as senior investor events.
This covered current shareholders and non-holders in 175 separate representatives from both Aegis Media and Synovate.
Overseas roadshows were held in North America, France, The Committee provides a forum for the discussion of key risks faced by the Belgium, Holland and Germany.
Non-executive directors are available to meet Group, the development of risk assessment techniques and the consideration with institutional shareholders on request.
and approval of risk management action plans.
The Groups brokers provide the Board with a written report covering changes in Recognising that responsibility for the management of operational risks lies with valuation and ownership, market and sector issues on a monthly basis, and are the divisions, we have introduced two additional Risk Committee bodies, one available for shareholder relations advice.
In December, JPMorgan Cazenove was for Aegis Media and one for Synovate.
Each has a varied range of senior appointed sole broker.
representatives from different markets, disciplines and business streams.
The The Annual General Meeting is an opportunity for shareholders to address principal duties of these two Risk Committees are to ensure that risks within their questions to the chairman and the respective chairmen of the Board committees divisions are being identified and appropriately managed and to approve or the Board directly.
minimum standards and procedures to enhance the control environment.
Published information, including press releases, presentations and webcasts of our The head of Group internal audit attends all meetings to ensure a cohesive results meetings, is available on our corporate website, www.
approach and shared learnings of risks amongst the three Committees.
The risks identified, and the control mechanisms applicable to each risk and how well they For further information, please contact our communications director, Charlotte are being managed, are maintained in a risk register.
Elston, on 0207 070 7700 or communications@aegisplc.
The members of the Risk Committee review the Groups key risks on an ongoing basis and receive input from internal audit reports and the risk-self assessment John Ross process on how well these are being managed.
A summary of the Groups Company Secretary principal risks and uncertainties is included in the financial review on pages 15 to 17.
