Corporate Governance Report Statement of Compliance with the 2006 Combined Code on Corporate Governance Code and the Application of its Principles.
In the opinion of the Directors, the Company has, throughout the year ended 31 August 2008, complied with the provisions of Section 1 of the Code, except in respect of the role of the Executive Chairman.
As reported last year, Mark Tincknell serves as Executive Chairman.
Mr Tincknell has served the Group for a number of years, and the Board considers that Mr Tincknells experience and contribution to the strategic direction of the Group remain invaluable.
The Board continues to assess how the Company applies the provisions of the Code on an ongoing basis and continues to monitor any changes required to further develop and enhance its governance policies.
The Board The Board is responsible for delivering sustained growth in shareholder value to the Companys shareholders in a manner that meets legal and regulatory requirements and is consistent with good corporate governance.
The Board comprises an Executive Chairman, two Executive Directors and three independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Board held eight scheduled meetings during the year under review.
The attendance of each Director at these meetings, and those of the Audit and Remuneration Committee is shown in the table below.
Board Audit Remuneration Eligible Eligible Eligible Attended to attend Attended to attend Attended to attend Mark Tincknell 8 8 Mark Davies 8 8 Stephen Hill 8 8 Tim Ross 8 8 3 3 3 3 Robert Alcock 8 8 3 3 3 3 Caroline Price 8 8 3 3 3 3 Minutes of the Board meetings are agreed by all Directors, ensuring that an accurate record is made of all relevant matters.
Board decisions are generally on matters of strategy, acquisitions, policy and budgets.
Decisions on the day to day management of the Group are delegated to a Group Management Board comprising the Executive Directors and business unit heads.
Relevant papers are circulated to all members of the Board on a timely basis and in advance of each meeting to ensure that there is a full and informed debate at Board level and, in particular so that the Non-Executive Directors can contribute fully, as required by the Code.
The Group maintains a schedule of matters formally reserved for decisions by the Board, including approval of significant operating strategies, release of statutory and regulatory disclosures, composition of relevant Committees and management structures, and matters relating to ethical, health and safety concerns.
The Group has approved terms of reference for all other Board committees.
These are available on request and are published on the Companys website at www.
The Non-Executive Directors terms and conditions of appointment are available for inspection as required by the Code.
There is a formal policy in place to ensure that all Directors have access to independent professional advice if they have need to seek it.
There is a formal induction process for new Directors and training is available when required.
Chairman, Chief Executive and Senior Independent Director The roles of Chairman Mark Tincknell and Chief Executive Mark Davies are separate and their responsibilities independently defined.
The Code recommends that the Board should appoint one of its independent Non-Executive Directors to be the Senior Independent Director SID.
Tim Ross is the Boards SID and is available to shareholders if they have concerns that contact through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive or Group Finance Director have failed to resolve or for which such contact would be inappropriate.
36 Financial Statements Connaught plc Annual Report 2008 c99397 BOOK.
indb 36 5 11 08 11:24:39 Corporate Governance Report continued The Non-Executive Directors, led by Tim Ross, the Senior Independent Director, meet regularly in the absence of the Executive Directors.
Board balance The Board comprises three Executive Directors and three Non-Executive Directors.
All of the Non-Executive Directors are viewed as independent of management, are on a fixed fee basis, and are considered free from any business or other relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
Tim Ross has served on the Board for ten years.
Notwithstanding this length of service, Mr Ross is still considered by the Board to be independent in terms of Code A3.1 due to his robust judgement and character.
In addition, his legal training and considerable corporate experience at George Wimpey plc, Lavendon Group plc and Ennstone plc remain invaluable to Connaught during this stage in the Groups development.
Therefore, he will continue to serve as a Non-Executive Director, but will submit himself for re-election annually at the Companys Annual General Meeting.
Re-election In accordance with the Articles of the Company and recommendations of the Code, a maximum of one third of the Directors offer themselves for re-election each year, provided that each Director shall stand for re-election within a time period not exceeding three years from the date of their previous re-election, with the exception of Mr Ross, as outlined in the preceding section.
Performance evaluation The Board undertakes an annual evaluation of its performance and effectiveness led by the Senior Independent Director.
The Directors complete detailed appraisals of the Board and its Committees, from which action plans are implemented to ensure the continued development of the Board.
The evaluation of the performance of the Senior Independent Director is assessed by the other Non-Executive Directors.
Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee is chaired by Tim Ross and its other members are Mark Tincknell and Caroline Price and accordingly the Group has complied with the recommendations of the Code that a majority of the members of the Nomination Committee shall be independent Non-Executive Directors.
It reviews the composition of the Board and makes recommendations with regard to changes, both in the nomination of new Directors and the continuation of the appointment of existing Directors.
It is also responsible for the Boards succession planning.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee comprises the three Non-Executive Directors, Robert Alcock, Tim Ross and Caroline Price, who acts as its Chairman.
The Committee determines the employment terms and total remuneration of the Executive Directors and senior management.
The Committee makes recommendations to the Board on an overall remuneration package for Executive Directors in order to attract, retain and motivate high quality executives capable of achieving the Groups objectives.
The package includes basic salary, pensions, performance related bonus and share options.
Directors remuneration for the year is shown in the separate Remuneration Report, beginning on page 39.
The Remuneration Committee considers it is currently complying in full with the relevant provisions of the Code and outlines its procedures and guidelines in the Remuneration Report.
Those disclosures form part of this report.
The Board determines the remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors.
Dialogue with shareholders The Company is committed to maintaining a good dialogue with all its shareholders through the provision of regular interim and annual reports, other trading updates and the Annual General Meeting.
The Group also arranges individual meetings with its institutional shareholders and analysts are invited to briefings by the Company immediately after the announcement of the interim and full year results.
The views of analysts, brokers and major shareholders are relayed to the Board through the Chairman, Chief Executive and Group Finance Director.
Connaught plc Annual Report 2008 Financial Statements 37 c99397 BOOK.
indb 37 5 11 08 11:24:39 Corporate Governance Report continued Constructive use of the Annual General Meeting The Company holds its Annual General Meeting once a year at a location and time judged to be most convenient for its entire shareholder base.
This provides an opportunity for all shareholders to be updated on the Companys progress and ask questions of the Board.
The Board complies with recommendations of the Code that the Notice of the Annual General Meeting and related papers should be sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
Financial reporting As set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities on page 48, the Board has ultimate responsibility for both the preparation of financial records and accounts and the monitoring of systems of internal financial control.
Internal financial control The Board is responsible for establishing and maintaining the Groups internal financial control systems and reviewing its effectiveness.
During the period covered by this report the Board has applied principle C2 of the Code by maintaining an ongoing and planned process which has identified, evaluated, reported and managed the significant risks faced by the Group during the financial period up to the date of this report.
The process is in accordance with the Financial Reporting Councils guidance: Internal Control, Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code.
In accordance with provision C2.1 of the Code, the Board confirms that through the Audit Committee it has reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal controls for assessing significant operational and strategic risks.
The controls reviewed covered the financial, operational, compliance and risk management systems that have been in operation during this reporting period.
The identification, management and monitoring of strategic risk remains the sole responsibility of the Board.
The Board, in seeking to achieve the Groups business objectives, cannot offer an absolute guarantee that the application of a risk management process will overcome, eliminate or mitigate all material risks.
However, by developing and operating an annual risk management process to identify, report and manage material risks the Board is able to provide a reasonable assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Audit Committee and auditors The Audit Committee comprises the three Non-Executive Directors, Tim Ross, Caroline Price Chartered Accountant and Robert Alcock Chartered Accountant who acts as its Chairman.
The Committee met three times during the year under review.
The members of the Audit Committee have relevant and recent financial experience at senior executive level.
The Board, through the Audit Committee, has established formal and transparent arrangements for financial reporting, internal controls, the review of regulatory announcements relating to the Groups financial performance, and external auditing.
As required by its terms of reference, the Committee has, during the period under review, considered the Groups internal financial controls, financial disclosure and areas of financial judgement.
The Group has a formal policy governing the use of the Groups auditors for non-audit work.
During the year, the auditors were engaged to advise on the working capital review of acquisitions and tax advice.
The Committee considered these engagements to be appropriate due to the auditors familiarity with the Groups business and systems.
The Committee has reviewed the scope and results of the audit as well as the non-audit services, the cost effectiveness, independence and objectivity of the auditors and has approved their fees.
The Committee has also reviewed the Groups arrangements to enable employees to raise confidentiality concerns about possible improprieties and the processes in place to investigate and follow these up.
It has reviewed the interim and final results published in respect of the period under review and has considered its own effectiveness.
Going Concern After making appropriate enquiries, the Directors consider that the Group has adequate resources to enable it to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
David Wells Company Secretary 24 October 2008 38 Financial Statements Connaught plc Annual Report 2008 c99397 BOOK.
