Annual Report 2008 SEGRO plc Directors Report continued Corporate Governance Report Directors who are equally responsible for the proper stewardship and Statement of Compliance The Board is committed to maintaining high standards of corporate leadership of the Group.
In July 2008, John Heawood resigned from the Company and in December 2008, Walter Hens retired.
Ian governance in its management of the Group.
Throughout the year ended 31 December 2008, the Company complied with the Sutcliffe and Ins Reinmann were appointed Executive Directors in July 2008 and November 2008 respectively.
provisions set out in section 1 of The Combined Code on Corporate Governance 2006 the Code and for which the Board is accountable The Board considers it is of sufficient size for the discharge of its to its shareholders.
The Code was revised in June 2008 and the duties and that the balance of skills and experience are appropriate Company complied with the revised Code from this date.
The for the requirements of the business.
Companys application of the principles of the Code is set out in this report and the Remuneration Report on page 66.
Taking into account the provisions of the Code, the Board has determined that each of the Non-Executive Directors is independent The Board, Balance and Independence and free from any relationships which could compromise their The details of each of the Directors who served throughout the year, independent judgement.
The Chairman was considered independent together with their biographical details are shown on pages 58 and 59. on appointment.
At the date of this report, the Board comprises a Non-Executive Chairman, four Executive Directors and six independent Non-Executive Attendance at Board and Board Committee Meetings All Directors are expected to attend each Board meeting and Board Committee meetings of which they are members.
On the few occasions when a Director is unable to attend, they will be provided with the papers and given an opportunity to discuss their comments with the Chairman prior to the meeting.
Remuneration Audit Nomination Name Board Committee Committee Committee Nigel Rich 9 n a n a 4 Lord Blackwell 934 4 Ian Coull 9 n a n a 4 John Heawood 5 n a n a n a Walter Hens 9 n a n a n a Stephen Howard 934 4 Lesley MacDonagh 71 n a 3 Andrew Palmer 9 n a 43 Christopher Peacock 93 n a 3 Ins Reinmann 2 n a n a n a David Sleath 9 n a n a n a Ian Sutcliffe 4 n a n a n a Thom Wernink 8 n a 44 Total number of meetings 934 4 John Heawood resigned from the Board on 4 July 2008.
Walter Hens resigned from the Board on 31 December 2008.
Ins Reinmann joined the Board on 1 November 2008.
Ian Sutcliffe joined the Board on 1 July 2008 In addition to the Board meetings, the Directors attended an annual Strategy Day to consider and review Group strategy.
Throughout the year, the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors met periodically to discuss business matters and to consider any concerns they wished to raise.
Corporate Governance Report The review concluded that the Board, its Committees and the Role of the Board The Board is responsible to shareholders for optimising financial Directors, including the Chairman, were operating effectively and there were no areas of concern.
As a result of the 2008 review, the returns over the medium to long term.
It also has a responsibility to the Groups employees, customers and suppliers and to the Chairman recommended the following actions: that the Board should continue to hold some of its meetings at different locations communities where it operates and invests.
across the Group, the Non-Executive Directors should visit a number There is a Schedule of Matters Reserved for Decision by the Board of sites during the year and the Chairman should have private which was reviewed during the year.
The Schedule includes the meetings with each of the Directors.
approval of final and half-yearly results, matters of strategy, changes in the Groups capital structure, financial reporting, internal controls, Re-election risk management, Board and Committee membership, delegation of In accordance with the Articles of Association, one-third rounded authority, corporate governance, major acquisitions and disposals and down of the Directors are required to retire by rotation at each development approvals.
AGM together with the Directors appointed by the Board since the last AGM.
The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and Chief Executive is recorded and agreed by the Board.
The Chairman is The Directors retiring by rotation at the 2009 AGM and offering primarily responsible for the leadership and effective working of the themselves for re-election are Nigel Rich, Andrew Palmer and Chris Board.
He ensures that there is a constructive relationship between Peacock.
In addition, Ins Reinmann and Ian Sutcliffe, who were the Executive and the Non-Executive Directors.
Responsibility for all appointed since the last AGM, will be offering themselves for re-election operational matters, which includes the implementation of Group at the 2009 AGM.
The Nomination Committee has confirmed that strategy, is delegated to the Chief Executive who is supported by the the Directors subject to re-election continue to perform effectively Executive Committee, which comprises the Executive Directors.
This and have demonstrated commitment to their respective roles.
Committee meets monthly to develop strategies and policies for The appointment and replacement of the Directors is subject to recommendation to the Board.
shareholder approval at the AGM and governed by the Combined Board meetings are held on a regular basis throughout the year, Code, the Companies Acts and other prevailing legislation and also with additional ad-hoc meetings being arranged when necessary.
by the Articles of Association, which are available on request.
The Chairman, with the assistance of the Company Secretary, is Board Development responsible for ensuring that the Board receives timely advice and On appointment, Ian Sutcliffe had a tailored induction to familiarise information about the Group, its activities and performance.
Board him with the Groups business including site visits and meetings with papers are generally circulated one week in advance of Board senior management and external advisers.
Ins Reinmann, who had meetings.
worked for the Company before joining the Board, received training All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company on the UK regulatory environment.
Both Directors met shareholders Secretary, who is responsible for ensuring compliance with Board on a number of occasions during the year.
Directors have the right to consult with the Companys to continually update their professional skills and capabilities, together professional advisers and to seek independent professional advice at with their knowledge of the business.
During 2008, the Board was the Companys reasonable expense.
briefed on the newly-introduced conflicts provisions in the Companies Act 2006.
Internal specialists and external advisers The Board has delegated a number of its responsibilities to the presented to the Board during the year on a wide range of subjects Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees, details of which which included the outlook for the property market in the UK and are set out below.
The Terms of Reference of these Committees, Continental Europe, sustainability and risk.
Two Board meetings were which were all reviewed during the year, can be found at held at sites in Continental Europe and the UK, and a number of the www.
Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman, visited other sites.
Board Performance Evaluation The Remuneration Committee During the year, a thorough external review of the effectiveness of The composition of the Remuneration Committee, its activities during the Board, its Committees and the individual Directors was undertaken.
2008 and the way it applied the principles of the Code are described Each of the Directors, together with a number of senior executives, in the Remuneration Report on pages 66 to 74.
Details of Directors completed a wide-ranging appraisal questionnaire and attended an remuneration, pension rights, service contracts and Directors interests interview with the external evaluators.
in the shares of the Company are also included in the Remuneration Report.
The conclusions were presented to the Board and the Chairmen of the Committees.
The Chairman received a report on the effectiveness and performance of the individual Directors and has discussed these conclusions with each of them.
The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director received a report on the Chairman.
The Non-Executive Directors met, in the absence of the Chairman, to appraise his performance, taking into account the conclusions arising from the review.
Annual Report 2008 SEGRO plc Directors Report continued Corporate Governance Report Throughout the year, the Audit Committee, on behalf of the Board, Nomination Committee Throughout the year, the Nomination Committee was chaired by has reviewed the effectiveness of the systems of internal control and risk management.
These reviews cover all material areas of the Nigel Rich and it comprised Lord Blackwell, Ian Coull, Stephen Howard, Lesley MacDonagh, Andrew Palmer, Christopher Peacock business including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management.
The Committee monitors and reviews the and Thom Wernink.
In January 2009, the membership was changed.
The Committee is still chaired by Nigel Rich but now effectiveness of the internal auditors activities.
The internal audit function is performed by KPMG LLP.
comprises Lord Blackwell, Ian Coull, Christopher Peacock and Thom Wernink.
During the year, the Audit Committee reviewed the arrangements The Committee has responsibility for making recommendations for put in place whereby employees may raise, in confidence, any concerns which they may have in respect of financial reporting or new appointments to the Board and for ensuring that the process for all appointments is formal, rigorous and transparent.
other matters and the arrangements for the independent investigation of those matters.
The process for the appointment of the UK Managing Director was led by Ian Coull.
An external search consultant was engaged and Risk Management was provided with a specification of the skills and experience The Group Risk Management Committee is responsible for the Risk required to assist with identifying potential candidates.
This Committee is chaired by Ian Coull Sutcliffe and Ins Reinmann met with members of the Board prior and attended by the Executive Directors and senior managers who to their appointment being approved by the Board.
have functional responsibility for managing risk throughout the business.
The Committee meets quarterly and is responsible for During the year, the Committee reviewed the composition of the overseeing the management of the most significant risks to the Board, succession planning and talent management for the senior business.
It reports on its findings to the Audit Committee and, since executives.
It concluded that the Board comprises the appropriate mix January 2009, the minutes have been circulated to the Board.
Other of skills and experience for running the Group.
Committees are established to address the management of specific risks, including a Treasury Risk Committee, a Health and Safety Audit Committee Committee and a Capital Approvals Committee.
The Audit Committee comprised Andrew Palmer, who is the Chairman, Lord Blackwell, Stephen Howard and Thom Wernink.
Risks and opportunities associated with the country, region and Andrew Palmer, as the Finance Director of a FTSE 100 company, overall Group business objectives are systematically reviewed twice a has recent and relevant financial experience.
This review begins with an assessment of over 50 risk factors typically associated with property and other corporate businesses.
At the invitation of the Committee Chairman, there are a number of Within each area of the business, senior managers consider the risks regular attendees at each meeting including the Chairman of the in terms of impact and likelihood, considering the unmitigated risk, Company, the Chief Executive, the Finance Director, the Group assuming controls fail and residual risk with controls operating Financial Controller and representatives of the internal auditors and normally.
Identifying these two different risk measures allows the external auditors.
The Audit Committee also periodically meets with Committee to monitor the most important controls and prioritise risk the external auditors without management being present.
Deloitte LLP were appointed external auditors of the Group in 2007 The most significant risks are detailed in a Risk Register with owners following a competitive tender process.
During the year, this assigned to develop action plans intended to manage or mitigate Committee considered the appointment, compensation, individual risks to an agreed position.
independence and performance of the external auditors.
It has a policy for the use of the external auditors for non-audit services to Between the six-monthly reviews, new and emerging risks are ensure that the provision of such services does not impair their considered at the Committee meetings.
In addition, the Executive independence or objectivity.
Deloitte LLP have provided written Committee regularly reviews emerging risks and considers actions to confirmation of their independence to the Audit Committee.
The mitigate risks and to take advantage of opportunities as they arise.
Committee has recommended that the reappointment of Deloitte The principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group are set out in LLP be proposed to shareholders at the 2009 AGM.
the Risk Management Report on pages 25 to 27.
Prior to their appointment as auditors of the Company, Deloitte had been engaged to provide assistance with an internal systems project.
Deloitte also provide tax advice to the Company.
Further details about non audit work undertaken by Deloitte is set out on page 85.
The Audit Committee reviews the clarity and completeness of the disclosures made in the financial statements of the Company and considers significant accounting policies, any changes to them and any significant judgements and estimates.
Corporate Governance Report Internal Control and Internal Audit Relations with Shareholders The Audit Committee, on behalf of the Board, is responsible for The Board is accountable to shareholders for the Companys monitoring and maintaining a robust and effective internal controls continued success and takes a proactive approach to communicating framework across the Group and for identifying, evaluating and with shareholders.
The Chief Executive and Group Finance Director managing the Groups significant risks, in compliance with the Code.
are the Groups principal spokesmen with investors, fund managers, The framework and internal controls system are designed to manage the press and other interested parties.
The Board regularly receives but not to eliminate the risk of failure of the Group to meet its reports on the Groups investor relations activities including periodic business objectives and, as such, only provide reasonable but not reports from the Companys brokers and copies of analysts reports.
absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The regular announcements of significant events affecting the Group, In order to monitor the effectiveness of the framework, at each and frequent updates on current trading, emphasise the Boards meeting the Audit Committee receives written and verbal reports commitment to keeping the Companys investors informed of from the Group Finance Director and representatives of the internal developments affecting the Group.
Periodically, the Company auditors and the external auditors on progress with internal control arranges site visits for investors.
In May 2008, the Company activities.
arranged a shareholders and analysts tour around sites in Continental Europe.
These reports include: The Chairman and Senior Independent Non-Executive Director are reviews of business processes and activities, including action available to shareholders, should they have concerns which contact plans to address any identified control weaknesses or through the usual channels has failed to resolve or is otherwise recommendations for improvements in controls or processes: inappropriate.
The Chairman or the Senior Independent NonExecutive Director attend the financial results presentations.
The managements own assessments of the strengths and Board is kept informed as to the detail of any such discussions with weaknesses of the overall control environment in their area of shareholders.
responsibility and the action plans to address the weaknesses: Constructive Use of the AGM the results of the internal audits: The Notice of General Meeting is dispatched to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
The Company proposes internal control recommendations made by the external separate resolutions on each substantially separate issue.
A presentation auditors: and is made on the progress and performance of the business prior to the formal business of the meeting.
follow-up actions of previous internal control recommendations.
All Directors are encouraged to attend the AGM and be available The Committee also receives reports from senior managers on to answer shareholders questions either during or after the meeting.
During 2008, these included presentations All of the Directors attended the 2008 AGM.
from the Head of Business Information Systems and the Continental European Finance Director.
For each resolution, the proxy appointment forms provide shareholders with the option to direct their proxy vote either for The Board and the Audit Committee monitor managements action or against a resolution or to withhold their vote.
All valid proxy plans designed to implement improvements in internal controls appointments are properly recorded and counted.
Details of the which have been identified as a result of the above procedures.
proxy votes are made available on the Companys web site.
The Board confirms that it has not been advised of any failings or weaknesses which it regards to be significant.
