Nomination Audit committee committee report report Membership of the Committee Membership of the Committee John Manser Chairman of the Committee Gordon McQueen Chairman of the Committee John Emly John Emly Alastair MacDonald Alastair MacDonald Gordon McQueen Patience Wheatcroft appointed 22 September 2008 The Nomination Committee the Committee is The Audit Committee the Committee is comprised of the Chairman of the Group and three comprised solely of independent non-executive independent non-executive Directors.
Gordon McQueen is a Member of the no changes to the membership of the Committee Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland, a during the year.
Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Bankers in Scotland and is the member of the Committee with Meetings recent financial experience.
John Emly is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries.
The Committee met twice during the year ended 30 September 2008.
Meetings The Committee met three times during the year Main activities of the Committee ended 30 September 2008.
The Finance Director The Committee is responsible for the selection and representatives of the Groups Auditors have and nomination to the Board of candidates for been invited to attend each meeting.
The Committee directorship and in addition advises the Board on considers some items of business without the orderly succession for appointment of Directors executives or the auditors present as appropriate.
and monitors the balance of the composition of the Board.
In the year under review, the Committee has Main activities of the Committee undertaken: The principal responsibilities of the Committee - The monitoring of the composition of the Board: are to monitor the framework of financial controls, - Board succession planning: review published financial information and monitor developments in financial reporting.
In addition, - Nomination of Directors for election and it advises the Board on the appointment of external re-election: and auditors and their remuneration for both audit and non-audit work.
In the year under review, - A review of the annual Board and Committee the Committee has reviewed and monitored: performance evaluations together with recommendations to the Board.
- Published annual and half year financial information including consideration of the In early 2008, the Committee recommended to the appropriateness of accounting policies and Board that an additional non-executive Director material assumptions and estimates adopted should be appointed.
The Committee was instructed by management: to identify suitable candidates and recommend a candidate to the Board.
An executive search - Published Interim Management Statements: company was employed to compile a list of suitable potential candidates.
Following review and - Managements reports to the Board on risk and internal controls and the Groups public interviews by the Committee, Patience Wheatcroft was recommended to the Board for appointment.
statements on these matters: In making the recommendation, the Committee - The risk and control strategies of the Groups considered her other non-executive directorships principal managing agents: and was satisfied that she had sufficient time to commit to the role.
- The appointment of an external consultant to undertake a review of the Groups operational The Committee recognises the need to maintain processes and controls: a balance of independent non-executive Directors on the Board, particularly as existing non-executive - Review of the Groups whistleblowing policy: Directors reach nine years service and cease to be - The need to establish an internal audit function: independent under the criteria for independence of the Combined Code.
It therefore will consider - Developments in accounting and reporting recommending to the Board that a further independent requirements: non-executive Director be appointed during 2009.
- The Committees effectiveness: - The performance and independence of the On behalf of the Board external auditors concluding in a recommendation John Manser to the Board on the reappointment of the auditors Nomination Committee Chairman by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
The Groups Auditors provide annually a letter to 3 December 2008 the Committee confirming their independence and stating the methods they employ to safeguard their independence: and - Non-audit assignments awarded to the external auditors.
