company or the chairmanship of such a company.
Corporate The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are split.
The Chairman is responsible for the leadership of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness and setting its governance agenda.
The Chief Executive has responsibility for the management of the Groups day-to-day The Board of Directors is responsible to operations.
A formal statement of the division of Shareholders for the strategic direction responsibilities between the Chairman and Chief and management and control of the Groups Executive has been adopted by the Board.
activities and is committed to high standards The Board has a Senior Independent Director, of Corporate Governance in achieving these John Emly, whose role includes being available to goals.
The Board confirms that the Group has shareholders if required.
He is also a nominated contact for employees under the Groups whistle complied in full with the recommendations of blowing policy.
the Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued in June 2006 the Combined Code Functioning of the Board except that in the period 1 October 2007 to The Board met five times during the year ended 30 29 February 2008, the Group did not comply September 2008.
Its function is to formulate with the recommendation that at least half strategy and monitor and control operating and the Board should comprise non-executive financial performance.
This is achieved through the regular review of operations and detailed reports on Directors determined by the Board to be activity within the Groups property portfolio, independent.
quarterly financial reporting and forecast up-dates, The application of the principles contained in the and regular reviews of risks and internal controls.
Combined Code is described below.
In addition to Board meetings, there is frequent and regular communication between executive and nonComposition of the Board executive Directors to ensure that the non-executive The Board comprises the non-executive Chairman, Directors are fully aware of all aspects of the four executive Directors and, since 1 March 2008, Groups operations.
The non-executive Directors four non-executive Directors.
The composition of met three times during the year without executive the Board now complies with the Combined Code.
Directors or the Company Secretary present.
Each of the non-executive Directors is considered to The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that all be independent of the executive management of the the Directors continually update their skills and Group and free from any business or other relationship knowledge required to fulfil their role on the Board which could materially interfere with the exercise and the Boards Committees.
All Directors are of their independent judgement.
John Manser was encouraged to meet their professional training considered independent at the date of his appointment requirements and attend training courses to ensure as Chairman in October 2004 but for the purposes that their skills are updated and refreshed.
The of the Combined Code and the balance of nonBoard receives regular technical updates on executive and executive Directors on the Board, regulatory, accounting and legal matters.
he is not included within the total of independent non-executive Directors.
During the year, the newly appointed non-executive Director, Patience Wheatcroft, received a structured The Nomination Committee recognises that and comprehensive induction to the Groupss succession planning is important to the future activities.
This was led by the Chairman and continuing performance of the Group and it co-ordinated and administered by the Company considers succession planning for the Board Secretary introducing her to all aspects of the as a whole and senior management on a regular Company and her role as a Director of a publicly basis.
During the year the Nomination Committee listed company, following the guidelines issued recommended the appointment of an additional by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and independent non-executive Director.
Patience Wheatcroft has also met appointment of a further non-executive Director with a number of the Groups institutional will be considered in the coming year to refresh shareholders.
the membership of the Board.
There is a formal schedule of matters reserved for Each of the executive Directors is a member of a the Board for decision which includes, inter alia, recognised professional body and is expected to approval of all investment property acquisitions act in accordance with the ethical principles of the and disposals, refurbishment and property relevant body.
The non-executive Directors are of management strategies and all significant aspects high calibre and contribute wide-ranging business of finance.
The schedule of matters reserved for and financial experience to the Boards decision the Board is available on the Groups website.
Their terms of appointment are available for inspection at the Companys registered All Directors have access to the Company Secretary, office and on the Groups website.
Biographies of who is responsible for ensuring that Board each member of the Board are set out on page 36. procedure, corporate governance, statutory and compliance obligations are met and that Board All Directors are required to submit themselves discussions and decisions are appropriately for election at the Annual General Meeting following recorded.
Directors may seek independent their appointment and thereafter for re-election at professional advice at the Groups expense in three yearly intervals.
Non-executive Directors who furtherance of their duties as Directors.
have completed nine years service are required to submit themselves for re-election annually in Board Committees accordance with the Companys Articles of Association and the Combined Code.
The Board has established three committees to deal with specific aspects of the Groups affairs: Audit, The Chairman, John Manser, holds a number of Remuneration and Nomination.
The terms of non-executive directorships which are disclosed on reference of these Committees are available on the page 36.
The Board considers that the time Groups website.
The Company Secretary acts as commitment required by his other roles does not Secretary to each of the Committees and the impact on his Chairmanship of the Group.
John minutes are circulated to all Directors.
Separate Emly and Gordon McQueen are both directors at reports from the Committees are set out on pages J P Morgan Mid Cap Investment Trust but the Board 45 to 52. considers that this does not affect the exercise of their independent judgement on the Board or Committees.
None of the executive Directors has held any non-executive directorship at a FTSE 100 43 Attendance at meetings Directors attendance at Board, Committee and General meetings convened in the year ended 30 September 2008 is set out below: Audit Remuneration Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee AGM Number of meetings in year 53321 Attended Attended Attended Attended Attended Executive Directors J S Lane 5 - - - 1 B Bickell 5 - - - 1 S J Quayle 5 - - - 1 T J C Welton 5 - - - 1 Non-executive Directors P J Manser 5 - 3 2 1 J R K Emly 5 3 3 2 1 A W MacDonald 5 3 3 2 1 W G McQueen 5 3 3 2 1 PJ Wheatcroft 3 3 0 0 0 0 - 0 0 The numbers in brackets indicate the maximum number of meetings which Patience Wheatcroft could have attended during the period following her appointment to the Board on 1 March 2008 and to the Remuneration and Audit Committees on 22 September 2008.
The meetings recorded above are the scheduled Board and Committee meetings.
Additional ad hoc meetings are held between the main meetings to deal with routine and operational matters as required and are not included in the meetings reported above.
The aim of these reviews Board performance is to provide reasonable assurance that material risks The Board carries out an annual review of its and problems are identified and appropriate action performance and effectiveness.
The review is taken at an early stage.
Reports on this review undertaken internally and includes completion process are submitted to the Audit Committee and by all members of the Board of a comprehensive the Board during the year to enable them to assess questionnaire which incorporates the criteria the effectiveness of the process and ensure that the recommended by the Combined Code and addresses Group complies with the Turnbull Guidance.
the composition and function of the Board and each The key risks identified in these review processes are of its Committees.
There is an assessment of each summarised in the Business Review on page 30.
The Director and the Chairman by their peers.
In Board confirms that procedures to identify, evaluate and addition, this year, the Chairman interviewed each manage the significant risks faced by the Group have of the executive Directors as part of the process.
been in place throughout the year under review and up The non-executive Directors, led by the Senior to the date of approval of the Annual Report 2008.
Independent Director, were responsible for the performance evaluation of the Chairman, taking The key elements of the Groups procedures and into account the views of the executive Directors.
internal financial control framework, which are reviewed annually, are: The results of the review were considered by the a The close involvement of the executive Directors Nomination Committee and reported to the Board.
in all aspects of day-to-day operations, including The review carried out in 2008 did not reveal any regular meetings with senior staff to review all aspects of the Boards performance or effectiveness operational aspects of the business.
which were considered to be unsatisfactory and following the appointment of an additional nonb Clearly defined responsibilities and limits of executive Director during the year, the Board is authority.
The Board has responsibility for currently satisfied with its composition.
strategy and has adopted a schedule of matters which are required to be brought to it for decision.
Relations with Shareholders c A comprehensive system of financial reporting and The Group encourages dialogue with all shareholders forecasting.
Financial accounts are prepared at the Annual General Meeting and during the year.
quarterly and submitted to the Board.
Rolling three The Chairman and Committee Chairmen are year forecasts are prepared at least quarterly, present at the Annual General Meeting to deal with approved by the Board and used to monitor actual any matters raised by shareholders and all other performance, the current and future utilisation of Directors are encouraged to attend.
bank facilities and compliance with their covenants The Chief Executive and Finance Director meet and the Groups exposure to interest rate changes.
investor representatives regularly during the year to d Regular meetings of the Board and Audit Committee discuss strategic and other issues within the at which financial information is reviewed and constraints imposed by the Disclosure Rules of the business risks are identified and monitored.
On the announcement of the The Group employs managing agents to manage its Groups annual and half year results, the Chief properties.
Financial information produced by the Executive and Finance Director give presentations agents is scrutinised closely by the Groups own staff to institutional investors and analysts and hold a prior to its inclusion in the Groups financial records.
series of one to one briefings with key shareholders.
Periodic reviews of managing agents procedures and Non-executive Directors also attend a number of systems are carried out by external consultants on these presentations and briefings.
A copy of the behalf of the Group.
presentation is made available on the Groups website.
The Board receives regular reports on all Going concern shareholder meetings from the Chief Executive.
Comprehensive financial forecasts are prepared at The Senior Independent Director is available to least quarterly and submitted to the Audit Committee shareholders as an alternative channel of for review.
Based on the information contained in communication with the Board.
these forecasts, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group and the Company have Internal control and risk management adequate resources to continue in operational The Directors are responsible for the Groups existence for the foreseeable future.
For this systems of internal controls and risk management reason, they continue to adopt the going concern and for reviewing their effectiveness.
Such systems basis in preparing the financial statements.
are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risks faced by the business and can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against By Order of the Board material misstatement or loss.
Penny Thomas Executive Directors and staff meet regularly to review Secretary both the risks facing the business and the controls established to minimise those risks and their 3 December 2008 44
