CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT The Combined Code the Company.
All directors were present at the seven Board meetings The Board is committed to maintaining a high standard of corporate held during the year except that John Bywater, Rupert Dickinson and governance within the Company.
The Board believes that good Maddy Carragher were unable to attend one meeting each.
governance is assisted by transparent detailed reporting and that strong and sustainable long-term economic performance is aided by Board of Directors and directors independence compliance with best practice in corporate social responsibility.
The As at the date of this report, the Board comprises the Chairman, three Group publishes a range of material both on its website and in hard executive directors a Chief Executive, a Finance Director and a copy, for details see page 91.
This information is complementary to Property Director and three non-executive directors.
A short this statement of compliance with the Combined Code, which the biography of each current director is set out on page 37.
Group is required to publish.
The roles of the Chairman, Tony Hales, and the Chief Executive, Harry Overall compliance with the Combined Code Platt, are separate and clearly defined.
The Chairman is responsible Throughout the year ended 31 March 2008 the Company has complied for leadership of the Board, securing its effectiveness and ensuring with the provisions set out in section 1 of the revised Combined Code that it operates effectively in the interests of shareholders.
He is not on Corporate Governance issued in June 2006 save for one exception involved in an executive capacity in any of the Groups activities.
The which concerns the composition of the Board.
The Code advises that Chief Executive is responsible for the delivery of the strategic and for FTSE 250 companies the number of independent non-executives, financial objectives of the Group.
excluding the Chairman, should at least equal the number of executive directors.
Until the retirement of Maddy Carragher as an The Board considers that Bernard Cragg, John Bywater and Rupert executive director on 12 October 2007 the Board comprised four Dickinson, the non-executive directors of the Company, are executive directors, three independent non-executive directors and independent in character and judgement.
Although the Board itself regards the Chairman as experience enables them to make a valuable contribution to the independent he is not considered as independent under the Code.
The Board believes that an effective balance of power and In the opinion of the directors the composition of the Board was authority is maintained through the number and calibre of its nonappropriate.
However following the retirement of Maddy Carragher executive directors.
Bernard Cragg is the Senior Independent the Company has since 12 October 2007 been in full compliance with Director.
Graham Clemett was appointed as a director and Finance Director The Board on 31 July 2007 following the retirement of Mark Taylor as Finance The Board has ultimate responsibility for the Companys overall Director on 31 July 2007.
Maddy Carragher resigned as a director management, its business and its financial strategy and there is a and Operations Director on 12 October 2007. schedule of matters reserved for its approval including: Resources, training and development Strategy The Board has a written framework for the induction of new directors.
This includes visits to estates, meetings with senior management and Business plans and budgets advisers and the provision of corporate documentation.
Resources are provided for the continued training and development of all Dividend policy directors.
Acquisitions and disposals of more than 5m All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and there is an agreed procedure for directors to take Significant capital projects independent advice at the Companys expense.
Provision of guarantees The Company arranges appropriate insurance cover in respect of legal actions against its directors.
As at the date of this Report the Risk management Company has also indemnified its directors as described on page 38 of the Directors Report.
Treasury In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, directors The schedule of matters is reviewed on a regular basis.
Matters are required to submit themselves for election at the first opportunity outside the scope of this formal schedule are decided by after their appointment and thereafter for re-election at least every management in accordance with delegated authorities approved by three years.
Board effectiveness More routine matters are currently delegated to the Executive The effectiveness of the Board and its Committees is vital to the Committee, comprising the three executive directors, the Operations success of the Company.
The Board reviews its performance and Director, Chris Pieroni, and the Development Director, Angus Boag.
that of each of its committees annually.
Each committee also reviews The Company also operates a Development Board, an Investment itself.
These performance reviews are conducted internally by the Board and an Operations Board which comprise various members of Chairman of the Board or of the respective committees, using selfthe Executive Committee and the senior management team.
The Board and each of the committees Boards, each of which has written terms of reference, report to the review these assessments, taking action where considered necessary.
Executive Committee on a regular basis.
The terms of reference are available on the Companys website.
The review includes the assessment of individual directors performance, which in the case of the executive directors is The full Board meets on a fixed bi-monthly frequency and holds an undertaken as part of the wider performance appraisal process annual strategy meeting at which it considers the future strategy of applied to staff across the entire Company.
Workspace Group PLC 40 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 The evaluation undertaken during the year concluded that the Board In addition, during the year the Committee conducted searches for a and its committees were operating effectively.
new post of Development Director and for an Operations Director to replace Maddy Carragher who retired from this position in October The Chairman meets as necessary, but at least once each year, with 2007.
Angus Boag was duly appointed to take up his post as the non-executive directors without the executive directors present.
Development Director and Chris Pieroni to take up his post as The non-executive directors meet annually without the Chairman in Operations Director in June and October 2007 respectively.
Although order to appraise his performance.
This meeting is chaired by the not main Board appointments, Angus Boag and Chris Pieroni are Senior Independent Director.
considered as key members of the executive management team and they have been appointed as members of the Executive Committee.
Standing Committees of the Board All of these appointments involved the use of external executive In addition to the Executive Committee, referred to above, the Board search agencies.
Chris Pieroni was previously a non-executive has Remuneration, Audit and Nominations Committees and a City director of the Company, retiring in 2006 after serving six years.
Committee, each of which has written terms of reference which are Biographies of Angus Boag and Chris Pieroni are given on page 37. regularly reviewed and which deal clearly with their authorities and duties.
Copies of these terms of reference are available on the The Committee reviewed the proposed appointment reappointment Companys website.
of Messrs Platt, Cragg and Clemett and recommended their re-appointment to the Board.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee currently comprises the following Audit Committee Non-Executive Directors John Bywater Chairman, Bernard Cragg The Audit Committee currently comprises the following and Rupert Dickinson all of whom served on the Committee non-executive directors Bernard Cragg Chairman, throughout the year.
John Bywater and Rupert Dickinson, all of whom served on the Committee throughout the year.
The Chairman and the Chief Executive are other than in respect of their own positions invited to attend the meetings.
Bernard Cragg, the Chairman of the Audit Committee, is a Chartered Accountant and the Board is satisfied that he has the required recent The Remuneration Committee met on four occasions during the year and relevant financial experience.
The Audit Committee collectively at which there was full attendance.
has the skills and experience required to fully discharge its duties, and it has access to independent advice at the Groups expense.
The Committee is responsible for recommending to the Board the Companys broad policy for executive remuneration, including both The Chairman of the Company, the Chief Executive, the Group short-term and long-term incentive arrangements.
The Committee is Finance Director, and other senior finance and when necessary also responsible for recommending the Chairmans remuneration to operational management together with senior representatives of the the Board in compliance with the Combined Code.
The Directors external auditors may attend meetings by invitation.
Report on Remuneration for the year ended 31 March 2008 is on pages 43 to 54.
During the year, the Audit Committee met on four occasions, coinciding with key dates in the financial reporting and audit cycle.
Nominations Committee There was full attendance by all the Audit Committee members The Nominations Committee comprises Tony Hales Chairman except that John Bywater was unable to attend one meeting.
The together with the three other non-executive directors.
During the Committee Chairman reports the outcome of meetings to the Board.
year, the Committee met on three occasions at which there was full The Audit Committee meets with the external auditors in the absence attendance.
In addition, Committee members are in contact with each of management at least twice each year.
other on a regular basis, particularly during the recruitment process of an additional director or member of the Executive Committee.
During the year the Committee was responsible for reviewing, and reporting to the Board, on a range of matters including: The Nominations Committee is responsible for the selection and appointment of all directors and taking an overview of the general the quarterly, interim and annual financial statements: staffing and management of the business including succession planning.
It is a key objective of the Company that each director the appropriateness of the Groups accounting policies and should have one or more members of staff whose skills and abilities practices: could make them suitable for progression over time to the Board.
the property valuations: Whilst the Nominations Committee leads the appointment process of additional directors or members of the Executive Committee the the review of the Companys internal control and risk management Chairman will consult with all of the directors on a regular basis systems: throughout the process.
All appointments are also subject to the review and approval of the full Board and all of the directors will be the external auditors management letter: and invited to meet with a candidate before their appointment is recommended to the Board.
the need for an internal audit function.
During the year, the Committee identified and recommended to the The Audit Committee advises the Board on the appointment of Board the appointment of Graham Clemett as Finance Director to external auditors, their remuneration for audit and non-audit work, replace Mark Taylor who retired from the Board on 31 July 2007.
As and their cost effectiveness, independence and objectivity: and required under the Articles, Graham Clemett will be standing for discusses the nature, scope and results of the audit with the external election at the forthcoming AGM.
Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 41 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT continued The engagement of the Groups auditors on non-audit activities is not responsive controls are in place and that these are checked on a specifically excluded.
However, such work is usually only awarded regular basis.
Each Risk Controller has been asked to confirm that following competitive tender and after careful analysis by the Audit the appropriate preventative detective and responsive controls are Committee to ensure that any such appointment will not result in a currently in place.
They will also be asked to confirm, every six potential conflict of interest.
During the year, Pricewaterhouse months, whether the appropriate controls have been effective or Coopers, the Companys auditors, were appointed to advise the report any exceptions: and Company on matters concerning inter-company interest and financial instruments.
They also advised on an issue relating to the accounting an Early Warning process.
During the year the Group introduced treatment for a transaction matter.
This transaction did not proceed an Early Warning process under which all employees are required although it may be progressed at a later date.
The Committee is to report any incidents or events that could have a significant or satisfied that the non-audit work undertaken by Pricewaterhouse important financial, reputational or operational impact on the Coopers required a detailed understanding of the Group and did not Group.
All incidents are reviewed and monitored by the Executive impair their independence.
This process ensures that any issues are highlighted to senior management and are dealt with promptly.
We learn from any Due to its size and structure, the Group does not have an internal audit mistakes that we make and ensure that appropriate systems and function, a matter which is kept under review by the Committee.
controls are put in place and working.
However the Committee has strengthened the Companys resource on managing areas of risk through the appointment of external The Risk Committee meets quarterly and formally reports to the Audit advisors, PKF, one of the UKs leading business advisers.
PKF assist Committee twice a year.
During the year PKF assisted management the Group and particularly the Risk Committee in identifying risks and and the Risk Committee in ensuring that it has identified all of the ensuring that appropriate controls are in place to mitigate and relevant operational risks that may affect the Group and that adequate manage those risks.
PKF attend meetings of the Risk Committee and controls and procedures are in place to mitigate any such risks.
they are invited to attend Audit Committee meetings to report to the Committee on specific areas of risk.
The Company has whistleblowing procedures under which staff may report any suspicion of fraud, financial irregularity or other City Committee malpractice.
There were no incidents reported this year.
The City Committee, comprises the Chairman, the Chief Executive, the Senior Independent Director and the Finance Director.
The City The above systems of internal control continue to ensure that Committee reviews the quarterly, interim and annual reports and risk management processes are embedded as part of the culture associated announcements prior to their review by the Audit of the Group.
Further information on the Groups risks procedure is detailed on Internal control and risk management page 25.
The Board has ultimate responsibility for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Board has Shareholder contact reviewed the Groups system of controls including financial, The Company maintains good relationships with its shareholders operational, compliance and risk management on a regular basis through its interim and annual reports and through information throughout the year.
However any such system can only provide posted on its website.
The executive directors hold regular meetings reasonable and not absolute assurance against any material throughout the year with major shareholders, analysts and the misstatement or loss.
financial press, in particular following the announcement of its interim and preliminary results.
It is also the Companys practice, The Group has established a risk management framework and following the preliminary results, that these meetings are followed up procedures necessary to enable the directors to report on internal by a telephone conversation between the Chairman and the relevant controls in compliance with the Code.
The Companys stockbrokers also discuss the outcome procedures involve the analysis, evaluation and management of the of meetings with shareholders and report their findings to the Board.
The Board believes that this provides a better form of governance than attendance at meetings by non-executive directors.
Other ad hoc The other key elements of the Groups system of internal control meetings, presentations and site visits are arranged for shareholders include: throughout the year.
In addition the Company likes to hold a dinner each year with its principal shareholders which the full Board attends.
a comprehensive system of financial reporting: This has been found by both the Board and shareholders to be an effective means by which the entire Board may be accessed by major an organisational and management board structure with clearly shareholders.
Due to the changes in the Board during the year and defined levels of authority and division of responsibilities: the addition of three new members to the Executive Committee this dinner was not arranged during 2007.
However it is the intention, now a Risk Committee, chaired by the Property Director, comprising the that the new team is fully established, to hold a dinner for the Finance Director, the Operations Director, the Development Companys principal shareholders later this year.
Director and representatives from senior management.
The Risk Committee reviews and identifies risks facing the Group and The Companys annual general meeting is used as an opportunity to ensures that appropriate controls are in place to review each issue communicate with private investors.
During the year each identified risk was assigned a Risk annual general meeting are invited to ask questions and to meet with Owner and Risk Controller.
The Risk Controller has responsibility the directors informally after the meeting.
Notice of the annual to ensure that the appropriate, preventative, detective and general meeting is sent to shareholders at least 20 working days prior to the date of the meeting.
Workspace Group PLC 42 Annual Report and Accounts 2008
