qxd 5 6 08 17:37 Page 26 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2008 26 Corporate governance statement This report for shareholders sets out Dairy Crests approach to and out below.
Throughout the financial year a number of formal Board compliance with the principles contained in the Combined Code meetings are held at the site of operational business units.
In 2007 08 on Corporate Governance published by the Financial Reporting the Board visited the Groups manufacturing sites at Davidstow Council and explains any departure from its provisions.
As the Cornwall and St Hubert Ludres, France.
2007 08 financial year commenced after November 2006, references to the Combined Code in this report are to the Combined Code There is a documented schedule of matters reserved to the Board on Corporate Governance of June 2006 Code.
This report has including strategy and management, financial structure and capital, been prepared following the main principles of the Code.
Those not reporting and controls, Board and committee appointments, referred to in this statement are dealt with elsewhere in the annual executive remuneration, dividend policy and corporate governance report.
In accordance with listing rule 9.8.
During 2007 08, the Board received regular briefings of this report have been reviewed by Ernst & Young LLP and their upon the Groups performance including detailed commentary opinion is set out on pages 105 to 106. and analysis and key issues and risks affecting the Groups business.
Reports on Group operations, human resources, governance and The Board regulatory matters affecting the Group were provided to the Board Code, main principle A.
1: Every company should be headed by on a regular and timely basis.
Briefings on market activity, together an effective board, which is collectively responsible for the success with the views of shareholders and analysts on the Company, of the company.
were also provided to the Board.
The Group maintains appropriate insurance cover for the Directors and Officers and in 2005 the Dairy Crests Board recognises its responsibility to provide Companys articles were amended to provide that the Company entrepreneurial and responsible leadership to the Group within shall indemnify its Directors and other Officers out of the assets a framework of prudent and effective controls described below of the Company to the extent permitted under the Companies Acts allowing assessment and management of the key issues and risks 1985 and 1989. impacting the business.
The Board sets Dairy Crests overall strategic direction, reviews management performance and ensures that the Board committees Group has the necessary financial and human resources in place Summary see pages 27 to 28 for details.
There are five principal to meet its objectives.
The Board is satisfied that the necessary Board Committees: the Management Board: Audit: Nomination: controls and resources exist within the Group to enable these Remuneration: and Corporate Responsibility.
The roles and responsibilities to be met.
responsibilities of each of these committees are detailed below.
All the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committee members The Board also ensures that the principal goal of the Company is to are independent Non-Executive Directors under the Code.
The create shareholder value, while having regard to other stakeholder Committees are provided with sufficient resources via the Company interests and takes responsibility for setting the Companys values Secretariat and, where necessary, have direct access to independent and standards an overview of the Groups programme to enhance professional advisers to undertake their duties.
its values and standards is described in the Groups CR report on pages 16 to 21.
Accordingly, the long-term interests of shareholders, Details of Directors attendance at each of the Board meetings and together with consideration of the wider community of interests Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees are set out below: represented by employees, customers and suppliers, and community Board Audit Remuneration Nomination and the environment are factored into the Groups management Committee Committee Committee processes.
They are reinforced through employee participation in No.
of meetings in year 11 3 4 3 share ownership plans.
Appropriate account is also given to social, 1 Mr S M D Oliver 11 1 environmental and ethical issues within the Companys control and Mr M Allen 11 2 Mr D J Dugdale risk assessment processes.
The steps taken to achieve these goals retired 19.07.07 are communicated to shareholders and other interested parties 3 Mr A Fry through a dedicated Director of Investor and Banking Relations, appointed 01.08.07 4 2 1 1 4 Mr G E Grimstone the Companys website www.
co. uk and to employees retired 31.07.07 4 1 2 2 via the Group intranet and through formal and informal briefings 5 Mr H Mann 10 3 4 3 3 and newsletters.
Through formal policies summaries of which are Mr N Monnery appointed 01.08.07 7 2 2 published on the Companys website the Board seeks to engender Mr A S N Murray 11 a culture where business ethics, integrity and fairness are values Mr M N Oakes 11 3 that all employees endorse and apply in their everyday conduct.
Mrs C Piwnica appointed 01.08.07 7 2 1 5 Mr D H Richardson 10 3 4 3 During 2007 08, the Company introduced a programme of 6 Mr P Thornton embedding its core values with employees, details of which are resigned 28.11.07 8 7 Mr M Wilks set out in the Corporate Responsibility report on pages 16 to 21. appointed 07.01.08 2 1 The Board meets at least eight times a year, with additional As he was appointed to the Nomination Committee part way meetings as required.
In 2007 08, it met eleven times including through the year, Mr Oliver did not attend all meetings.
2 a combined Board and Senior Executive strategic review meeting.
Due to long-term illness, Mr Dugdale was unable to attend Details of Directors attendance at meetings during the year are set meetings during the year.
The year in brief 4704 DC08 MidSect v5.0.
qxd 5 6 08 17:37 Page 27 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2008 27 3 As they were appointed to the Board part way through the year, this committee is responsible for succession planning at Board Messrs. Fry and Monnery and Mrs Piwnica did not attend all level, overseeing the selection and appointment of Directors and Board: Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committee meetings.
making its recommendations to the Board.
It is also responsible, 4 As he retired part way through the year, Mr Grimstone did not in conjunction with the Chairman of the Group, for evaluating the attend all Board: Audit, Remuneration and Nomination commitments of individual directors and the balance of skills, Committee meetings.
knowledge and experience on the Board.
It also ensures that 5 As a result of prior commitments, Messrs Mann and the membership of the Board and its principal committees are Richardson did not attend the unscheduled Board meeting refreshed periodically.
Where appropriate, the Committee will on 24 October 2007. prepare an outline of the role and capabilities required for particular 6 As he resigned part way through the year, Mr Thornton did not appointments and use an external search consultancy and or attend all Board meetings.
advertising in relation to Board appointments.
7 As he was appointed to the Board part way through the year, Mr Wilks did not attend all Board meetings.
During 2007 08, its focus was upon succession planning for the Board in light of the retirement of Messrs Grimstone and Dugdale, Management Board and the resignation of Mr Thornton on 28 November 2007.
The Chief Executive chairs the Management Board which comprises It undertook an appropriate and thorough search process, including the other Executive Directors, the Company Secretary and the using external consultants to identify suitable candidates for replacing Group Human Resources Director.
Other Senior Executives, those Directors who left the Board during the year.
On 1 August such as the Director of Financial Control and Director of Corporate 2007 Neil Monnery, Anthony Fry and Carole Piwnica were appointed Development attend by invitation.
The Management Board is as Non-Executive Directors and on 7 January 2008 Martyn Wilks responsible, amongst other matters, for implementing the Groups was appointed Executive Managing Director Foods.
strategic direction, monitoring the performance of the business and its control procedures on a day-to-day basis.
Members normally Audit Committee meet weekly.
David Richardson is chairman of the Audit Committee.
At the date of this report, the other members are Anthony Fry, Howard Mann, The Remuneration Committee Neil Monnery and Carole Piwnica.
Until their retirement, David Dugdale Neil Monnery was appointed chairman of the Remuneration and Gerry Grimstone were members of the Committee.
Until his retirement on 31 July 2007, Richardson is a chartered accountant.
Consistent with the Smith Gerry Grimstone chaired the committee.
Until his retirement on Guidance, all members of the Committee are independent Non- 19 July 2007, David Dugdale was a member of the Committee.
David Richardson is deemed by the Board to That Committee, whose other members are currently Anthony Fry, be the Audit Committee financial expert with recent and relevant Howard Mann, Carole Piwnica and David Richardson, met four financial experience and independent for the purposes of the Code.
Details of Directors attendance at meetings All of the Committee members have extensive commercial experience during the year are set out above.
A detailed description of the see page 25.
Further information on the Companys application committees remit and work during 2007 08, including further of the Code and on the Audit Committee and its work during the information on the Companys application of the principles of the year is set out in this report on pages 30 to 31.
Code, is contained in the Remuneration Report which was approved by the Board on pages 33 to 40.
Its terms of reference Corporate Responsibility Committee comply with the Code, are available on request and are published The CR Committee was established by the Board in March 2008 on the Groups website.
The full terms and conditions of appointment under the chairmanship of Carole Piwnica.
The Committee, whose of the Companys Non-Executive Directors are available for inspection other members are Anthony Fry, Howard Mann, Neil Monnery at its registered office, and a summary is available on the Groups and David Richardson has not yet met, however, it is intended website.
The chairman of the Committee provided a report to the that it will meet on a regular basis in the future.
Its first meeting Board following each meeting of the Remuneration Committee.
The Committee will oversee the Groups CR programme and ensure that key social, ethical and Nomination Committee environmental risks are identified, assessed and prioritised Simon Oliver chairs the Nomination Committee.
Terms of reference for the Committee will be available the Senior Independent Director, David Richardson, Anthony Fry, on request and will be published on the Groups website.
A full Neil Monnery and Carole Piwnica are the other members.
Until their report on the Committees activities during the year 2008 09 will retirement during the year, David Dugdale and Gerry Grimstone were be provided in the next Annual Report following the Committees members of the Committee.
The Committee meets as and when first full year of operation.
During the year it met three times and details of Directors attendance at meetings during the year are set out above.
Company Other committees executives and advisers attend meetings by invitation only.
The The Groups Strategy and Policy Leadership Team, chaired by the chairman updates the Board and makes recommendations as and Chief Executive, which consists of executive Board members and when required.
Senior Executives responsible for the key business units also meets regularly.
The Strategy and Policy Leadership Team is used to assist The terms of reference of the Nomination Committee are available the Executive Directors in the execution of their duties by helping on request and are published on the Groups website.
In essence, to shape and influence the Groups strategy and policy.
Through Well managed business 4704 DC08 MidSect v5.0.
qxd 6 6 08 11:35 Page 28 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2008 28 Corporate governance statement continued its diverse membership representing the various constituencies as directors of the Group and, should any individuals position of the Group it helps to ensure that key stakeholders are consulted change, they will inform the Board.
Details of the Chairmans and have the opportunity to input into the design and preparation professional commitments are included in his biography on page 25. of the Groups strategy, policy and key business decisions.
Within each of the Groups commercial divisions there are operating boards Following review of the provisions of the Code by the Nomination responsible for monitoring the performance of those business units.
Committee and the Board, the Board considers all the Non To ensure consistency of approach and cross-learning, members Executive Directors, excluding the Chairman who was independent of the Strategy and Policy Leadership Team also chair Group on appointment, to be independent.
leadership teams responsible for the following areas: finance: information technology systems: supply chain: human resources: Appointments to the board innovation: marketing: sales: vision and values and health and Code main principle A.
4: There should be a formal, rigorous and safety.
Reports are provided from these various leadership teams, transparent procedure for the appointment of new directors to as appropriate, to the Executive, the Strategy and Policy Leadership the board.
Appointments to the Board and its committees are reserved Chairman and chief executive for the Board, based on recommendations from the Nomination Code main principle A.
2: There should be a clear division Committee see above.
The appointment and removal of the of responsibilities at the head of the company between the running Secretary is a matter reserved to the Board as a whole.
of the board and the executive responsibility for the running of the companys business.
No one individual should have unfettered Information and professional development powers of decision.
5: The board should be supplied in a timely manner with information in a form and of a quality appropriate There is a clear division of responsibilities between the roles of to enable it to discharge its duties.
All directors should receive Chairman who serves in a non-executive capacity and Chief induction on joining the board and should regularly update and Executive which is set out in writing and which has been approved refresh their skills and knowledge.
The division of responsibilities statement can be viewed on the Companys website.
Under the stewardship of the Chairman, Roger Newton who was Company Secretary during the year was responsible for advising Board balance the Board on all governance matters, ensuring Board procedures Code main principle A.
3: The board should include a balance of were followed and applicable rules and regulations were complied executive and non-executive directors and in particular independent with.
Robin Miller replaced Roger Newton as Secretary on his non-executive directors such that no individual or small group retirement on 1 April 2008.
During 2007 08, Mr Newton ensured of individuals can dominate the boards decision taking.
that Board and Board Committee papers containing accurate, timely and clear information were generally circulated at least seven As at the date of this report, the Board comprises four Executive days before meetings.
Periodic updates were circulated as and Directors and six Non-Executive Directors including the Chairman.
Simon Oliver is Non-Executive Chairman and Chairman of the Nomination Committee: Mark Allen, Chief Executive: Alastair Training and briefings are available to all Directors on appointment Murray, Group Finance Director: Martin Oakes, Executive Managing and thereafter Directors keep abreast of the Groups business Director Dairies : Martyn Wilks: Executive Managing Director through meetings with and presentations by senior management Foods : Anthony Fry, Non-Executive Director: Howard Mann, below Board level and through site visits to operating divisions.
Non-Executive and Senior Independent Director: Neil Monnery, During 2007 08, as part of the process of enhancing the NonNon-Executive Director and chairman of the Remuneration Executive Directors knowledge of the business, various visits and Committee: Carole Piwnica, Non-Executive Director and chairman presentations from management teams took place.
of the Corporate Responsibility Committee and David Richardson, Non-Executive Director and chairman of the Audit Committee.
All Non-Executive Directors undergo induction programmes on appointment and have full access to management and to the During the year, the following directors left the Board: Gerry internal and external auditors.
The induction process includes Grimstone retired as a Non-Executive Director, chairman of the the provision of background materials on the Company, together Remuneration Committee and Senior Independent Director: with information on the responsibilities of Directors under the David Dugdale retired as a Non-Executive Director: and Peter Listing Rules, briefings by key Senior Executives at and below Thornton resigned as an Executive Director.
The dates on which Board level and the Companys Head of Internal Audit and site they left the Board are set out in the table on page 26. visits to the main operating locations.
An overview of the business is provided, along with information on its financial performance Biographies of each of the current directors, their responsibilities and and the Risk Register.
The Non-Executive Directors variously principal Board Committee memberships can be found on page 25. receive independent training on technical accounting and other governance related matters from professional service providers During 2007 08, all the Non-Executive Directors confirmed to the and institutions and bulletins from the Group on developments in Board that they have sufficient time available to fulfil their obligations the dairy sector generally.
qxd 4 6 08 18:19 Page 29 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2008 29 All Directors individually, and each of the Board Committees, have All Directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first access to the advice and services of the Company Secretariat and AGM following appointment and thereafter to re-election at least the Secretary.
There are also procedures in place enabling Directors every three years.
The Companys articles require the retirement in the furtherance of their duties to seek independent professional of one third of the directors who are subject to retirement by advice at the Companys expense.
rotation at each AGM, however, if the number of Directors eligible for retirement by rotation at any given AGM is less than three, Performance evaluation one Director must retire by rotation.
Details of the Directors retiring Code main principle A.
6: The board should undertake a formal by rotation at the 2008 AGM are set out in the Directors report and rigorous annual evaluation of its own performance and that on page 44. of its committees and individual directors.
As detailed above under performance evaluation the contribution The Board conducts an annual evaluation of individual Directors, that each of the candidates seeking re-election by shareholders its own performance and of Board Committees.
The evaluation makes to the Group was evaluated.
The Nomination Committees process is designed to improve the effectiveness of the Board.
conclusion was that, having regard to the roles that they perform and individual input and contribution they make, each candidates Individual director performance is reviewed as follows: performance more than justified nomination for re-election by shareholders.
The Board unanimously endorses the views of the Each director completes a self-assessment questionnaire and Nomination Committee on all Directors seeking re-election.
the Chairman then meets separately with each Director in order to appraise their individual performance and effectiveness and The Code is clear at provision A.
2.2 that the Chairman should be to identify any training requirements.
independent on appointment: however, footnote 2 to Code provision Appraisal of the Chairmans performance is conducted A.
3.1 is explicit that thereafter, the test of independence is not by the Non-Executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent appropriate to the Chairman.
Notwithstanding, at its meeting Non-Executive Director taking into account the views of the in May 2007, the Nomination Committee resolved that because Executive Directors using completed assessment the Chairman would have completed more than nine years service questionnaires.
as a Director as at the date of the AGM in 2008, in accordance The Chief Executive appraises the performance of the other with the spirit of the Code he should stand for re-election annually Executive Directors with regard to their management and starting at the 2008 AGM.
Accordingly, Mr Oliver will retire from operational responsibilities, in accordance with the Companys the Board at the 2008 AGM and offer himself for re-election.
The normal performance and development review procedures.
Nomination Committee has recommended that Mr Oliver be proposed for re-election and the Board supports this recommendation and Appraisals were performed for all the Directors during the year is satisfied that his performance continues to be effective and for their performance in 2007 08.
The Chairman reported to the demonstrates appropriate commitment to the role, including devoting Board on the outcome of the appraisals, in relation to the Boards adequate time for Board and committee meetings and other duties.
overall effectiveness, at its meeting on 27 March 2008.
A summary of the completed self-assessment questionnaires indicated that Risk management and internal controls Board processes and frequency of meetings were satisfactory, Code main principle C. 2: The board should maintain a sound that the level of information provided was good and that Board system of internal control to safeguard shareholders investment relationships were strong with open debate on all subjects.
The Board also reviewed the performance of its Board Committees and it was agreed that the practice of all Non-Executive Directors Introduction except for the Chairman being members of all Board Committees The Board has overall responsibility for ensuring a sound system apart from the Management Board was effective in ensuring good of internal control and risk management.
The schedule of written communication and awareness of all relevant issues.
matters reserved to the Board ensures that the Directors are responsible for the control of, amongst other matters, all significant The Non-Executive Directors met with the Executive Directors strategic, financial and organisational risks.
in attendance and without the Chairman present on 27 March 2008 in order to receive a report from the Senior Independent An overview of some of the principal risks surrounding the Group Director on the Chairmans appraisal together with a summary is contained in the Business review section of the Directors report of the assessment questionnaires completed by the other Board at pages 41 to 42.
To manage these and other commercial and members.
It was agreed that the Chairman continued to perform operational risks the Group has an established programme that his role effectively.
assists Management throughout the Group to identify, assess and mitigate business, financial, operational and compliance risks on a Re-election continuous basis.
The Board views management of risk as integral Code main principle A.
7: All directors should be submitted for to good business practice.
The programme is designed to support re-election at regular intervals, subject to continued satisfactory Managements decision making and to improve the reliability of performance.
The board should ensure planned and progressive business performance.
The risk management process operates refreshing of the board.
throughout the Group, being applied to the main business divisions and corporate functions.
qxd 4 6 08 18:19 Page 30 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2008 30 Corporate governance statement continued Internal controls questionnaire that requires the approval of business unit The directors have overall responsibility for the Groups system management.
In addition, the Audit Committee and the of internal control and risk management and for reviewing its Management Board receive copies of all Group Internal Audit effectiveness to support its strategy and objectives.
The systems reports which detail audit issues noted and corrective action plans.
of internal control are based on an ongoing process of identifying, They also receive reports from the external auditors on the evaluating and seeking to manage key risks and includes the risk conclusions of their interim review and final audit.
management processes set out above.
The systems of internal control were in place throughout the year and up to the date Control of significant risks of approval of the Annual Report and Financial Statements.
As required by the Code, the Board has established an ongoing The effectiveness of these systems has been periodically reviewed process, in accordance with the guidance of the Turnbull by the Audit Committee and the Board, in accordance with the Committee on Internal Control amended 2005, to identify, guidance in the Turnbull Report and the Internal Control Revised evaluate and manage significant risks faced by the Group.
This Guidance for Directors published by the Financial Reporting Council process includes the consideration of a register identifying and in October 2005. evaluating the Groups significant risks and related financial, operational and compliance controls.
With oversight from the Control systems Board and Audit Committee which uses the services of the Group The main components of the organisation for internal control are Internal Audit function, individual members of the Groups senior summarised below.
Their foundation is in the considerable value management team are responsible for the ownership and mitigation that the Group places, throughout its activities, on seeking of significant risks.
The Audit Committee and the Board review the to ensure that employees are of the highest quality and integrity.
identified key risks, changes in their status or the composition of Formal control is exercised through a management structure, the risk matrix regularly.
which includes clear lines of responsibility and documented delegations of authority from the Board.
Processes underpinning Function of controls the financial reporting systems are managed and monitored by The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system of line and functional management and regular reporting.
Separately, internal control including that of its joint venture Yoplait Dairy Crest the effectiveness of these internal controls is reviewed by an internal Limited.
The systems of internal control are designed to manage audit function that operates on a Group wide basis.
It reports rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business its results to the executive management team and directly to the objectives.
They can only provide reasonable and not absolute Audit Committee.
assurance against material errors, losses, fraud or breaches of laws and regulations.
Board the Board exercises its responsibilities through an organisational structure with clearly defined levels of responsibility Report of the Audit Committee and rules relating to delegated authorities.
The Board meets Code main principle C. 3: The board should establish formal and regularly throughout the year and receives oral and written transparent arrangements for considering how they should apply presentations to maintain control over strategic, financial, the financial reporting and internal control principles and for maintaining operational and compliance matters.
The Management Board an appropriate relationship with the companys auditors.
is responsible for monitoring financial performance, assessing capital expenditure proposals, agreeing media spend, senior Members management appointments and embedding risk management The Audit Committee met three times in 2007 08.
Details of Directors and controls in the Group.
The Executive Managing Director of attendance at meetings during the year are set out at page 26. each Division, in conjunction with senior management, operates The Chairman of the Audit Committee provided a report on the and maintains controls appropriate to its own activities and work of the committee and any significant issues that may have conforms to Group policies and procedures.
arisen at the Board meeting following each committee meeting.
Financial reporting there is an annual budget presented and Attendees at meetings approved by the Board which includes consideration of the major The Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and Chairman of the business risks, an assessment of their likelihood of crystallisation Group and other senior management attend Committee meetings and actions in place to mitigate these risks.
Each Division is by invitation of the Committee.
Representatives of the Groups required to report monthly to the Board on financial performance.
external auditors and the Head of Group Internal Audit, also attend Monthly financial information includes trading results, balance sheet these meetings by invitation.
In 2007 08, the external and internal and cash flow information by business Division with comparison auditors attended all meetings, had direct access to the Committee against prior year and budget.
Each Division periodically reassesses during the meetings and time was also set aside for them to have its forecast for the financial year.
Annually, a strategic plan is also private discussions jointly and independently with the committee, presented to the Board, which reviews financial projections for the in the absence of Management.
following three years and includes consideration of current and likely future strategic, operational and market environment matters.
Audit committee compliance with the Code The Audit Committees terms of reference available on request Business Division reviews On a quarterly basis, each business and published on the Groups website comply with the Code.
Division is required to complete a self-assessment controls During 2007 08, the formal calendar of items which were reviewed 4704 DC08 MidSect v5.0.
qxd 4 6 08 18:19 Page 31 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2008 31 at each Audit Committee meeting and within each annual cycle The Audit Committee met prior to the Board meetings at which the embraced the Code requirements to: Interim Financial Statements and the Annual Report and Financial Statements were approved.
The Committee reviewed significant monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the Company, accounting policies, financial reporting issues and judgements and, and any formal announcements relating to the Groups financial in conducting this review, considered reports from the external performance, including reviewing significant financial reporting auditors, financial management and Internal Audit.
judgements and any disclosures contained in them: review the Companys internal financial controls and its internal The Committee considered authority limits: developments control and risk management systems and to make in accounting systems including evaluation of migration risks recommendations to the Board: and the effectiveness of controls : the adequacy of the Groups monitor and review the effectiveness of the Groups internal accounting systems and internal controls: the Groups Risk Register audit function: and its compliance with the Code.
It reviewed the Groups treasury make recommendations to the Board, for it to put to the operations including net debt levels, facility headroom, compliance shareholders for their approval in general meeting, in relation with banking covenants and level and appropriateness of to the appointment, re-appointment and removal of the hedging arrangements.
external auditors and to approve the remuneration and terms of engagement of the external auditors: During the year the Committee reviewed and considered reports review and monitor the external auditors independence and from the Head of Group Internal Audit including findings from objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process, taking the Internal Audit function concerning internal controls and the into consideration relevant UK professional and regulatory status of the correction of any weaknesses in internal controls requirements: and, identified by the internal and the external auditors.
In addition, review the Groups policy on the engagement of the external the Audit Committee reviewed and approved the remit, auditors to supply non-audit services.
organisation, plans and resources of the Groups internal audit function: carried out a review of the effectiveness of the internal Audit Committee activities audit function and met the head of that function without An overview of the work undertaken by the Audit Committee during management being present.
Whistle blowing The audit committee determined that it was satisfied that the The Audit Committee reviews the arrangements by which independence of the external auditors had been maintained, having employees of the Group may, in confidence, raise concerns about taken into account the external auditors written representations possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other and the Committees own enquiries.
respects, under the Groups whistle blowing policy.
The Company Secretary leads the whistle blowing team.
The Audit Committee The Audit Committee reviewed the external auditors audit scope, is satisfied that these arrangements allow for appropriate plans and materiality levels and the resources proposed to execute independent investigation of any such matters and suitable the plans.
Having done so, the Committee approved the terms follow up actions.
of engagement and the audit fees.
The Committee also reviewed the findings of the external auditors, their management letters Communication with investors on internal financial controls and audit representation letters.
Code main principle D. 1: There should be a dialogue with shareholders based on the mutual understanding of objectives.
The Audit Committee also assessed the qualifications, expertise The board as a whole has responsibility for ensuring that a and resources and independence of the external auditors and satisfactory dialogue with shareholders takes place.
the effectiveness of the audit process.
In the light of the assessments and review undertaken and having considered the Introduction Committees recommendation to the Board, the Board endorsed The Group believes it is important to explain business developments the Committees recommendation which was approved by and financial results to its shareholders and to understand any shareholders in July 2007. shareholder concerns and that suitable arrangements are in place to ensure a balanced understanding of the issues and concerns Where the external auditors have provided non-audit services of major shareholders.
The Chief Executive and Group Finance the Group Finance Director has obtained prior authorisation from Director have primary responsibility for investor relations.
They are the Chairman of the Committee to instruct Ernst & Young LLP supported by a dedicated Director of Investor and Banking to carry out this work.
In the year ended 31 March 2008, non-audit Relations, who among other matters, organises presentations work undertaken by Ernst & Young principally comprised advice for analysts and institutional investors and hold meetings with key on tax.
A statement of fees for services from the external auditors institutional shareholders to discuss strategy, financial performance in relation to 2007 08 is set out at note three to the financial and investment activities immediately after the full year and interim statements on page 61.
Having undertaken a review of the nature results announcements.
Slide presentations made to institutional and amount of non-audit related work: the Audit Committee has shareholders are also available on the Companys website.
All the satisfied itself that the services undertaken during 2007 08 did not Non-Executive Directors and, in particular, the Chairman of the prejudice the auditors independence.
Group and Senior Independent Director, are available to meet with Well managed business 4704 DC08 MidSect v5.0.
qxd 6 6 08 11:39 Page 32 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2008 32 Corporate governance statement continued major shareholders, if such meetings are so required.
Further Access to information financial and business information is available on the investor Electronic communication has fast become the principal relations section of the website.
medium for shareholders, providing ready access to shareholder information and reports, and for voting purposes.
Recognising this, Feedback from meetings with shareholders is provided to the Annual Reviews, Annual Reports and Financial Statements and Board to ensure that the Non-Executive Directors have a balanced Interim Reports are published on the website.
Pursuant to changes understanding of the issues and concerns of major shareholders.
introduced by the Companies Act 2006, the Company sought This includes communication with the shareholders at the AGM, shareholder approval at the 2007 AGM to cease the automatic regular feedback from the Chief Executive and the Group Finance despatch of hard copy financial publications to ordinary Director on their meetings with major shareholders, and periodic shareholders.
In accordance with the Companys established reports to the Board on investor relations together with feedback practice and applicable legislation, all of the Companys financial from the Companys brokers on the views of major shareholders.
publications are published on its website.
Other information which shareholders and third parties are entitled to access is made The principal method of communication with private shareholders available in accordance with legislative and regulatory requirements.
is through the Annual and Interim Reports, the AGM and through the Companys website.
Compliance with the provisions contained within the Combined Code Annual General Meeting Throughout the year the Group was in compliance with the Code main principle D. 2: The board should use the AGM to provisions of the Code except that no meetings were requested communicate with investors and to encourage their participation.
or held between shareholders and the Chairman and Senior Independent Non-Executive Director during the year.
A business review is presented by the Chairman at the AGM to facilitate shareholder understanding of the Groups activities.
Approval All Executive Directors, the Chairman, the Senior Independent The Corporate Governance Statement and the Audit Committee Non-Executive Director and the Chairmen of Board Committees Report contained in it have been approved by the Board.
attend the AGM and are available to answer shareholders questions.
Notice of AGM is, in accordance with the Companies By order of the board Act and the Companys articles, either posted in hard copy to Robin Miller Company Secretary shareholders or posted on the Companys website at least 21 days 19 May 2008 before the date of the AGM.
Separate resolutions are proposed for each substantially discrete issue and details of the proxy voting on each resolution are announced at the AGM after the results of the show of hands is known and are posted on the Companys website following the conclusion of the meeting.
The Company does propose a resolution at the AGM relating to the report and accounts.
The Company counts all proxy votes and indicates the level of proxies lodged on each resolution.
It also publishes the level of votes for and against resolutions and the number of abstentions.
The Company ensures that votes cast are properly received and recorded.
