Corporate governance Combined Code The duties of the Board and its committees are set out clearly in formal The Financial Services Authority FSA requires listed companies to terms of reference, copies of which are available from disclose, in relation to the Combined Code as revised in June 6 www.
com which are reviewed regularly, stating the the Code, how they have applied its principles and whether they have items specically reserved for decisions by the Board.
The Board complied with its provisions throughout the accounting year.
establishes overall Group strategy, including new activities and withdrawal from existing activities.
It approves the Groups commercial The Board of Kesa Electricals supports the principles of corporate strategy and the operating budget and monitors divisional performance governance advocated by the Code and the Board believes that it through the receipt of monthly reports and management accounts.
complies in full with the terms of the Code.
The process for the approval of acquisitions divestments for the most part is a matter reserved for the Board save that it delegates to the Directors Chief Executive the responsibility for such activities up to a specified The Board consists of a Chairman, a Chief Executive plus one further level of authority.
Similarly there are authority levels covering capital executive Director and four Non-Executive Directors.
There is a clear expenditure, which can be exercised by the Chief Executive.
Beyond division of responsibilities between the Chairman and Chief Executive.
these levels of authority, projects are referred to the Board for approval.
The four Non-Executive Directors are considered by the Board to be Other matters reserved to the Board include: independent in character and judgement and there are no relationships or circumstances which could affect, or appear to affect, a Directors Overview of control, audit and risk management.
Peter Wilson is the Senior Independent Director.
Andrew Remuneration: Robb, an independent Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the The Groups framework of executive remuneration and its cost Audit Committee, is a qualied accountant.
He is considered to have in the light of recommendations made by the Remuneration recent and relevant financial experience.
The remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors.
The Board is aware of the other commitments of its Directors Senior management succession plans and the overall direction and is satisfied that these do not conict with their duties as of management development.
Non-Executive Directors of the Company.
The Directors do not hold Pension schemes.
any Non-Executive Directorships in other companies.
The appointment or removal of the Company Secretary.
The Non-Executive Directors are appointed for specified terms and the details of their respective appointments are set out in the report on The Board is supplied in a timely manner with information in a form and Directors remuneration and related matters on page 36.
Copies of their of a quality appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties.
This includes respective letters of appointment or contracts are available for monthly management accounts irrespective of whether or not a Board inspection at the Companys registered ofce and will also be available meeting is scheduled.
There is also a procedure under which Directors, for inspection at the forthcoming AGM.
in furtherance of their duties, are able to take independent professional advice, if necessary, at the Companys expense.
The Company All Directors are subject to re-election by shareholders at the first Secretary is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are opportunity after their appointment and thereafter in accordance with followed and all Directors have access to his advice and services.
the Articles 1 7 and 1 8 of the Companys Articles of Association.
This ensures compliance with the Code by providing that all Directors The Directors receive training as part of their induction from the are required to submit themselves for re-appointment at least once Companys legal advisers on the duties and responsibilities of being every three years.
Directors of a publicly limited company.
The training needs of the Directors are periodically discussed at Board meetings and briengs The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors meet as a group without are given by the Company Secretary on various elements of corporate the Executive Directors present.
The Non-Executive Directors meet governance, regulatory compliance and best practice.
in the absence of the Chairman if there are any concerns, which the Chairman has failed to resolve, or to consider his performance or terms of appointment.
The role of the Chairman is to ensure that the Board has full and timely access to all relevant information.
The Chairman leads the Board and represents the Board to the Chief Executive as necessary between Board meetings.
4 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 7 8 During the financial period, the Board, and each of the audit and The Committee normally meets at least four times a year, but because remuneration committees undertook performance evaluations.
of the extended nature of this financial period it met five times.
Both the Using the Higgs Suggestions for Good Practice as guidance, external auditors and the Director of Audit and Risk Management were the individual committee members initially completed separate present at the meetings and, in addition, it is common practice for the questionnaires.
The results were compiled and analysed by the Committee to meet the external auditors without management present.
Company Secretary, who prepared reports to the Board and each of The Director of Audit and Risk Management has the right to request a the committees.
The areas covered included the role of the Executive meeting without other management present, and he regularly meets the and Non-Executive Directors and the Board Board committees, Chairman of the Audit Committee without management being present.
preparation for and the performance at meetings, the effectiveness of The Group Chief Executive and the Finance Director attend meetings the Board Board committees, leadership and culture and corporate as appropriate.
The results were considered by the Board and each of these committees in meetings.
The Board and Board committees The Chairman of the Audit Committee reports the outcome of consider that they are operating effectively.
meetings to the Board and the Board receives the minutes of all Audit Committee meetings.
The Senior Independent Director, Peter Wilson, also met with the Non-Executive Directors in the absence of the Chairman, to assess the The main role and responsibilities are set out in written terms of Chairmans effectiveness.
Details of the Chairmans professional reference which encompass those recommended by the Combined commitments are included in his biography on page 19.
Code, i. e. : During the 15 months to 3 April 8 the Board met 13 times to To monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the Company, deal with regular business and a further two times to approve periodic reviewing significant financial reporting issues and judgements trading statements.
This is felt adequate to enable effective running of contained therein.
The attendance record of individual Directors at Board To review financial reports for publication and to ensure compliance and Committee meetings is detailed below: with all accounting policies and standards.
To review the Companys compliance with legal and regulatory requirements.
Board Audit Remuneration Nomination 15 meetings 5 meetings 5 meetings 1 meeting To review the Companys internal financial control and risk management systems and to review risk exposures and steps taken David Newlands 15 N A N A 1 to monitor and control them.
Jean-Nol Labroue 15 N A N A 1 To monitor and review the effectiveness of the Companys internal audit function.
Peter Wilson 14 55 1 To make recommendations to the Board in relation to the Michel Brossard 15 55 1 appointment of the external auditor and to approve the remuneration Bernard Dufau 14 55 1 and terms of engagement of the external auditor.
Andrew Robb 14 55 1 To monitor and review the external auditors independence, Simon Herrick 15 N A N A N A objectivity and effectiveness, taking into account UK professional and regulatory requirements.
The Board has established a number of committees, including Audit, To monitor the operation of formal complaints procedures, including Remuneration and Nomination: whistleblowing.
To satisfy itself the Companys code of conduct is being enforced.
a Audit Committee The Audit Committee consists of four Non-Executive Directors, These responsibilities are discharged in the following manner in the considered by the Board to be independent.
They are Andrew Robb past financial year: Chairman, Peter Wilson, Michel Brossard and Bernard Dufau.
The Committee has at least one member, Andrew Robb, who At its meetings in March, July, September, December 7 possesses recent and relevant financial experience.
It will be seen and March 8 the focus was the review of the preliminary from the Directors biographical details, appearing on page 19, that the announcement Annual report and financial statements, and the members of the Committee bring to it a wide range of experience from interim and second interim announcement respectively.
On each positions at the highest level both in the UK and France.
occasion, the Committee received reports from the external auditors identifying any accounting or judgemental issues requiring its attention.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 7 8 5 Corporate governance A quarterly report from the Director of Audit and Risk Management c Nomination Committee was presented at each of the five meetings, which highlighted any The members of the Nomination Committee are David Newlands significant risk and control issues.
In addition, at the December Chairman, Jean-Nol Labroue, Peter Wilson, Andrew Robb, meeting, the Director of Audit and Risk Management submitted Michel Brossard and Bernard Dufau.
The Committee would be chaired the internal audit plans for the coming year.
by the Senior Independent Director on any matter concerning the The external auditors presented their audit plans at the March Chairmanship of the Company.
meetings, and there was a detailed review of the management letter covering the auditors findings in respect of the prior financial year.
The Nomination Committee has written terms of reference covering the Group companies were, from time to time, required to make authority delegated to it by the Board.
These include the following duties: presentations to the Committee on the subject of risk, its identication, management and control.
To review regularly the Board performance, including structure, size As a matter of routine, the Committee was presented with and composition and make recommendations to the Board with information on material litigation involving Group companies.
regard to any adjustments that are deemed necessary.
The Committee reviewed all financial statements prior to Board appointments and removals are matters reserved for the their publication.
It is the responsibility of the Nomination Committee to identify and nominate candidates for the approval of the Board, to ll Board As noted above, one of the duties of the Audit Committee is to make vacancies as and when they arise and to review succession plans recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment of the for both Board and senior executive positions.
The Committee, in assessing whether to recommend Setting policy for granting of service agreements including the auditors for re-appointment, takes a number of factors into mitigation policy.
These include: Relations with shareholders The quality of reports provided to the Audit Committee and the The Company recognises the importance of communicating with its Board and the quality of advice given.
shareholders and does this through its Annual and interim reports and The level of understanding demonstrated of the Groups business at the AGM.
Although it does not have precise rules covering meetings and industry.
with institutional shareholders, it is always ready to enter into a dialogue The objectivity of the auditors views on the controls around the with investors, and meetings take place frequently.
Group and their ability to co-ordinate a global audit working to tight deadlines.
The Board believes that good communication with shareholders is important.
There are programmes for the Chief Executive and Finance The Committee has put in place safeguards to ensure that the Director to meet with the Companys institutional investors in the UK, independence of the audit is not compromised and the auditors are Europe and US and presentations are made on the operating substantially restricted in their ability to perform any non-audit activities.
and financial performance of the Group and its longer term strategy.
Arrangements are in place for the auditors to report to the Committee Road shows are held in the UK and Europe immediately after the on actions they take to comply with the professional and regulatory presentation of the full year and interim results.
If it is not possible requirements and best practice designed to ensure their independence to arrange face to face meetings, meetings are held by telephone from the Company.
The slide presentations made to representatives of the investment community following the announcement of the full year b Remuneration Committee and interim results are available online at www.
com The Remuneration Committee consists exclusively of Non-Executive as is a web cast of the results presentations.
Directors considered by the Board to be independent: Peter Wilson Chairman, Michel Brossard, Bernard Dufau and Andrew Robb.
The Non-Executive Directors are given regular updates as to the views Its responsibilities include setting remuneration policy, ensuring that of institutional shareholders and the Senior Independent Director, Peter the remuneration and terms of service of the Executive Directors are Wilson, is available to meet with institutional shareholders should there appropriate and that Directors are fairly rewarded for their individual be unresolved matters that shareholders believe should be brought to contribution to the Companys overall performance.
It also ensures his attention.
that the allocation of shares under the Groups share schemes are on a fair and equitable basis and in accordance with agreed performance criteria.
The application of corporate governance principles in relation to Directors remuneration is described in the report on Directors remuneration and related matters on pages 9 to 37.
6 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 7 8 The principal communication with private investors is through the The key procedures, which operated throughout the year, are as follows: Annual report, the interim report and the AGM.
A presentation is made at the AGM to facilitate greater awareness of the Groups activities.
Risk assessment: Shareholders are given the opportunity to ask questions of the Board The Group sets out its objectives clearly as part of its and the Chairman of each Board committee at the meeting and meet medium term planning process.
These objectives are then the Directors informally after the meeting.
Separate resolutions are incorporated as part of the budgeting and planning cycle and proposed for each item of business and the for, against and are supported by the use of both financial and non-financial abstention proxy votes cast in respect of each resolution proposed key performance indicators.
at the meeting are counted and announced after the shareholders The operating companies make presentations on risk to their present have voted on each resolution.
Notice of the AGM is posted audit committees whose reports in turn are reviewed by the to shareholders with the Annual report at least working days before Group Audit Committee, which reports to the Group Board the date of the AGM.
on the risks and weaknesses facing the businesses.
The detailed assessment of strategic risks is delegated to Financial and other information including the terms of reference for the the Group Chief Executive.
This review is carried out as part Board and Board committees are available from the Companys of the annual budgeting and the monthly reporting and registered ofce and are also available on the Companys website re-forecasting cycles.
The Audit Committee has delegated responsibility for considering operational, financial and compliance risks on a regular basis Accountability: risk management and internal control and receives reports on the controls over these risks biannually.
It is a requirement of the Combined Code that the Board should This includes risks arising from social, environmental and present a balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys ethical matters.
In this context, reference should be made to the statement of Directors responsibilities on page 38, which includes Control environment and control activities: a statement in compliance with the Code regarding the Groups status The Group consists of a number of operating companies each as a going concern, and to the Report of the auditors on page 39, with its own management and control structures.
which includes a statement by the auditors about their reporting The Group has established procedures for delegated authority, responsibilities.
which ensure that decisions that are significant, either because of the value or the impact on other parts of the Group, are taken The Board recognises that its responsibility to present a balanced at an appropriate level.
and understandable assessment extends to interim and other price The Group has implemented appropriate strategies to deal with sensitive public reports and reports to regulators as well as information each significant risk that has been identied.
These strategies required to be presented by law.
include not only internal controls but also other approaches such as insurance, joint ventures and specialised treasury instruments, Internal control although the risk assessment process does not cover franchisees.
The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal The operating companies work within a framework of policies and control and for reviewing its effectiveness and confirms that such a procedures laid down in organisation and authority manuals, and review has taken place during the 15 month period from 1 February personnel are required to comply with these procedures.
Policies 7 to 3 April 8 and up to the date of this report.
Such a system and procedures cover key issues such as authorisation levels, is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve segregation of duties, compliance with legislation and physical business objectives and can provide reasonable, but not absolute, and data security.
The Group has also established a assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board has whistleblowing policy.
reviewed the effectiveness of the key procedures, which have been established to provide internal control.
Information and communication: The Group has a comprehensive system of budgetary control Following publication of guidance for Directors on internal control in the including monthly performance review for each major business Combined Code, the Board confirms that there is an ongoing process and division.
These reviews are at a detailed level within the for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by operating companies and at a high level for the Group Board.
These include those relating to social, environmental and On a monthly basis, the achievement of business objectives, ethical matters.
The process is regularly reviewed by the Audit both financial and non-financial, is assessed using a range of Committee, which reports its findings for consideration by the Board, key performance indicators.
These indicators are reviewed to and is in accordance with the Combined Code and the Turnbull ensure that they remain relevant and reliable.
There are clear procedures in the major trading divisions for employees to report suspected improprieties.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 7 8 7 Corporate governance Monitoring: Whilst management at each operating business has responsibility for The effective application of internal control within the Group the identication and evaluation of significant risks applicable to their is monitored by the following: business and any mitigating actions to be taken, Group executive management reviews, identies and evaluates the risks which are The Audit Committee, which in respect of the Group: significant at a Group level as well as the mitigating actions against those risks.
These are then considered by the Board after review by Monitors the integrity of the financial statements and any formal the Audit Committee.
The type of risks identied include strategic risk, announcements relating to the financial performance.
external factors such as the competitive environment and regulations Reviews internal financial controls and systems, and other internal change management programmes, health and safety, retention of key control and risk management systems including reports from management and macro market risks.
The internal audit plans are internal audit on material control weaknesses.
designed to address the controls and actions in relation to each Reviews risk management systems.
Where appropriate the risk Monitors and reviews the effectiveness of the internal audit function management process will include the use of insurance.
The Directors can confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness The business head of each major operating company, who: of this system of internal control, and that it accords with the guidance of the Turnbull committee on internal control.
Maintains systems that continually identify and evaluate significant risks resulting from their strategies and that apply to their areas of The Boards review of the system of internal controls has not identied the business.
any significant failings or weaknesses, and therefore, no remedial Reviews and monitors the effectiveness of internal control systems actions are required.
through an operating company audit committee and reports from internal and external audit functions.
Has responsibility for identication and evaluation of significant risks to their business area, together with the design of mitigating controls.
Has responsibility for their local audit committee.
Supported by their operating company audit committee, reports on any control weaknesses or breakdowns that could be material to the Group.
Certies with the Finance Director for the operating Company that all necessary information has been provided to the auditors.
The internal audit and risk management function, which: Works with the operating companies to develop, improve and embed risk management tools and processes into their business operations.
Oversees the operation of the individual operating businesss audit committee.
Ensures that business risks are identied, managed and regularly reviewed at all levels of the Group and that Directors are periodically appraised of the key risks in accordance with the Turnbull guidance.
Provides the Board with assurance on the control environment across the Group.
Ensures that the operating companies have appropriate organisation and processes to carry out regular reviews of their internal controls.
Monitors adherence to the Groups key policies and principles.
Provides the Group Audit Committee with necessary assurances on the control environment.
8 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 7 8
