40 fide La Rue Annual Report 2008 Corporate Governance The Board is collectively accountable to the Companys Board of Directors shareholders for good corporate governance and all Directors are responsible for complying with their legal and fiduciary Composition of the Board obligations.
Up to July 2007 there were six independent non-executive Directors, the non-executive Chairman and two executive The Board is committed to complying with the highest standards Directors.
Mike Jeffries resigned as a non-executive Director of corporate governance, which is the system of internal principles, after the annual general meeting on 26 July 2007.
The Board controls and processes it approves and by which the fide La Rue has concluded that its composition throughout the year was Group is run in order to achieve its objectives while complying and remains appropriately balanced.
with the required standards of accountability and probity.
There is a clear division between the management of the Board The Companys corporate governance arrangements are and the executive Directors responsibility for managing the described in the following sections: Companys business.
However, no individual or small group can dominate decision taking.
The roles of the Chairman and Chief Corporate Governance Report page 40 Executive are separated and clearly defined.
The Chairman is Directors Profiles page 34 primarily responsible for the working of the Board.
The Chief Remuneration Report page 45 Executive is responsible for running the business and Directors Report page 36 implementing Board strategy and policy.
Risks and Risk Management page 22 Corporate Responsibility page 30 The Directors biographies appear on page 34 and the Boards Directors Responsibility Statement page 37 policy is that the Chairman and executive Directors should accept Shareholders Information page 99 appointments to the boards of other companies only with the prior Notice of Annual General Meeting page 39 approval of the Board and that non-executive Directors must seek the agreement of the Chairman and confirmation by the Board Corporate Governance Framework before accepting additional commitments that may affect the time The Companys corporate governance procedures, which are they devote to their role.
approved by the Board, define the matters reserved to the Board, the terms of reference of various Committees of the Board and the The existing commitments of Directors appear on page 34 and functions delegated to these Committees as well as defining the jobs the Board is satisfied that these commitments do not conflict of the Chairman, Chief Executive, Finance Director and non-executive with their ability to carry out effectively their duties as Directors Directors.
The Company reviews and amends its corporate governance of the Company.
policies to reflect changes to the Combined Code, legislation or good practice.
Revisions were last made in September 2007.
Succession Planning The Board has in place an orderly process to refresh the The Board also approves the Companys Business Code of composition of the Board regularly without compromising its Conduct Code of Conduct which defines the Companys continued effectiveness.
As well as assessing the skills profile, business principles and which was updated in September 2007. type and number of non-executive Directors required to enhance This is discussed further in the Corporate Responsibility Report the Boards composition, the Company follows a rigorous internal on page 30.
These documents are set out on the Companys talent review process which is used in planning executive Director website www.
com and senior management succession.
In accordance with the Turnbull Guidance on internal control, the Objectives of the Board Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, The Board reviewed its objectives during 2007 2008 and evaluating and managing the key risks including financial, confirmed them as: operational and compliance controls and risk management systems.
This process has been in place throughout the year and delivering value to shareholders and other stakeholders: up to the date of approval by the Board of the Annual Report and Accounts.
The Boards governance policies include a process for maintaining the Companys reputation for integrity as the the Board to review regularly the effectiveness of the system of foundation of its relationship with stakeholders: and internal control and risk management systems, and the Board has conducted such a review during the year.
Details are set out building long term success through innovation, quality and on pages 22 to 25.
This does not extend to associated companies sound management.
or joint ventures such as Camelot Group plc where the Company does not have management control.
Role and Operation of the Board The Boards core procedures are: Compliance with Section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance set out in the terms of reference for the Board, its Committees In the year to 29 March 2008 the Company has complied and Directors: throughout with the provisions and applied the principles of the Combined Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council in the control of risk through agreed evaluation and control June 2006 the Code as detailed in this Report, and which procedures reviewed and revised annually: and made minor changes to the Combined Code 2003. monitoring the composition of the Board through the Nomination Committee.
41 fide La Rue Annual Report 2008 The Board has also reserved certain matters to itself to reinforce directors and key functions.
Directors receive agendas and Board its control of the Group.
Full details are set out on Companys papers generally five days before each Board meeting: minutes website www.
These include: are circulated as soon as possible thereafter.
The Board reviews progress on implementing actions arising from the Board and its establishing Committees of the Board and their terms of Committee meetings each month.
reference: There is also a defined procedure for dealing with urgent matters determining the responsibilities of Directors, in particular those between Board meetings.
of the Chairman and Chief Executive: All Directors can request additional information from management approving internal control processes: at any time.
All Directors have direct access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary who is responsible for ensuring in conjunction with the Audit Committee approving the that Board procedures are followed.
The Board decides the announcement of interim and final results: appointment and removal of the Company Secretary.
approving any interim dividend and recommending the final Board Evaluation and Effectiveness Review dividend to shareholders: The Board and each of the Nomination, Remuneration and Audit Committees carried out an evaluation of their performance approving the annual report, remuneration report during the year.
The Risk Committee was evaluated by the Board.
and financial statements: The process involved completion of questionnaires which focused on process, structure, behaviours and key issues, such as strategy approving the Groups strategy: and succession, against delivery of the Boards objectives and addressing any issues identified during the previous review or approving the Groups annual budget: which became relevant during the year.
approving significant matters relating to capital expenditure, The Chairman and each Committee Chairman had discussions acquisitions and disposals or joint ventures by any Group with each Director or Committee member based on the responses Company: and each Directors own views regarding effectiveness of the Board or Committee as a whole and the individual Directors performance.
approving changes to the capital structure of the Company or The senior independent non-executive Director was responsible for other matters relevant to its status as a listed Company: and appraising the Chairmans performance in meetings or discussions with the non-executive Directors in the absence of the Chairman.
being informed about and taking any necessary decision on any The Chairman and the non-executive Directors also met in the matter which would have a material effect on the Companys absence of the executive Directors.
The results were discussed financial position, liabilities, future strategy or reputation.
by the Board or individual Committees which then produced an implementation plan to address any issues raised which were The Board delegates authority to run the business to the Chief to improve processes.
Executive, except where certain matters are reserved to it or to the Committees of the Board.
It annually reviews the delegated Details of Attendance at Board and Committee Meetings authorities.
The Chief Executive in turn delegates responsibility The number of full scheduled Board meetings and Committee to senior executives, in particular to divisional managing directors.
meetings attended by each Director during the year was as follows: Operational control is exercised by the Operating Board which Audit Nomination Remuneration functions as a board of directors.
The role and responsibilities Directors Attendance 2007 2008 Committee Board Committee Committee of the Chairman, Chief Executive, Finance Director, senior Number of independent non-executive Director and other directors are meetings held 417 2 13 also clearly defined.
Full details are set out on the Companys Dr P M G Nolan 4 15 2 10 website www.
Mr K H Hodgkinson 4 14 2 11 Mr N K Brookes Chairman 117 2 13 The Board provides leadership of the Company within a framework Mr S A King 16 of prudent and effective internal controls, including financial, Mr L M Quinn Chief Executive 17 2 operational and compliance controls and risk management Sir Jeremy Greenstock 17 2 13 systems.
These are required to identify and manage the risks Ms G Rider 2 16 13 and their potential effect whilst ensuring that material changes Mr D W A East 3 15 1 are reported to the Board in a timely fashion.
The Board reviews the effectiveness of those controls and systems and is assisted Appointed to the Nomination Committee on 28 February 2008. by the Audit and Risk Committees.
The controls by their nature are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, risk and can only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Details of the processes and controls are set out below.
The Board reviews matters reserved to itself and the performance of management in achieving agreed goals and objectives at its meetings.
The Board timetable ensures that the Board receives regular reports or presentations from the executive Directors, operational managing 42 fide La Rue Annual Report 2008 Corporate Governance continued Role of Non-Executive Directors Appointments The non-executive Directors, all of whom are considered by the All Directors are required to submit themselves for re-election at Board to be independent, have an appropriate range of business, least every three years.
New Directors are subject to election by financial and international experience which is relevant to the shareholders at the first opportunity after their appointment, as Companys activities.
None of the non-executive Directors holds are Directors whose role has changed since their previous election a material shareholding in the Company.
Nicholas Brookes ceased or who are subject to particular conditions, such as Nicholas to be independent after his appointment on 22 July 2004 as Brookes who, since March 2006, is required to submit himself for Chairman under the Code but the Board considers that his re-election annually after serving nine years on the Board.
Noncontribution and objectivity in Board and Committee discussions executive Directors were originally appointed for an initial period were fully consistent with those of an independent Director.
of three years with the expectation of a further three years subject to satisfactory performance.
The Board agreed to reduce the Keith Hodgkinson succeeded Michael Jeffries as the Companys terms of appointment for all non-executive Directors from three senior independent non-executive Director and shareholders years to two years with effect from 1 April 2008.
Additionally, any may contact him if they feel their concerns are not being non-executive Director who has completed six years is required to addressed through normal channels.
Non-executive Directors submit himself for re-election annually thereafter.
Keith Hodgkinson confirm on appointment, and annually, and have done so this and Philip Nolan will offer themselves for re-election at this years year, that they are able to allocate sufficient time to enable them Annual General Meeting.
The Board may invite a non-executive to discharge their duties properly.
In the very few instances when Director to serve a further term after a six year term following a a Director has not been able to attend Board or Committee detailed review at the end of this period, subject to re-election.
meetings, he or she has made known his or her views on Non-executive Directors letters of appointment are available for pertinent matters to the Board.
inspection at the Companys registered office and at the Annual General Meeting, together with executive Directors service Induction and Training contracts.
All new Directors receive an induction on joining the Company, for which the Chairman is responsible.
This covers such matters The Board, having carried out the effectiveness and evaluation as the strategy, operation and activities of the Group including process, considers the performance of each of the Directors key financial data, business, social and environmental risks to standing for re-election at this years Annual General Meeting the Groups activities, corporate governance matters such as to be fully satisfactory and is of the opinion that they have the role of the Board and individual Committees, and the demonstrated continued commitment to the role.
The Board Companys corporate governance procedures as outlined in strongly supports their re-election and recommends that this report.
They are advised on the duties and obligations of shareholders vote in favour of the resolutions at the Annual directors of a listed company.
Site visits and meetings with senior General Meeting.
Any newly appointed Director, who has not previously been a director of a listed company is Committees of the Board invited to attend an external course covering such duties and The Board has established Audit, Remuneration, Nomination, responsibilities.
Directors are briefed, where appropriate, by the General Business and Risk Committees with appointed Companys external advisers, on changes to legislation, regulation Chairmen and fixed terms of reference which are reviewed or market practice, as well as receiving briefings from individual annually.
The terms of reference and duties of the Audit, businesses throughout the year.
The Board received specific Nomination, Remuneration and Risk Committees appear on the briefing on the key issues of the Companies Act 2006, its Companys website and are also available on request.
The Board implementation and on new segmental reporting.
The Directors, is satisfied that the Committees discharged their responsibilities especially Committee chairmen, have the opportunity of attending set out therein.
Membership of these Committees is given in the appropriate training sessions.
Further details of Committees and key activities performed during the year are At least once a year the Board generally visits an operational site.
Directors are also encouraged to visit other sites and staff.
The Company Secretary in conjunction with the Chairman ensures that there is proper communication between the Board and its Committees and senior management and that non-executive Directors receive appropriate information.
The Chairman reviews and the Company Secretary facilitates induction and other professional development as required.
Directors may take independent professional advice at the Companys expense, although no such advice was sought during the year.
43 fide La Rue Annual Report 2008 Nomination Committee Audit Committee of the Board The Committee consists of the four independent non-executive All members of the Audit Committee are independent non-executive Directors together with the Chairman and the Chief Executive.
The Board considers that at least one member of the Audit Committee, namely the Committee Chairman, has sufficient recent The Committee meets at least once a year and otherwise as and relevant financial experience for it to discharge its functions necessary and makes recommendations to the Board with regard effectively.
The external auditor, Chairman, Chief Executive, Finance to any vacancies for executive or non-executive Directors or Director, General Counsel and Company Secretary, Group Financial changes that are considered necessary.
The Committee also Controller and Head of Internal Audit attend each meeting at the reviews the time commitment required of non-executive Directors at invitation of the Committee Chairman.
The Head of Internal Audit and least once a year.
The Board, as a whole, approves the appointment KPMG Audit Plc each meet the Committee without executive and removal of Directors.
The Committee has the power to employ Directors or employees of the Company being present.
the services of such advisers as it deems necessary in order to carry out its responsibilities.
It generally retains appropriate executive The Committee provides an independent overview of the search consultants, having prepared a job specification for the effectiveness of the internal financial control systems and financial particular role to be filled.
The principal activity of the Committee reporting processes.
The principal responsibilities include: during 2007 2008 has been to review the composition of the Board and its Committees as part of the strategic review.
Warren East was the appointment of the external auditor and the terms of appointed to the Nomination Committee in February 2008. engagement at the start of each audit: Remuneration Committee approving and reviewing progress on audit plans across the Gill Rider was appointed to the Remuneration Committee in July businesses: 2006 and she succeeded Mike Jeffries as Chairman on 26 July 2007.
Details of the Committee and of the remuneration policy reviewing the integrity of the interim and full year financial can be found in the Remuneration Report on pages 45 to 52. statements, General Business Committee reviewing and monitoring the external auditors independence The Committee meets when necessary to deal with routine matters and objectivity: arising between scheduled Board meetings.
Only independent nonexecutive Directors may decide matters relating to the administration reviewing reports on the effectiveness of the Groups or the implementation of the Companys share schemes other than Whistleblowing Policy, details of which are set out on page 30. for the purpose of allotting shares on exercise.
During the year, the Audit Committee reviewed the effectiveness Risk Committee of the internal audit function and of the external audit and KPMG The Committee chaired by the General Counsel and Company Audit Plcs role in performing it.
Secretary, meets and reports to the Board at least four times a year.
Other members include the Chief Executive, Finance Director, Internal Audit heads of key functions and representatives from each division.
The Board through the Audit Committee monitors the internal financial Any Director is entitled to attend any meeting.
Keith Hodgkinson, control systems through reports received from the Group internal audit Chairman of the Audit Committee, and Warren East, non-executive function during the year.
The internal audit function reviews internal Director, attended a meeting of the Risk Committee during the year.
financial controls in all key activities of the Group, typically over a three year cycle.
It acts as a service to businesses by assisting with the Key areas of responsibility for the Risk Committee are to monitor continuous improvement of controls and procedures.
There is a system the Groups risk exposure, promote risk awareness and provide an of internal control reviews which includes a self-assessment programme appropriate level of reporting by exception to the Board, which covering both financial and IT controls.
Actions are agreed in response to retains the overall responsibility, on the status of internal non its recommendations and these are followed up to ensure that financial risk management.
The Committee is assisted by Groupsatisfactory control is maintained.
The internal audit programme is wide committees which deal with specific areas of risk such as centrally co-ordinated.
This is set and reviewed by the Audit Committee, Environmental, Health and Safety Steering Group and Group together with reports from the external auditors on internal control Security Committee.
A review of the role and responsibilities of the matters noted as part of their audit work.
internal audit function and the relationship of the internal audit function, Risk Committee, Audit Committee and the Board is in During the year the Company continued to raise the profile of good progress.
The fraud risk profiling programme, involving multi-disciplined teams, considered areas of potential risks and Details of risk management and particular risks within the Group confirmed controls needed for key financial processes to mitigate such are set out on pages 22 to 25. risks.
A number of unannounced special audits were carried out during the year to test the internal financial control processes.
During the year the Company revised the Whistleblowing Policy in conjunction with policies on Business Dealings Avoiding Conflicts of Interest and Fraud Awareness and the revised policies are being relaunched across the Group, through a revised induction policy.
44 fide La Rue Annual Report 2008 Corporate Governance continued Independence of Auditors and regulatory requirements and best practice designed to ensure The Audit Committee has a detailed policy specifying which services the their independence.
Thus key members of the KPMG Audit Plc external auditor is either allowed to or prohibited from performing on behalf audit team rotate and the firm ensures, where appropriate, that of the Group and the relevant procedures to be followed by the Group.
confidentiality is maintained between different parts of the firm who may be providing services to fide La Rue.
The procedures relate to: Relationship with Shareholders selecting the statutory auditor and approving the audit fee: The Company places a high priority on communications with and accountability to shareholders.
A general interim statement and a fully being satisfied that there are no relationships between the auditor audited annual report and accounts are sent to shareholders and and the Company other than in the ordinary course of business : posted on the Companys website as are presentations to institutional investors.
Announcements are also regularly made by Regulatory agreeing a policy on the employment of former employees of News Service to the London Stock Exchange.
The Chairman and the auditor, then monitoring the implementation of this policy: senior independent non-executive Director are available to meet key shareholders to discuss strategy, governance and other matters.
commissioning non-audit work: and All shareholders are entitled to attend the Annual General Meeting and circumstances in which it is appropriate or inappropriate for receive a Notice of Meeting which is posted at least 20 working days incumbent auditors to be allowed to, or prohibited from, before the Annual General Meeting.
Shareholders can also vote and providing non-audit work.
At this years Annual General Meeting voting on resolutions will be conducted on a poll.
Results of the poll fide La Rues procedures for procuring audit and consulting services will be made available to shareholders on the Companys website.
from external sources are: The Chairman also provides a trading update.
The Chairmen of the Board Committees are also present.
Shareholders may question the Audit-related services: this covers regulatory and statutory Board on these and other matters relating to the Groups business.
reporting and formalities relating to shareholder and other Directors also have an opportunity to meet shareholders informally circulars.
The share register is actively monitored.
Non-audit related services: the Audit Committee regularly During the year meetings take place with individual institutional reviews the nature and extent of non-audit services seeking to shareholders and analysts and presentations are made at the time balance the maintenance of objectivity and value for money.
The views of shareholders and analysts and brokers reports are reported to the Board and from time to time a survey of Incumbent auditors are prohibited from performing certain non audit institutional shareholders views is carried out by an external consultant.
related services including remuneration consultancy and advice, the design, development or implementation of financial information or By order of the Board internal control systems.
Certain other non-audit services interrelate closely with the auditing work because of the significant knowledge the incumbent auditors may possess of the particular area of the business or issue.
Therefore a total ban on use of incumbent auditors might lead to loss of business knowledge that could adversely affect audit quality.
Louise Fluker Company Secretary Whilst it may be cost effective for incumbent auditors to provide 21 May 2008 services, as a general principle all must be subject to competitive tender.
The Finance Director determines how this applies.
Non-audit related services may include: work related to disposals by the external auditors because of their knowledge of the business concerned: and corporation tax compliance work assessed on a case by case basis, depending on who is best suited to perform the work.
Incumbent auditors may, but only with the prior approval of the Chairman of the Audit Committee, provide some non-audit related services such as acquisition work where the selection criteria include detailed proposals, timescales, local resource and cost.
During 2007 2008 the amount of consulting related non-audit fees paid to KPMG Audit Plc was 1.1m and was principally related to work performed in connection with the Groups Strategic Review, including preparing a vendor due diligence report on the Cash Systems business.
The external auditors have safeguards in place to avoid their objectivity and independence being compromised.
They report to the Audit Committee on how they comply with the professional
