Section 3 Management and Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE This report describes how the principles and provisions as set out in the 2006 Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Council have been applied by the Group during the year ended 30 August 2008.
The only provision which the Company did not comply with was Code Provision A.
3.2 which requires that at least half the board, excluding the Chairman, should comprise independent non-executive directors.
Following the appointment of Angela Spindler as an executive director on 4 February 2008, there are five independent non-executive directors and six other directors on the board of Debenhams plc.
As required by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, the following section sets out how the Company has applied the principles of Section 1 of the 2006 Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
THE BOARD The board of directors, chaired by John Lovering, provides leadership to the Group within a framework of prudent eective controls.
In accordance with good practice there is a schedule of matters reserved for its approval.
The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive are clear and are set out in writing and agreed by the board.
The principal responsibility of the Chairman is the eective running of the board whilst the Chief Executives responsibility lies with the operation of the business.
John Lovering will be subject to retirement by rotation at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting AGM and is oering himself for re-election.
The executive directors are: Rob Templeman Chief Executive Chris Woodhouse Finance Director Angela Spindler Managing Director Michael Sharp Chief Operating Ocer Rob Templeman retired by rotation as a director at last years AGM and was re-elected by the shareholders.
All the other executive directors will be subject to retirement by rotation at the forthcoming AGM and are oering themselves for re-election.
The five independent non-executive directors are: Richard Gillingwater Senior Independent Director Adam Crozier Peter Long Dennis Millard Paul Pindar The above non-executive directors are considered independent since none of them were previously employed by the Company, they each have no material business relationship with the Company either directly or indirectly and their only remuneration is a fee.
They were all appointed in 2006 and they have no relationship with any connected party of the Company.
Richard Gillingwater, Peter Long and Dennis Millard retired by rotation as directors at last years AGM and were re-elected by the shareholders.
Adam Crozier and Paul Pindar will be subject to retirement by rotation at the forthcoming AGM and are oering themselves for re-election.
There are two other non-executive directors who do not fall within the denition of independence set out in the Combined Code due to the shareholdings that they represent.
These are Philippe Costeletos, who is a partner of Texas Pacic Group Limited which holds a 12.9 per cent stake in the Company and Jonathan Feuer, who is a managing partner of CVC Capital Partners, which holds 9.1 per cent of the Companys shares.
Both Philippe Costeletos and Jonathan Feuer will be subject to retirement by rotation at the forthcoming AGM and are oering themselves for re-election.
In addition to the directors, board meetings are attended by Nigel Palmer Retail Operations Director, Nikki Zamblera Human Resources Director and the Company Secretary.
It is the policy for the board to meet at least six times a year.
Full attendance of the board is expected.
The agenda is settled by the Chairman in advance of the meeting and board papers are circulated to board members several days ahead of any meeting.
Minutes of previous meetings are circulated to all board members and approved at the next board meeting.
BOARD COMMITTEES The board committees are the Nomination, Audit and Remuneration Committees.
The terms of reference of each committee can be found on our website at www.
Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 47 Section 3 Management and Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE NOMINATION COMMITTEE The Nomination Committee is chaired by Paul Pindar.
The other members are Richard Gillingwater, John Lovering and Dennis Millard.
The Committee is responsible for making appropriate recommendations to the board for the appointment of replacement or additional directors.
It is also responsible for succession planning, for reviewing board size, structure and composition and for monitoring and approving the directors conicts of interest.
Appointments to the board are made on merit and against objective criteria to ensure that the board maintains the balance of skill, knowledge and experience required to lead and promote the success of the Company.
On 4 December 2007 we announced the appointment of a new Managing Director, Angela Spindler.
The recruitment process was facilitated by an executive search consultant and involved Angela Spindler meeting or speaking to all of the board prior to her appointment.
Following her appointment she has participated fully in Company induction programmes including induction regarding corporate governance and compliance.
At a meeting in September this year the Committee considered the reappointment of directors retiring by rotation at the forthcoming AGM.
In accordance with the Combined Code those directors are John Lovering, Chris Woodhouse, Michael Sharp, Angela Spindler, Adam Crozier, Paul Pindar, Jonathan Feuer and Philippe Costeletos.
Biographical details of each of these directors can be found on pages 42 and 43 in the section The Board.
Following the board evaluation the Chairman of the board has confirmed that each directors performance continues to be eective and that they demonstrate commitment to the role.
THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE The Committees membership and responsibilities are detailed within the Remuneration Report on pages 52 to 57.
THE AUDIT COMMITTEE The Audit Committee is chaired by Dennis Millard.
The other members are Adam Crozier, Richard Gillingwater and Peter Long.
Audit Committee meetings are also attended by the Finance Director, the Secretary, the Head of Internal Audit and Risk Management, the external auditors and the Treasurer.
In addition to the meetings set out in the table below, the Committee met with the Companys auditors and the Head of Internal Audit and Risk Management separately without any executives being present.
The Committee assists the board in fullling its responsibilities through monitoring the integrity of financial reporting: reviewing the systems of internal control and risk management: reviewing the eectiveness of the audit process and maintaining the relationship with the Companys auditors,  LLP.
After each meeting of the Audit Committee the Committee Chairman reports to the board on the matters discussed and raises with the appropriate executive director any issues of concern.
The minutes of the meetings are available to all directors.
There is a detailed agenda for each meeting.
The broad structure of the Audit Committees agenda last year was as follows: In October 2007 the Committee considered the external auditors performance and independence and their re-appointment, reviewed the annual Financial Statements, key accounting policies, areas of judgement and quality of earnings, the AuditorsReport on the year end audit and managements responses to the issues raised.
In April 2008 the Committee reviewed the Interim Financial Statements, accounting policies, judgements, quality of earnings and the interim review report and responses.
In July 2008 the internal audit programme and the external audit strategy and scope for the following year were agreed and approved.
At each meeting a presentation was also made to the Committee by the Head of Internal Audit and Risk Management covering the audit plan as agreed in the previous July, on control issues and significant findings.
Reports on treasury, litigation and health and safety were also made to each meeting.
48 Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Section 3 Management and Governance ATTENDANCE The following table sets out the number of meetings of the board and its committees during the year and individual attendance by board and Committee members at those meetings.
Nomination Remuneration Audit Board meeting Committee Committee Committee NUMBER OF MEETINGS 7243 John Lovering 62 Rob Templeman 7 Chris Woodhouse 7 Michael Sharp 6 Angela Spindler 3 Richard Gillingwater 7243 Adam Crozier 642 Peter Long 432 Dennis Millard 7243 Paul Pindar 623 Jonathan Feuer 6 Philippe Costeletos 6 Note: The non-attendance of each director was due to prior business commitments.
Angela Spindler was appointed to the board in February 2008 and has attended all board meetings held since the date of appointment.
Paul Pindar was appointed to the Remuneration Committee on 18 October 2008 and has attended all committee meetings since that date.
INFORMATION AND PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that the directors receive accurate, timely and clear information.
They receive regular updates on business performance and receive presentations from the executive directors and other senior management at board meetings.
Directors are encouraged to update their skills continually and their knowledge of the Company required to full their role both on the board and on board committees.
Under the direction of the Chairman, the Company Secretary ensures good and timely information ows within the board and its committees and makes sure that board procedures are complied with.
The Company Secretary also updates and advises the board on all governance matters.
There is a policy whereby the non-executive directors and the board committees may take independent professional advice at the Companys expense in order to full their duties.
All directors also have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
DIRECTORS INSURANCE AND INDEMNITIES In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, the Company has granted a deed of indemnity, to the extent permitted by law, to each of the directors and the General Counsel and Company Secretary.
The Company also maintains directors and ocers liability insurance for its directors and ocers.
PERFORMANCE EVALUATION During the year the board conducted a formal and rigorous performance evaluation of its own performance and that of its committees and individual directors.
The performance of the internal and external auditors was also evaluated.
Questionnaires appropriate to its audience were circulated in order to establish whether the committee or individual directors were contributing eectively to their role and to also determine their commitment to the role.
The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director appraised the Chairmans performance.
The results of the evaluations were analysed in detail and considered by the Chairman, the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, the HR Director and the Company Secretary.
The Chairman then held a meeting with the non-executive directors without the executives present to review the results.
Led by the Senior Independent Director, the non-executive directors met without the Chairman present to appraise the Chairmans performance.
These meetings were held on 4 September 2008.
The evaluation concluded that the board operates very well, the quality and commitment of the non-executive directors is very high and the board committees are particularly eective.
The discussions have led to a restructuring of the board agenda, the scheduling of regular board calls between board meetings and identication of a number of key topics that will be presented to the board over the forthcoming year.
The output from the 2007 evaluation was also reviewed and generally those recommendations have been implemented.
Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 49 Section 3 Management and Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS CONFLICTS OF INTEREST The provisions of the Companies Act 2006 the Act relating to the general duties of directors in respect of conicts of interest and declarations by directors of interests in existing transactions or arrangements commenced on 1 October 2008.
The Act states that a director of a company must avoid a situation in which he has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conicts, or possibly may conict, with the interest of the company.
Non-conicted directors of the Company can however authorise a conict if the Companys Articles of Association permit them to do so.
It is therefore the intention of the Company to seek shareholders consent at the forthcoming AGM to alter the current Articles of Association to give directors the power to authorise a conict where appropriate.
Subject to receiving the necessary shareholder authority, the Company intends subsequently to report annually on its procedures for authorising conicts.
SHARE CAPITAL AND CONTROL Information which the directors are required to provide pursuant to the Section 992 of the Companies Act 2006 can be found on page 45 of the Directors Report.
INTERNAL CONTROL The board considers it important that there should be a regular and systematic assessment of the risks facing the business.
The board is responsible for the Companys system of internal control and for reviewing its eectiveness.
Such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The following sections detail how the Company maintains a framework of internal controls based on a combination of the five components of the internationally recognised COSO Framework for Internal Control together with other enterprise risk management guidelines and the guidance issued by the Financial Reporting Council in October 2005.
They also describe how the Audit Committee reviewed during the year the eectiveness of that framework and its supporting policies and procedures.
CONTROL ENVIRONMENT INCLUDING OBJECTIVE SETTING The strategic objectives of the organisation are underpinned by the control environment which is exemplied by the board to its various stakeholders through its compliance with the Combined Code of Corporate Governance, internally published risk management strategy, related policies and procedures and in particular the Code of Business Conduct.
RISK ASSESSMENT AND RISK RESPONSE Senior management completed the annual organisation wide risk assessment in October 2008.
The review considered the business strategy and related objectives, internal and external risks to their achievement and the controls to mitigate those risks.
Risks were ranked according to a matrix of severity and likelihood of occurrence and the risk register was updated accordingly.
The key risks identied as a result of the exercise were reviewed by the Audit Committee in October 2008 and thereafter presented to the board.
This process involved the ratication by the board.
The Audit Committee then directed the Internal Audit to ensure that the plan for 2008 09 focused on the matters that arose from this review.
CONTROL ACTIVITIES A series of control activities used to mitigate the risks identied include, if possible, risk transfer through a third-party contract, nancing the risk through insurance or consideration by management of re-engineering the process in question.
In addition, training and support is provided by the risk management team to those requiring it and the risk management website provides best practice guidelines on how to manage risk, particularly in stores.
MONITORING AND COMMUNICATING The risks that have been identied are monitored through a variety of mechanisms which include: the audit programme, fraud detection systems across point of sale and certain central data repositories, the high and serious risk monitor maintained by the internal audit team, internal procedures such as stock takes and stock le counts, prevention tools such as CCTV and through management controls.
In addition to the above, there are a number of processes to test the Companys financial information and controls.
An operating plan is prepared in August of each year and a revised forecast is then prepared each month, which analyses actual performance and highlights variances against the plan.
In particular, performance is monitored through a series of key ratios.
Daily sales, weekly sales and margin and monthly management accounts are also prepared, all of which report on performance against plan, last year and forecast.
A treasury report is made to each meeting of the board, covering matters such as senior operating restrictions and covenant reporting and forecasting under the banking facilities, exposure to foreign exchange and hedging arrangements, net debt and interest rate hedging, cash ow and cash ow forecasting and amounts deposited with counterparties.
50 Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Section 3 Management and Governance INTERNAL AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT Internal audit forms part of the risk management department, which also comprises the anti-fraud, insurance and profit protection departments.
This combination enables the Company to maintain a cohesive approach to all aspects of risk management whilst allowing internal audit to benefit from the insights that the other elements of the team can provide.
As the result of an eciency and eectiveness exercise, the internal audit team underwent a restructuring in May 2008.
This resulted in a reduction of two auditors and a restatement of the audit plan with an emphasis on critical and serious testing.
The Company Secretary conducted an evaluation of the eectiveness of both internal and external audit teams in August 2008.
The respondents included all Audit Committee members, the Finance Director, function heads, senior retail managers and a self-assessment by the Head of Internal Audit and Risk Management.
For the internal audit function the evaluation considered eectiveness in a number of categories: understanding, charter and structure, skills and experience, communication, planning, performance and work programme.
The categories for external audit were reputation and coverage, communication, understanding, governance and independence, quality processes, audit team, audit scope, performance and audit fees.
The overall feedback was positive for both internal and external audit.
WHISTLE BLOWING All employees are required to adhere to the Code of Business Conduct senior employees confirm compliance in writing.
This sets out the ethical standards expected by the Company and includes details of how matters can be raised in strict confidence.
There are two main routes available to encourage employees at all levels within the organisation to raise concerns over malpractices.
The first, employee guidelines to problem solving, encourages employees to talk to their line manager, their managers line manager or if still concerned to call HR Connect the central human resources team directly.
The alternative route is a condential reporting line, where employees can speak to the Debenhams anti-fraud team.
If an employee feels that the matter is so serious that it cannot be discussed in any of these ways, he she can contact the Company Secretary or the Head of Internal Audit and Risk Management directly.
Serious matters are reported to the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Contact details are given for all these routes.
The Companys policy on whistle blowing and these methods of raising issues of concern were specically communicated to all employees in May 2007 and are published on the intranet.
AUDITORS AND AUDITOR INDEPENDENCE  have been the Groups auditors since the demerger from The Burton Group in 1998.
There are no contractual restrictions on the Audit Committees choice of auditor.
In order to ensure that an appropriate relationship is maintained with the external auditors, a policy on auditor independence has been established and is reviewed annually.
This covers matters such as that auditors and their sta have no family, financial, employment, investment or business relationship with the Company, the employment by the Company of former audit employees, the rotation of audit partners and the provision of non-audit services.
The objective of the Audit Committees policy in relation to the provision of non-audit services by the auditor is to ensure that the provision of such services does not impair the external auditors independence or objectivity.
An independent report is produced by the central costs team each quarter during the year detailing all non-audit work, its cost, when it was carried out and who instructed it.
This information is reported to the Audit Committee at each meeting.
The Audit Committee also obtained at the meeting in July 2008 information from the auditors about its policies and processes for maintaining independence and monitoring compliance with relevant rotation requirements.
The Companys policy identies three categories of accounting services.
The first category is audit-related services which the auditors are permitted to provide.
The second category is prohibited services which the auditors are not permitted to provide.
Prohibited services are those which might result in the external auditor auditing its own work, or making management decisions for the Company, and those where some mutuality of interest is created or where the external auditor is put in the role of advocate for the Company.
The third category is potential services which the auditors may, in certain circumstances, provide subject to compliance with the independence policy.
These services include tax advisory services or services where the auditors are acting as the Companys reporting accountant.
0.1 million was paid by the Company to  for non-audit services in respect of advisory services.
The audit fees paid by the pension schemes were 24,000.
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS The board is responsible for ensuring that the Company maintains a satisfactory dialogue with shareholders.
Two of the largest shareholders, TPG and CVC, are represented on the board by Philippe Costeletos and Jonathan Feuer respectively.
The Chairman and Senior Independent non-executive director are always available to major shareholders.
John Lovering and Richard Gillingwater have recently met with a number of shareholders to discuss incentive matters.
Formal trading updates were given to the market on six occasions in 2008: September 2007 full year trading update: October 2007 preliminary results for 2007: January 2008 interim management statement: March 2008 half year trading update: April 2008 interim results: and June 2008 interim management statement.
Formal presentations were held for investors and retail sector analysts following the release of the preliminary and interim results in October 2007 and April 2008 respectively.
Conference calls were held following the release of the trading updates and interim management statements.
A programme of meetings and conference calls is organised throughout the year at which the Chief Executive, Finance Director and Head of Investor Relations discuss Company performance with investors.
In 2008 meetings have been held in London, Edinburgh, Madrid, Boston and San Francisco.
A large group of investors and analysts visited the new department store in Derby on 9 March 2008.
The Chairman made a presentation on the Companys financial performance and major business initiatives at the AGM in December 2007.
Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 51
