212833 DIAGEO REPORT P72-95 5 9 08 10:19 Page 88 DIAGEO | ANNUAL REPORT 2008 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE in place for the succession of the executive and non-executive directors.
Diageos board and executive committee are committed to achieving the A summary of the terms and conditions of appointment of the nonhighest standards of corporate governance, corporate responsibility and executive directors is available on www.
com or on request from risk management in directing and controlling the business.
The principal the company secretary.
corporate governance rules applying to UK companies listed on the It is the responsibility of the chairman and the company secretary to London Stock Exchange are contained in the Combined Code on work closely together in planning the annual programme and agendas for Corporate Governance adopted by the Financial Reporting Council in meetings.
During the year, six scheduled board meetings were held, five in July 2003, as amended in June 2006 and June 2008 the Code.
The the United Kingdom and one in the United States.
In addition a joint annual company has complied with the provisions set out in section 1 of the strategy conference was held off-site with the full executive committee for Code throughout the year.
two days, at which the groups strategy was reviewed in depth.
As well as being subject to UK legislation and practice, Diageo, as The meetings were fully attended, except that WS Shanahan and PA a company listed on the NYSE, is subject to the listing requirements of Walker were unable to attend one meeting and Lord Hollick was unable the NYSE and the rules of the SEC.
Compliance with the provisions of the to attend two meetings.
When directors are unable to attend a meeting, US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 SOX, as it applies to foreign issuers, is they are advised of the matters to be discussed and given an opportunity continually monitored.
Whilst the directors believe that the groups to make their views known to the chairman prior to the meeting.
corporate governance policies are robust, changes have been and will Other than PA Walker, all directors then in office attended the AGM continue to be made to ensure compliance with the rules that are in in October 2007. place at any point of time.
Diageo follows UK corporate governance The board manages overall control of the companys affairs with practice: differences from the NYSE corporate governance standards reference to the formal schedule of matters reserved to the board for are summarised on the companys website at www.
The schedule is reviewed annually and was last revised in The way in which the Codes principles of good governance and September 2004.
The review in December 2007 concluded that no relevant provisions of SOX are applied is described within this corporate revision was necessary.
The board makes decisions and reviews and approves key policies and decisions of the company, in particular in relation to: group strategy and BOARD OF DIRECTORS operating plans: corporate governance: compliance with laws, regulations During the year to 30 June 2008, Diageos board consisted of its chairman, and the companys code of business conduct: business development, Lord Blyth, chief executive, chief financial officer and eight non-executive including major investments and disposals: financing and treasury: directors.
Their biographies are set out in the Directors and senior appointment or removal of directors and the company secretary: risk management section of this Annual Report.
On 30 June 2008, Lord Blyth management: financial reporting and audit: corporate citizenship, ethics retired as chairman and as a director and was succeeded as chairman by and the environment: and pensions.
All directors are equally accountable for the proper stewardship of the There is a clear separation of the roles of the chairman and the chief company's affairs.
The chairman is responsible for the running of the board and The non-executive directors have a particular responsibility for ensuring for ensuring all directors are fully informed of matters sufficient to make that the business strategies proposed are fully discussed and critically informed judgements.
As chief executive, PS Walsh has responsibility for reviewed.
This enables the directors to act in the best long term interests implementing the strategy agreed by the board and for managing the of shareholders, whilst having regard to the interests of employees, the group.
He is supported in this role by the executive committee.
fostering of business relationships with customers, suppliers and others, The principal commitments of Lord Blyth outside Diageo were as a and the impact of the companys operations on the communities in which non-executive director of Anixter Inc. and a senior adviser to Greenhill & the business operates and the environment.
These commitments did not change during the year.
Dr Humers The non-executive directors also oversee the operational performance principal commitments outside Diageo are as chairman of F. Hoffmannof the whole group.
To do this they have full and timely access to all La Roche Limited in Switzerland, as a non-executive director of Allianz relevant information, with updates also provided on governance and Versicherungs AG in Germany and as a board member of Chugai in Japan.
regulatory matters affecting the company.
In addition, executive The board considers that it is beneficial for the executive directors to committee members and other senior executives are invited, as hold an external directorship to broaden their experience and normally appropriate, to board and strategy meetings to make presentations on this would be limited to one company.
The chief executive, PS Walsh, holds their areas of responsibility.
Non-executive directors are also invited to a UK non-executive directorship in Centrica plc and a US non-executive attend the executive committee members senior leadership meetings directorship in FedEx Corporation.
The board considers that, given the to gain further insight into different aspects of the business.
importance of the United States to the companys business, the FedEx There is a formal induction programme for new directors: they meet directorship is of benefit to Mr Walsh in terms of market awareness, US with the executive committee members individually and receive business practices and networking and that the time commitment is not orientation training from the relevant senior executive in relation to the onerous as the meetings can be combined with other business trips to group and its business, for example in relation to its assurance processes, the United States.
The chief financial officer, NC Rose, does not currently environmental policies and corporate responsibility policies and practices.
All directors are provided with the opportunity, and encouraged to The senior non-executive director is Lord Hollick.
The non-executive go, for training to ensure they are kept up to date on relevant new directors, all of whom the board has determined are independent, are legislation and best practice and changing commercial and other risks.
experienced and influential individuals from a range of industries and Typical training experience for all directors includes attendance at countries.
Their mix of skills and business experience is a major seminars, forums, conferences and working groups and during the year contribution to the proper functioning of the board and its committees, also included training from the companys legal advisers on the key ensuring that matters are fully debated and that no individual or group provisions of the Companies Act 2006. dominates the boards decision-making processes.
In order to fulfil their duties, procedures are in place for directors to Through the nomination committee, the board ensures that plans are seek both independent advice and the advice and services of the 88 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY BUSINESS DESCRIPTION BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE OTHER INFORMATION 212833 DIAGEO REPORT P72-95 5 9 08 10:19 Page 89 DIAGEO | ANNUAL REPORT 2008 company secretary who is responsible for advising the board, through the groups policies and practices concerning business conduct and the chairman, on all governance matters.
ethics, including whistleblowing: During the year, the board undertook a formal evaluation of its the groups overall approach to securing compliance with laws, own performance and the board committees assessed their respective regulations and company policies in areas of risk: and roles, performance and terms of reference and reported accordingly the companys relationship with the external auditor, including its to the board.
The board assessed the reviews of each committee.
independence and managements response to any major external An internally produced questionnaire was used for the performance audit recommendations.
The board questionnaire included the areas of board For the purposes of the Code and the relevant rule under the US Securities responsibility: the structure composition of the board and its committees Exchange Act, the board has determined that PG Scott is independent and the performance of the committees: the quantity, quality and scope and may be regarded as an audit committee financial expert.
of information provided to the board: the content of board meetings The audit committee met six times during the year and reported its and presentations to meetings: and the openness of communications conclusions to the full board.
The meetings were fully attended, except between the board members and executive management.
The board that WS Shanahan was unable to attend one meeting and Lord Hollick members concluded that appropriate actions had been identified to was unable to attend two meetings.
The audit committee met privately address areas that could be improved and that, overall, the board and with the external auditor and with the head of global audit and risk as its committees continued to operate effectively.
Each directors performance was evaluated by the chairman based on During the year, the audit committee formally reviewed the annual input from all other directors.
An internally produced questionnaire was reports and associated preliminary year-end results announcements, completed and returned to the chairman, who then met privately with focusing on key areas of judgement and complexity, critical accounting each director to review their performance.
The chairman's performance policies and any changes required in these areas or policies.
In addition was evaluated by the directors, using an internally produced the audit committee also reviewed the interim results announcement and questionnaire which was completed and returned to the senior nonthe companys interim management statements.
The audit committee executive director, who discussed the feedback in a meeting with the also reviewed the work of the filings assurance committee described non-executive directors and then privately with the chairman.
A report below and external audit findings and was updated on litigation risks on the individual performance evaluation process was given to the by the group's general counsel.
nomination committee, which is done on an annual basis.
Following The audit committee received detailed presentations from certain the performance evaluation of individual directors, the chairman has senior executives on the management of key risk and control issues in confirmed that the non-executive directors standing for re-election their respective business areas, and reviewed the effectiveness and at this year's AGM continue to perform effectively and demonstrate findings from the internal control and risk management processes commitment to their roles.
It is the board's intention to continue to described below, including review of risk mitigation plans for critical risks review annually its performance and that of its committees and individual the oversight of Diageo's primary risks is allocated between the audit directors.
A decision is taken each year on the performance evaluation committee, board and executive committee.
During the year, the audit process to be used and, in respect of the coming year's evaluation committee received regular reporting in respect of managements selfprocess, the board has concluded that it will be seeking to engage an assessment process over the groups internal controls.
committee also reviewed reporting in respect of the compliance The non-executive directors meet independently without the programme and the work of the audit and risk committee described chairman present, and also meet with the chairman independently of below.
The audit committee had available to it the resources of the global management, on a regular basis.
audit and risk function, the activities of which are described below.
The non-executive directors fulfil a key role in corporate accountability.
The boards statement on its review of the effectiveness of the The remits and membership of the remuneration, the audit and the companys systems of internal control and risk management, and nomination committees of the board are set out below.
The company managements separate report on the groups internal control over secretary acts as secretary to all of these committees.
The terms of financial reporting are included below.
reference of the committees are available on the company's website The audit committee carried out an annual self-assessment in at www.
December 2007 to review its effectiveness and at the same time reviewed and confirmed to the board that no revisions to its terms of reference Audit committee The audit committee is chaired by PG Scott and were recommended.
consists of all the independent non-executive directors the names During the year, the audit committee reviewed the external audit and qualifications of whom are set out in the Directors and senior strategy and the findings of the external auditor from its review of the management section of this Annual Report.
Dr Humer ceased to be a interim announcement and its audit of the annual financial statements.
member of the audit committee when he became chairman of the board As noted above, the audit committee also met privately with the external but is normally invited to attend meetings of the audit committee.
The audit committee assessed the ongoing effectiveness of addition, the chief financial officer, the group controller, the head of global the external auditor and audit process on the basis of meetings and a audit and risk, the director of technical accounting and the external questionnaire-based internal review with finance, audit and risk staff and auditor are normally invited to attend meetings.
The audit committee other senior executives.
In reviewing the independence of the external is responsible for monitoring and reviewing: auditor, the audit committee considered a number of factors.
These the integrity of the financial statements, including a review of the include: the standing, experience and tenure of the external audit director: significant financial reporting judgements contained in them: the nature and level of services provided by the external auditor: and the effectiveness of the groups internal control and risk management confirmation from the external auditor that it has complied with relevant and of control over financial reporting: UK and US independence standards.
the effectiveness of the global audit and risk function, including the The group has a policy on the use of the external auditor for non-audit programme of work undertaken by that function: services, which is reviewed annually, most recently in June 2008.
Under 89 212833 DIAGEO REPORT P72-95 5 9 08 10:19 Page 90 DIAGEO | ANNUAL REPORT 2008 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED this policy the provision of any service must be approved by the audit EXECUTIVE DIRECTION AND CONTROL committee, unless the proposed service is both expected to cost less than The executive committee, appointed and chaired by the chief executive, 250,000 and also falls within one of a number of service categories which consists of the individuals responsible for the key components of the the audit committee has pre-approved.
These pre-approved service business: North America, Europe, International and Asia Pacific markets, categories may be summarised as follows: global supply and global functions.
It met six times during the year, accounting advice, employee benefit plan audits, and audit or other including an off-site executive strategy meeting and the joint annual attestation services, not otherwise prohibited: strategy conference with the board, and spent most of its time discussing due diligence and other support in respect of acquisitions, disposals, strategy, people, performance including brands and governance.
One of training and other business initiatives: and the meetings was held in Germany, one in India and the remainder in the certain specified tax services, including tax compliance, tax planning United Kingdom.
In addition, scheduled interim update meetings were and related implementation advice in relation to acquisitions, disposals held by teleconference throughout the year.
Responsibility and authority and other reorganisations.
within the financial limits set by the board are delegated by the chief executive to individual members of the executive committee who are Nomination committee Chaired by Lord Blyth during the year and, accountable to him for the performance of their business units.
with effect from 1 July 2008, by Dr Humer, this committee comprises all Executive direction and control procedures include approval of annual the independent non-executive directors.
The nomination committee strategic plans submitted by each business unit executive and periodic is responsible for keeping under review the composition of the board business reviews.
These reviews are generally attended by the regional and succession to it, and succession planning for senior management president responsible for the market and in certain cases additional positions.
It makes recommendations to the board concerning members of the executive committee and are held in the relevant appointments to the board, whether of executive or non-executive market.
The reviews focus on business performance management and directors, having regard to the balance and structure of the board and the specific issues around brands, people, key business decisions and risk required blend of skills and experience.
The nomination committee also management.
makes recommendations to the board concerning the re-appointment of The chief executive has created several executive working groups to any non-executive director at the conclusion of his or her specified term which are delegated particular tasks, generally with specific time spans and the re-election of any director by shareholders under the retirement and success criteria.
He has also created committees, intended to have provisions of the companys articles of association.
No director is involved an ongoing remit, including the following: in determining his or her own re-appointment or re-election.
Any new directors are appointed by the board and, in accordance with Audit and risk committee Chaired by the chief executive and the companys articles of association, they must be elected at the next responsible for overseeing the approach to securing effective internal AGM to continue in office.
They must retire, and may stand for re-election control and risk management in the group: reviewing and challenging by the shareholders, at least every three years.
the adequacy of the groups sources of assurance over the management The nomination committee met four times during the year.
The of key risks: reviewing the effectiveness of the groups compliance meetings were fully attended, except that Lord Hollick, WS Shanahan programme: and reporting periodically on the above to the audit and PG Scott were each unable to attend one meeting.
The nomination committee or to the board.
committee reviewed its own effectiveness through a self-assessment in In addition, the audit and risk committee is responsible for promoting December 2007 and at the same time reviewed and confirmed to the the culture and processes that support effective compliance with the board that no revisions to its terms of reference were recommended.
groups codes of conduct, business guidelines and marketing practices The principal activities of the nomination committee during the year throughout the business and supports the audit committee, board were the review of individual performance: a review of the executive and executive committee in satisfying its corporate governance committee structure, membership and succession planning for it: and responsibilities relating to internal control and risk management within the consideration of potential non-executive directors.
Remuneration committee This committee is chaired by Lord Hollick Corporate citizenship committee Chaired by the chief executive and and comprises all the independent non-executive directors.
Dr Humer responsible for making decisions or, where appropriate, recommendations ceased to be a member of the remuneration committee when he to the board or executive committee, concerning corporate citizenship became chairman of the board.
The role of the remuneration committee strategy, policies and issues.
This includes such matters as: corporate and details of how the company applies the principles of the Code in citizenship performance, measurement and reporting: community affairs: respect of directors remuneration are set out above in the directors environmental matters: and other emerging corporate citizenship issues.
Progress in these areas is reported periodically to the board and publicly The chairman and the chief executive may, by invitation, attend through a separate corporate citizenship report, which is subject to remuneration committee meetings, except when their own remuneration external assurance.
That report and the groups social, ethical and is discussed.
No director is involved in determining his or her own environmental policies are published on the Diageo website.
of the corporate citizenship report is available on request.
The remuneration committee held five meetings during the year.
Two executive working groups one on alcohol and responsibility The meetings were fully attended, except that Lord Hollick, WS Shanahan and a new working group on environmental performance assist the and PG Scott were each unable to attend one meeting.
On the occasion committee with its work on specific issues.
They bring together the key that Lord Hollick was unable to attend, Dr Humer chaired the meeting.
executives from the business and functional representatives involved in The remuneration committee reviewed its own effectiveness through developing and achieving Diageos commitments in these key areas.
a self-assessment in December 2007 and at the same time reviewed and confirmed to the board that no revisions to its terms of reference Finance committee Chaired by the chief financial officer and were recommended.
including the chief executive, this committee is responsible for making recommendations to the board on funding strategy, capital structure and 90 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY BUSINESS DESCRIPTION BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE OTHER INFORMATION 212833 DIAGEO REPORT P72-95 5 9 08 10:19 Page 91 DIAGEO | ANNUAL REPORT 2008 management of financial risks and the policies and control procedures the groups internal control and risk management processes.
Specific including financial issues relating to treasury and taxation required processes are also in place to ensure management maintain adequate to implement the companys financial strategy and financial risk internal control over financial reporting, as separately reported on below.
In certain specific circumstances, the board has There have been no changes to the groups internal control over financial delegated authority to the finance committee to make decisions in these reporting during the current year that have materially affected, or are areas.
Treasury activity is managed centrally within tightly defined dealing reasonably likely to materially affect, the groups internal control over authorities and procedures recommended by the finance committee financial reporting.
and approved by the board.
The audit and risk committee and the audit committee gain assurance in relation to the effectiveness of internal control and risk management Filings assurance committee Chaired by the chief financial officer from: summary information in relation to the management of identified and including the chief executive, this committee is responsible for risks: detailed review of the effectiveness of management of selected key implementing and monitoring the processes which are designed to risks: results of managements self-assessment process over internal ensure that the company complies with relevant UK, US and other controls: and the independent work of the global audit and risk function.
regulatory reporting and filing provisions, including those imposed The global audit and risk function ensures that the audit committee, by SOX or deriving from it.
board and executive committee have adequate visibility and As at the end of the period covered by this report, the filings understanding of the groups key risks and risk management capability: assurance committee, with the participation of the chief executive and oversees the groups compliance programme: and provides assurance chief financial officer, carried out an evaluation of the effectiveness of the over the quality of the groups internal control and management of key design and operation of Diageos disclosure controls and procedures.
risks in line with a plan agreed by the audit committee.
These are defined as those controls and procedures designed to ensure The above risk management processes and systems of internal control, that information required to be disclosed in reports filed under the US together with the filings assurance processes, are designed to manage, Securities Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarised and reported rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve the groups strategic within specified time periods.
As of the date of the evaluation, the chief objectives.
It should be recognised that such systems can only provide executive and the chief financial officer concluded that the design and reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
operation of these disclosure controls and procedures were effective to The board acknowledges that it is responsible for the companys ensure that information required to be disclosed in the reports that the systems of internal control and risk management and for reviewing their company files or submits under the Exchange Act is accumulated and effectiveness.
The board confirms that, through the audit committee, it has communicated to our management, including the companys principal reviewed their effectiveness, based on the procedures described above, executive and principal financial officer, as appropriate, to allow timely during the period.
COMPLIANCE PROGRAMME INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK MANAGEMENT Diageo is committed to conducting its business responsibly and in The groups aim is to manage risk and to control its business and financial accordance with all laws and regulations to which its business activities activities cost-effectively and in a manner that enables it to: exploit are subject.
The board has a well established compliance programme to profitable business opportunities in a disciplined way: avoid or reduce support achievement of this commitment.
The code of business conduct risks that can cause loss, reputational damage or business failure: support sets out Diageos expectations of Diageo businesses and employees in operational effectiveness: and enhance resilience to external events.
To relation to issues such as conflicts of interest, entertainment and gifts, achieve this, an ongoing process has been established for identifying, confidentiality and improper payments, as well as providing the standards evaluating and managing risks faced by the group.
This process, which against which these expectations are to be met.
The Diageo marketing complies with the requirements of the Code, has been in place for the full code establishes the principles that Diageo follows in relation to financial year and up to the date the financial statements were approved advertising and promotion of its products.
and accords with the guidance issued by the Financial Reporting Council In addition, in accordance with the requirements of SOX and related in October 2005, Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the SEC rules, Diageo has adopted a code of ethics covering Diageos chief Combined Code, also known as the Turnbull guidance as amended by executive, chief financial officer, regional presidents and other identifiable the Flint Review.
persons in the group, including those performing senior accounting All significant business units, groups of business units and the and controller functions.
No amendments to, or waivers in respect of, the executive committee are required to maintain a process to ensure key code of ethics were made during the year.
The full texts of the code of risks are identified, evaluated and managed appropriately.
This process conduct, marketing code and other codes that comprise the compliance is also applied to major business decisions or initiatives, such as systems programme are available on the companys website at www.
Additional risk management activity is focused directly Compliance programme guidelines specify the manner in which any towards operational risks within the business, including health and safety, potential violations of these codes should be dealt with, including line product quality and environmental risk management.
manager reporting and an independent SpeakUp Helpline.
The latter Business unit risk assessments, and the activities planned to manage is operated independently and reports to the secretary of the audit those risks, are reviewed by relevant executives, for example at periodic committee, head of group security and the global compliance and ethics business reviews.
The executive committee risk assessment, and selected director for escalation to the audit committee as required.
There is an key risk assessments, are reviewed by the audit and risk committee and by annual certification requirement for all senior employees to confirm the audit committee.
In addition, business units are required to self-assess compliance with the code of business conduct or to identify areas of the effectiveness of the design of their internal control framework.
possible non-compliance to the head of global audit and risk.
Training and Relevant executives review the results of these self-assessments and education including e-learning activities are also undertaken.
Both the summary reporting is provided to the audit and risk committee and audit and risk committee and the audit committee review the operation audit committee.
Processes are in place to ensure appropriate action of the compliance programme.
is taken, where necessary, to remedy any deficiencies identified through 91 212833 DIAGEO REPORT P72-95 5 9 08 10:19 Page 92 DIAGEO | ANNUAL REPORT 2008 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS SUPPLIER PAYMENT POLICIES AND PERFORMANCE The company values its dialogue with both institutional and private Given the international nature of the groups operations, there is no investors.
The boards primary contact with institutional shareholders group standard in respect of payments to suppliers.
Operating companies is through the chief executive and chief financial officer.
are responsible for agreeing terms and conditions for their business The chief executive and chief financial officer are supported by the transactions when orders for goods and services are placed, so that investor relations department, who are in regular contact with institutional suppliers are aware of the terms of payment and including the relevant shareholders and sell-side analysts.
Coverage of the company by sell-side terms in contracts where appropriate.
These arrangements are adhered analysts is circulated to the board.
The board also ensures that all directors to when making payments, subject to the terms and conditions being develop an understanding of the views of major institutional shareholders met by the supplier.
Creditor days have not been calculated, as Diageo plc through an independent survey of shareholder opinion which is conducted had no material trade creditors at 30 June 2008.
The companys invoices and reviewed annually.
In addition, major shareholders are invited to raise for goods and services are settled by subsidiaries acting on behalf of any company matters of interest to them at an annual meeting with the the company.
chairman and senior non-executive director.
The chief executive and chief financial officer are normally also present and available to take questions GOING CONCERN and the chairman reports on the meeting to the board.
The directors confirm that, after making appropriate enquiries, they have Investor seminars and analyst presentations, including those following reasonable expectation that the company has adequate resources to the announcement of interim results and preliminary year end results, continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, are webcast and other presentations made to institutional investors are they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the available on the companys website.
For the year ended 30 June 2008, Diageo produced a short-form summary review and a full Annual Report, which are available to all MANAGEMENTS REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER shareholders on its website, by election or on request.
As an alternative FINANCIAL REPORTING to receiving shareholder documents through the post, shareholders may Management, under the supervision of the chief executive and chief elect to receive email notification that the documents are available to financial officer, is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate be accessed on the companys website.
Shareholders can also choose to control over the groups financial reporting.
The companys internal receive email notification when new company information is published control over financial reporting includes policies and procedures that on www.
The website also provides private shareholders with pertain to the maintenance of records that: in reasonable detail, accurately the facility to check their shareholdings online and to send any questions and fairly reflect transactions and dispositions of assets: provide they may have to the company.
reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary: permit Private shareholders are invited to write to the chairman or any other the preparation of financial statements in accordance with International director and express their views on any issues of concern at any time and Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as endorsed and adopted for use in the AGM provides an opportunity for private shareholders to put their the European Union EU and IFRS as issued by the International questions in person.
The company also holds an annual presentation to Accounting Standards Board IASB : provide reasonable assurance that the UK Shareholders Association.
receipts and expenditures are made only in accordance with authorisation The chairmen of the audit, nomination and remuneration committees of management and the directors of the company: and provide reasonable are normally available at the AGM to take any relevant questions and all assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorised other directors attend, unless illness or another pressing commitment acquisition, use or disposition of the companys assets that could have precludes them from doing so.
a material effect on the financial statements.
At general meetings, a schedule of the proxy votes cast is made Management has assessed the effectiveness of Diageos internal available to all shareholders and is published on www.
control over financial reporting as defined in Rules 13 a -15 f and 15 d - The company proposes a separate resolution on each substantially 15 f under the US Securities Exchange Act based on the framework in separate issue and does not bundle resolutions together inappropriately.
Internal Control Integrated Framework, issued by the Committee of Resolutions on the receipt of the reports and accounts and the approval Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway Commission COSO.
Based on of the directors remuneration report are put to shareholders at the AGM.
this assessment, management concluded that, as at 30 June 2008, internal control over financial reporting was effective.
CHARITABLE AND POLITICAL DONATIONS Any internal control framework, no matter how well designed, has During the year, total charitable donations made by the group were inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error and the 23.9 million 2007 20.7 million.
UK group companies made donations circumvention or overriding of the controls and procedures and may not of 10.7 million 2007 10.6 million to charitable organisations including prevent or detect misstatements.
Also, projections of any evaluation of 1.0 million 2007 0.5 million to the Diageo Foundation and 7.1 million effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may 2007 6.8 million to the Thalidomide Trust.
In the rest of the world, group become inadequate because of changes in conditions or because the companies made charitable donations of 13.2 million 2007 10.1 million.
degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
The group has not given any money for political purposes in the United During the period covered by this report, there were no changes in the Kingdom.
The group made no donations to EU political organisations and companys internal control over financial reporting that have materially incurred no EU political expenditure during the year.
The group made affected or are reasonably likely to materially affect the effectiveness of contributions to non-EU political parties totalling 0.3 million during the the internal controls over financial reporting.
These were all made in the United States, where KPMG Audit plc, an independent registered public accounting firm, it is common practice for major companies to make political contributions.
who also audit the groups consolidated financial statements, has audited No particular party or political persuasion was supported and contributions the effectiveness of the groups internal control over financial reporting, were made to federal and state candidates and committees with the aim and has issued an unqualified report thereon, which will be included in of promoting a better understanding of the group and its views on the companys Form 20-F filed with the SEC.
commercial matters, as well as a generally improved business environment.
92 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY BUSINESS DESCRIPTION BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE OTHER INFORMATION 212833 DIAGEO REPORT P72-95 5 9 08 10:19 Page 93 DIAGEO | ANNUAL REPORT 2008 DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and Each of the directors, the names of whom are set out in the Directors and information filed with the SEC on Form 20-F and the group and parent senior management section of this Annual Report, confirms that to the company financial statements in accordance with applicable law best of his or her knowledge: and regulations.
the consolidated financial statements which have been prepared in Company law requires the directors to prepare group and parent accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU and as issued by the IASB company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law they give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and are required to prepare the group financial statements in accordance profit of the group: and with IFRS as endorsed and adopted for use by the EU and applicable law the management report represented by the directors report includes and have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in a fair review of the development and performance of the business and accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
The directors the position of the group, together with a description of the principal have taken responsibility to prepare the group financial statements also risks and uncertainties that the group faces.
in accordance with IFRS as issued by the IASB.
The directors have also The responsibility statement was approved by the board of directors presented certain additional information required by the SEC for the on 27 August 2008 and signed on its behalf by NC Rose, the chief purposes of the companys Form 20-F. financial officer.
The group financial statements are required by law and IFRS to present fairly the financial position and the performance of the group: the Companies Act 1985 provides in relation to such financial statements that references in the relevant part of that Act to financial statements giving a true and fair view are references to their achieving a fair presentation.
The parent company financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the parent company.
In preparing each of the group and parent company financial statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: for the group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as endorsed and adopted for use by the EU and as issued by the IASB: for the parent company financial statements, state whether applicable UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice has been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent company financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the group and the parent company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable UK and US law and regulations, the directors are also responsible for preparing a directors' report, a directors' remuneration report and a corporate governance report that comply with that law and those regulations.
In addition, the directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
