MAC RF63831 01 tp 8 4 09 14:32 Page 30 30 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 DIRECTORS STATEMENT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Introduction The Board is committed to high standards of corporate governance in order to achieve its objectives and meet the necessary standards of accountability and integrity.
In accordance with the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority Dignity plc is required to state whether it has complied with the relevant provisions set out in Section 1 of the 2006 Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code and, where the provisions have not been complied with, to provide an explanation.
Dignity plc is also required to explain how it has applied the principles set out in the Code.
The following paragraphs, together with the Audit Committee Report on pages 32 and 33 and the Report on Directors Remuneration on pages 23 to 29 provide a description of how the main and supporting principles of the Code have been applied within Dignity plc during 2008.
The Group has complied with all provisions of the Code during 2008, with the exception of: The annual bonus awarded to Peter Hindley, formerly the Chief Executive and now the NonExecutive Chairman, was pensionable.
He is, however, not a member of the Group pension scheme and maintains his own personal pension scheme.
As a consequence there is no impact on the Group pension schemes Code schedule A, note 6.
Following the period end, on 29 December 2008 Peter Hindley was appointed Chairman upon relinquishing his responsibilities as Chief Executive and the retirement of the then Chairman Richard Connell.
This is contrary to provision A.
However, as suggested by the Code, this appointment was only made after consultation with major shareholders of the Group.
The Board felt it was important to retain the skills and knowledge of Peter Hindley, given he is both a prominent and influential figure in the funeral industry.
Peter Hindley is not regarded as independent under provision A.
Narrative statement The Code establishes nine principles of good governance, which are split into four areas as outlined below: 1.
The Board The Group is controlled through the Board of Directors that meets regularly throughout the year.
Informal meetings are held between individual Directors as required.
The Board has adopted a formal schedule of matters reserved to it which was formerly reviewed and updated in January 2009.
The Board is responsible for: Overall management of the Group: Setting and reviewing the strategy of the Group: Approval of major capital expenditure and acquisition projects, and consideration of significant financial matters: Monitoring the exposure to key business risks: and Setting annual budgets and reviewing progress towards achievement of these budgets.
All Directors are provided with the necessary papers in advance of the meetings to permit them to make informed decisions at those meetings.
The Board also considers employee issues and key appointments, including the role of Company Secretary.
At the start of 2008, the Board comprised four Executive Directors, two NonExecutive Directors and the NonExecutive Chairman.
Following the Groups admission to the FTSE 350, the Group embarked on a process of identifying a further two nonexecutives during 2008, which led to the appointment of Ishbel Macpherson and Alan McWalter on 12 January 2009, thus ensuring compliance with the Code and to provide additional experience and expertise to the Board.
There are now the same number of independent NonExecutive Directors and Executive Directors.
The Board considers that four Executive Directors are sufficient to manage a Company of this size and organisational structure.
There is a clear division of responsibility between the NonExecutive Chairman and the Chief Executive so as to give no individual, unfettered powers of decision making.
The Chairman is responsible for: Ensuring the Board functions in all aspects of its role: Facilitating the effective contribution of the NonExecutive Directors and ensuring constructive relations between Executive and NonExecutive Directors: Setting the agenda so all relevant issues are discussed: and Ensuring effective communication with stakeholders and acting as the public face of the Group.
The Chief Executive is responsible for: Operational management and control of the Group on a daytoday basis: Formulating and proposing strategy to the Board: and Implementing the strategy and policies adopted by the Board.
MAC RF63831 01 tp 8 4 09 14:32 Page 31 31 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 There are four independent NonExecutive Directors, Bill Forrester, Ishbel Macpherson, Alan McWalter, and James Newman.
James Newman is the appointed Senior Independent Director of the Group.
Biographical details, including committee membership, appear on page 19.
The Chairman and the NonExecutive Directors have formally confirmed to the Board, mindful of their other commitments they have, that they will have sufficient time to devote to their responsibilities as Directors of the Group.
Bill Forrester, Ishbel Macpherson, Alan McWalter, and James Newman are independent of management, as defined by the Code.
All Directors are able to take independent professional advice on the furtherance of their duties if necessary.
They also have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, who is also the Corporate Services Director and, where it is considered appropriate and necessary, training is made available to Directors.
All Directors receive annual training and updates on the duties and responsibilities of being a Director of a listed company.
This covers legal, accounting and tax matters as required.
The Company maintains appropriate insurance cover in respect of any legal action against its Directors.
The level of cover is currently 50 million.
All Directors, in accordance with the Code, submit themselves for reelection at least once every three years.
In addition any Director appointed in the year must submit himself or herself for election at the next Annual General Meeting.
As a consequence Steve Whittern, Ishbel Macpherson and Alan McWalter will be submitted for election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting in June 2009.
The Board has established a Remuneration Committee, an Audit Committee and a Nomination Committee, all of which operate within defined terms of reference.
The specific terms of reference for all the Committees may be obtained from the Company Secretary at the Registered Office and they are also available for inspection on the Groups investor website www.
All Committees are provided with sufficient resources to undertake their duties.
Those attending and the frequency of Board and Committee meetings held during the year was as follows: Audit Remuneration Nomination Main Board i Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings 7 3 4 3 Richard Connell 7 2 4 3 Andrew Davies 7 0 0 0 Bill Forrester 7 3 4 3 Peter Hindley 7 3 ii 3 ii 3 ii Mike McCollum 6 3 ii 00 James Newman 7 3 4 3 Richard Portman 7 3 iii 3 iii 2 iii Steve Whittern 0 3 iv 00 i Only full Board meetings have been included in the attendance analysis.
18 further meetings were held with a quorum of Directors to approve announcements, documents or the issue of shares under the LTIP and SAYE.
ii In attendance by invitation of the respective Committee.
iii Richard Portman attended Committee meetings in his capacity as Company Secretary.
iv Steve Whittern attended the Audit Committee in his previous capacity as Financial Controller.
When Directors are unable to attend a meeting, they are advised of the matters to be discussed and given an opportunity to make their views known to the Chairman prior to the meeting.
A process exists whereby such views will be included in the minutes of the meeting if necessary.
A process exists whereby the NonExecutive Directors can meet without the Executive Directors being present.
Three such meetings were held during 2008.
During the year the Board again undertook a formal and rigorous evaluation of its own performance and that of its Committees by way of the issue of a detailed questionnaire to all Directors.
This was then followed by a detailed review of the responses, by the Directors, and identification of any actions arising.
The NonExecutive Directors, led by the Senior Independent Director, are responsible for the performance evaluation of the Chairman.
The Board was satisfied that its performance and that of its individual Directors and Committees was of the appropriate standard.
Full evaluations will be completed again during 2009.
The Company Secretary, Richard Portman, is responsible for the preparation and distribution of all agendas, minutes and related Board and Committee papers.
As Corporate Services Director, he attends the Board meetings in his capacity as a Director of the Company but also acts as Secretary to those meetings.
He attends the Committee meetings in his capacity as Company Secretary and also as Secretary of those Committees when requested to do so by the Chairman of that Committee.
He is also responsible for ensuring all Board procedures are followed and for advising the Board on corporate governance matters.
MAC RF63831 01 tp 8 4 09 14:32 Page 32 32 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 DIRECTORS STATEMENT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED 2.
Directors remuneration The Remuneration Committee, chaired by Bill Forrester, determines and agrees with the Board, within formal terms of reference, the framework and policy of Directors and senior managements remuneration and its cost to the Group.
The Committee met four times during 2008.
The Committee measures the performance of the Executive Directors as a prelude to recommending and approving their annual remuneration, bonus awards and awards of share options to the Board for final determination.
The Committee members during 2008 were the independent NonExecutive Directors, Bill Forrester and James Newman and the former Chairman of the Board, Richard Connell.
The two new independent NonExecutive Directors have been appointed to serve on this Committee thus ensuring the Committee is fully independent.
The Code requires a Committee of at least two members.
The Chief Executive, also attends the meetings by invitation of the Committee.
No Director or senior manager is involved in any decisions with regard to their own remuneration.
The Executive Directors recommend the remuneration of NonExecutive Directors and recommendations take into account role, responsibilities and time commitment in the fulfilment of those duties.
The NonExecutive Directors are not eligible for pensions and do not participate in the Groups bonus or share schemes.
The Committee has considered the remuneration of senior management immediately below Board level during the year.
It concluded that their remuneration was commensurate with their various duties and in line with market rates.
Accountability and audit Audit Committee The Audit Committee in 2008 comprised the two independent NonExecutive Directors and the former Chairman of the Board, Richard Connell.
James Newman, who is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales, is considered to have recent and relevant financial experience to chair this Committee.
Its membership is restricted to NonExecutive Directors.
The Committee has specific written terms of reference that explain its authority and duties.
The Committee has met three times during 2008 and again in March 2009.
The external auditors, the Chief Executive and the Finance Director have attended all the meetings by invitation.
The external auditors and the internal audit function also have the right to discrete private audiences with the Audit Committee or its Chairman if either party requires or requests them.
Two such meetings were held during 2008 between the Chairman and the external auditors.
The new Chairman of the Board is not a member of the Audit Committee.
The Committee reviews the Groups Annual Report and Interim Report before submission to the Board.
It keeps under review the Groups accounting policies, financial controls and internal control and risk management systems.
It also evaluates, on a regular basis, the work of the internal audit function and reviews its effectiveness.
The Committee also reviews matters brought to its attention both internally and by the external auditors.
The Committee reports all findings to the Board.
A formal process, established via the Audit Committee, exists by which employees of the Group may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in financial reporting or other matters.
This ensures arrangements are in place for the proportionate and independent investigation of such matters and appropriate followup action.
The Committee also keeps under review the relationship with the external auditors, including their terms of engagement, independence, objectivity and effectiveness.
The Committee reviews the remuneration received by the external auditors for nonaudit work, which ongoing principally relates to taxation advice.
Where considered necessary the Committee approves such work.
The external auditors have confirmed their audit independence in writing to the Committee.
The Committee also retains responsibility for the appointment and removal of the external auditors.
Reporting responsibilities The Board is required to present a balanced and understandable assessment of the Groups position and prospects, not only in the Directors Report and Accounts but also in the Chairmans Statement page 4, the Chief Executives Overview page 5, the Business Review pages 6 to 10, the Financial Review pages 16 to 18, Interim Reports, Interim Management Statements and in price sensitive announcements.
The Group will release its Annual Information Update by 3 April 2009.
A summary of the Directors responsibilities for the financial statements is set out on page 20.
Going concern The Directors regularly receive and review management accounts, cash balances, forecasts and the annual budget.
After careful consideration, and mindful of the current market conditions, the Directors confirm they are satisfied that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
The Directors formally considered this matter at the Board meeting held on 5 March 2009.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis for preparing the accounts.
Internal control The Board recognises it is responsible for the Groups system of internal control, which is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
A formal process of identifying, evaluating and managing the MAC RF63831 01 tp 8 4 09 14:32 Page 33 33 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 significant risks faced by the Group exists.
This process was in place at the date of approval of the Annual Report and is, in accordance with Turnbull guidance as revised in 2005, within the Code.
Internal controls are formally reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Internal Audit completes a programme of work each year that provides assurance that the internal controls they have tested are working effectively and also propose improvements where appropriate and necessary.
Coupled with this, the biannual review of the Risk Register provides a further formal review mechanism for considering and reviewing internal controls.
All such work is reported to and monitored by the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee on behalf of the Board, as part of an ongoing process, has formally reviewed and continues to keep under review the effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management systems.
The Audit Committee reviews risk management annually and receives reports from executive management regarding weaknesses in internal control, any losses arising out of weaknesses in internal control and progress in implementing revised procedures to improve and enhance internal control.
There have been no reports of system weaknesses that have resulted or would have resulted in a material misstatement or loss.
The key procedures, which operated throughout the period, are as follows: Financial reporting The Group has a comprehensive system of internal budgeting and forecasting.
Monthly actual results analysed by operating division are reported to the Board and significant variances to budget are investigated with revised forecasts prepared as necessary.
Operational management receives comprehensive management accounts covering their areas of responsibility: Financial controls The Executive Directors have defined appropriate and necessary financial controls and procedures to be employed by operational management.
Key controls over major business risks include reviews against budgets and forecasts, review against key performance indicators and exception reporting: Quality and integrity of personnel One of the Groups core values is integrity.
This is regarded as vital to the maintenance of the Groups system of internal financial control.
The Directors have put in place an organisation structure appropriate to the size and complexity of the Group with defined lines of responsibility and delegation of authority where the Board considers it necessary: Internal audit The Group has a dedicated Internal Audit team, which reports to the Chief Executive.
It coordinates the completion of self assessment reports by operational management that assists in highlighting areas of control weakness or exposure.
Internal audit reviews are completed on such areas together with selected areas of the head office function and any area where an Executive Director requests a review.
During 2008 as in 2007, there were quarterly meetings between the Head of Internal Audit, the Executive Directors and the Financial Controller to formally review and discuss Internal Audits work programme and findings.
In addition, regular meetings between Internal Audit and the external auditors,  LLP, were held during the year to discuss and plan audit work and to ensure a coordinated approach.
The Head of Internal Audit reports to the Audit Committee at every meeting of that Committee: Procedures The Group has established and documented processes and procedures covering most parts of its operations, both client facing and in support departments.
These provide clear guidance on the correct or most appropriate course of action in various circumstances.
Procedures are supplemented by training where needs have been identified.
Both Internal Audit and a comprehensive management structure monitor the adherence to such processes and procedures.
A comprehensive review of procedures and training commenced during 2008 and will continue during 2009: and Risk assessment Management has responsibility for the identification and evaluation of significant risks that might arise in their area of responsibility together with the design of suitable internal controls.
The Executive Directors and the wider management team continually assess the risks.
A Risk Register is maintained, which is formally presented to and reviewed by the Audit Committee twice a year.
Nomination Committee Richard Connell, the former Chairman, chaired the Nomination Committee during 2008, which met on three occasions during the year.
The other members of the Committee during the year were James Newman and Bill Forrester, two of the NonExecutive Directors.
The two new independent NonExecutive Directors have also been appointed to serve on this Committee.
Peter Hindley, the newly appointed NonExecutive Chairman, has been appointed Chairman of this Committee in 2009.
The Committee regularly reviews and makes recommendations to the Board on the structure, size and composition of the Board and the senior management team.
It is also responsible for identifying and nominating for the approval of the Board, replacement or additional Directors and members of the senior management team.
The Committee formally considers succession planning annually under the written terms of reference.
During 2008, after careful consideration, it proposed to the full Board that Mike McCollum be promoted from Finance Director to Chief Executive and Steve Whittern be appointed Finance Director.
MAC RF63831 01 tp 8 4 09 14:32 Page 34 34 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 DIRECTORS STATEMENT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED 4.
Relations with shareholders The Group encourages twoway communication with both its institutional and private shareholders and responds promptly to any queries received either verbally or in writing.
The Chief Executive and Finance Director have regular meetings with institutional investors, fund managers and analysts to discuss information made public by the Group.
Where appropriate or if requested, such meetings could include either or both of the Chairman and the Senior Independent Director or be without any Executive Directors present.
The Chairman discusses governance and strategy matters with the major shareholders.
During 2008 the Chairman, the Chief Executive and, when required the Senior Independent Director, consulted with the Groups major shareholders regarding the appointment of Peter Hindley as Chairman and the promotion of Mike McCollum to Chief Executive from Finance Director.
The Group has and will arrange visits to its facilities, if requested by a shareholder, where it will not disrupt normal operational activity.
Each year every shareholder receives a full Annual Report and Accounts and an Interim Report at the half year.
The Group has a separate investor relations website, www.
co. uk, upon which users can access the latest financial and corporate news and information.
The Company Secretary is also available to answer general investor queries.
The Board regards the Annual General Meeting as an opportunity to communicate directly with all shareholders.
At least 20 working days notice will be given of the Annual General Meeting at which all Directors and Committee Chairmen plan to be present and available to answer questions.
