39 Dimension Data Annual Report 2008 Corporate governance report This report explains the Companys approach to corporate were elected or last re-elected by the Company, after which governance, and contains a summary of how the Board has they may be available for re-election.
complied with the principles set out in the Financial Reporting Councils FRC Combined Code on Corporate BOARD OPERATION Governance.
The Board is accountable to shareholders for determining strategy and for the conduct of the business of the Group.
Throughout the year ended 30 September 2008 the Company has been in compliance with the Code provisions set out in A corporate governance framework in the form of an authorities Section 1 of the 2006 FRC Combined Code on Corporate matrix defines the roles and responsibilities of the constituent Governance with the exception that: elements of the Group's management structure.
This enables Dillie Malherbe was appointed as a member of the the Board to plan, execute, control and monitor the Group's Remuneration Committee in September 2004 and is not activities in accordance with the strategic objectives.
considered to be independent due to his executive role at Matters reserved for the Board include: VenFin Limited.
Peter Liddiard was appointed as a member of the Audit Committee in September 2007 and is also not approval of the Group's strategy and annual budget: considered to be independent due to his executive role at review of Group performance: VenFin Limited.
approval of major capital expenditure or disposals, material The Board considered the implications of the roles of both Dillie contracts, material acquisitions and developments: Malherbe and Peter Liddiard at VenFin Limited and concluded maintenance and monitoring of the Group's internal controls that this would not compromise the independence of their input and risk management system: to these committees.
As at 30 September 2008 VenFin Limited changes to the Company's capital structure and the held 25.4% of the Companys share capital.
Memorandum and Articles of Association: recommendation of dividends: BOARD OF DIRECTORS communication with shareholders, including approval of all The Board including the Chairman comprises five executive circulars, prospectuses and major public announcements: directors and eight non-executive directors.
The Board considers all non-executive directors, with the exception of Dillie determination of the terms of reference of Board Malherbe and Peter Liddiard, to be independent.
Rupert committees: Barclay is the senior independent non-executive director.
appointment, removal and remuneration of directors and the Company Secretary: The Board met seven times during the past year.
A table indicating attendance by directors at Board and Committee changes to retirement benefit schemes, employee share meetings is set out below.
The non-executive directors have plans and long term incentive programmes: met separately twice during the year, and in addition approval of the interim statement and annual report and communicate on a regular basis.
accounts including review of critical accounting policies and judgements and assessment of the Company's position and BOARD TRAINING AND EVALUATION prospects : and On appointment directors participate in a Group induction appointment of the external auditors.
programme and receive guidance on their responsibilities.
Financial reporting is performed according to a strict schedule.
Directors are able, at the Companys expense, to obtain The non-executive directors are provided with information to independent professional advice on Board matters.
They also enable them to reach independent conclusions on the matters have access to the services of the Company Secretary.
brought to their attention at Board meetings.
The Board ensures Directors also receive ongoing briefings, including updates on that each director is provided with appropriate and timely corporate governance, regulatory issues and information relevant to the industry.
information in order to exercise his or her judgement.
The performance of the executive directors is evaluated AUTHORITY AND REVIEW annually using the performance management system The authorities matrix determines levels of authority for the implemented throughout the Group, with the CEO reviewing the subsidiary boards and their directors for financial and executives and the Chairman reviewing the CEO.
The nonoperational decision making, including major investments, executive directors, led by Rupert Barclay, the senior capital expenditure and contractual engagements.
The independent director, reviewed the leadership and performance Groups internal audit function monitors compliance with these of the Chairman.
An evaluation of the effectiveness of the nonauthority levels.
executive directors, the Board and its principal committees was commenced during September 2008, using a revised and BOARD COMMITTEES updated series of questionnaires designed by the Chairman and the Company Secretarial Department.
The results of this The Board delegates specific responsibility to four committees, evaluation are still under consideration.
which operate within written terms of reference available on request from the Company Secretary or on the Company's In terms of the Articles of Association directors are obliged to website www.
com retire in the third calendar year following the year in which they 40 Dimension Data Annual Report 2008 Corporate governance report continued Executive Committee the split between audit and non-audit work can be found in Note 6 of the annual financial statements.
The Executive Committee, which meets fortnightly, has responsibility for the day-to-day running of the business and the The Audit Committee considers that the approvals required for execution of the Groups strategy.
It is chaired by Brett Dawson.
audit and non-audit services, together with the other controls in All executive directors, other than Jeremy Ord, are members.
place within the Group, are sufficient to ensure the objectivity and The members of the Executive Committee are set out on independence of the external auditors.
During the period, the page 31.
Audit Committee met with the external auditors four times and once informally without management present.
The chairman also Audit Committee met with the auditors on two further occasions.
Rory Scott Chairman Rupert Barclay Financial Statements Leslie Bergman appointed 30 September 2008 The Audit Committee has reviewed the financial statements for Peter Liddiard the period, and has considered matters such as the Derek Irish resigned 30 September 2008 appropriateness of the accounting policies, decisions requiring a major element of judgement, compliance with accounting During the year ended 30 September 2008 the Audit standards, a review of business and key performance Committee comprised three non-executive directors, two of indicators, the going concern assumption and the statement on whom are independent, and Derek Irish, a chartered accountant internal control.
and a senior partner in an independent accounting practice.
A table showing attendance at committee meetings is available Other Audit Committee Matters on page 41.
On 30 September 2008 Derek Irish resigned as a member of the committee and Leslie Bergman was appointed.
The ethical code and the whistle-blowing policy copies of Rory Scott, Rupert Barclay, Derek Irish and Peter Liddiard are all which are available on the Companys website are intended to qualified chartered accountants.
assist individuals who believe they have discovered serious malpractice to take the appropriate action.
The Audit The main duties and activities of the Audit Committee in the Committee is satisfied that these arrangements provide for period under review can be summarised as follows: proportionate and independent investigation of matters reported and for appropriate follow up action.
Internal Control Group risk Remuneration Committee The Audit Committee reviews the effectiveness of the Groups Details of the Remuneration Committee and its activities are internal controls, including financial, operational and compliance contained in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 45 controls, as well as its procedures for identification, assessment to 50. and reporting of risks.
Nomination Committee Internal audit Jeremy Ord Chairman The Group's internal audit work is performed by the internal Dorian Wharton-Hood audit team as well as .
The Audit Rupert Barclay appointed 12 May 2008 Committee approves the internal audit programme and reviews The Committee met once during the year under review.
The heads of the  internal The Nomination Committee reviews the composition of the Board audit team and the Internal Audit team have direct access to the and makes recommendations to the Board regarding the Chairmen of both the Audit Committee and the Board.
The appointment of new directors.
It also satisfies itself that  internal audit team met with the Audit succession plans are in place for the Board and senior Committee twice during the period under review and once management of the Group, and reviews the performance of nonseparately with the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
During the next financial year the Nomination Committee will make recommendations to the Board regarding External audit succession planning for those directors who will be completing The Audit Committee reviews the performance and their ninth year as independent non-executive directors.
independence of the external auditors.
When considering their independence, the safeguards and procedures undertaken by ETHICS the external auditors are reviewed to ensure their independence The Group embraces the highest standards in its business and objectivity.
Based on this review, the Audit Committee has activities, operating in accordance with an ethical code recommended the continued appointment of Deloitte & Touche that is distributed to employees via the corporate intranet.
for the coming financial year.
During the period the Audit A copy of the code is available on the Groups website, Committee reviewed the scope of the audit including the Group www.
To ensure independence, approval must be obtained from the Audit Committee at the end of the financial RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL year for audit and tax services provided.
Non-audit services exceeding $50,000 on an individual basis or $250,000 in total Ultimate responsibility for Risk Management and Internal must be separately approved by the Audit Committee.
Details of Control lies with the Board.
This includes regular review by the 41 Dimension Data Annual Report 2008 Board and management of the effectiveness of the Risk Each business unit reports actual and forecast revenue, profitability and cash position monthly to the Chief Financial Management and Internal Control systems and functions.
The Chief Financial Officer considers these against Risk Management function, headed by the Group Risk previous forecasts and budget, and reports to the Board Manager, is supported by an Enterprise Risk Management quarterly.
In addition, the Chief Financial Officer distributes programme and the internal audit function.
The programme monthly management accounts to the directors.
provides assurance to the Board on all matters concerning Group Risk, including strategic, operational, financial and Controls over business unit risks include reviews against compliance, and focuses on the risks to the achievement of performance indicators and exception reporting.
Business units Dimension Datas business objectives.
senior management are responsible for identifying, evaluating and managing business risks.
There are channels of communication Internal controls are designed to manage, rather than eliminate available to report significant risks to the Board if necessary.
risks, and to provide reasonable, rather than absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The internal COMMUNICATION WITH STAKEHOLDERS audit function performs a structured review of internal controls The Group is committed to honest, open and regular based on risk assessment.
communication with all stakeholders on both financial and nonfinancial matters.
The Audit Committee regularly reviews the work plan and key findings of the internal and external audit process and monitors The Group reports its half year and full year results formally to progress to ensure that areas of weakness are addressed.
shareholders, and twice a year provides interim management Responsibility for implementing controls and improvements lies statements.
Effective communication with institutional investors, with business unit or regional level management.
The Audit analysts and the media is maintained through presentations by executives and senior management.
Meetings are held to update Committee has delegated the day-to-day responsibility for the market on the Groups strategies, operations and review of the Group Risk Register to the Group Risk Manager performance.
Executive and senior management attend these and the Internal Audit team.
Briefings and meetings are The processes above have been in place for the year under conducted in line with the Groups written guidelines to ensure review up to the date of approval of the annual report and control over price-sensitive information and equality of disclosure.
The Audit Committee and the Board regularly review The Annual General Meeting provides an opportunity to these and are satisfied that the system of Internal Control is in communicate directly with shareholders.
The Chairmen of the line with the revised guidance as set out in Internal Control: Audit, Remuneration and Nomination committees are available Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code issued by the at the meeting to answer questions from shareholders.
Notice FRC in October 2005. of the Annual General Meeting is enclosed within this Annual Report.
Separate resolutions are proposed on each FINANCIAL REPORTING substantially different issue.
The Company publishes on its website details of proxy votes together with a summary of the The Chief Financial Officer is responsible for establishing Group business conducted at the Annual General Meeting.
financial policy and, with the Chief Executive Officer, for the execution thereof.
The Chief Executive Officer is also In addition to the interim and annual reports, and responsible for the integrity of forecast information upon which interim management statements, shareholders can obtain executive decisions are based.
A budgeting process takes information about the Group posted on the website place annually, culminating in review and approval by the Board.
com ATTENDANCE AT MEETINGS DURING THE PERIOD Name Board 7 Audit 4 Remuneration 3 Nomination 1 JJ Ord 7 1 BW Dawson 7 SM Joubert 7 PK Quarmby 7 DB Sherriffs 7 4 RGML Barclay 6 4 1 LF Bergman 7 PJ Liddiard 7 4 W Lucas-Bull 4 3 J Malherbe 7 3 MM Ngoasheng 5 RM Scott 6 4 3 PD Wharton-Hood 7 1 D Irish 4
