Business and Corporate Directors and Consolidated Financial Parent Company Shareholder Group Overview Financial Review Responsibility Review Management Governance Statements Financial Statements Information DSG international plc 41 Annual report and accounts 2007 08 Corporate Governance Report The Company maintains high standards of corporate governance for which the directors are collectively accountable to shareholders.
Sound governance is central to achieving the directors prime objective of maximising shareholder value and comprises, principally, the processes by which the Group is directed and managed, risks are identified and controlled and effective accountability is assured.
Combined Code The following statement, together with the Remuneration Report on pages 51 to 64, the Audit Committee Report on pages 47 and 48 and the Nominations Committee Report on pages 49 and 50, explains how the Group has throughout the period applied the principles set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2006 the Combined Code.
Board of Directors The Board comprises a non-executive Chairman, four non-executive directors considered by the Board to be independent and two executive directors.
Andrew Lynch fulfilled the role of the Senior Independent Director throughout the year.
On 5 September 2007 John Clare retired as Group Chief Executive: on 5 December 2007 John Browett was appointed as Chief Executive in his place.
During the intervening period Sir John Collins assumed additional responsibilities as acting Chief Executive, which were then relinquished when John Browett joined the Board.
The offices of Chairman and Chief Executive are, however, held separately and written statements of their responsibilities have been approved by the Board.
The Chairman ensures that the Board has full and timely access to all relevant information and holds occasional meetings with the non-executive directors without the executive directors being present to discuss, amongst other matters, corporate strategy and performance.
There is frequent contact between directors outside formal meetings to progress the Groups business and to promote open communication and teamworking.
The articles of association require one third of the Board not otherwise subject to reappointment by shareholders to retire by rotation each year and ensure that over a three year period each director is subject to reappointment by shareholders in general meeting.
Details of the directors retiring by rotation at the annual general meeting on 3 September 2008 are set out in the Directors Report on page 39, with detailed biographies of the Board members shown on pages 26 and 27.
The schedule of matters reserved for the Board includes: approval of the interim statement and annual report and accounts including the review of critical accounting policies and accounting judgements and an assessment of the Companys position and prospects : approval of the interim and final dividends: the appointment and remuneration of the external auditors: communication with shareholders, including approval of all circulars, prospectuses and major public announcements: changes relating to the Companys capital structure and the Memorandum and Articles of Association: the appointment, removal and remuneration of directors and the Company Secretary: the terms of reference of Board committees, the Chairman and the executive directors: approval of the Groups strategy and annual budget: review of Group performance: maintaining and monitoring the Groups system of internal control and risk management: approval of major capital expenditure or disposals, material contracts, material acquisitions and divestments: and changes to retirement benefits schemes, employee share plans and long term incentive programmes.
42 DSG international plc Annual report and accounts 2007 08 Corporate Governance Report continued An annual Board awayday focuses on the longer term strategic direction of the Group and the markets in which it operates.
An evaluation of the principal committees of the Board and of their constitution and processes was undertaken during the period.
The non-executive directors, led by the Senior Independent Director, also reviewed the leadership and performance of the Chairman, taking into account the views of the executive directors.
The Board normally conducts the annual assessment of the Board and directors in July each year.
In view of the impending retirement of John Clare and the appointment of John Browett it was decided to delay the commencement of this process until several months after the new Chief Executive had joined the Company.
The process for assessing the effectiveness of the Board commenced in April 2008 and is expected to conclude shortly.
The process involved interviews between all directors and the Company Secretary and a written report will be presented to the Board highlighting the matters discussed.
To date these assessments have concluded that the structure of the Board and of its committees is robust and that the contributions and the time commitments of their constituent members satisfy the present needs of the business.
Certain action points have been identified, and will be followed up and monitored during 2008.
A corporate governance framework has been approved by the Board defining the role and responsibilities of the constituent elements of the Groups management structure.
This enables the Board to plan, execute, control and monitor the Groups activities so as to achieve its strategic objectives.
All directors have access to the services of the Company Secretary and may take independent professional advice at the Companys expense in the furtherance of their duties.
On appointment, each director receives a tailored induction programme into the Group together with guidance and training appropriate to their level of previous experience.
Non-executive directors are encouraged to meet members of senior management regularly, to undertake visits to all parts of the Group, particularly newly acquired and developing businesses, and to attend external seminars on corporate governance matters.
All directors are kept informed of changes in relevant legislation and changes in commercial and financial risks.
The Board met eight times during the period excluding four ad hoc meetings convened to deal with procedural matters.
All directors attended all meetings apart from Andrew Lynch and John Whybrow who were absent from one meeting.
Following his appointment as Chief Executive on 5 December 2007 John Browett attended all meetings.
Meetings were held at various locations in which the Group operates both in the UK and elsewhere in Europe enabling the non-executive directors to gain first hand experience of markets in which the Group trades and giving local management direct access to members of the Board.
There were meetings of the non-executive directors during the period without the executive directors being present and meetings between the Senior Independent Director and the other non-executive directors without the Chairman being present.
Board committees The Board has established a number of committees to which it has delegated specific responsibilities.
The trading divisions are managed by separate executive committees.
Separate reports from the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committees, including details of membership and terms of reference, are set out on pages 47 to 64.
Membership of the other principal committees and a summary of their terms of reference are shown below: Business and Corporate Directors and Consolidated Financial Parent Company Shareholder Group Overview Financial Review Responsibility Review Management Governance Statements Financial Statements Information DSG international plc 43 Annual report and accounts 2007 08 Meetings Meetings attended held during during Members period period Summary terms of reference Chairmans Committee 9 A forum for the Chairman Sir John Collins Chairman 8 to monitor and review the development and implementation Ben Bengougam retired 31 May 2008 9 John Browett 4 of strategy and business market developments and to report John Clare retired 5 September 2007 4 appropriately to the Board.
Kevin OByrne 9 Executive Committee 8 Responsible for the John Browett Chairman 3 implementation of strategy and John Clare former Chairman, retired 5 September 2007 2 the day to day management of the Groups business.
Ben Bengougam retired 31 May 2008 8 Per Bjrgs 8 Kevin OByrne 8 Simon Turner 7 Ronny Blomseth 7 Keith Jones 8 Peter Keenan 7 Steve Rosenblum 8 John Thorp 8 John Browett was appointed as Chairman of the Executive Committee and a member of the Chairmans Committee with effect from 5 December 2007 and attended all meetings of both committees from that date.
John Clare attended all meetings of both committees up until the date of his retirement.
Katie Bickerstaffe was appointed to the Chairmans Committee and the Executive Committee on 2 June 2008.
All committees operate within written terms of reference approved by the Board, which are available on request from the Company Secretary.
The Board receives and reviews minutes of their meetings.
The Executive Committee supports the Board and ensures that the policy decided by the Board is implemented within the business.
Individuals from the Committee are invited to attend Board meetings to provide expert advice upon the areas which they share responsibility for within the Company.
Relations with shareholders and other stakeholders The Board attaches considerable importance to the maintenance of constructive relationships with shareholders and its other stakeholders.
Relationships with suppliers, employees and the community are further discussed in the Corporate Responsibility Review on pages 22 to 24.
Effective two way communication with institutional investors and analysts is established through regular presentations and meetings in the UK and overseas, usually by the Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and Group Communications Director.
The Chairman holds occasional meetings with major shareholders to discuss matters of mutual interest including corporate strategy and governance.
Where appropriate the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee communicates with major shareholders to canvas opinion when deciding remuneration policy for consideration by the Board.
Matters arising from these presentations and meetings are communicated to the Board.
Presentations are conducted in accordance with the Financial Services Authoritys Disclosure Rules on the dissemination of inside information to ensure the protection of such information that has not already been made available generally to the Companys shareholders.
The Board receives and reviews an investor relations report at each of its meetings.
The Senior Independent Director is available to discuss with shareholders any major issues that cannot be resolved through normal channels.
Non-executive directors are offered the opportunity to attend meetings with major shareholders.
44 DSG international plc Annual report and accounts 2007 08 Corporate Governance Report continued The annual general meeting provides an opportunity to communicate directly with shareholders.
The chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees are available at the meeting to answer questions from shareholders.
Notice of the annual general meeting and related documents are mailed to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
Separate resolutions are proposed on each substantially different issue.
The notice is contained in an accompanying letter.
In addition to the interim and annual reports, shareholders can obtain information about the Group from the corporate website www.
Pension schemes The Group operates a number of defined contribution and defined benefit pension schemes.
The principal scheme, which operates in the UK, comprises a funded defined benefit section and a defined contribution section.
A Corporate trustee holds the assets of the scheme separately from those of the Group.
There are six directors of the trustee company: two are nominated by the Group, two are selected from amongst the scheme membership and two are independent directors.
Asset management is delegated to a number of independent companies whose performance is monitored by a specialist performance measurement service.
The schemes accounts are audited annually by Nexia Smith & Williamson, who are not auditors to any Group companies.
Members of the scheme receive an annual statement of their accrued benefits and a copy of the trustees annual report.
Further information about pensions is given in note 27 to the financial statements.
Internal control In accordance with the guidance of the Turnbull working party set out in Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code, the Group has established and maintained a process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group, for reviewing the effectiveness of the system of internal control and for confirming that action has been taken to remedy any significant failings or weaknesses that have been identified.
This process, which is reviewed periodically by the Board, was in place throughout the 53 weeks ended 3 May 2008 and to the date of approval of the financial statements.
Responsibility and accountability The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control, for reviewing its effectiveness and the Groups approach to risk management.
The Board delegates to executive management the day to day responsibility for identifying, evaluating and managing the risks facing the Groups operations, and for implementing and maintaining internal control systems that manage those risks in an efficient and effective manner, appropriate to their nature and scale.
Senior management is responsible and accountable for internal control and risk management and for ensuring compliance with the Groups policies and procedures.
Inherent limitations and continuous improvement In determining its policies on internal control, the Board has regard to the materiality of the relevant risks, the likelihood of losses occurring and the costs of control.
The directors are aware that the inherent limitations in any system of control means that risk cannot be totally eliminated.
It follows that the Groups system of internal control is designed to manage and mitigate, rather than remove, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Business and Corporate Directors and Consolidated Financial Parent Company Shareholder Group Overview Financial Review Responsibility Review Management Governance Statements Financial Statements Information DSG international plc 45 Annual report and accounts 2007 08 The Groups approach to managing and monitoring internal control and risk assessment is regularly reviewed to identify ways in which it can be improved and further embedded throughout the Groups operations.
Where significant weaknesses are identified, these are investigated fully using appropriate internal resources and, where deemed necessary, engaging external expertise.
Detailed plans are drawn to remedy the weaknesses and progress is monitored on an ongoing basis.
Control environment and control activities In addition to the corporate governance structure described above, the Groups system of internal control and processes for managing risk comprise the following main elements: the Board and management committees meet regularly to monitor progress against the targets set out in the Groups budget and strategic three year plan and to consider the quarterly re-forecasts of the Groups expected financial period end position.
Financial and non-financial performance reports are produced daily, weekly and four-weekly to facilitate this review process: the defined lines of authority established by the Board ensure that significant decisions are taken at an appropriate level.
These include requirements for the approval and control of both capital and operating expenditure, treasury operations and cash management.
The procedures in respect of delegated authority have been enhanced during the year and revised authorities have been issued, notably in respect of contracts and commitments.
For details on the statement of matters reserved for the Board please see page 41: each business function has established procedures and controls to minimise the risk of fraud and to safeguard the Groups assets: appropriate controls and procedures have been established over the security of data held on, and functionality provided by, the Groups business systems.
These include disaster recovery arrangements.
The computer systems are periodically tested and reviewed by both internal and external audit functions: the Group appoints individuals who are of a calibre to enable them to discharge the duties and responsibilities of the roles assigned to them.
Established performance review and development mechanisms exist to identify key objectives and areas for improvement for each member of staff.
Succession planning forms an integral part of HR management: Group Treasury operates within established and documented policies and procedures.
The policies are described in the Directors Report on page 34 and are reviewed and approved annually by the Executive Committee: the Groups programme of insurance covers the material risks to the Groups assets and business and is reviewed annually by the Executive Committee and the Audit Committee: management at each business unit and in those functions of the Group requiring greater overview, has responsibility for identification and evaluation of significant risks to their business areas together with design of mitigating controls.
They are supported in this role by the Internal Audit and Risk Management function: all entities within the Group are required to adhere to common standards of internal control and corporate governance, which are specified in documented guidance: and post completion assessments are carried out following major acquisitions.
Assurance and monitoring Senior management under the direction of the Board is responsible for maintaining the appropriate internal control systems and for managing risk at an operational level.
The Board conducts an annual evaluation of the management of risk and the processes of internal control and has established a monitoring framework consisting of the functions set out below: Audit Committee The Audit Committee seeks ongoing assurance that the control environment and activities described above are operating effectively and reports regularly to the Board.
The Audit Committees review of the effectiveness of the internal controls is formally reported to the Board on an annual basis: details of this review can be found in the Audit Committee Report on page 48.
46 DSG international plc Annual report and accounts 2007 08 Corporate Governance Report continued Internal audit The Internal Audit department is fully independent of business operations and has a Group-wide mandate.
Their work is driven by a risk-based methodology ensuring that the controls to mitigate the Groups key risks are audited on a regular basis.
Its plans are approved by the Audit Committee, which also receives regular reports on its findings and progress of related actions.
The function also works with the business to promote and further develop effective risk management within their operations.
External audit The external auditors provide further independent observations on certain elements of the internal financial controls as part of their audit of the financial statements and their findings are presented to the Audit Committee.
Corporate responsibility The Group operates a Corporate Responsibility CR Committee, which was chaired by the Group Director of HR during the period and chaired by the Company Secretary after 31 May 2008.
During the period the Committee met on four occasions.
The Group Finance Director is the Board member with specific responsibility for social, environmental, ethical and other CR related matters.
The CR Committee assists the Board in identifying reputational and other risks arising from the conduct of the Groups businesses.
It makes recommendations on measurement tools and audit procedures and reports on the effectiveness of systems for managing CR related matters.
All Board members receive regular updates on CR issues, risks and opportunities.
Corporate website Further information relating to corporate governance including terms of reference for Board committees, full schedule of matters reserved for the Board, and corporate responsibility may be found on the corporate responsibility section of the corporate website www.
Compliance The directors consider that the Company has throughout the period complied with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code except as detailed above.
