Business and Corporate Directors and Consolidated Financial Parent Company Shareholder Group Overview Financial Review Responsibility Review Management Governance Statements Financial Statements Information DSG international plc 47 Annual report and accounts 2007 08 Audit Committee Report Membership and meetings The current membership of the Committee, whose biographies and qualifications are set out on page 27, is set out in the table below and comprises the four independent non-executive directors.
All committee members served throughout the period.
The Committee met four times during the period in June, September, November and April in advance of key internal and external reporting dates.
The Committee has a formal schedule of matters to be considered over the course of the year which are allocated across the four meetings.
The agendas may be supplemented by specific meetings when required and through informal discussions with the Chairman and other members of the Committee.
Members Meetings attended during period Andrew Lynch Chairman 4 Rita Clifton 4 Count Emmanuel dAndr 4 John Whybrow 4 The Chairman has recent and relevant financial experience.
The Company Secretary acted as secretary to the Committee during the period.
Representatives of the external auditors, the Group Finance Director, the Group Financial Controller and the Group Director of Internal Audit and Risk Management were invited to attend each meeting to ensure that Committee members were fully informed and fully supported in carrying out their duties.
Part of each meeting was held between the members of the Committee and the external auditors in private.
Role of the Committee The Board has delegated to the Audit Committee responsibility to: monitor the integrity of the financial statements and any formal announcements relating to the Companys financial performance: review critical accounting policies and financial reporting judgements: review the integrity of the Groups system of internal control and risk management: monitor and review the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function: the annual audit plan of both the internal and external audit functions including the principal areas of focus: review the Groups risk and insurance programmes: review and monitor the external auditors independence and objectivity, assess the effectiveness of the external audit process, approve the external auditors remuneration and terms of engagement and make recommendations in respect of their reappointment or removal: review regularly the Groups policy on the supply of non-audit services by the external auditors, to approve the qualifying services and the level of non-audit fees and to monitor the services provided.
In this respect, the level of fees paid for non-audit services when taken as a proportion of the audit fee is considered in addition to the nature of such services in order to preserve the external auditors independence and objectivity: and monitor the results and effectiveness of arrangements under which employees can raise in confidence issues of concern relating to financial matters and internal controls.
In addition, the Audit Committee has responsibility for reviewing taxation matters and working capital management.
The full terms of reference of the Audit Committee are available on the corporate responsibility section of the corporate website.
48 DSG international plc Annual report and accounts 2007 08 Audit Committee Report continued Key matters considered In addition to executing the responsibilities described above, the key matters considered by the Committee during the period included: significant issues arising from reports from both the internal and external audits: a review of the acquisition of FotoVista and the process in resolving the systems and control issues identified following the discovery of the fraud: the carrying value of certain assets in the Group: a review of the effectiveness of Internal Audit by the new Group Director of Internal Audit and Risk Management: a review of the performance of the Committee leading to a recommendation to the Board that the Committees terms of reference be changed.
Revised terms of reference were adopted at the meeting of the Board on 8 April 2008: and the annual audit fee with particular regard to the balance between audit and non-audit fees.
A preapproval policy for non-audit work permitted to be carried out has been carefully monitored throughout the period and helps to ensure that engagements which might compromise auditor independence are not assigned to Deloitte & Touche LLP.
The Committee, having considered the policies and procedures applied by the Group and the internal policies and representations of Deloitte & Touche LLP, including the regular rotation of audit partner, remains satisfied with the auditors objectivity and independence and the effectiveness of the audit process.
Accordingly, the Committee has recommended to the Board that a resolution for their reappointment be proposed at the annual general meeting.
Andrew Lynch FCA Chairman of the Audit Committee
