Business and Corporate Directors and Consolidated Financial Parent Company Shareholder Group Overview Financial Review Responsibility Review Management Governance Statements Financial Statements Information DSG international plc 49 Annual report and accounts 2007 08 Nominations Committee Report Membership and meetings The current membership of the Committee, whose biographies and qualifications are set out on pages 26 and 27, is set out in the table below and comprises the four independent non-executive directors and the Chairman.
All the Committee members served throughout the period.
The Committee met three times during the period.
Members Meetings attended during period Sir John Collins Chairman 3 Rita Clifton 3 Count Emmanuel dAndr 3 Andrew Lynch 2 John Whybrow 3 The Company Secretary is secretary of the Committee.
John Clare stepped down from his position as a member of the Committee with effect from 5 September 2007.
From the start of the period until that date John Clare attended one of the two meetings of the Committee he could have attended.
Andrew Lynch was unable to attend the meeting in June 2007.
Role of the Committee The Committees principal roles and responsibilities are: to keep under review the structure, size and composition of the Board and its principal committees and to recommend changes deemed necessary: to identify, evaluate and nominate to the Board candidates for appointment to the Board: to be responsible for succession planning for Board members, in particular the Chairman and Chief Executive: and to make recommendations to the Board for the continuation or otherwise of a director in office upon the expiry of any specified term of appointment.
No member of the Committee participates in discussions or decisions concerning their own appointment to the Board.
The Committees full terms of reference are on the corporate responsibility section of the corporate website.
Key matters considered The principal matters considered by the Committee during the period included the following: further consideration of succession planning in relation to Board members and senior executives within the Group, including the appointment of John Browett as Chief Executive: the evaluation of the Board undertaken during the year which confirmed the Committees opinion that the Boards size, composition and structure and the present Board Committee structure were appropriate to the present needs of the Group.
The Committee is also satisfied that the present structure offers strong leadership for the Company, but does not concentrate authority in one or two key individuals: review of the Committees terms of reference following changes implemented by the Companies Act 2006 and other relevant legislation: consideration of the terms of service of Count Emmanuel dAndr and Sir John Collins and the recommendation to the Board that those terms be extended for a further period: and a review of a policy for external appointments for both non-executive and executive directors for recommendation to the Board.
50 DSG international plc Annual report and accounts 2007 08 Nominations Committee Report continued The Committee is satisfied that the Board keeps abreast of developments within the industry through a mixture of private research and presentations from internal and external advisors on key areas of importance to the Company.
The Committee is satisfied that the directors retiring in accordance with the Articles of Association at the forthcoming annual general meeting Andrew Lynch, John Whybrow and John Browett are properly qualified for reappointment by virtue of their skills and experience and their contribution of guidance and time to the Boards deliberations.
Sir John Collins Chairman of the Nominations Committee
