Corporate governance report Directors report on corporate governance The Board recognises that good governance helps the business to deliver the strategy, generate shareholder value and safeguard shareholders long-term interests, and it is committed to high standards of corporate governance.
Despite being a company listed on AIM until recently, the Board recognised the importance of adhering, so far as practicable, with the Combined Code Principles of Corporate Governance the Combined Code and has continued in its efforts to develop further its approach to corporate governance and the effective management of risk in the context of a rapidly expanding business.
In the run up to and following the accession of the Company to the Of cial List and to trading on the LSEs main market on 19 May 2008, the Board has focused its efforts on compliance with the Combined Code.
The Company does currently qualify as a smaller company for Combined Code purposes and as such, following Admission, the Company has been compliant in all respects with the Combined Code for the year ended 28 December 2008, except as follows: A.
3.1 Chief Executive Of cer becoming Chairman, independence of Chairman D. 1.1 Senior Independent Director not attending meetings with major shareholders to listen to their views These are explained in more detail in the sections below.
However, now that the Company is a current member of the FTSE 250 index, the Board sees 2009 as a transition year for the Company, in terms of compliance with the Combined Code, from being a smaller company to a larger company and therefore the adherence to the very highest standards of corporate governance.
This includes compliance with the Turnbull Guidance as explained in more detail below.
Board composition and independence As at 28 December 2008, the Board of the Company comprised three Executive Directors, including the part-time Executive Chairman, and six Non-Executive Directors, four of whom are independent of management and free from any business or other relationship, including those relationships and circumstances referred to in provision A.
3.1 of the Combined Code that could materially interfere with the exercise of objective and independent judgement.
Therefore, following Admission, the Company, as a smaller company, is compliant in terms of independence with the Combined Code provision A.
The independent NonExecutive Directors play a key governance role in protecting shareholders interests and complement the skills and experience of the Executive Directors through their range of knowledge, experience and insight from other businesses.
All of the Directors bring strong judgement to the Boards deliberations.
The biographical details of the Directors are set out on page 25.
Upon Admission, the Company was not fully compliant with the Combined Code, notably as it had, and continues to have, an Executive Chairman Stephen Hemsley who did not meet the Combined Codes independence criteria and furthermore who was Chief Executive Of cer of the Company before his appointment as Executive Chairman on 1 January 2008.
However, the Directors believe Stephen Hemsleys appointment as Executive Chairman was, and continues to be, in the best interests of shareholders and, given his profound knowledge and experience of the business, is vitally important to the continued success of the Group.
Cognisant of its prime objective to ensure the Companys ongoing commercial success, the Board put in place the current arrangement to effect the smooth transition of the then Deputy Chief Executive Of cer, Chris Moore, to the role of Chief Executive Of cer and of the Company from its listing on AIM to the Of cial List during the year.
The Board does not envisage that the Chairman of the Board will be an Executive role in the long-term.
There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Executive Chairman and the Chief Executive.
Pursuant to this, the Executive Chairman has primary responsibility for setting a vision for the Company and formulating its strategy, leading and running the Board and ensuring there is effective communication with shareholders.
The Chief Executive Of cer, Chris Moore, has executive responsibilities for the operations and results of the Group, developing the executive and senior management team and making proposals to the Board for the strategic development of the Group.
Clear divisions of accountability and responsibility exist and operate effectively for these positions.
Under the Companys Articles, all Directors have to submit themselves for re-election at least every three years if they wish to continue serving and are considered by the Board to be eligible.
New Directors are submitted for election by shareholders in their first year following appointment and therefore Peter Klauber, who joined the Board as an independent Non-Executive Director on 30 September 2008, will be subject to election by shareholders at the AGM in April 2009.
Both Colin Halpern and Nigel Wray have served on the Board of the Company for nine years, albeit Colin Halpern was an Executive Director until the end of 2007 before becoming a Non-Executive Director.
Due to their respective material shareholdings in the Company, neither Colin Halpern nor Nigel Wray is considered an independent Non-Executive Director for Combined Code purposes.
However the Chairman and the rest of the Board have con rmed that both Colin Halpern and Nigel Wray bring extensive knowledge and business experience to the Board that is invaluable to the continued success of the Group.
Therefore, both Colin Halpern and Nigel Wray will retire and offer themselves for re-election at this years AGM and annually thereafter.
Lee Ginsberg and Dianne Thompson will also retire by rotation and offer themselves up for reappointment at the AGM in 2009.
More information about the Directors standing for reappointment is set out in the AGM Notice.
Details of the Executive Directors service contracts are set out on page 40.
The Non-Executive Directors have letters of appointment which are available for inspection at the registered of ce of the Company during normal business hours and at the place of the AGM for at least 15 minutes before and until the end of the meeting.
32 Dominos Pizza UK & IRL plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Following Admission, the Board consisted of three Executive Directors and five Non-Executive Directors, three of whom were deemed independent for the purposes of the Combined Code.
In order to transition towards the Combined Code requirement for larger companies that requires that at least half of the Board consists of independent Non-Executive Directors and as an additional arrangement to mitigate any governance concerns over having an Executive Chairman, in September 2008 the Board, in conjunction with the Nomination Committee, decided to invite Peter Klauber to join the Board as additional, fourth independent Non-Executive Director.
When the Nomination Committee drew up the speci cation for an additional independent Non-Executive Director, it was immediately apparent that Peter Klauber possessed the skills and attributes being sought and, following a series of meetings with each of the members of the Nomination Committee, Peter Klauber was invited to join the Board.
It was felt unnecessary to use the services of an external consultant.
Following Admission, Michael Shallow, an independent Non-Executive Director, was appointed as the Senior Independent Director.
Michael Shallows responsibilities include being available to shareholders if they have concerns which are not resolved through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive Of cer or Chief Financial Of cer or for which such contact is inappropriate.
Whilst the Senior Independent Director is available to meet major shareholders in accordance with provision D. 1.1 of the Combined Code, post Admission no such meetings have taken place.
However, the Executive Directors have, during 2008, had many meetings with major shareholders and during 2009 the Senior Independent Director will be available to attend such meetings.
The Senior Independent Director is a member of the Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the Nomination Committee.
The Board requires all Non-Executive Directors to be independent in their judgement.
The structure of the Board and the integrity of the individual Directors ensure that no single individual or group dominates the decision making process.
Board responsibilities The Board normally meets 10 times a year, as well as annually devoting one day to a Board strategy conference.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved for Board decision in order to ensure its overall control of the Groups affairs.
These include the determination of strategy, the approval of financial statements, indebtedness levels, major acquisitions, disposals and investments, authority levels for expenditure, treasury policies, risk management, the internal control framework and succession planning for senior executives following appropriate recommendations from the Nomination Committee.
Matters requiring Board and Committee approval are generally the subject of a proposal by one or more of the Executive Directors submitted to the Board, together with supporting documentation, as part of the Board or Committee papers circulated prior to the relevant meeting.
At each Board meeting, the Chief Executive Of cer briefs the Directors on results, key issues and strategy.
During Board meetings, the Non-Executives regularly make further enquiries of the Executive Directors and seek further information which is provided either at the relevant meeting or subsequently.
All Directors have access to the services of the Company Secretary and may take independent professional advice at the Companys expense in conducting their duties.
The role of the Company Secretary is to ensure that all procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
The Company Secretary reports to the Chairman in respect of his core duties to the Board.
The removal of the Company Secretary is a matter speci cally reserved for decision by the Board.
Any questions shareholders may have on corporate governance matters, policies or procedures should be addressed to the Company Secretary.
All new Directors receive a personalised induction programme, tailored to their experience, background and particular areas of focus, which is designed to develop their knowledge and understanding of the Companys culture and operations.
The programme will usually include an overview of the business model and the Board processes, meetings with the Executive team and senior managers, site visits and brie ngs on key issues.
The Board also recognises the importance of ongoing training and education, particularly regarding new laws and regulations which are relevant to the Group.
Such training or education is obtained through the Company or through external advisors, as necessary.
The Company provides insurance cover and indemnities for its Directors and of cers, although no cover exists in the event the Directors or of cers are found to have acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
Board processes The Board governs through a number of Board Committees the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees to which certain responsibilities and duties are delegated.
These Committees are properly authorised under the constitution of the Company to take decisions and act on behalf of the Board within the parameters laid down by the Board.
The Board is kept fully informed of the work of these Committees and any issues requiring resolution will be referred to the full Board as appropriate.
A summary of the operations of these Committees is set out below.
The effectiveness of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees is underpinned by their Non-Executive Director membership, which provides independent insight on governance matters.
Copies of each Committees Terms of Reference are available on our website.
All of the Terms of Reference are compatible with the provisions of the Combined Code.
Dominos Pizza UK & IRL plc 33 Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Corporate governance report continued The Board scheduled 10 meetings in the year ended 28 December 2008, together with a strategy and business planning day.
Ad hoc meetings were also convened to deal with matters between scheduled meetings as appropriate.
The table below shows the attendance of Directors at regular Board meetings and at meetings of the Nomination, Remuneration and Audit Committees during the year.
Members attendance during the year ended 28 December 2008 Board Nomination Remuneration Audit meetings Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings held 10 2 3 2 Executive Directors Stephen Hemsley 10 Chris Moore 10 Lee Ginsberg 10 Non-Executive Directors 1 Colin Halpern 10 2 1 1 John Hodson 9 3 2 2 Peter Klauber 3 Michael Shallow 9 2 3 2 Dianne Thompson 8 2 3 Nigel Wray 9 1 Colin Halpern ceased to be a member of both the Remuneration Committee and the Audit Committee on 19 May 2008.
2 Peter Klauber was only appointed to the Board on 30 September 2008 and to the Remuneration Committee on 19 November 2008.
Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee is responsible for ensuring that the Board comprises an appropriate balance of skills, knowledge and experience and as part of this leads the process for Board appointments and the re-election and succession of Directors, as well as making recommendations for the membership of statutory committees.
The Committee is chaired by Dianne Thompson and its members are Colin Halpern and Michael Shallow.
The Company Secretary also attends in his capacity as Secretary of the Committee.
The Nomination Committee is also responsible for reviewing the output of the Board effectiveness review.
It met twice during the year to consider increasing the number of independent Non-Executive Directors on the Board following Admission and to recommend the appointment of Peter Klauber to the Board.
The results of the Board effectiveness review were only made available in late December 2008, therefore the Committee will meet to discuss the results in early 2009.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committees role is to determine and recommend to the Board the remuneration of the Executive Directors.
It also monitors the levels and structure of remuneration for senior management.
John Hodson chairs the Committee, which, following Admission, is composed entirely of independent Non-Executive Directors pre Admission, Colin Halpern was a member of the Committee.
The other Committee members following Admission are Dianne Thompson, Michael Shallow and with effect from 19 November 2008 Peter Klauber.
At the invitation of the Committee, the Chairman of the Board normally attends meetings and the Chief Executive Of cer attends as appropriate.
The Committee met three times this year.
The responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee and an explanation of how it applies the Directors remuneration principles of the Combined Code, are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 38 to 46.
Audit Committee Following Admission, the membership of the Committee is composed entirely of independent Non-Executive Directors pre Admission, Colin Halpern was also a member of the Committee but due to the fact that he is not considered independent for Combined Code purposes, he stepped down from the Committee prior to Admission.
Michael Shallow, who has recent and relevant financial experience is the Chairman of the Committee and has been the Chairman throughout 2008.
The other Committee member is John Hodson.
Partly due to the fact that the Company only became a member of the FTSE 250 midway through 2008 and as such is a smaller company for Combined Code purposes, the Company does currently comply with the Combined Code provision C. 3.1 which requires the Committee to consist of two or more independent Non-Executive Directors.
As part of the Companys transition to a larger company for Combined Code purposes, the Nomination Committee will discuss which of Dianne Thompson or Peter Klauber as additional independent Non-Executive Directors is best placed to be appointed to the Committee during 2009.
34 Dominos Pizza UK & IRL plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 At the invitation of the Chairman of the Committee, the Chief Financial Of cer, the Financial Controller and representatives of the external auditors regularly attend meetings.
The Committee met twice this year.
When appropriate, the Committee has regular private meetings with the external auditors during the year and the Audit Committee Chairman holds preparatory meetings with senior management prior to Committee meetings.
The Audit Committees primary responsibilities are to review the financial statements, to review the Groups internal control and risk assurance processes, to consider the appointment of the external auditors, their reports to the Committee and their independence, which includes an assessment of their appropriateness to conduct any non-audit work.
The Committee met twice during the year to review the draft annual and interim reports before recommending their publication to the Board.
The Committee also discussed with the Chief Executive Of cer and Chief Financial Of cer, the Financial Controller and the external auditors the signi cant accounting policies, estimates and judgements in preparing these reports.
The Committee also sought the views of the external auditors on the internal control environment.
Prior to Admission, the Committee was briefed on any matters relating to staff raising concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or behaviour in the business.
Following Admission, a dedicated whistleblowing facility has been set up for all employees.
The Committee will review all whistleblowing returns generated and sanction any necessary follow-up action recommended by senior management.
The Company does not have a formal internal audit function.
The Committee and Board have considered, and will continue to consider on an annual basis, the need for an internal audit function.
When considering the requirement for an internal audit function, the factors taken into account were the scale and complexity of the Companys activities and the fact that a number of other functions within the Company provide advice and assurance on specialist areas such as health and safety, regulatory and legal compliance.
The Committee keeps under review the independence and objectivity of the external auditors, Ernst & Young LLP.
The engagement and independence of external auditors is considered annually by the Committee before it recommends its selection to the Board.
The Committee has satis ed itself that Ernst & Young LLP is independent and there are adequate controls in place to safeguard its objectivity.
Ernst & Young LLP is also subject to professional standards which safeguard the integrity of the auditing role.
There is no formal policy in place at the date of this report but the Committee applies criteria for employing external auditors and identi es areas where it is inappropriate for Ernst & Young LLP to work.
A formal policy in line with the Auditing Practice Boards Ethical Standards will be adopted during 2009.
This will prohibit the external auditors from providing certain additional services to the Group such as bookkeeping, internal audit, valuations and financial systems design and implementation.
No such services have been provided in 2008.
The external auditors are, however, permitted to provide assurance services such as reporting accountants work and tax services.
Details of this years audit and non-audit fees are given in note 6 to the financial statements.
Board effectiveness evaluation During the year ended 28 December 2008 post Admission, a formal evaluation of the performance and effectiveness of the Board, its committees and each Directors own contribution was conducted with the assistance of an external independent consultant.
The process included detailed questionnaires for each Director.
1 The evaluation considered the processes of the Board and its Committees, their effectiveness and the range and balance of skills demonstrated by the Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
2 Output from the Board effectiveness review is considered by the Nomination Committee to ensure that the appropriate balance of skills, knowledge and experience is represented on the Board and that the Board and its Committees continue to work effectively.
Overall, the review concluded that the Board and its Committees function effectively and that governance and Board processes are robust.
It was also noted that there is a high level of professionalism in the strategic and entrepreneurial leadership of the Company.
The review con rmed that each Directors performance continues to be effective and that each Director continues to demonstrate commitment to the role.
The Senior Independent Director also met with the Non-Executive Directors and used a tailored questionnaire to assess the Executive Chairmans performance and effectiveness.
This review also took into account the views of the Executive Directors.
Dominos Pizza UK & IRL plc 35 Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Corporate governance report continued Management of the Group Executive Committee The Board delegates responsibility for implementing the Groups strategic plan and for management of the Group to the Executive Committee, which comprises the three Executive Directors and seven members of senior management with valuable operational experience, all of whom are Directors of the Groups main operating company, DPG.
The Committee is chaired by the Chief Executive Of cer.
The Company Secretary also attends in his capacity as a Director of DPG.
The attendance of senior management departmental heads facilitates the communication of the Committees decisions to the rest of the Group.
The Committee has authority for decision-making in all areas except those reserved for Board decision and meets formally every week.
The Committee is responsible for implementing Company strategy and policy, for monitoring the performance and compliance of the business and for reporting on these matters to the Board.
Risk management and internal controls Accountabilities Accepting that risk is an inherent part of doing business, the Groups risk management systems are designed both to encourage entrepreneurial spirit and also to provide assurance that risk is fully understood and managed.
The Board has overall responsibility for risk management and internal control within the context of achieving the Groups objectives and the Board is fully committed to identifying, evaluating and managing signi cant risks facing the business.
Executive management is responsible for implementing and maintaining the necessary control systems.
Background The Group has a 10 year rolling business plan to support the delivery of its strategy of long-term growth and returns for shareholders.
Every business function derives its objectives from the annual plan as well as by reference to the longer term plan and these are cascaded to managers and staff by way of personal objectives.
Key to delivering effective risk management is ensuring the Groups employees have a good understanding of the Groups strategy and its policies, procedures, values and expected performance.
An internal communications programme provides employees with a clear description of the Groups purpose and goals, accountabilities and the scope of permitted activities.
This gives all of the Groups employees a good understanding of what is expected of them and ensures that people are empowered to take decisions at the appropriate level.
The Board recognises that, from time to time, employees of the Group may face ethical dilemmas in the normal course of business and therefore the Group provides clear guidance based on its values, which have been revisited and revised since Admission to better re ect the Groups business today and how it operates.
The values and associated code of conduct set out the standards that the Group wishes to uphold in how people are treated and also provide relevant guidance in dealing with other employees, suppliers, franchisees and ultimate customers.
The Group is in the early stages of implementing a balanced scorecard approach in relation to bonuses, good governance and managing risk more generally.
This will unite the Groups resources around its customers, franchisees, people, operations, community and finance.
The scorecard will operate at every level business unit within the Group.
It will enable the business to be operated and monitored on a balanced basis with due regard for all stakeholders.
Risk management The Groups brand and reputation is fundamental to its continued growth and success and therefore active management of operational and other risks is seen as being critical in ensuring that these are maintained as valuable assets.
Therefore, the Board is fully committed to identifying, evaluating and managing signi cant risks facing the business and following Admission is currently in the process of upgrading its processes and protocols to enable it to do so more formally.
A key part of this is the formal creation of a key risk register which contains the key risks faced by the business including their impact and likelihood as well as the controls and procedures in place to mitigate these risks.
Risks are prioritised according to their expected likelihood of occurring and impact if they were to occur, both on the business and on employees and stakeholders in the business.
The content of the register will be signed off by the Board in April 2009 and in future will be determined through regular discussions with senior management and the Board.
Prior to Admission, the Board conducted a more informal process based around discussions of material risks and the assessment of mitigation strategies with senior management.
The key risks and uncertainties we face are summarised in the OFR on pages 21 and 22.
The Board acknowledges that it is responsible for the Companys system of internal controls and for reviewing the effectiveness of the system.
Such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Nevertheless, the Board places great emphasis on improving the Groups position, either through its risk mitigation strategy or in monitoring controls to limit the impact in the event that risks actually materialise.
Accountability for implementing Board strategies and the system of internal control at an operational level sits with management.
There is a Group-wide process for clearly establishing the risks and responsibilities assigned to each level of management and the controls which are required to be operated and monitored.
36 Dominos Pizza UK & IRL plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 The Groups risk management processes and system of control procedures include the following: A Control Environment the presence of a clear organisational structure and well fide ned lines of responsibility and delegation of appropriate levels of authority.
B Risk Management business strategy and plans are reviewed by the Board see the reference above to the creation of a key risk register.
C Financial Reporting a comprehensive system of budgets and forecasts with monthly reporting of actual results against targets.
D Control and Monitoring Procedures ensuring authorisation levels and procedures and other systems of internal financial controls are documented, applied and regularly reviewed.
In conjunction with its advisors as part of the Admission process, during the year the Group conducted a review of the effectiveness of internal controls and the Board is satis ed that the controls in place remain appropriate and meet the requirements of the Combined Code.
Such review examined all material controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management systems.
The Audit Committee has also met and sought feedback from the external auditors as part of its review of the interim and annual financial statements, as discussed in the Audit Committee section above.
This process for identifying, evaluating and managing the signi cant risks faced by the Group was in place on an informal basis prior to Admission.
Post Admission the review of the effectiveness of internal controls and development of the risk register noted above have been completed such that for the 2009 financial year end the Groups internal controls will accord with Turnbull Guidance.
For the current year this process has not been in place for the entire period under review up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts as required under Turnbull Guidance.
Monitoring The Board oversees the monitoring system and has set speci c responsibilities for itself and the various Committees as set out above.
The minutes of the Audit Committee are distributed to the Board and each Committee submits reports from time to time for formal discussion.
These all provide assurance that the Group is operating legally and in accordance with approved financial and operational policies.
In addition, our external auditors play a key role in the monitoring process.
Relations with stakeholders The Board is committed to having a constructive dialogue with all stakeholders to ensure that the Group understands what is important to them and to allow the Group the opportunity to present its position.
Engagement helps the Group identify new risks and opportunities to ensure that its long-term strategy is sustainable.
The Board nds that working with stakeholders in partnership can help deliver shared goals, especially in the case of the Groups franchisees.
The Group might not be able to satisfy all stakeholder concerns all the time but engagement assists the Group in balancing competing demands.
The Group is committed to maintaining a good dialogue with shareholders through proactively organising meetings and presentations, as well as responding to a wide range of enquiries.
The Board recognises the importance of communicating appropriately any signi cant Group developments.
During the year, the Chairman, Chief Executive Of cer and Chief Financial Of cer met with most of the leading shareholders.
The Senior Independent Director is also available for shareholders as required.
Institutional investors and analysts are also invited to brie ngs by the Company after the announcement of its interim and preliminary results.
An investor relations summary is produced for each Board meeting by the Chief Financial Of cer and feedback is given on recent meetings with shareholders, via the advisors who organised the meetings.
It is normal that institutional shareholders may be in more regular contact with the Group than others, but care is exercised to ensure that any price-sensitive information is released to both institutional and private shareholders at the same time, in accordance with applicable legal and regulatory requirements.
The AGM offers the opportunity to communicate directly with all shareholders.
The whole Board attends the meeting and is available to answer questions from shareholders present.
Notice of the AGM and related papers are sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
All proxy votes received in respect of each resolution at the AGM are counted and the balance for and against, and any votes withheld are indicated.
The results are announced at the meeting and published on the Companys website after the meeting.
By order of the Board Adam Batty Company Secretary 17 February 2009 Dominos Pizza UK & IRL plc 37 Annual Report & Accounts 2008
