Governance Corporate Governance The Company is committed to the principle and application of sound year the Board carried out a comprehensive self-appraisal which was led corporate governance.
by the Chairman and the Senior Independent Director.
The Board concluded that the review process showed that the Board and its Committees operated The Company has complied throughout the financial year with all the effectively.
The review resulted in a Board paper and an action plan aimed provisions of the Code of Best Practice set out in Section 1 of the FRC at further enhancing the effectiveness of the Board.
The review comprised Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued in June 2006.
The feedback from a questionnaire and individual discussions.
The appraisal Board has an ongoing review of its corporate governance policy.
Further included the performance of Board Committees, although a separate and explanation of how the principles and supporting principles have been more detailed appraisal of the Audit Committee was also carried out during applied is set out below and in the Directors Remuneration Report.
All Directors and the Company Secretary participated in the Companys Auditors have reviewed the compliance with those provisions exercise.
The Board intends to use external support for the review process of the Combined Code specified for their review.
on a periodic basis to give a degree of independence to the process.
The Non-Executive Directors meet separately at least once a year to appraise Board and Board Committees the Chairmans performance.
The role of the Board Board Committees The Board is collectively responsible for promoting the success of the Company by directing and supervising the Companys affairs.
The Boards The principal Committees of the Board are the Audit, Remuneration role is to provide leadership of the Company within a framework of prudent and Nomination Committees.
The Audit and Remuneration Committees and effective controls which enable risk to be assessed and managed.
The Nomination Committee comprises a majority of independent Non-Executive Directors.
All Board The Board sets the Companys strategic aims, ensures that the necessary Committees have written terms of reference agreed by the Board.
These financial and human resources are in place for the Company to meet its are available on the Companys website.
The Audit Committee is chaired objectives, and reviews management performance.
by Mr C J Bunker, the Remuneration Committee is chaired by Mr Beeston In addition, the Board sets the Companys values and standards and and the Nomination Committee is chaired by Mr P M Johnson.
The ensures that its obligations to its shareholders and others are understood membership of each Committee and the experience of its members can and met.
The Board has used the criteria proposed by the National Association of Pension Funds for determining whether a The Board currently comprises the Chairman, two Executive and five Non-Executive Director is independent.
The ofces of Chairman and Group Chief Executive are held separately.
Mr R G Beeston is the Senior Independent Audit Committee Director.
During the year each of the Non-Executive Directors has at all In addition to the Committee members listed on page 39, the Chairman, times acted independently of management and has no relationships which the Group Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director, the Head of would materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement Operational Audit and the Group Financial Controller attended parts of and decision making.
Mr G M B Adams became a member of the Committee with effect from his appointment to the Board.
The Board is The Board meets a minimum of eight times per year.
During the year under satisfied that Mr Bunker has both current and relevant financial experience.
review it met eight times.
All Board members attend all Board and relevant Committee meetings unless exceptional circumstances prevent them from The terms of reference of the Audit Committee, which meets at least three attending.
During the year Mr R E C Marton did not attend the Audit times a year, include all the matters indicated by the Combined Code Committee meeting held in June 2007 and the Nomination Committee except the oversight of business risks which is the direct responsibility of meeting held in March 2008 and Mr P J-C Mellier did not attend the the Board.
The primary objective of the Audit Committee is to assist the additional Remuneration Committee meeting held in April 2008.
There Board in fullling its responsibilities relating to: were no other absences from any Board or Committee meetings by any Director.
In addition to formal Board meetings, the Chairman and Group the accounting principles, policies and practices adopted in the Chief Executive maintain regular contact with all Directors and hold Groups accounts: informal meetings with Non-Executive Directors to discuss issues affecting external financial reporting and associated announcements: the Company.
Once a year the Board visits a business unit and receives a presentation from local management.
Individual Directors are encouraged the appointment, independence, effectiveness and remuneration to make additional site visits during the year.
The Board continually reviews of the Groups Auditors: the performance of all of the divisions and undertakes a strategic review on an annual basis.
There is a formal schedule of matters reserved for the resourcing, plans and effectiveness of the Operational Audit consideration and approval for the Board.
These include the annual Plan, department: substantial acquisitions and disposals, the approval of the annual and the adequacy and effectiveness of the financial control environment: and interim results and a review of the overall system of internal control and risk management.
the Groups compliance with the Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
The Board and its Committees, as detailed below, receive timely information of a quality that enables them to carry out their roles effectively.
The Committee receives and reviews regular reports from the external All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Auditors, the Head of Operational Audit and the Group Finance Director.
A procedure is in place for any Director to take independent The Committee meets with the external Auditors to determine their professional advice in the furtherance of his duties at the Companys independence, objectivity and effectiveness.
The Audit Committee receives expense.
No such advice was sought by any Director during the year.
written conrmation from the external Auditors as to any relationships The Directors are provided with opportunities for training to ensure that that might have a bearing on their independence, whether they consider they are kept up-to-date on relevant new legislation and changing commercial risks.
On appointment, new Directors are given appropriate themselves independent within the meaning of the UK regulatory and induction training, including site visits to major business units.
During the professional requirements, and their quality control processes.
com The Committees policy on the supply of non-audit services by external receives feedback from major shareholders in the form of independently auditors is as follows.
The external Auditors are permitted to undertake prepared reports.
The Annual General Meeting is used as an opportunity some non-audit services, for example advisory services and due diligence to communicate with private shareholders, including a short presentation on the business and current trading position as well as an opportunity for activities associated with potential acquisitions and disposals and major questions from investors to the Chairman of the Board and the chairmen changes in accounting regulations.
Non-audit services and fees are of the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
Regular communication with reported to the Audit Committee twice a year.
For guidance, annual nonshareholders also takes place through the annual and interim reports and audit fees payable to the external Auditors should not exceed 75% of the via the Companys website www.
annual Group audit fee without prior formal approval of the Committee: during 2007 08, non-audit fees were less than 10% of the annual Group audit fee.
Approval for permitted non-audit services is sought as required Internal Control by this Group policy which species that individual projects which would The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal cost over 100,000 must be referred to the Chairman of the Committee control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system, however, can for prior approval.
only be designed to manage rather than to eliminate risk and can therefore provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material During the year the Committee met on three occasions.
Mr Marton was misstatement or loss.
In accordance with the Turnbull Committee guidance, unable to attend the meeting held in June 2007, but otherwise there were the Company established the procedures necessary to ensure that there is no absences.
On each of these occasions the Committee also met privately an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant with both the external Auditors and the Head of Operational Audit.
These procedures have been in place for the whole of Chairman of the Audit Committee also held separate private meetings the financial year ended 30 April 2008 and up to the date of the approval during the year with the external Auditors, the Head of Operational of these financial statements and they are reviewed regularly.
With effect Audit and the Group Finance Director.
from April 2008 a Group Risks Committee was established, comprised of the Group Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director, the Group Human In addition to its regular business, during the year the Committee dealt Resources Director, the Company Secretary, the Divisional Chief Executives with the following particular matters: and the Head of Operational Audit.
This Committee will meet at least four it considered progress on revisions to certain elements of the Groups times a year to review the risks faced by the Group and the adequacy and internal controls procedures: suitability of the mitigation arrangements in place to manage those risks.
it carried out an appraisal of the effectiveness of the Audit Committee, The Board determines the objectives and broad policies of the Group.
It the external Auditors and Operational Audit, the results of which were meets regularly and there is a schedule of matters which are required to reported to the Board.
The Committee concluded that each area be brought to it for decision.
The Board has delegated to management the operated satisfactorily during the year: and responsibility for establishing a system of internal control appropriate to the business environments in which the Group operates.
Key elements of this it oversaw the continuing development and the operation of the Groups system include: Workplace Malpractice Policy.
a set of Key Corporate Values which have been communicated to Nomination Committee all employees: The Nomination Committee considers the appointment of Directors, reviews succession planning at Board level and makes recommendations a clearly dened divisionalised organisation structure for monitoring to the Board as a whole.
A rigorous process is in place for the appointment the conduct and operations of individual business units: of new Directors, involving the use of external recruitment consultants, clear delegation of authority throughout the Group, starting with the where appropriate, followed by meetings both with the Committee and matters reserved for the Board: then with the Board.
The Committee met three times during the year.
Mr Marton did not attend the meeting in March 2008, but otherwise a formal process for ensuring that key risks affecting all the Groups there were no absences.
operations are identied and assessed on a regular basis, together with the controls in place to mitigate these risks.
Risk consideration is Remuneration Committee embedded in decision-making processes.
The most significant risks are The Chairman and the Group Chief Executive attend these meetings periodically reported to the Board and considered by it: by invitation, except when their remuneration is being discussed.
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for determining the remuneration the preparation and review of comprehensive annual divisional and of the Executive Directors, the Chairman and the Company Secretary and Group budgets and an annual review and approval by the Board of for advising on the remuneration of senior management.
The Remuneration the corporate strategy: Report is set out on pages 43 to 50.
During the year the Committee met six times.
Mr Mellier did not attend the additional meeting to the normal the monthly reporting of actual results and their review against budget, timetable in April 2008, but otherwise there were no absences.
forecasts and the previous year, with explanations obtained for all significant variances: Other Board Committees The Board has delegated certain powers, mainly of a routine nature, to clearly dened policies for capital expenditure and investment, including the General Purposes Committee, which comprises the Group Chief appropriate authorisation levels, with larger capital projects, acquisitions Executive and the Group Finance Director under the chairmanship of the and disposals requiring Board approval: Group Chief Executive.
procedures manuals laying down common control procedures and policies to apply throughout the Group: and Relations with Shareholders The Company has a programme of regular meetings which sometimes formal quarterly meetings between central and divisional management includes the Chairman and the Senior Independent Director, site visits to discuss strategic, operational and financial issues.
and results briengs with its major institutional shareholders, which provides opportunities to discuss the progress of the business.
The Board also DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2008 41 Governance Corporate Governance continued The Groups Operational Audit function undertakes regular reviews of the Groups operations and their systems of internal financial control.
The work of the function is overseen by the Audit Committee, which regularly reviews its plans and activities.
The Directors can confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control.
This included a process of self-certication by senior divisional management in which they are asked to confirm that their divisions have complied with Group policies and procedures and to report any significant control weaknesses identied during the past year.
It also involved reviewing the results of the work of the Groups Operational Audit function and the risk identication and management processes identied above.
Going Concern The Directors are required under the Combined Code to have satisfied themselves as to the Groups ability to continue in existence for the foreseeable future.
A review has been carried out and the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements on pages 56 to 104.
