Corporate Governance Introduction All new Directors receive a full, formal and tailored The Board remains committed to high standards of induction on joining the Board.
During the year the corporate governance and supports The Combined Board visits operational locations: Directors are Code on Corporate Governance published by the briefed on a wide range of topics and are given the Financial Reporting Council in June 2006 the Code.
opportunity to discuss aspects of the business with employees.
Directors have access to independent Board Meetings and Responsibilities professional advice at the Companys expense where Corporate governance is the responsibility of all they judge this to be necessary to discharge their Directors.
The Board generally meets at least six times responsibilities as Directors.
All Directors have access a year.
Amongst the matters reserved for decision to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, by the full Board are strategic policy, acquisitions who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that and disposals, capital projects over a fide ned limit, Board procedures are complied with.
annual budgets, new Group borrowing facilities and signi cant changes to employee bene t schemes.
Directors The Board currently comprises a Chairman, Group There is a distinct and fide ned division of Chief Executive, five other Executive Directors and responsibilities between the Non-executive Chairman five Non-executive Directors: their details are set out and the Group Chief Executive.
The Chairman is on pages 46 and 47.
The Non-executive Directors primarily responsible for the effective working of the bring a wide range of experience to the Company and Board and the Group Chief Executive is responsible for Nigel Northridge, David Hamill, Robert MacLeod the operational management of the business and for the and Russell King are considered by the Board to be implementation of the strategy agreed by the Board.
independent as fide ned in the Code.
Andrew Salvesen, The Chairman holds meetings with the Non-executive who has served as a Director of the Company for more Directors without the Executive Directors present.
Led than nine years, is not considered to be independent by the Senior Independent Director, the Non-executive by the Board for the purposes of the Code.
The Board Directors meet without the Chairman present on such has satis ed itself that none of the Non-executive other occasions as are deemed appropriate.
Directors represents any other Shareholder or group of Shareholders.
The attendance of Directors at meetings in 2008 is set out in the table below: Nigel Northridge is the Senior Independent Director RemunNomiand is available to meet Shareholders if they have Board Audit eration nation concerns which contact through the normal channels Notes Meetings Committee Committee Committee of Chairman, Chief Executive or Finance Director Number of Meetings has failed to resolve or for which such contact is in 2008 7 3 6 5 inappropriate.
W F Caplan 1 1 1 A G Cockburn 7 The Code states that at least half of the Board, D C M Hamill 7 3 6 5 excluding the Chairman, should be comprised of R J MacLeod 7 3 6 5 R V McGlone 2 5 5 2 2 3 4 1 3 independent Non-executive Directors.
However, N H Northridge 7 3 6 5 the Directors believe that it is in the interests of K Pandya 7 good governance to have all three of the Regional P G Rogerson 7 5 Directors on the Board as well as the Chief Executive A C Salvesen 7 5 and Finance Director.
To achieve the balance F A B Shepherd 7 recommended by the Code would require the R C Soames 7 5 appointment of additional Non-executive Directors, G P Walker 7 which, in the view of the Directors, would make Note 1: Joined the Board on 17 November 2008 maximum the Board unwieldy and less effective.
possible number of meetings to be attended shown in brackets.
Note 2: Resigned on 1 September 2008 maximum possible number of meetings to be attended shown in brackets.
48 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Directors Report Election of Directors Board Performance Evaluation Any Director appointed by the Board is subject to The Board conducts an annual evaluation of its election by Shareholders at the first opportunity after own performance.
This involves the completion of his appointment.
Each Director must retire from of ce assessment questionnaires by all Directors covering the at the third Annual General Meeting at which he was performance of the Board and its Committees.
Non-executive Directors who have served aspects that are reviewed include the effectiveness of longer than nine years e. g. three three-year terms the Chairman, Executive and Non-executive Directors, are subject to annual re-election.
the monitoring of operational performance, and corporate governance, as well as leadership and culture.
Bill Caplan and Russell King were appointed to the The Board considered a summary of the conclusions Board on 17 November 2008 and 2 February 2009 from this years evaluation and appropriate actions respectively, and are obliged to seek election at the were taken.
Con icts of Interest Angus Cockburn and Kash Pandya retire by rotation At the Companys 2008 AGM Shareholders approved at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and, amendments to the Companys articles of association being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
Derek to permit the Board to authorise any interest which Shepherd and Andrew Salvesen have each announced Directors have which could con ict with those of their intention to retire at the conclusion of the the Company, in accordance with new provisions Annual General Meeting.
introduced by the Companies Act 2006.
The Board has carefully considered interests declared by individual All of the Directors have service agreements or letters Directors which could con ict with those of the of appointment and the details of their terms are set Company and authorised them where appropriate: out in the Remuneration Report on page 57.
No other these authorisations will be reviewed annually.
contract with the Company, or any subsidiary undertaking of the Company, in which any Director Shareholders was materially interested subsisted during or at the A summary of the items to be covered at this years end of the financial year.
Annual General Meeting is set out on page 67.
The Board supports the use of this meeting as a means of Board Committees communicating with private investors and encourages The Board has standing Audit, Nomination and their participation.
The Company is ready, where Remuneration Committees, the memberships, roles practicable, to enter into a dialogue with Shareholders, and activities of which are detailed in separate reports: through analyst brie ngs and investor presentations.
Audit Committee on pages 51 and 52, Nomination Senior executives seek to meet regularly with Committee on page 53 and Remuneration Committee institutional and major Shareholders to improve on pages 54 to 63.
Each Committee reports to, and their understanding of the Company and its objectives.
has its terms of reference approved by, the Board and The Senior Independent Director is available to meet the minutes of the Committee meetings are circulated Shareholders if they have concerns.
In addition to to, and reviewed by, the Board.
The terms of reference attending meetings with Shareholders, the Board seeks of the Committees are available on our website at the views of investors better by commissioning regular http: ir.
feedback reports from the Companys stockbrokers and other advisers.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 49 Corporate Governance continued Internal Control The Board has undertaken a speci c assessment The Board has applied Principle C. 2 of the Code of internal control for the purpose of this Annual by establishing a continuous process for identifying, Report.
This assessment considered all signi cant evaluating and managing the risks that are considered aspects of internal control during the year ended signi cant by the Group.
This process is designed to 31 December 2008.
Accordingly, the Board is satis ed manage rather than eliminate risk, and can only that the Group continues to have an effective system provide reasonable and not absolute assurance of internal control.
against material misstatement or loss.
The Boards monitoring framework covers a wide range of controls, Corporate Social Responsibility including financial, operational and compliance The Board has set policies for the Group to ensure controls together with risk management.
It is based that it operates worldwide in a safe, ethical and principally on reviewing reports from management responsible manner, which protects the environment and considering whether signi cant risks are as well as safeguarding the health and safety of its identi ed, evaluated, managed and controlled and employees, its customers and the communities in ensuring that any signi cant weakness identi ed is which it operates.
These policies are intended promptly remedied.
The Board continues to enhance to recognise, evaluate and manage responsibly and strengthen the procedures for identifying and environmental, health and safety risks through monitoring key areas of risk.
implementation of a comprehensive Global Environmental, Health and Safety Management The Board also considers nancing and investment System that standardises best operating practices, decisions concerning the Group and monitors the objectives, data collection, reporting, audits, policy and control mechanisms for managing treasury performance indicators and goals.
The Group insurance programme is reviewed by are set out in more detail on pages 40 to 45. the Board, which also approves self-insured exposures.
Pensions During each financial year the Audit Committee The assets of the UK fide ned bene t pension fund reviews the external and internal audit work are controlled by the directors of Aggreko Pension programmes and considers reports from internal and Scheme Trustee Limited: they are held separately external auditors on the system of internal control from the assets of the Company and invested by and any material control weaknesses.
It also receives independent fund managers.
These segregated responses from management regarding the actions funds cannot be invested directly in the Company.
taken on issues identi ed in audit reports.
Four trustee directors have been appointed by the Company and, in addition, two member-nominated Review of Effectiveness of Internal Control trustee directors have been appointed.
This fund was In compliance with Provision C. 2.1 of the Code, closed to new employees joining the Group after the Board reviews the effectiveness of the Groups 1 April 2002: new UK employees are now offered system of internal control.
membership of a Group Personal Pension Plan.
On an annual basis the Audit Committee receives a Compliance with the Code formal review that is designed to assess the application The Directors consider that the Group complies and of the principal financial and operational controls has complied throughout the year ended 31 December operated by the Group.
The review, which is based 2008 with all of the Provisions of the Code with the on self-assessment by senior operational management, exception that the Code states that at least half of the is carried out using a risk review and control Board, excluding the Chairman, should be comprised questionnaire and is intended to complement the of independent Non-executive Directors: the reasons internal and external audit procedures.
There is also a for this are explained in the paragraph above entitled comprehensive procedure for monitoring all signi cant Directors.
A copy of the Code is publicly available risks and key risks have been identi ed on a risk at www.
The Board has considered the probability of those risks occurring and their impact, as well as the actions that would be taken in response to them if they did occur.
50 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008
