Directors Report Nomination Committee Report Responsibilities and role of the Nomination Committee The principal responsibility of the Committee is to assist the Board with succession planning and with the selection process for the appointment of a new Director or Chairman.
In discharging that responsibility the Committee is required: 1. to evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board and, in the light of this evaluation, prepare a description of the role and capabilities required for a particular appointment: 2. to assess the time commitment expected on the part of the Chairman of the Company and to require Non-executive Directors to undertake that they will have suf cient time to meet what is expected of them: 3. to oversee the search process, using such outside advisers as the Committee may consider appropriate: 4. to keep the Board advised of the candidates who have been identi ed for approach and on the preferred candidates for initial interviews: and 5. to arrange for all members of the Board to meet the preferred candidate prior to making a formal recommendation to the full Board.
The full Terms of Reference of the Committee are available on our website at http: ir.
Composition of the Committee The names of the members of the Committee who served during the year ended 31 December 2008 are as follows: Philip Rogerson Chairman Rupert Soames Andrew Salvesen Nigel Northridge Roy McGlone resigned 1 September 2008 David Hamill Robert MacLeod The Committee is composed of the Chairman, the Group Chief Executive and the Non-executive Directors.
The quali cations of the members of the Committee and their biographical details are set out on pages 46 and 47.
The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
Meetings The number of meetings of the Committee held during 2008 and attendance is set out on page 48.
Main activities of the Committee in the year to 31 December 2008 Succession Planning As in previous years, the Committee discussed Succession Planning for both Executives and Non-Executives.
Appointment of Additional Directors During the year, the Committee was involved in managing the succession to the role of Regional Director, Aggreko International, in light of the impending retirement of Derek Shepherd.
The Committee assessed a number of organisational options and bench-marked internal as well as external candidates.
The Committee decided to ask Kash Pandya to move to Dubai to take up Dereks role and was involved in overseeing the search and selection process for Kashs successor as Regional Director, Europe and the Middle East.
For this role, external search consultants were engaged and the process was completed in October 2008 with the announcement of the appointment of Bill Caplan with effect from 17 November 2008.
The Committee also engaged external consultants for the appointment of Non-executive Director Russell King, which was announced on 30 January 2009.
Philip G Rogerson Chairman of the Nomination Committee 5 March 2009 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 53
