x71226 Rhouse front p2 cg:x71226 Rhouse front p2 cg 5 9 08 15:12 Page 26 26 eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Corporate Governance The Board is committed to the highest standards of corporate governance and professional integrity.
In accordance with the Rules of the UK Listing Authority, the Audit Committee Company is required to state whether it has complied with the During the year the Audit Committee was chaired by Malcolm provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Simpson who was initially supported by three independent NonGovernance issued by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2006 Executive Directors, Michael Roberts, Richard Burns and Quintin the Code and where the provisions have not been complied with, Oliver.
Tracy Clarke became a member of the Committee upon her to provide an explanation.
The Company is also required to set out appointment as a Non-Executive Director on 1 October 2007 and how it has applied the principles set out within the Code.
Michael Roberts left the Committee upon his retirement on 22 The following paragraphs together with the Directors November 2007.
The Committee continued in this form until Remuneration Report on pages 20 to 25 provide details of the death of Richard Burns on 20 May 2008.
It has at all times how the Company applies the principles and complies consisted and will continue in the future to consist of not less than with the provisions of the Code.
three independent Non-Executive Directors, one of whom will have relevant financial experience.
A quorum is two members and the Operation of the Board Committee has met and shall continue to meet a minimum of four times each year.
The Code requires that at least one member of the The primary roles of the Board are to determine overall strategy and business objectives, to ensure adequate resources are available Audit Committee has recent and relevant financial experience the to meet objectives, to maintain and monitor an effective risk Chairman of the Committee, Malcolm Simpson, as the former Finance Director of Greggs plc, fulfils this requirement.
management system, to monitor and assess compliance with corporate responsibility and health and safety requirements and The Committees main functions are to endeavour: ensure all responsibilities to stakeholders and shareholders are met.
to ensure that the accounting and financial policies of the During the year the Board was led by its Chairman, Charles Berry, Company are proper and effective who also chairs the Nomination Committee.
The Chairmans to monitor the integrity and clarity of the financial statements responsibilities have been agreed by the Board and clearly delineate and information published by the Company between the roles of the Chief Executive Officer and Chairman.
The Board was satisfied at the date of appointment and remains to review the effectiveness of the Companys internal controls satisfied that the Chairman and the other Non-Executive Directors and approach to risk management were and are independent of management and free from any to monitor the effectiveness of the internal audit function business or other relationship that could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
to assess the independence and objectivity of the external auditors and to set policy regarding the provision of non-audit The Board has approved a list of matters that are reserved for services by the external auditors its decision approval.
to make recommendations to the Board in relation to The Board operates three committees: Audit, Remuneration appointment of external auditors and Nomination, to which it has delegated certain specific responsibilities and each of which operate within Board approved The Committee, in performing these functions, reviews the annual terms of reference.
The terms of reference of each committee and interim accounts issued to shareholders, compliance with can be viewed on the Companys website.
financial reporting standards and the size and remit of the internal audit function.
x71226 Rhouse front p2 cg:x71226 Rhouse front p2 cg 5 9 08 15:12 Page 27 27 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 eaga This year we had more than 1,800 vehicles in our fleet.
We plan to reduce 2 our CO density by more than 10% over the next 12 months The Committee has recently developed a policy relating to the Nomination Committee provision of non-audit services by the external auditors which The Nomination Committee comprised John Clough, Dave provides that the total fees payable for such work in any financial Routledge, Quintin Oliver, Richard Burns until his death on 20 May year should not normally be more than 80% of the total fees 2008 and was chaired by Charles Berry.
Malcolm Simpson became payable in respect of audit and compliance services.
The policy a member of the Committee on 25 June 2008 as an interim is effective from 1 June 2008. appointment.
The Audit Committee determines the scope of the external audit The Committee must consist at all times of five members, three of in discussion with the external auditors and agrees their fees in whom are independent Non-Executive Directors.
A quorum is three respect of the audit.
members two of whom must be independent Non-Executive Directors and the Committee meets a minimum of once each year.
The Committee normally meets with the Finance Director and the Chief Executive in attendance, and time is set aside annually for The Committees role is to make recommendations to the Board on the appointment of Directors and to support and assist the Board in discussion between the Committee and the external auditors and fulfilling its responsibilities to shareholders in ensuring that the with the internal auditors, each in the absence of all Executive Board comprises individuals who are best able to fulfil the Directors.
The Committee has the power to engage outside responsibilities of Directors.
The Committees responsibilities include: advisors if it sees fit and in common with all of the Non-Executive Directors personally has the ability to take independent advice at reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board the Companys expense if needed.
The Committee also has access together with assessing the skills, knowledge, expertise and to the services of the Company Secretary.
diversity of individual Directors establishing processes for the review of the performance of Remuneration Committee individual Directors, Board Committees and the Board as a whole The Remuneration Committee comprised Quintin Oliver, establishing processes for the identification of suitable candidates Malcolm Simpson, Richard Burns until his death on 20 May for appointment to the Board 2008 and was chaired by Michael Roberts until his retirement on 22 November 2007.
Tracy Clarke became a member of the preparing a description of the role and capabilities required for Committee on 1 October 2007 and assumed a particular Board appointment the chair upon Michael Roberts retirement.
giving full consideration to succession planning for the Board The Committee must at all times consist of not less than reviewing the performance of any Director retiring by rotation three members who are independent Non-Executive Directors.
who is planning to stand for re-election A quorum is two members and the Committee meets a minimum of twice each year.
The Executive Directors service contracts and Non-Executive The Committees responsibilities include determining and Directors letters of appointment are available for inspection by agreeing with the Board the framework and broad policy for prior arrangement during normal business hours at the Companys the remuneration including benefits, pension arrangements registered office.
and termination payments of the Chairman, Chief Executive and senior management of the Company.
A full Remuneration Committee Report can be found on pages 20 to 25. x71226 Rhouse front p1 cg:x71226 Rhouse front p1 cg 4 9 08 10:24 Page 28 28 eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Corporate Governance Attendance at meetings The table below sets out the attendance at meetings of the Board and its committees during the year: Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Number of meetings held 13 42 3 Meetings attended Charles Berry 13 3 John Clough MBE 13 3 Ian McLeod 12 Drew Johnson 13 Dave Routledge 13 3 1 Michael Roberts OBE 8 of 9 2 of 2 1 of 1 Quintin Oliver 11 32 3 Malcolm Simpson 13 42 2 Richard Burns 9 of 12 31 2 3 Tracy Clarke 7 of 7 2 of 2 1 of 1 1 Retired on 22 November 2007 2 Deceased 20 May 2008 3 Appointed 1 October 2007 Performance Evaluation Financial Reporting During the year the Board has undergone an external performance The financial position of the Company and its Group companies evaluation process undertaken by the Institute of Company has been and will continue to be presented in a number of ways Secretaries and Administrators ICSA.
The result of that evaluation during the year to ensure shareholders and potential shareholders was positive and recommendations have been noted can make a balanced assessment of the Company.
This includes: and actioned as appropriate.
Interim Management Statements Half yearly Report and Accounts Relationship with Shareholders Announcements regarding significant developments and contract The Board recognises the importance of maintaining an effective wins which may affect the share price investor relations and communication programme as part of its ongoing relationship with the Companys shareholders.
Going Concern The Company maintains a regular dialogue with institutional After making all proper enquiries the Directors have a reasonable investors and broker analysts, providing them with such information expectation that the Company and its Group companies have on the Companys progress and future plans as is permitted under adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the the guidelines of the Listing Rules.
In particular, twice a year, foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the following announcement of the interim and full-year results, going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
they are invited to briefings given by the Chief Executive and Finance Director where they have the opportunity to raise any Risk Management questions as appropriate.
The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys system of The Companys main institutional shareholders have been advised internal control and risk management.
The matters reserved to the that in line with the provisions of the Code, the Senior Independent Board ensure that the Directors control all significant strategic, Director SID and the other Non-Executives may attend those financial and organisational issues.
An Executive Director, Dave briefings and, in any event, would attend if requested to do so.
Routledge, has been assigned the specific responsibility of health, safety, environment and security and reports to the Board The Chairman is briefed periodically on investors perceptions and accordingly.
such issues are discussed in the context of regular Board meetings.
Appropriate levels of insurance were in place throughout the The AGM provides all shareholders with the opportunity to develop period ended 31 May 2008 to cover Directors actions their understanding of the Company and ask questions of the or omissions.
Board on matters put to the meeting including the Annual Report and Accounts.
x71226 Rhouse front p2 cg:x71226 Rhouse front p2 cg 5 9 08 15:12 Page 29 29 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 eaga Corporate Governance Internal Control Information and Communication Budgets are prepared by management and approved by the Board As required by the UK Listing Authority, the Company has complied on an annual basis.
Financial results and cash flows are reported to throughout the year with the provisions of the Code relating to the Board at each Board meeting and operational management internal controls, having implemented the procedures necessary to have a monthly accountability review with the Executive Directors comply with the guidance on internal control published in October to assess any areas of weakness and to agree any necessary 2005 Turnbull Guidance and to report in line with that guidance.
corrective action or mitigate any significant variances between The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control budget and actual financial results.
Forecasts are updated and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system is designed to periodically throughout the financial year.
manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute Audit assurance against material misstatement or loss.
There is an The Groups internal audit function reports to the Board and the established internal control framework in place, which is continually Audit Committee on the outcomes of work undertaken which reviewed and updated taking into account the changing nature of follows an approved internal audit programme.
The role of the the Groups operations.
The key elements of the system which has Audit Committee is detailed earlier in this report.
been in place for the whole of the year and up to the date of approval of this Report and Accounts are as follows: Compliance with the Code Control environment The Board considers that the Company complied with the provisions of the Code throughout the year with the exception An organisational structure is in place with clear lines of duty and that the Code states that at least half of the Board, excluding the accountability.
There are clearly defined authorisation limits for Chairman, should be comprised of independent non-executive individual managers, with transactions being approved at the Directors.
Following the death of Richard Burns in May 2008 and appropriate level of authority.
The business is required to comply until the appointment of his replacement, the Board composition with the financial policies and procedures as documented in the does not meet the provisions of the Code in this regard.
Malcolm Simpson has been appointed Senior Independent The Company has a formal whistleblowing policy for Partners to Director on a temporary basis.
report any issues of concern relating to dishonesty or malpractice in the Group.
All concerns reported are investigated by senior management.
On behalf of the Board Christopher Judd Risk management Company Secretary 1 September 2008 The Company has a dedicated risk management team and has recently established a risk review board to monitor and evaluate the risk registers compiled by each business area of the Group.
The risk review board reports to the Board and Audit Committee on a quarterly basis regarding the effectiveness of the risk identification process and of the action plans for the mitigation of such identified risks.
The Company has an integration process to ensure the risk management processes are introduced to any newly acquired business from acquisition with a plan to fully implement those systems as soon as reasonably practicable after acquisition.
