easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2008 Corporate governance Principles statement Meetings attended easyJet is committed to meeting the required standards of corporate Audit Remuneration Nominations Director Board Committee Committee Committee governance.
Sir Colin Chandler 11 1 n a 1 Statement of compliance Andrew Harrison 11 3 2 n a During the year the Board considers that it has complied with the best Jeff Carr 11 3 n a n a practice provisions of Section 1 of the Combined Code of 2006 with one Professor Rigas Doganis 11 n a 3 1 exception.
At the Audit Committee meeting on 1 May 2008 the Audit Committee Chairman was unable to attend due to illness.
Although the Sir Stelios Haji-Ioannou 10 n a n a n a meeting was quorate without him, it was felt most appropriate in the John Browett 10 1 n a circumstances for the Chairman of the Company to chair the Audit Sir David Michels 9 2 3 n a Committee.
Dawn Airey 9 n a 3 1 David Bennett 7 2 2 1 Board of Directors Sven Boinet As at 30 September 2008, the Board comprised eight Non Executive appointed 1 March 2008 6 2 1 n a Directors including the Chairman and two Executive Directors.
Diederik Karsten The roles of Chairman Sir Colin Chandler and Chief Executive Andrew resigned 21 February 2008 2 1 n a n a Harrison are separated, clearly defined, and approved by the Board.
Sir David Michels is the Senior Independent Non Executive Director.
The Company regards David Bennett, Professor Rigas Doganis, Dawn Airey, The appointment of Sven Boinet during the year as a Non Executive John Browett and Sven Boinet as Independent Non Executive Directors.
Director was the result of a search process carried out using external Diederik Karsten who served for part of the year as a Non Executive recruitment consultants in accordance with longstanding Board practice.
Director was also regarded as independent.
Sir Stelios Haji-Ioannou is not Separately, the Board has taken advice during the year from expert regarded as independent due to his significant beneficial shareholding in the management search and development consultants with a view to both Company and his prior involvement in an executive management capacity.
enhancing its development of key managers and reviewing its succession The Chairman makes himself available for investor meetings and questions, planning for the top executive roles in the Company.
in person, at the time of major announcements.
Sir David Michels has also Directors and officers insurance cover has been established for all Directors made himself available to participate in investor meetings as an alternative to provide cover against their reasonable actions on behalf of easyJet.
point of contact and in order to help develop a balanced understanding During the year, the Chairman undertook a performance review of the of the issues and concerns of major shareholders.
Regular feedback from Board using a written evaluation framework.
The process involved a detailed the Companys two corporate brokers Credit Suisse and Hoare Govett, questionnaire completed by each of the Directors, one on one discussions a division of RBS, is used to brief the Board.
In addition, the Board has with individual Directors and a separate review of the outcome by the full access to sources who are independent of easyJet for further feedback.
The performance of the Boards Committees The Board continues to consider that it is appropriate for the Chairman and also that of the individual Board Directors was reviewed as part of to be the primary conduit with investors given his experience in liaising the same process.
Separately, Sir David Michels has met during the year with shareholders.
During the year, the Chairman has updated the whole with the other Non Executive Directors excluding the Chairman Board on the results of his meetings and the opinions of investors.
to appraise the Chairmans performance.
However, all Directors have a standing invitation to participate in meetings with investors.
The Board meets regularly, with 11 meetings having been The Board regularly receives updates, via the Company Secretary, held during the year ended 30 September 2008.
All members of the Board on relevant legislation, regulation and governance best practice.
are supplied in advance with appropriate information covering matters which are to be considered.
It is standard practice for the Non Executive Directors to meet without the Executive Directors present prior to each Board Meeting.
28 easyJet plc Corporate governance Annual report and accounts 2008 continued Board Committees The terms of reference of the Audit Committee are documented and agreed by the main Board.
The full text of the terms of reference is available in the investor relations section of the easyJet website, www.
Remuneration Committee The key terms set out that the Audit Committee will: At 30 September 2008, the Remuneration Committee comprised five independent Non Executive Directors, namely Sir David Michels Serve as an independent and objective party to monitor the quality Committee Chairman, David Bennett, Professor Rigas Doganis, Dawn Airey and timeliness of the financial reporting process and monitor the and Sven Boinet.
This Committee, which meets at least twice per year, internal financial control system: has responsibility for making recommendations to the Board on the Review and appraise the audit efforts of the external auditors: compensation of senior executives and determining, within agreed terms of reference, the specific remuneration packages for each of the Executive Provide an open avenue of communication among the external auditors, Directors and the Chairman.
In addition to meetings to allot shares under financial and senior management, and the Board: the Companys share option schemes, the Remuneration Committee Confirm and assure the independence and objectivity of the has met three times during the year.
external auditor: The Board has reviewed the composition of the Remuneration Committee Review and ensure the effectiveness of the risk management during the year and at the end of June 2008, Sven Boinet was appointed processes of the Company: to the Remuneration Committee in place of John Browett who was simultaneously appointed to the Audit Committee.
The Board is satisfied Review and monitor the effectiveness of the internal audit function that the Directors who are currently members of this Committee are and the management responses to the recommendations.
those who are best able to contribute to the Committees objectives.
The Audit Committee has the responsibility for appointing the external Shareholders are required to approve all new long-term incentive auditors.
 LLP were reappointed auditors of the plans.
Further details of these plans can be found in the Report on Group at the Annual General Meeting, held in February 2008.
Committee recently reviewed its terms of reference.
Following this review and the receipt of advice from external advisers, the Committee Audit Committee recommended certain changes to its terms of reference that were accepted The Audit Committee comprises three Non Executive Directors, all of by the Board.
These included the adoption of rules outlining the process whom are independent.
As at 30 September 2008, the Audit Committee by which the Board of Directors would address conflicts of interest and members were David Bennett Chairman, Sir David Michels and John potential conflicts of interest of members of the Board.
This Committee meets at least three times per year.
The primary of interest are now required to be notified to and assessed by the Audit function of the Audit Committee is to assist the Board in fulfilling its Committee on behalf of the Board in line with the new Articles of oversight responsibilities by reviewing the financial reports and other Association adopted at the last AGM of the Company following the financial information in advance of publication, reviewing on a continuing implementation of relevant provisions of the Companies Act 2006. basis the systems of internal controls regarding finance and accounting In order to preserve auditor independence, the Board has decided that the that management and the Board have established and reviewing generally auditor will not be asked to provide consulting services unless this is in the the auditing, accounting and financial reporting processes.
The ultimate best interests of the Company.
Clause nine of the Audit Committees Terms responsibility for reviewing and approving the annual and other accounts of Reference sets out the formal policy on non-audit work.
The auditor is remains with the Board.
The Audit Committee has met three times during asked on a regular basis to articulate the steps that it has taken to ensure the course of the year.
easyJet monitors the auditors performance and behaviour The Audit Committee is charged with reviewing the effectiveness of internal during the exercise of its duties.
In the financial year, easyJet spent 0.9 million control, approving and monitoring the Internal Audit work plan, considering with  LLP 2007: 0.6 million in respect of issues arising from Internal Audits work, reviewing managements response non-audit services and 1.6 million 2007: 2.4 million with other parties to internal control issues, approving the external audit fee, considering the who are entitled to act as registered auditors.
external audit strategy and plans, reviewing the external auditors reports and reviewing and approving the annual accounts.
Both internal and external auditors are given the opportunity to meet privately with the Audit Committee without any member of management present.
29 Other information Financial information Report on Directors remuneration Directors report Overview easyJet plc Corporate governance Annual report and accounts 2008 continued The Board has discussed the composition of the Audit Committee Litigation Committee and at the end of June 2008, John Browett was appointed to the Audit As a result of the proceedings brought by easyGroup IP Licensing Limited Committee in place of Sven Boinet who was simultaneously appointed a company under the ultimate ownership of Sir Stelios Haji-Ioannou in to the Remuneration Committee.
The Board is satisfied that the Directors relation to the clarification of the Brand Licence, the Board has set up a who are currently members of this Committee are those who are best separate Litigation Committee to deal with the proceedings and all matters able to contribute to the Committees objectives.
David Bennett has served related to them.
Sir Stelios Haji-Ioannou does not sit on this committee as the Chairman of the Committee during the year.
David is currently which comprises every other Director of the Board.
It is anticipated that an Executive Director of Abbey National plc prior to which he was the Committee shall continue to exist until the proceedings and any related Chief Executive Officer and Finance Director of Alliance and Leicester plc, circumstances giving rise to a conflict of interest between Sir Stelios experience which the Board considers to be recent and relevant for Haji-Ioannous interests and those of the Company have been resolved.
the purposes of undertaking the role as chairman of the Committee.
Relations with investors and the Annual General Meeting Nominations Committee AGM The Nominations Committee comprises at least three members.
During The AGM gives all shareholders the opportunity to communicate directly the year, the Nominations Committee members were Sir Colin Chandler with the Board.
There is also regular communication with institutional Chairman, David Bennett, Professor Rigas Doganis and Dawn Airey.
Sir investors on key business issues.
The Group has an investor relations Colin Chandler is not considered to be independent as he is Chairman of department which runs an active investor relations programme to facilitate the Group.
However, the Board is satisfied that Sir Colin Chandlers personal engagement with investors.
integrity and experience makes him a highly effective member of the Board and the Nominations Committee.
Internal control The overall responsibility for easyJets systems of internal control and This Committee is responsible for nominating candidates to fill Board for reviewing its effectiveness rests with the Directors of the Company.
positions and for making recommendations on Board composition and The responsibility for establishing and operating detailed control procedures balance.
In appointing Non Executive Directors, the Boards practice is to use lies with the Chief Executive.
However, the internal control systems are an external recruitment agency.
The Nominations Committee has met once designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve during the year to consider and approve the appointment of Sven Boinet business objectives and by their nature can only provide reasonable but following a search using an independent recruitment consultant.
not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The terms of reference of the Nominations Committee are documented A formal process established to identify, evaluate, manage and report and agreed by the main Board.
The full text of the terms of reference upon significant risks faced by the Company is operated by the Company is available in the investor relations section of the easyJet website, Secretary under the direction of the Audit Committee.
a rigorous mandatory reporting regime across middle tier management Before selecting new appointees, the Nominations Committee considers with reporting of risks subject to review by a cross-functional executive the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board to ensure committee which produces detailed risk reports to the Board.
This process that a suitable balance is maintained.
All job specifications prepared include has operated throughout the year and during the period from the year details of the time commitments expected in the role.
end to the signing of the financial statements.
On joining the Board, new Board members receive a full and tailored The Board has conducted an annual review of the effectiveness of the induction.
Shareholders are offered the chance to meet new Directors.
system of internal control during the year under the auspices of the Audit Committee.
Contracts and letters of appointment with Directors are made available at the Annual General Meeting or on request.
The internal control regime is enhanced by the creation of a whistleblower reporting function.
The system is operated by a specialist external third-party service provider and allows employees to report concerns in confidence on an anonymous basis.
The Audit Committee has approved the processes and reporting structure for the function and receives regular reports on the operation of the function.
30 easyJet plc Corporate governance Annual report and accounts 2008 continued An ongoing process for the effective management of risk has been Internal Audit defined by the Company Directors and has been adopted as follows: The Internal Audit function is a central element in easyJets approach to risk management and reflects the importance placed on the internal control Ongoing assurance and risk management is provided through the various processes within the business.
Internal Audits work is focused on areas of monitoring reviews and reporting mechanisms embedded into the greatest risk to easyJet, as determined by managements risk identification business operations.
Key monitoring reviews include those conducted and assessment processes as validated by Executive Directors.
The output continuously in weekly meetings.
Operational meetings include the from this process is summarised in an audit plan, which is approved by the Safety Audit Group which meets monthly to discuss safety, security and Board and Audit Committee, and updated on a rolling bi-annual basis.
The Safety Review Board meets monthly, or more regularly where events require, to review safety performance.
In addition, The Head of Internal Audit reports regularly to the Group Finance Director there are regular Commercial, Financial and IT functional meetings: and meets with the Chairman of the Audit Committee without the presence of management on a regular basis.
The Head of Internal Audit The Executive Management Team meets monthly to consider significant was invited to and attended all of the Audit Committee meetings in current risks.
Individual department and overall business performance is the year and has reported regularly on internal audit reviews to the reviewed.
The reporting of significant risks to the Executive Management Executive Management Team meetings during the course of the year.
Team and the Board of the Company has been enhanced by the risk A formal audit charter is in place.
management processes referred to above.
Individual department and overall business performance is reviewed: Role of Internal Audit Written reporting of current significant risks is provided to the Board The Internal Audit department reviews the extent to which systems on a monthly basis.
Control weaknesses or failings are considered by of internal control: the Board if they arise: are effective: easyJet has had an Internal Audit function since 1 October 2006 which are adequate to manage easyJets significant risks: considers, reviews and tests internal control matters throughout the Group.
Further details of the internal audit functions operations are safeguard the Companys assets.
set out below: The key objectives are to provide independent and objective assurance An annual risk and control identification process, together with control on risks and controls to the Board and senior management: and to effectiveness testing, is conducted.
The key risks to significant business assist the Board with meeting its corporate governance and regulatory objectives are identified and the key controls to manage these risks responsibilities.
to the desired level are also identified: The role of Internal Audit and the scope of its work continue to evolve Action plans are set to address any control weaknesses or gaps to take account of changes within the business and emerging best practice.
The Directors reviewed the effectiveness of internal control, including operating, financial, compliance and risk management controls, which mitigate the significant risks identified.
The procedures used by the Directors to review the effectiveness of these controls include: Reports from management.
Reporting is structured to ensure that key issues are escalated through the management team and ultimately to the Board as appropriate: Discussions with senior personnel throughout the Company: Consideration by the Audit Committee of any reports from external auditors: The controls, which mitigate or minimise the high level risks, are tested to ensure that they are in operation.
The results of this testing are reported to the Board which considers whether these high level risks are effectively controlled.
31 Other information Financial information Report on Directors remuneration Directors report Overview
