Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2008 26 Corporate governance report The Board is committed to maintaining high standards of At least one meeting of the Board each year is held at one of corporate governance.
the Groups overseas locations and directors are encouraged to undertake such activities and training as is appropriate or The Company has throughout the year ended 31 December 2008 may be required or desirable in order to carry out their duties.
applied fully all the provisions of Section 1 of the Combined Code Last year, the Board had one of its meetings in Delden, of Corporate Governance June 2008 as issued by the Financial The Netherlands and the meeting was followed by a tour Reporting Council the Combined Code.
of the manufacturing facility there which is shared by Specialty Products and Surfactants.
Inspecting such operating The Board facilities and interacting with staff help nonexecutive Composition directors to understand better the risks and opportunities The Board currently consists of a nonexecutive Chairman, faced by the business, including environmental, social and Group Chief Executive, Finance Director and four governance risks.
The directors and biographical information about them are shown on pages 20 and 21.
Board performance evaluation The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are separate The Board is supportive of the principles and provisions of and clearly defined.
Nonexecutive directors are appointed the Combined Code on Board performance evaluation and for an initial term of three years, and all directors are towards the end of last year carried out an evaluation of its required under the Articles to retire and offer themselves performance, including that of its committees and individual for reelection at least every three years.
directors using comprehensive assessment questionnaires.
Matthew Peacock left the Board at the end of January 2008 The results of the questionnaires were reviewed by the and Ken Minton retired at the conclusion of the 2008 Annual Board, which believes that the performance of nonexecutive General Meeting AGM on 24 April 2008.
Ian Brindle was directors continues to be effective and demonstrates appointed Senior Independent Director in place of Ken Minton.
The Nomination Committee appointed The Miles Partnership During the year the Senior Independent Director chaired to assist with the recruitment of Andrew Christie as an a meeting of the directors to review the performance of the additional nonexecutive director.
The directors consider Chairman without him being present, and concluded that the that the structure and composition of the Board following Chairman was fully effective in his role.
The nonexecutive Andrew Christies appointment is appropriate to take the directors, including the Chairman, also met during the year Company through to the next stage of its development without the executive directors present to discuss their and there are no further plans for the time being to performance and succession planning.
increase the number of directors on the Board.
Board independence Communication with shareholders The Board considers all the nonexecutive directors to The Board has developed a comprehensive programme to be independent.
The Board is satisfied that each director ensure that effective communication with shareholders, exercises independent judgement and believes no individual analysts and the financial press is maintained throughout or group dominates decision making.
Through the annual and interim reports, results and other announcements, as well as through presentations Board operation to institutional shareholders and the dissemination of The Board operates within a framework of controls used to information via the Groups website at www.
com, minimise risks and has a formal schedule of matters specifically the Board seeks to present the Companys strategy and reserved to it for decision.
These include strategic and annual performance in an objective and balanced manner.
operating plans, the approval of financial statements, acquisitions and disposals, risk management and compliance Shareholders attending the AGM are invited to ask questions programmes including insurance arrangements, major during the meeting and also to meet the directors after the nonrecurring projects and major capital expenditures.
formal business of the meeting has concluded.
The The Board regularly reviews management performance chairmen of the Audit and Remuneration Committees are and sets values and standards to ensure that its obligations also available to answer questions from any shareholder at to shareholders and others are understood and met.
Full details of proxy votes cast on each delegates specific responsibilities with written terms of resolution are made available to shareholders at the reference to the Board Committees described on the meeting and are made available on the Companys website next page.
Information of an appropriate quality is issued in a timely The Board receives regular reports on any meetings held manner to assist the Board in performing its duties.
with shareholders or analysts, and the Chairman and New directors receive appropriate induction tailored to their Senior Independent Director are also available for contact needs.
This includes visits to manufacturing facilities and by shareholders at any time.
meetings with senior management to assist them in building an understanding of how the Group operates and the issues that it faces.
New directors are advised of their legal and other duties and other obligations as directors of a listed company.
All members of the Board have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and may take independent professional advice as appropriate at the expense of the Company.
CorporAte GovernAnCe Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2008 27 Attendance at Board and Committee meetings during 2008: Audit Nomination Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee Directors as at 31 December 2008: Robert Beeston, Chairman 9 9 5 5 David Dutro, Group Chief Executive 9 9 Brian Taylorson, Finance Director 9 9 Ian Brindle, Senior Independent Director 9 9 4 4 5 5 Andrew Christie 3 3 1 1 3 3 2 2 Chris Girling 9 9 4 4 5 5 6 6 Kevin Matthews 9 9 4 4 5 5 6 6 Past directors during the financial year: Ken Minton 4 4 1 2 2 2 Matthew Peacock 0 1 0 1 denotes chairman of the Committee Board Committees The Audit Committee met four times during 2008.
Findings The Board has established Audit, Nomination and and recommendations at each of its meetings are given Remuneration Committees, all with defined terms to the Board.
The Committee met to review the annual of reference, modelled closely on those set out in the and interim reports and financial statements and also to Combined Code, which are available from the Company receive half yearly reports from the internal audit providers, Secretary or can be found on the Companys website at  PwC, as well as representations www.
During the year it reviewed the effectiveness of the internal and external audit activities through meetings Audit Committee and interviews with management and key finance staff, approved The chairman and members of the Audit Committee the scope of work of and fees for both internal and external the Committee during 2008 and their attendance auditors, and concluded that, owing to the complexity and records are shown in the table above.
international nature of the Groups businesses, the internal audit function was best served by continuing to outsource to The Committee has two members with recent and relevant PwC, given their global expertise and resources.
The Committee financial experience as recommended by the Combined also reviewed the Groups risk management programme as Code.
Chris Girling is a chartered accountant and was until part of the full Boards review of risk management at April 2007 group finance director of Carillion plc which is a meetings held in October and December.
Ian Brindles experience is based on his career with  and his previous The Committee also keeps under review the objectivity roles at the Accounting Standards Board and the Financial and independence of the external auditors KPMG and Reporting Review Panel.
the nature and extent of the non audit services which they provide.
The Companys policy is that any appointment of the A description of the remit and work of the Audit Committee external auditors to undertake non audit work is subject to The Committee has delegated authority from the Board for: the approval of the Audit Committee unless it falls below the threshold, in which case the Finance Director has delegated monit oring the integrity of the financial statements and authority from the Committee to approve such appointments.
reviewing significant accounting policies, judgements The threshold is that any individual non audit engagement and estimates contained within them: fee is no greater than 15 per cent of the annual Group audit r eviewing the effectiveness of internal control and risk fee and the total cost of non audit engagements in the same management systems, including control over financial financial year do not exceed 50 per cent of the annual Group reporting: audit fee.
The external auditors were appointed during the year to undertake tax work on behalf of the Group, provide r eviewing the effectiveness of the internal audit function, pensions advisory services and undertake other Group and including of the risk management programme: capital reorganisation related project work.
It was concluded r eviewing the Groups policies and practices concerning that their knowledge of the Groups business processes and business conduct, ethics and integrity and on controls made them best placed to undertake this work whistleblowing: and costeffectively on the Groups behalf.
The Committee considers that, notwithstanding these non audit services o verseeing all aspects of the relationship with the they provided during the year, the external auditors external auditors, including their appointment, the audit objectivity was not impaired.
In coming to its decision process, the supply of non audit services and monitoring their effectiveness and independence.
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2008 28 Corporate governance report A description of the remit and work of the The Committee met five times last year to discuss changes Audit Committee continued to the Board and its committees, including the appointment to recommend the reappointment of the external auditors, of Andrew Christie, review the results of the Board performance the Committee considered and discussed many factors evaluation BPE exercise and consider succession planning including the following: KPMGs independence and quality matters.
Two of these meetings were attended by both control procedures: risk of KPMG withdrawing from the executive directors.
The Committee considers that the audit market: the fact that the 2008 financial statements appointment of Andrew Christie, with his investment were the fifth set of full year accounts to be audited by banking background and experience of working in Asia KPMG: the length of time it takes for external auditors Pacific, complements the existing skills and experience on to develop an adequate understanding of the Groups the Board.
There are no plans to recruit further directors.
businesses and the fact that KPMG had agreed to rotate There were no issues of significant concern raised in the its Senior Audit Partner in 2009: and the extent of non audit BPE exercise.
As part of the review process on succession services provided by KPMG.
planning, the Remuneration Committee was asked to undertake an indepth review of the existing remuneration The Committee reviewed its policy on whistleblowing during structures of senior executives with a view to ensuring they the year as well as reports on its operation.
In addition to are appropriately motivated and retaining their services for having internal procedures for reporting any suspected cases the longer term.
The outcome of that review is explained of wrongdoing, the Group has appointed an independent in the Directors remuneration report.
third party through whom issues may be raised and tollfree AlertLine numbers are provided in all the jurisdictions Remuneration Committee where it operates.
Management reports all incidents that Details about the Remuneration Committee are set out have been raised to the Audit Committee together with the in the Directors remuneration report on pages 30 to 36. outcome of the investigation and steps taken to ensure lessons are learned to prevent their recurrence.
Treasury, Internal control banking and currency hedging policies were also reviewed The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system and updated during the year.
of internal control and risk management and for reviewing the effectiveness of this system.
Such a system can only be Nomination Committee designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure The chairman and members of the Nomination Committee to achieve business objectives and can therefore only provide the Committee and their attendance records are shown reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material on page 27.
The Committee is responsible for: misstatement or loss.
reviewing the size and composition of the Board, together The Board is of the view that an ongoing process for with the skills, knowledge and experience of its members identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks faced and make recommendations for change as necessary: by the Group was in place throughout the financial year c arrying out an annual performance evaluation of the under review and up to the date that this Annual Report was Board and its committees and members: and approved.
This process is regularly reviewed by the Board and accords with the Financial Reporting Councils Turnbull suc cession planning for the Board and leadership team.
and Smith guidance, as amended, on internal control.
CorporAte GovernAnCe Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2008 29 The key features of the Groups internal control system are: Financial reporting There is a comprehensive Groupwide system of financial Control environment reporting.
Figures reported include profit, cash flows, capital A key factor in the Groups approach to internal control expenditure, balance sheet and relevant performance is the recognition of the need for risk awareness and the indicators.
Each operating division prepares an annual ownership of risk management by executives at all levels.
operating plan which is approved by the Board.
Thereafter a The Group has policies and procedures that set out formal reforecasting exercise is undertaken three times a the responsibilities of divisional management, including year.
Actual monthly results are monitored against budget, authority levels, reporting disciplines and responsibility for risk forecasts and the previous years results.
Any significant management and internal control.
Certain activities, including variances are investigated and acted upon as appropriate.
treasury, taxation, insurance, pension and legal matters are Investment appraisal controlled centrally with reports reviewed by the Board as There are clearly defined investment guidelines for capital appropriate.
Site level policies and procedures are set by divisional expenditure.
All investment expenditure is subject to formal management as appropriate to the needs of each business unit.
authorisation procedures, with major proposals being risk identification and review considered by the Board.
Key identified risks, both financial and non financial, are Audit Committee reviewed by the Board as well as by divisional management The Audit Committee plays a critical role within the Companys on an ongoing basis, which is supported by the work of the system of internal control and risk management and a full Audit Committee and the internal audit service, which is description of its work is given on pages 27 and 28. provided by  LLP PwC.
A formal annual review of risks and controls is carried out by both the By order of the Board management team and the Board, and includes presentations from senior managers.
The management team, which comprises the executive Wai Wong directors, divisional managing directors and functional Company Secretary business leaders, meets on a regular basis to review each 24 February 2009 divisions performance, strategy and risk management.
Their work is supported by a central risk management unit whose terms of reference include supporting corporate governance requirements, recommending business risk strategy and developing policies and procedures for risk management and internal controls.
PwCs work covers the monitoring of the effectiveness of internal controls and the design of processes to test the effectiveness of controls.
At operating level, all divisions are required to have processes to identify risks and, so far as possible, take action to reduce those risks, and annual compliance statements on internal control are certified by each operating division.
