Only use the LF version of Meta for this job : no non-aligned numbers!!
ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 59 Corporate Governance Report Compliance with the Combined Code ENRC is committed to high standards of corporate governance.
This report details how the Company has applied the principles and provisions of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code published in June 2006.
ENRC has complied fully with the Code during the financial year ended 31 December 2008.
Role of the Board The Board is responsible for promoting the long-term success of the Company and ensuring that its principal goal is to enhance the Companys long-term value for the benefit of shareholders, whilst having regard to the interests of other stakeholders.
At its regular meetings the Board reviews the Companys long-term strategic direction, capital expenditure and budget plans and monitors on a regular basis the Companys operating and financial performance and its approach to risk management.
The Board also reviews management performance and assesses whether the Company has the necessary resources in place to meet its objectives.
The Board has established a formal schedule of matters which are reserved for its attention and which are published on the Companys website.
Board composition The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are clearly separated and their responsibilities have been set out in writing.
The Board is chaired by Sir David Cooksey and he is responsible for leading the Board and ensuring it functions effectively.
Dr Johannes Sittard is the Chief Executive Officer and he is responsible for the operational management of the Group and the execution of the Groups strategy.
The Board currently comprises, in addition to the Chairman, two executive Directors and ten non-executive Directors, seven of whom are independent according to the definition in the Code.
Mr Utepov and Mr Beketayev are representatives of The State Property and Privatisation Committee of the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Kazakhstan, and as such are not considered by the Board to be independent under the provisions of the Code.
Under the Relationship Agreements between the Company and each of the Founder Shareholders as disclosed in the Directors Report on pages 56 to 58, each of the Founders Shareholders has the right to appoint one Director to the Board, for so long as his shareholder group controls 10% or more of the voting rights exercisable at general meetings of the Company.
Pursuant to this right, Mr Ibragimov has appointed Mr Yedilbayev to the Board.
He is not considered to be independent under the Code.
Sir Richard Sykes has been appointed as Senior Independent Director and his principal duty in this capacity is to evaluate the performance of the Chairman and address any shareholders concerns that have not been resolved through the normal channels of communication with the Chairman, Chief Executive or Chief Financial Officer, or in cases when such communications would be inappropriate.
Details of the individuals skills and experience are contained within the Directors biographies on pages 10 and 11.
Directors attendance at Board and Committee meetings during 2008 During 2008 there were eight formal Board meetings and attendance at these meetings and the meetings of the Boards main Committees was as follows: Audit Remuneration Nomination HSES Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Total number of meetings held in year 8 5 4 4 3 Gerhard Ammann 7 5 3 2 Marat Beketayev 6 Sir David Cooksey 8 4 Mehmet Dalman 7 3 3 Michael Eggleton 8 5 2 Sir Paul Judge 7 3 2 3 Kenneth Olisa 8 4 2 4 Miguel Perry 8 Dr Johannes Sittard 8 3 Sir Richard Sykes 8 4 4 Roderick Thomson 7 5 3 Eduard Utepov 6 2 Abdraman Yedilbayev 5 2 1 Daulet Yergozhin 1 1 Resigned 20 February 2008.
In addition, a further four meetings of a Sub-Committee of the Board were held during the year to issue formal approvals such as those required in respect of the Preliminary or Interim Results announcements, or deal with other specific matters which had been delegated to the Sub-Committee for approval.
D DO N O NO OT U T US SE T E TR RA AC CK KI IN NG O G ON AN N ANY P Y PAR ART O T OF T F TH HI IS J S JO OB B!
Corporate Information Reserves Financial Statements Corporate Governance Business Review Group Overview Only use the LF version of Meta for this job : no non-aligned numbers!!
60 ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Corporate Governance continued Corporate Governance Report continued Information and professional development of the Board Board committees The Board is supplied with regular and timely information in a form The Board has established four principal committees.
that enables it to discharge its duties.
Board papers are generally distributed five days in advance of meetings to enable Directors to Audit Committee obtain a thorough understanding of the matters to be discussed.
The The Audit Committee is chaired by Mr Gerhard Ammann, who is Board also holds at least one formal meeting per year in the Republic considered to have recent and relevant financial experience.
The other of Kazakhstan to enable Directors to gain a greater understanding of members of the Audit Committee are Mr Michael Eggleton, Sir Paul the Groups operating environment.
Judge, Mr Kenneth Olisa and Mr Roderick Thomson, all of whom are independent non-executive Directors.
Each member is considered to All Directors have access to the advice and services of the General have extensive commercial and business leadership experience.
Counsel and Company Secretary, who is responsible for advising the Board on corporate governance matters and ensuring that Board Under its terms of reference the Audit Committee is required to meet at procedures and applicable laws and regulations are followed.
The least four times a year at appropriate times in the reporting and audit General Counsel and Company Secretary provides regular updates to cycle.
Meetings are timed so as to enable the Committee to review the Board on the legal and regulatory environment and is responsible the Groups key financial announcements prior to release.
The Audit for ensuring that any other training needs are identified and met.
On Committee Chairman provides a verbal update on the Committee appointment, Directors are provided with adequate information to findings and recommendations at the next Board meeting, identifying ensure that they fully understand the business of the Group and their any matters in respect of which action or improvement is required.
legal and regulatory responsibilities as a Director of the Company.
The appointment and removal of the General Counsel and Company Invitations to attend Audit Committee meetings are extended to the Secretary is a matter for the Board.
Chief Financial Officer, the Deputy Chief Financial Officer, the Head of Internal Audit, the General Counsel and Company Secretary and the The Board has put in place a procedure whereby all Directors have Group Risk Manager, none of whom attend by right.
In addition, the access, through the General Counsel and Company Secretary, to external auditors attend each Committee meeting and also meet independent professional advice at the expense of the Company.
The separately with the Committee to facilitate discussions without the Company also maintains an appropriate level of Directors and Officers presence of management.
An indemnity was put in place during 2008 for the benefit of current Directors and Officers of the Company and those of The primary responsibilities of the Audit Committee include its subsidiaries to enable the Company to fund the costs incurred by the following: Directors in defending certain claims against them in relation to their duties as Directors.
The indemnity operates only to the extent that the To monitor the integrity of the Companys financial reporting.
Directors and Officers liability insurance does not afford protection.
To review the Groups internal control and risk management systems.
Board Evaluation To monitor the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function.
As 2008 was the first full year in which the Board worked together, the To oversee the relationship with the Groups external auditors.
decision was taken to appoint an external consultant to carry out the first annual Board Evaluation.
This was facilitated by means of an Committee activities in-depth structured interview with each Director.
Questions focused The Committee met five times during 2008. on the operation of the Board and its committees, the contributions of individual Directors and a review of the Chairmans performance.
During the year the Committee reviewed the Companys Preliminary The results of the review were then considered with the Chairman and and Interim announcement of results and received regular reports from subsequently discussed collectively by the Board.
the internal audit function, the external auditors and updates on risk management and internal controls.
The Committee also reviewed the The Board was satisfied that considerable advances had been made 2008 Budget and financial reporting procedures to be operated by during the first year of working together but additional progress was the Group.
There will be additional follow-up meetings during the early part of 2009 to ensure that further improvements External audit in effectiveness are implemented during the year and in 2010.
The overall performance of the auditors is reviewed annually by the Audit Committee.
Since 2008 was the first full year since the Companys The non-executive Directors, led by Sir Richard Sykes as Senior IPO, this review was carried out shortly after the year end so as to Independent Director, carried out an evaluation of the Chairman.
enable full consideration to be given to performance over the year in question.
Re-election of Directors All the Directors offered themselves for election at the AGM held in June The Audit Committee is responsible to the Board for ensuring that the 2008 because this was the first general meeting to take place since external auditor remains independent of the Company in all material incorporation.
Under the current articles of association, a minimum of respects and that  LLP, as external auditors, one-third of the Directors retire by rotation each year.
This ensures that are adequately resourced so as to enable the delivery of an objective each Director is re-elected at least every three years.
Details of the audit to the shareholders.
The Audit Committee is also responsible for Directors retiring by rotation at the forthcoming AGM are contained in making formal recommendations each year to the Board in respect of the Notice of Meeting which accompanies the Report & Accounts.
The the continuation of the external auditor in office.
Board remains satisfied that each Director proposed for re-election is competent to carry out his responsibilities as a member of the Board.
The Audit Committee also reviews the level and nature of any non-audit work to be performed during the year and considers whether it is appropriate for this work to be carried out by the external auditors.
The auditors are precluded from engaging in non-audit services that would compromise their independence or violate any laws or regulations affecting their appointment as auditors.
ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 61 Internal Audit The Committee is required to meet at least twice a year and during During the first half of 2008 the internal audit function was in a 2008 it met four times.
One of these meetings was to consider a developmental stage and the Audit Committee appointed Deloitte replacement non-executive Director representing the Government & Touche to assist with some of the internal audit work whilst the of the Republic of Kazakhstan following the resignation of Mr Daulet recruitment of a full team of internal auditors was completed.
Accordingly, Mr Marat Beketayev & Touche carried out internal audit work in accordance with the initial was recommended and subsequently appointed to the Board.
annual internal audit plan which was approved by the Audit Committee in February 2008 and regular updates on progress were provided to the At its other meetings during the year, the Committee reviewed the Committee during the year.
composition of the Board and considered the succession planning process for the senior management team, including the process During the second half of 2008 a new Head of Internal Audit was around the extension of the CEOs contract and the CFOs decision appointed and his team continued to develop its working practices.
The 2009 Internal Plan was approved in December 2008.
The Head of Internal Audit reports to the Audit Committee at each of its meetings The Committees terms of reference are available on the and provides assurance, independent of the assurance provided by the Companys website.
Chief Financial Officer, that control activities, which have been subject to audit by his team, are operating effectively.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Sir Richard Sykes and the Whistleblowing other members are Mr Mehmet Dalman, Sir Paul Judge and Mr Kenneth The whistleblowing policy approved by the Board in July 2007 was Olisa all of whom are independent non-executive Directors.
The disseminated throughout the Group during 2008.
The policy enables Company complies with the Code recommendations regarding employees to raise any concerns they may have about workplace fraud membership of the Remuneration Committee.
or mismanagement with local management on a confidential basis.
The complaint will then be investigated in the first instance and a decision The main roles of the Remuneration Committee are as follows: taken about further steps.
Feedback is provided to the person making the complaint.
Written records are kept of all whistleblowing incidents To determine and recommend to the Board the broad policy for the and a regular status report is presented to the Board.
remuneration of Executive Directors and members of the senior management team.
Health, Safety, Environment & Sustainability Committee To determine the policy and scope for pension rights for each HSES Committee Executive Director.
The HSES Committee is chaired by Dr Johannes Sittard.
The other To approve the design of any performance related pay schemes members comprise Mr Abdraman Yedilbayev and Mr Eduard Utepov operated by the Group and determine the relevant performance who are both non-executive Directors of the Company and Mr Felix targets as well as approving annual payments made under such Vulis, the Chief Operating Officer for the Republic of Kazakhstan.
To review the design of any share incentive plans for approval by the The primary role of the HSES Committee is to assist the Board in its Board and shareholders and to determine the performance targets oversight of health, safety and environmental risks and to monitor and the appropriate level of annual awards to be made.
the Groups health and safety performance and its compliance with To ensure that any compensation payments made in respect of applicable legal and regulatory requirements.
termination of contracts are fair to the individual but do not reward failure and that the duty to mitigate loss is fully recognised.
Further details of the work of the HSES Committee are set out in the Corporate Responsibility Review on pages 48 and 55.
The remuneration of the Chairman and non-executive Directors is a matter for decision by the full Board.
Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee is chaired by Sir David Cooksey.
The other During 2008 the Remuneration Committee met four times.
The Committee members are Mr Gerhard Ammann, Mr Mehmet Dalman, Committee met to approve the bonus payments awarded in respect of Mr Michael Eggleton, Sir Paul Judge, Mr Kenneth Olisa, Sir Richard performance in 2007 and to determine and approve the performance Sykes and Mr Roderick Thomson.
targets for bonus arrangements in respect of 2008.
The Committee also determined the performance targets for the Long Term Incentive Plan The Committee is responsible for reviewing the size, structure and and approved the awards made under the Plan in May 2008. composition of the Board, taking into account the skills, knowledge and experience of Directors and for recommending to the Board any The Directors Remuneration Report is set out on pages 64 to 67. potential new candidates.
The Committee also gives consideration as A resolution to approve the Remuneration Report will be proposed to whether non-executive Directors have sufficient time to devote to at the forthcoming AGM.
the proper performance of their duties and makes recommendations in relation to the retirement and re-election of Directors at the Companys The Groups approach to Risk Assessment, Management and AGM.
In addition, the Committee has assumed day to day responsibility Internal Control for monitoring Directors situational conflicts of interest or potential The Board is responsible for the Groups approach to Risk Management conflicts of interest in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and as described in the Risk Management section on pages 22 to 25. will provide a formal report to the Board on an annual basis.
However, the actual approval of any conflicts or potential conflicts remains the Risk assessment responsibility of the Board.
Assessment of the risks which may adversely affect the achievement of the Groups objectives operates throughout the Group.
Management reviewed the Key Business Risk Assessment in June 2008 and reports on Risk Management have been provided to the Audit Committee at each meeting during 2008.
Management reviews the risk assessment on a regular basis.
62 ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Corporate Governance continued Corporate Governance Report continued As part of the risk assessment process the Group has adopted the The Group decided to focus the annual assessment on workshops following approach during 2008: which took place in February 2009 and which were attended by the General Directors and Financial Directors of each of the Groups Management considers risks to the Group under the headings of: operations, supported by senior financial, sales and marketing, legal and operational management from throughout the Group.
Strategic Objectives these relate to the Groups long term business objectives.
The workshops focused on policies and guidelines designed to address Operational Objectives these relate to effectiveness and areas identified by management and Internal Audit during 2008 efficiency of the Groups operations, including performance and as requiring improvement as well as the control procedures which profitability goals and safeguarding resources against loss.
the Group had already established to manage Key Business Risks.
Compliance Objectives these relate to adherence to the laws These included: and regulations to which Group companies are subject.
Financial Objectives these relate to the financial status of the Financial reporting the adoption of more focused monthly Group and Group companies and their arrangements for financial management reporting formats, increased interaction between reporting, including the prevention of fraudulent public financial London, Astana and operational business units before each month reporting.
end and by improved monitoring controls in London and Astana.
Procurement the development of a list of approved suppliers, the This approach considers the potential impact of each risk and the implementation of tendering procedures for all significant contracts, likelihood of the risk materialising at an inherent level, for example, the creation of an open access procurement website, the restriction before considering any controls which may be in place to manage or of the use of intermediaries and the application of rigorous mitigate the risk.
Customer credit default the use of credit insurance for certain Response to key business risks commodities, the setting of strict credit limits for each customer, The output of each risk assessment meeting of management is an the production of weekly information on outstanding receivables updated list of key business risks which are those risks which have and close monitoring by the Finance Director of Sales and Marketing a high overall risk rating and therefore most critically require an and the Chief Financial Officer.
appropriate response: this will require control procedures to be Financial counterparty default creating a list of approved implemented to manage or mitigate those risks to a level which counterparties on the basis of their credit ratings, or where these is consistent with the Groups overall risk appetite.
are not available, by an internal assessment of the counterpartys financial strength and by restricting the amounts which may be The Group recruited a Group Risk Manager in May 2008 to co-ordinate placed with each counterparty.
the process of responding to Key Business Risks and to report on these Capital projects adopting new procurement policies for all matters to the Chief Financial Officer and the Audit Committee.
Each projects, by greater use of external technical advice at the feasibility significant Group Company has appointed a Business Risk Manager to stage of a new project, by subjecting all existing and proposed be the principal point of contact on matters of risk and control within projects to scrutiny by the management of the Group on a regular that business.
basis and by challenging the inclusion of project spending within the 2009 Budget process.
A list of the Key Business Risks arising from the assessment process, and the responses to those risks, is maintained by the Business Risk The Audit Committee has reviewed a report from the Chief Financial Managers.
The Group risk matrices are tabled annually for review and Officer setting out the contents and proceedings of the workshops adoption by the Audit Committee and the Committee receives quarterly and explaining the basis on which he has obtained assurance as to reports on the risk management activities.
the operation of the Groups systems of internal controls.
Assurance on the operation of systems of internal control The workshops enabled the Group to make progress in the The Board considers risk assessment and internal control to be development of systems of internal control.
The Board recognises fundamental to achieving the Groups strategic corporate objectives.
that there is still significant progress to be made to achieve improved The Groups system of internal control is designed to manage rather and consistent standards of internal control across the Group.
than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material Relations with shareholders misstatement or loss.
During 2008 the Group met with a large number of investors in the United Kingdom, continental Europe and the United States Key elements of the internal control process are as follows: of America.
The Board regularly reviews and updates the Groups strategy As part of its investor relations programme, the Group aims to provide and those of its operating companies.
a high level of transparency and communication to investors and The Board reviews performance through a system of reporting, analysts on a regular and timely basis, through announcements, based on an annual budget with monthly business reviews meetings and seminars.
The Group seeks to develop a regular against actual results.
dialogue with investors and analysts and to respond to their challenges The Board seeks assurance that effective control is being and to understand their sentiments and concerns.
The Group has maintained and deficiencies addressed through regular reports a comprehensive investor relations website which has up to from the Audit Committee.
date information available to all shareholders and investors.
All shareholders have the opportunity to attend and raise questions The Audit Committee, on the basis of delegated authority from the at the Companys Annual General Meeting.
Board, has completed an annual assessment of the effectiveness of the systems of internal control of the Group as required by the Code.
The 2009 assessment represented the first time this process had been carried out.
ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 63 The Group aspires to have an investor relations programme that is ranked highly amongst its peers for its accessibility, responsiveness and disclosure.
The Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer aim to meet all major shareholders at least twice a year and, with other senior management, to meet with a wide range of shareholders and prospective investors in the United Kingdom, continental Europe, Russia and the United States of America during the year.
These discussions will focus on the results and businesses of the Group but will also seek to learn of any concerns amongst investors.
The Group will also seek to meet with sell-side analysts to raise the Groups profile and to build the research coverage.
Information on investor relations activity and analysts and brokers reports are regularly circulated to the Board.
The Chairman and non-executive Directors are free to attend investor relations meetings or to request meetings with investors or analysts independent of the Groups management.
The second Annual General Meeting is due to be held on 10 June 2008 and the Board welcomes the opportunity to answer questions put forward to them by shareholders of the Company.
Going concern After making enquiries, the Directors have reasonable expectations that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Corporate Information Reserves Financial Statements Corporate Governance Business Review Group Overview
