80766 pre 8 12 08 19:58 Page 24 Corporate Governance The board meets every two months and there is frequent The Financial Reporting Council's Combined Code on Corporate Governance is part of the Listing Rules of the contact between meetings.
Board meetings take place in London, New York, Montreal and Hong Kong, and in other Financial Services Authority.
The paragraphs below and in the Directors' Remuneration Report on pages 30 to 41 set out locations where the group has operations.
The board has delegated specific aspects of the groups affairs to standing how the company has applied the principles laid down by the Code.
committees, each of which operates within defined terms of reference.
Details of these are set out below.
However, to With effect from September 30 2008 CJF Sinclair and ensure its overall control of the group's affairs, the board has reserved certain matters to itself for decision.
Board meetings JP Williams retired as non-executive directors from the board.
CJF Sinclair retired to coincide with his retirement from his role are held to set and monitor strategy, identify, evaluate and manage material risks, to review trading performance, ensure as chief executive of Daily Mail and General Trust plc DMGT.
Subsequent to the year end, on October 1 2008, MWH adequate funding, examine major acquisition possibilities and approve reports to shareholders.
Procedures are established to Morgan, chief executive of DMGT, was appointed as a nonexecutive director of the company.
ensure that appropriate information is communicated to the board in a timely manner to enable it to fulfil its duties.
At a meeting of the board in July 2008, RT Lamont indicated his intention to retire as an executive director on January 13 Executive committee 2009 on reaching the age of 62.
At the same meeting, Chaired by the company's chairman, the executive committee Sir Patrick Sergeant retired as a member of the audit also comprises the divisional directors of the groups main committee with immediate effect.
businesses, together with the managing director and finance director.
The committee is responsible for the approval of The effect of these changes reduces the number of DMGT acquisitions, divestments, capital expenditure and contractual representatives on the board from three to two and reduces commitments below the level that the board has reserved to the number of executive directors from 13 to 12.
JP Williams itself for decision, and for certain operational, administrative has agreed to serve as an alternate representative on the board and other routine matters.
The committee also regularly of the company in the absence of The Viscount Rothermere.
reviews and reports to the board on the performance of the JP Williams remains a member of the audit committee.
At least 10 meetings are held each year and other senior executives frequently attend by invitation.
The company continues substantially to comply with the Code, save for the exceptions disclosed in the directors Nominations committee compliance statement on pages 28 and 29.
The nominations committee is responsible for proposing candidates for appointment to the board having regard to the Directors balance of skills and structure of the board and ensuring the The board and its role appointees have sufficient time available to devote to the role.
Details of directors who served during the year are set out on The committee meets when required and comprises PM Fallon pages 22 and 23.
During the year the board comprised the chairman of the nominations committee, PR Ensor and four chairman PM Fallon, managing director PR Ensor, 11 other non-executive directors: Sir Patrick Sergeant, The Viscount executive directors and six non-executive directors.
Two of the Rothermere, CJF Sinclair retired on September 30 2008 and six non-executive directors are independent, one is the with effect from October 1 2008 replaced by MWH Morgan, founder and ex-chairman of the company, and the other three and JC Botts.
The committee's terms of reference are available are also directors of DMGT, an intermediate parent company.
On September 30 2008 two of the non-executive directors CJF Sinclair and JP Williams retired and with effect from The committee met once during the year to recommend to the October 1 2008 MWH Morgan was appointed to the board as board the appointment of MWH Morgan as a non-executive a non-executive director.
In addition RT Lamont has indicated director and the re-election of directors retiring by rotation this his intention to retire from the board as an executive director year as set out in the Directors' Report.
Remuneration committee There are clear divisions of responsibility within the board such The remuneration committee meets twice a year and that no one individual has unfettered powers of decision.
It is responsible for determining the board although large does not consider itself to be unwieldy contract terms, remuneration and other benefits for executive and believes it is beneficial to have representatives from all key directors, including performance related profit share schemes.
areas of the business at board meetings.
There is a procedure The committee also recommends and monitors the level of for all directors in the furtherance of their duties to take remuneration for senior management and for the rest of the independent professional advice, at the companys expense.
The composition of the committee, details of directors They also have access to the advice and services of the remuneration and interests in share options, together with company secretary.
All directors submit themselves for reinformation on directors' service contracts, are set out in the election at least once every three years.
Newly appointed Directors' Remuneration Report on pages 30 to 41.
The directors are submitted for election at the first available committee's terms of reference are available on the company's opportunity after their appointment.
24 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC 80766 pre 8 12 08 19:58 Page 25 not meet the Code's definition of independence.
JC Botts also Audit committee Details of the members and role of the audit committee are set holds options to subscribe for common stock in Internet Securities, Inc. a subsidiary of the company.
Sir Patrick Sergeant, with effect from July 16 2008, retired as a member of the audit committee.
The number of options held by JC Botts is not material to him or to the company.
committee's terms of reference are available on the company's website.
The Viscount Rothermere has a significant shareholding in the Tax and treasury committee company through his beneficial holding in DMGT and because of this he is not considered independent.
Details of the members and role of the tax and treasury committee are set out in the directors' report on page 12.
The Viscount Rothermere, CJF Sinclair, JP Williams, and from Non-executive directors October 1 2008, MWH Morgan, are also executive directors of DMGT, an intermediate parent company.
However, the The non-executive directors bring both independent views and the views of the companys major shareholder to the board.
company is run as a separate, distinct and decentralised subsidiary of DMGT and these directors have no involvement The non-executive directors during the year, whose biographies can be found on page 23 of the accounts, were: in the day-to-day management of the company.
They bring The Viscount Rothermere, Sir Patrick Sergeant, CJF Sinclair, JP valuable experience and advice to the company but the board Williams, JC Botts and JC Gonzalez.
On September 30 2008 does not believe these non-executive directors are able CJF Sinclair and JP Williams retired as non-executive directors.
to exert undue influence on decisions taken by the board, With effect from October 1 2008, MWH Morgan was nor does it consider their independence to be impaired appointed a non-excutive director of the company.
by their positions with DMGT.
However, their relationship with DMGT means they do not meet the Code's definition At least once a year the company's chairman meets the nonof independence.
executive directors without the executive directors being present.
Board and committee meetings The board considers JC Botts and JC Gonzalez to be Board and committee meetings are arranged well in advance independent non-executive directors.
Although JC Botts of the meeting date and papers covering the points to be has been on the board for more than the recommended term discussed are distributed to its members in advance of the of nine years under the Code, the board believes that meetings.
The following table sets out the number of board his length of service enhances his role as an independent and committee meetings attended by the directors during the director.
However, due to his length of service, JC Botts does year to September 30 2008: Board Executive Remuneration Nominations Audit Tax & treasury meetings committee committee committee committee committee Number of meetings held during year6 112132 Executive directors PM Fallon Chairman 6 11 1 0 PR Ensor Managing Director 6 10 1 1 NF Osborn 6 9 DC Cohen 6 11 CR Brown 6 11 CR Jones Finance Director 6 11 2 RT Lamont 5 9 SM Brady 5 6 D Alfano 5 9 G Mueller 5 10 MJ Carroll 6 10 CHC Fordham 6 11 JL Wilkinson 4 11 Non-executive directors The Viscount Rothermere 5 2 0 Sir Patrick Sergeant 4 0 3 CJF Sinclair 6 2 1 JP Williams 6 3 2 JC Botts 6 2 1 3 JC Gonzalez 4 3 Retired as a member of the audit committee on July 16 2008 Retired as a non-executive director on September 30 2008 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 25 80766 pre 8 12 08 19:58 Page 26 Corporate Governance continued Board and committee effectiveness each executive director has been given responsibility for During the year the board, through its chairman, assessed its specific aspects of the groups affairs: performance and that of its committees.
The chairman the board divides the groups key risks into six broad distributed a detailed questionnaire to each of the board categories and reviews and assesses each of these at members and together with personal interviews evaluated the least annually: strengths and weaknesses of the board and its members.
In the board seeks assurance that effective control is being addition, each of the main committees completed a detailed maintained through regular reports from business group questionnaire encompassing key areas within their mandates.
management, the audit committee and various The results of the assessment were presented and discussed at independent monitoring functions: and a board meeting and it was concluded that the board and its the board approves the annual forecast after performing a committees had been effective throughout the year.
review of key risk factors.
Performance is monitored regularly by way of variances and key performance Communication with shareholders indicators to enable relevant action to be taken and The company's chairman, together with the board, forecasts are updated each quarter.
The board considers encourages regular dialogue with shareholders.
Meetings are longer-term financial projections as part of its regular held, both in the US and UK, to discuss annual and interim discussions on the groups strategy.
results and highlight significant acquisitions or disposals, or at the request of institutional shareholders.
Private shareholders During the year and up to the approval of this annual report are encouraged to participate in the annual general meeting.
and accounts the board has not identified nor been advised of In line with best practice all shareholders have at least 20 any failings or weaknesses which it has determined to be working days notice of the annual general meeting at which significant.
Therefore a confirmation of necessary actions has the executive directors, non-executive directors and not been considered appropriate.
committee chairs are available for questioning.
Quality, integrity of personnel and whistle blowing Internal control and risk management arrangements The board is responsible for the groups system of internal The integrity and competence of personnel is ensured control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system is through high recruitment standards and a commitment designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to to management and business skills training.
High-quality achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable personnel are an essential part of the control environment and and not absolute assurance against material misstatement the high ethical standards expected are communicated by or loss.
management and through the employee handbook which is provided to all employees.
The employee handbook also sets In accordance with principle C. 2 and C. 2.1 of the Combined out the procedures available to staff to raise, in confidence, Code on corporate governance, the board has implemented a possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other continuing process for identifying, evaluating and managing matters.
the material risks faced by the group.
Social responsibility The board has reviewed the effectiveness of the groups The group is keen to maintain a high level of social system of internal control and has taken account of material responsibility and has procedures embedded in its internal developments which have taken place since September 30 systems and controls to ensure its social standards are 2007.
It has considered the major business and financial risks, monitored regularly and are not breached.
The group supports the control environment and the results of internal audit.
and encourages employees who become involved in Steps have been taken to embed internal control and risk social projects and examples of these are given in the management further into the operations of the group and to Directors' Report.
deal with areas of improvement which have come to managements and the boards attention.
Environmental responsibility The group does not operate directly in industries where there Key procedures which the directors have established with a is the potential for serious industrial pollution.
It does not print view to providing effective internal control, and which have products in-house or have any investments in printing works.
been in place throughout the year and up to the date of this It takes its environmental responsibility seriously and complies report, are as follows: with all relevant environmental laws and regulations in each country in which it operates.
Wherever economically feasible, The board of directors account is taken of environmental issues when placing the board normally meets six times a year to consider contracts with suppliers of goods and services and these group strategy, risk management, financial performance, suppliers are regularly reviewed and monitored.
For instance, acquisitions, business development and management issues: the group's two biggest print contracts are outsourced to the board has overall responsibility for the group and companies who have environment management systems there is a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved compliant to the ISO 14001 standard.
The paper used for the for decision by the board: group's publications is produced from pulp obtained from 26 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC 80766 pre 8 12 08 19:58 Page 27 and businesses reviewed previously and the findings from sustainable forests, manufactured under strict, monitored and accountable environmental standards.
The group is not a these reviews.
This approach ensures that the internal audit focus is placed on the higher risk areas of the group, heavy user of energy: however, it does manage its energy requirements sensibly using low-energy office equipment while ensuring an appropriate breadth of coverage.
DMGT's internal audit reports its findings to management and to the where possible and using a common sense approach such as switching off equipment, air-conditioning, heating and lights audit committee.
Accountability and audit Health and safety Audit committee The group is committed to the health and safety of its During the year the audit committee comprised four nonemployees and communities in which it operates.
The group executive directors: JC Botts chairman, Sir Patrick Sergeant, complies with all local health and safety regulations and JP Williams and JC Gonzalez independent.
With effect from makes use of external health and safety advisers where July 16 2008 Sir Patrick Sergeant retired as a member of the appropriate.
The UK businesses benefit from a monthly committee.
On September 30 2008 JP Williams, the finance assessment of the working environment by experienced director of DMGT, retired as a non-executive director, he, assessors and regular training of all existing and new UK however, remains a member of the audit committee.
The employees in health and safety matters.
committee meets at least three times each financial year.
The committee is responsible for reviewing the interim report, the Investment appraisal annual report and accounts and other related formal The managing director, finance director and business group statements before their submission to the board, and managers consider proposals for acquisitions and new reviewing and overseeing controls necessary to ensure the businesses.
Proposals beyond specified limits are put to the integrity of the financial information reported to the board for approval and are subject to due diligence by shareholders.
The audit committee advises the board on the the groups finance team and, if necessary, independent appointment of external auditors and on their remuneration, advisers.
Capital expenditure is regulated by strict both for audit and non-audit work.
It has set and applied a authorisation controls.
For capital expenditure above specified formal policy, which focuses on the effectiveness, levels, detailed written proposals must be submitted to independence and objectivity of the external audit, the type of the board and reviews are carried out to monitor progress non-audit work permissible and a diminimus level of fees against budget.
Any non-audit work performed outside this remit is assessed and where appropriate approved by the Accounting and computer systems controls committee.
The committee discusses the nature, scope and and procedures findings of the audit with the external auditors and considers Accounting controls and procedures are regularly reviewed and determines relevant action in respect of any control issues and communicated throughout the group.
Particular attention raised by the external auditors.
The audit committee is also is paid to authorisation levels and segregation of duties.
The responsible for monitoring and assessing the effectiveness of groups tax, financing and foreign exchange positions are internal audit, and reviews the internal audit programme overseen by the tax and treasury committee, which meets at and receives periodic reports on its findings.
It reviews the least twice a year.
Controls and procedures over the security of whistle blowing arrangements available to staff.
The data and disaster recovery are periodically reviewed and are audit committee's terms of reference are available on the subject to internal audit.
Internal audit Going concern basis The group has an internal audit function which is managed by After making enquiries, the directors have formed a DMGT's internal audit department, working closely with the judgement, at the time of approving the financial statements, company's finance director.
Internal audit draws on the that there is a reasonable expectation that the group has services of the group's central finance team to assist in adequate resources to continue in operational existence for completing the audit assignments.
Internal audit aims to the foreseeable future.
The group's 300 million three year provide an independent assessment as to whether effective multi-currency facility was due to expire in August 2009. systems and controls are in place and being operated to However, the directors have, subsequent to the year end, manage significant operating and financial risks.
It also aims to approved a new replacement facility of up to 250 million.
support management by providing cost effective The terms of the new facility are broadly similar to the existing recommendations to mitigate risk and control weaknesses facility.
For this reason the directors continue to adopt the identified during the audit process, as well as provide insight going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
into where cost efficiencies and monetary gains might be made by improving the operations of the business.
Businesses Statement of directors' responsibilities and central departments are selected for an internal audit The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, visit on a risk-focused basis, taking account of the risks Directors' Remuneration Report and the financial statements identified as part of the risk management process: the risk in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
and materiality of each the group's businesses: the scope and findings of external audit work: and the departments Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 27 80766 pre 8 12 08 19:58 Page 28 Corporate Governance continued Company law requires the directors to prepare financial The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting statements for each financial year.
The directors are required records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time by the IAS Regulation to prepare the group financial the financial position of the group and enable them to ensure statements under International Financial Reporting Standards that the parent company financial statements comply with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The group financial the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for statements are also required by law to be properly prepared in safeguarding the assets of the company and hence for taking accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud IAS Regulation.
International Accounting Standard 1 requires that IFRS The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity financial statements present fairly for each financial year the of the corporate and financial information included on the group's financial position, financial performance and cash company's website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial flows.
This requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International Accounting We confirm to the best of our knowledge: Standards Board's 'Framework for the preparation and the financial statements, prepared in accordance with presentation of financial statements'.
In virtually all International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, compliance with all applicable IFRSs.
However, directors are financial position and profit or loss of the company and also required to: the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and properly select and apply accounting policies: the management report, which is incorporated into the present information, including accounting policies, in a directors' report includes a fair review of the development manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and and performance of the business and the position of understandable information: and the company and the undertakings included in the provide additional disclosures when compliance with the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable description of the principal risks and uncertainties users to understand the impact of particular transactions, they face.
other events and conditions on the entity's financial position and financial performance.
Statement by the directors on compliance with the Combined Code The directors have elected to prepare the parent company The UK Listing Rules require the board to report on financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom compliance throughout the accounting year with the Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom applicable principles and provisions of the 2006 Combined Accounting Standards and applicable law.
The parent Code on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial company financial statements are required by law to give a Reporting Council.
Save for the exceptions outlined below, the true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company.
group has complied throughout the financial year ended In preparing these financial statements, the directors are September 30 2008 with the provisions set out in Section 1 of required to: the Combined Code.
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them Provision A.
3.2 states that half the board, excluding the consistently: chairman, should be comprised of non-executive directors determined by the board to be independent.
During the make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and year the board comprised 19 directors of whom six are prudent: non-executive directors, one of whom is considered to be an state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have independent non-executive director under the Combined been followed, subject to any material departures Code.
On September 30 2008, JP Williams retired as a disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and non-executive director, hence, at the year end, the board prepare the financial statements on the going concern comprises 18 directors of whom one is considered an basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the independent non-executive director.
One executive director, company will continue in business.
RT Lamont, has indicated his intention to retire from the board as a director on January 13 2009.
28 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC 80766 pre 8 12 08 19:58 Page 29 Contrary to provision A.
3.3, the board has not identified a senior independent non-executive director as the directors are of the opinion that all matters relating to the effective governance of the group must be dealt with by the board as a whole.
4.1 requires that the majority of the nominations committee should be comprised of independent nonexecutive directors.
Although the committee consists of four non-executive and two executive directors, none of these nonexecutive directors can be considered independent under the Combined Code.
4.4 states that the terms and conditions of appointment of non-executive directors should be available for inspection.
As explained in the Directors' Remuneration Report, the non-executive directors do not have service contracts.
2.1 and C. 3.1 require the remuneration and audit committees to comprise entirely of independent non-executive directors.
The remuneration committee is comprised of three non-executive directors, none of whom can be considered independent under the Combined Code.
During the year, the audit committee comprised of four non-executive directors, one retired in July 2008 and one retired as a non-executive director on September 30 2008 although still remains as a member of the audit committee.
Only one of the members of the audit committee can be be considered independent under the Combined Code and, with effect from October 1 2008, one member of the committee is no longer a non-executive director of the company.
On behalf of the board Padraic Fallon Chairman November 12 2008 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 29
