Corporate Governance The Group remains committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance as set out in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance Combined Code, revised in June 2006.
Compliance with the Combined Code The Group has complied with the main provisions of the Combined Code during the year ended 31 August 2008 and this statement explains how the Principles of Corporate Governance are applied within the Group.
It should be read in conjunction with the Business Review and the Board Remuneration Report on pages 5 to 16 and pages 27 to 33 respectively.
The Board As at 31 August 2008, the Board comprised a non-executive Chairman, two executive directors and two non-executive directors and is collectively responsible to shareholders for the proper management of the Group.
Biographical details of the directors are set out on page 17.
The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are separate and distinct from one another.
The Board is satisfied that it has met the Combined Codes requirements for its effective operation.
Specific matters are reserved for the Boards consideration under a formal schedule.
These include developing Group strategy, reviewing trading performance, considering senior management appointments, formulating policy on key issues including the approval of significant capital expenditure, acquisitions and disposals and reporting to shareholders.
The schedule is reviewed at least annually.
Various other matters are delegated to duly authorised sub-committees of the Board consisting of directors and senior executives.
Details of their composition and purpose are outlined below.
In addition, the Chairman and non-executive directors meet every year without the executive directors being present.
"All directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first Annual General Meeting ""AGM"" following their appointment and to re-election thereafter at intervals of no more than three years."
Due to his length of tenure, the Chairman seeks annual re-election in accordance with best practice.
The Group holds appropriate Directors and Officers liability insurance.
Board balance and independence The Board is satisfied that the current balance of skills and experience is appropriate for the requirements of the business.
Over half of the Board comprises non-executive directors, inclusive of the Chairman, and they are deemed by the Board to be independent of management and do not have any business relationships which could interfere with the exercise of their judgement.
The Senior Independent Director is David Buttfield.
Information and professional development Prior to each Board, Committee or General Meeting, the Board is provided with timely, appropriate and sufficient information to enable it to discharge its duties proficiently.
Non-executive directors receive an induction to the Group and its operations when they are appointed to the Board.
They are also encouraged to visit the Groups offices and factories whenever the opportunity presents itself where they meet management and are briefed on local business operations.
At least one Board meeting during the year is held at an operational site outside of the UK.
In 2008, this took place at the conveyor belting factory in South Africa.
All directors have access to the Company Secretary, who is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that the Group complies with all applicable rules, regulations and obligations governing its operations.
A procedure exists for directors to take independent professional advice, at the Groups expense, if necessary, in the furtherance of their duties.
Performance evaluation A Board performance evaluation was carried out in the year which comprised of a questionnaire and individual meetings with the Chairman.
The review looked at the effectiveness of the Board overall, its structure, composition, Board processes and Committees.
The Chairman also evaluated the performance of the individual directors as part of the review.
It was concluded that the composition, experience and effectiveness of the Board was appropriate and robust.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee comprises the two non-executive directors and is chaired by David Buttfield, who has recent and relevant financial experience.
The Company Secretary acts as a secretary to the Committee.
In undertaking its duties, the Committee has access to the services of the Group Finance Director and the Company Secretary as well as access to external professional advice.
The Committee has the power to request the attendance at meetings of any director, external auditor or Group employee as considered appropriate.
The Committee also meets external auditors without the executive directors being present.
18 Fenner PLC The principal duties of the Committee are to monitor the integrity of the financial statements, to review the internal controls and risk management systems, to review the work of internal audit and to consider all aspects of the relationship with the external auditors.
The Committee has the authority to obtain external legal or other professional advice on any matter within its terms of reference.
The work of the Audit Committee During the year, the Committee carried out the following work: - review, prior to Board approval, of the Preliminary and Interim Results, the Annual Report and the Interim Report: - consideration of the Groups key business risks, including the arrangements for the identification and management of risk: - overseeing the implementation of a Group-wide risk management system: - receive the reports on internal control and review the effectiveness of the internal control function, monitor progress and evaluate the internal control reports at least twice a year.
- meet with the external auditors, both with and without the executive management being present, to discuss audit issues: - approve the external auditors' terms of engagement and associated fees: - monitor the level of non-audit work of the external auditors: - review the terms of reference of the Audit Committee and the Whistleblowing Policy.
No non-routine matters of concern were drawn to the Committees attention by either the external or internal auditors through the year.
Matters of material concern would be immediately drawn to the Committees attention if and when they arise.
There is a policy on the provision of non-audit services by the external auditors.
Certain services such as due diligence in relation to acquisitions and disposals, taxation services and actuarial advice are permitted but others, for example, internal audit, information technology and HR consultancy are generally considered inappropriate.
Non-audit fees are reported to the Committee.
The Committee has received and reviewed written confirmation from the external auditors on all relationships that, in their judgement, may bear on their independence.
The external auditors have also confirmed that they consider themselves independent within the meaning of UK regulatory and professional requirements.
Audit Committee and internal control The Audit Committee reviews the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control and receives a report on internal control at least twice a year.
This review covers all controls, including operational, financial, compliance and risk management.
In accordance with the requirements of the Combined Code and the recommendations of the Turnbull Guidance on internal control, the directors have reviewed the effectiveness of the internal control system.
During the period under review, no significant changes to the material risks were identified and no control failings or weaknesses were identified that resulted in unforeseen material losses.
The directors are responsible for the Groups system of internal control which, like any system of internal control, can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The key procedures within the control structure are: - the identification of major business and insurance risks faced by the Groups operations, by both the Board and senior management, and the determination of the most appropriate course of action to deal with these risks: - central review and approval procedures in respect of major areas of risk such as acquisitions and disposals, litigation, treasury management, taxation and environmental issues: - a clear management structure with well defined lines of responsibility and the appropriate levels of delegation: - regular review of the Groups business units by operational and executive management: - a structured process for appraising and authorising capital projects.
This process includes clearly defined authorisation levels.
Projects are subject to post-investment appraisals: - well established consolidation and reporting systems for both the statutory and monthly management accounts, with all Board members receiving a monthly statement of the financial results: - comprehensive budgeting systems with an annual budget approved by the Board.
Monthly results are reported against budget and revised forecasts for the year are prepared regularly: - an internal programme of monitoring visits by the internal audit team, as agreed with the Audit Committee, reviews the compliance of each business unit with the Group's standard internal financial control procedures: - competition compliance programmes are in place in several jurisdictions and the Group-wide Whistleblowing Policy continues to be applied: and - a programme of business risk reviews with operational management focusing on non-financial controls and risk management.
Fenner PLC 19 Corporate Governance continued Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee comprises the Chairman and the non-executive directors and is chaired by David Campbell.
The Chief Executive Officer also attends the meetings by invitation but does not participate in any decision in relation to his own remuneration.
The Committee has the power to request the attendance at meetings of any director or Group employee as considered appropriate.
The Committee is responsible to the Board for determining the remuneration packages of the executive directors and other senior executives and advises on executive remuneration policy issues.
The Committee administers the long term Performance Share Plan PSP and the outgoing Long Term Share Incentive Plan LTIP.
It also approves the granting to employees of a long term Shadow Performance Share Plan which is a cash incentive scheme with performance criteria which are the same as the PSP.
The Remuneration Committee received advice during the year from Hewitt New Bridge Street Consultants LLP HNBSC, who advised the Committee in relation to director and senior executive remuneration and the PSP.
MM&K Ltd assisted the Committee in consideration of matters in relation to the outgoing LTIP.
Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee comprises the Chairman, the non-executive directors and the Chief Executive Officer.
The Committee is chaired by the Chairman and meets at least annually.
Terms of reference set out the Committees role and duties which include reviewing the composition of the Board, having responsibility for the identification and nomination of candidates to fill Board vacancies and considering succession planning for all Board positions and senior executives.
Candidates for appointment to the Board are considered by the Committee, taking advice from external consultants where appropriate.
Meetings of the Board The attendance of each director at Board, Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committee meetings is set out below.
Audit Remuneration Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings during the year 6 3 3 1 Chairman C I Cooke 6 3 3 1 Executive directors M S Abrahams 6 3 2 1 R J Perry 6 3 0 1 Non-executive directors D F Buttfield 6 3 3 1 D A Campbell 6 3 3 1 By invitation Terms of reference The terms of reference of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees are reviewed at least annually and are available to view on the Groups website at www.
com or upon request to the Company Secretary.
Executive Committee The Executive Committee is chaired by the Chief Executive Officer and consists of the two executive directors, the Company Secretary and five members of the Groups senior management.
The Executive Committee meets at least six times a year and deals with the daily management of the Group through powers delegated to it by the Board.
Directors' remuneration Policy and procedure are set out in the Board Remuneration Report on pages 27 to 33.
20 Fenner PLC Relations with shareholders The Company encourages regular dialogue with its institutional shareholders and also with private investors at the AGM.
The Chief Executive Officer and Group Finance Director hold update meetings with institutional shareholders following the announcement of Preliminary and Interim Results and as requested throughout the year.
Similar meetings are held with private client brokers so that the same information can be disseminated to private investors.
The Chairman and non-executive directors are offered the opportunity to attend meetings with major shareholders and attend if requested.
The Board is provided with broker reports and feedback from shareholder meetings on a regular basis.
The Groups website provides comprehensive investor relations information for shareholders to view.
The website includes analyst presentations, the current share price, regulatory announcements, financial performance information, shareholder information and an investor relations contact address.
Annual General Meeting In relation to the Companys AGM: - proxy forms allow for voting either for a resolution, against a resolution or for a vote to be withheld: - a separate resolution is proposed for each substantially separate issue, including the receipt of the Annual Report: - the proxy count in respect of each resolution is announced after it has been dealt with on a show of hands: - all executive and non-executive Board members normally attend the meeting: - the Notice of Meeting, the Annual Report and any other related papers are normally sent to shareholders more than one month before the meeting: and - shareholders are invited to ask questions during the AGM and have an opportunity to meet the Board directors before and after the formal meeting.
Statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report, the Board Remuneration Report and the financial statements The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Board Remuneration Report and the Group and Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law, the directors have prepared the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union and the Company financial statements and the Board Remuneration Report in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
The Company and Group financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing those financial statements, the directors are required to: - select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: - make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent : - state that the Group financial statements comply with IFRS as adopted by the European Union and with regard to the Company financial statements that applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and - prepare the Group and Company financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue in business, in which case there should be supporting assumptions or qualifications as necessary.
The directors confirm that they have complied with the above requirements in preparing the financial statements.
The directors are also required by the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Services Authority to include a management report containing a fair review of the business and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group and Company.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and to enable them to ensure that the Group financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and the Company financial statements and the Board Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Fenner PLC 21 Corporate Governance continued Directors statement pursuant to the Disclosure and Transparency Rules Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed in The Board on page 17 confirm that, to the best of each persons knowledge and belief: - the Group financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, and the Company financial statements, prepared in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities and financial position of the Group and Company and of the profit of the Group: and - the Business Review on pages 5 to 16 includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
Going concern After making enquiries, the directors have formed a judgment at the time of approving the financial statements that there is a reasonable expectation that the Company and Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, the directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
C I Cooke Chairman 12 November 2008 22 Fenner PLC
