Corporate governance Corporate Governance Report Introduction Non-executive Directors are Lucio Genovese, Wolfram Kuoni The Board continues to be committed to good corporate and Ihor Mitiukov.
With effect from 27 March 2009 two further governance practices, in its management of the affairs of the Non-executive Directors, Marek Jelinek and Miklos Salamon, Group and in its accountability to shareholders.
As detailed in will be appointed to the Board.
this report, the Directors Report and the reports of the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committees, the Group has taken Biographical details of the Directors at the date of this report action to institute an effective corporate governance framework by are set out on pages 8 and 9 together with details of their establishing Board committees, internal procedures and Group membership of Board committees.
Brief details of the roles of the policies which are critical for the proper management of the Group Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer and the Senior Independent and good governance of an international business.
The 2008 Director are set out below.
reporting period is the first full year that the Group has been subject to the rules of the UK Listing Authority.
During the recent The Board is responsible for setting the Groups objectives and changes to its composition, the Board has sought to comply with policies, providing effective leadership and control required for a corporate governance best practice.
This report details the steps public company and for approving the Group strategy, budgets, that have been taken to achieve compliance with the Principles of business plans and major capital expenditure.
The Board has a Good Governance and the Code of Best Practice contained in the formal schedule of matters which sets out those matters requiring Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued in June 2006 Board approval and specifically reserved to it for decision.
It also the Combined Code.
The Board and management of the Group monitors financial performance and critical business issues.
Major believe in conducting their affairs in a fair and transparent manner project approvals and contract awards require the approval of the and in maintaining high ethical standards in their dealings with all Board as well as key policies and procedures.
The Board is supported by the Executive Committee which In October 2008 the Board announced its intention to re-focus the meets monthly.
All of the information that is submitted to the Groups strategic plans following the downturn in the economic Board by management is reviewed and approved by the environment.
As a result of these changes to strategy Mike Executive Committee.
Oppenheimer then Chief Executive Officer and Dennis McShane then Executive Director, Business Development considered their Directors receive briefing notes and reports for their consideration roles to have changed materially from those previously envisaged in advance of each Board meeting, including reports on the and both of them tendered their resignations.
The Board has since Groups operations to ensure that they remain briefed on the appointed Kostyantin Zhevago as Chief Executive Officer and is latest developments and are able to make fully informed decisions.
further strengthening the Board by the appointment of two These notes and reports take into account the factors set out additional Non-executive Directors, Marek Jelinek and Miklos in section 172 of the Companies Act 2006 directors duty to Salamon, as a consequence of the acquisition of shares promote the success of the company for members benefit, which representing just under 25% of the voting rights of Ferrexpo plc by are considered by the Executive Committee when making any RPG Industries SE.
proposals and recommendations to the Board.
Decisions made by the Board are set within the framework of the Directors Statement of compliance statutory duty to promote the success of the Group for the During the year to 31 December 2008 the Company complied benefit of its members.
with the provisions of section 1 of the Combined Code.
A procedure is in place to deal with Directors conflicts of interest The Combined Code establishes 17 main principles of good and related party disclosures.
This procedure is in line with governance in four areas: Directors, Directors Remuneration, published guidance, the Companys Articles of Association Accountability and Audit, and Relations with Shareholders.
The and the provisions in section 175 of the Companies Act 2006 following three sections explain how these principles were applied, on conflicts of interest.
Schedules of a Directors actual or with the exception of those relating to directors remuneration potential conflicts and related party transactions have been a detailed report on Directors remuneration can be found in the compiled based on disclosures made by the Director.
These Remuneration Report pages 44 to 51. are updated and reviewed on a regular basis by the Executive Committee.
Any changes to the schedules are noted and minuted The Groups auditor has reviewed those parts of this statement at the beginning of each Board meeting.
The Committee of which it is required to review under the Listing Rules of the Independent Directors has delegated authority to authorise Financial Services Authority.
conflicts of interest on behalf of the Board.
The procedure operates effectively, and the Group undertakes to follow Directors emerging best practice in this area.
The Board From 1 January 2008 to 1 November 2008 the Board was All Directors have access to the advice and services of the composed of a Non-executive Chairman: Michael Abrahams, Company Secretary, who is responsible for ensuring that three Executive Directors: Mike Oppenheimer, Dennis McShane Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules and and Chris Mawe and five Non-executive Directors.
Since regulations are complied with.
All Directors may take independent 1 November 2008 the Board comprises a Non-executive professional advice at the expense of the Group in the furtherance Chairman: Michael Abrahams, two Executive Directors: of their duties.
On appointment, all Directors are advised of Kostyantin Zhevago, Chief Executive Officer, and Chris Mawe, their duties, responsibilities and liabilities as a Director of a public Chief Financial Officer and four Non-executive Directors.
Baring continues as the Senior Independent Director.
The other 38 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Directors have the right to request that any concerns they have Code.
In the opinion of the Board, all the continuing Non-executive are recorded in the appropriate committee or Board minutes.
Directors bring independence of judgement and character to the Board and to the Board committees on which they sit.
The Board The Board met eight times during the reporting period.
considers that all of the Non-executive Directors as at the date of Attendance by Directors at Board meetings and Board this report are independent of the Group as defined by provision committee meetings is shown below.
Mr Zhevago is a beneficiary of The Minco Trust which owns Chairman, Chief Executive Officer CEO and 100% of Fevamotinico S. a. r. l. the major shareholder in the Group.
Senior Independent Director Consequently he and Fevamotinico S. a. r. l. have entered into The roles of the Chairman and CEO are held by different a relationship agreement with the Company to ensure that the individuals.
The division of responsibilities between the Chairman Group is capable of carrying on its business independently, that and CEO has been clearly established in writing and agreed by transactions and relationships between the Group, Fevamotinico the Board.
S. a. r. l. and Mr Zhevago are at arms length and on normal commercial terms, and that there shall be at all times a majority The Chairman is responsible for leadership of the Board, ensuring of Directors independent of Fevamotinico S. a. r. l. and Mr Zhevago its effectiveness, setting its agenda and ensuring effective on the Board the Relationship Agreement.
The Chairman also ensures that there is a constructive relationship between the Executive and The Board has established a Committee of Independent Directors Non-executive Directors.
From time to time the Chairman holds to consider and, if appropriate, approve related party transactions meetings with the Non-executive Directors without the Executive and conflicts of interests whether in relation to Mr Zhevago or Directors present.
any other Director, and to consider any matters referred to it concerning the operation of the Relationship Agreement.
The Chairmans other current responsibilities are set out in the biographical notes on page 8.
There have been no changes to Information and professional development those commitments during the reporting period.
Professional development and training are provided in a number of ways including updates on changes and proposed changes in The role of the CEO is to provide leadership of the executive team, laws and regulations affecting the Group, and site visits to ensure to develop proposals for the Board to consider and oversee and Directors are familiar with the Groups operations.
During the year, implement Board-approved actions.
Kostyantin Zhevago was the members of the Audit Committee received a briefing on their appointed as CEO on 1 November 2008.
As CEO of the Group, he roles and responsibilities.
is focusing on managing the business through the current deterioration in the world economic situation as well as on strict In the period, Board members received a briefing on the new cash conservation.
The Board believes that Mr Zhevago is best duties of Directors as prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 placed to lead the Group during the challenging time ahead in including those that have come into force during the year, in view of his knowledge of the Groups Ukrainian operations and his particular sections 175 and 176 of the Companies Act 2006 and record of success in conducting business in Ukraine and the CIS Chapter 11 of the Financial Services Authority Listing Rules.
Details of Mr Zhevagos appointments are set out in the biographical notes on page 8.
Performance evaluation A process of evaluation of the Board and its Audit and The Senior Independent Director, Oliver Baring, in conjunction Remuneration Committees has been conducted by the chairmen with the other independent Non-executive Directors, assists of these bodies.
All Directors and committee members completed in communications with shareholders concerning corporate a questionnaire and the results have been analysed and governance matters if that is required.
He also chairs the discussed by those concerned.
The Senior Independent Director Nominations Committee and the Committee of Independent and the other Non-executive Directors have evaluated, and will Directors.
At least once a year, the Senior Independent Director continue to monitor, the performance of the Chairman.
meets the Non-executive Directors, without the Chairman present, to evaluate the Chairmans performance.
Board committees The Board has a number of committees consisting of certain Board balance and independence Directors, and in the case of the Executive Committee and The Board believes that its current membership of two Executive Corporate Safety and Social Responsibility CSR Committee, Directors, with a Non-executive Chairman and four Non-executive certain senior managers, to which specific responsibilities have Directors who are all deemed by the Board to be independent been delegated and for which written terms of reference have with two further Non-executive Directors in the course of been agreed.
These terms of reference are available for inspection appointment, is of an appropriate size and structure to manage on the Groups website at www.
Membership of the the Group in an effective and successful manner.
It also considers various committees, including the Chairman of each committee, is that no single Director can influence or dominate the decision shown below.
The Relationship Agreement with Kostyantin Zhevago specifically deals with decision making.
More details are The Board periodically reviews the membership of its committees given below.
to ensure that committee membership is refreshed.
The Group provides the committees with sufficient resources to undertake The Board has carefully considered the guidance criteria on their duties, including access to the Company Secretary.
independence of Non-executive Directors under the Combined 39 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Corporate governance Corporate Governance Report continued The table of attendance of members of the Ferrexpo Board and its principal committees at meetings during the financial period together with a summary of the terms of reference is set out below.
Board Eight Board meetings were held during the year.
Attendance Board members record Michael Abrahams Non-executive Chairman 8 8 1 Kostyantin Zhevago Chief Executive Officer 7 8 Chris Mawe Chief Financial Officer 8 8 Oliver Baring Senior Independent Non-executive Director 7 8 Lucio Genovese Independent Non-executive Director 8 8 Wolfram Kuoni Independent Non-executive Director 8 8 Ihor Mitiukov Independent Non-executive Director 8 8 1 Mike Oppenheimer Former Chief Executive Officer 5 5 1 Dennis McShane Former Executive Director, Business Development 5 5 1 Mike Oppenheimer and Dennis McShane resigned as Executive Directors with effect from 1 November 2008 prior to the sixth meeting of the Board.
Kostyantin Zhevago was appointed Chief Executive Officer with effect from 1 November 2008.
The structure and business of the Ferrexpo Board is designed to ensure that the Board focuses on strategy, management, governance and control issues.
Certain aspects of the Boards responsibilities have been delegated to appropriate committees to ensure compliance with the UK Companies Act, FSA Listing Rules and the Code.
It is the responsibility of the Chief Executive Officer and the Executive Committee to manage the day-to-day running of the Group.
The Board is supported by the Executive Committee which meets monthly.
All of the information that is submitted to the Board by management is reviewed and approved by the Executive Committee.
Audit Committee Four Audit Committee meetings were held during the year.
Attendance Committee members record Wolfram Kuoni Chairman 4 4 Lucio Genovese 4 4 Ihor Mitiukov 3 4 Under its terms of reference the Audit Committee is required to meet at least three times a year at the most appropriate times in the reporting and audit process.
The Committee monitors the integrity of the financial statements of the Group, including its annual and interim reports, interim management statements, preliminary results announcements and any other formal announcement relating to its financial performance, reviewing significant financial reporting issues and judgements which they contain.
The Audit Committee is also responsible for reviewing internal controls and risk management systems, whistleblowing procedures and internal audit processes, and oversees the relationship with the external auditors.
Remuneration Committee Five Remuneration Committee meetings were held during the year.
Attendance Committee members record Lucio Genovese Chairman 5 5 Michael Abrahams 5 5 Ihor Mitiukov 5 5 Oliver Baring 5 5 The Remuneration Committee meets as required and is responsible for reviewing and approving all aspects of remuneration for the Executive Directors and members of the Executive Committee.
Further details concerning the Remuneration Committee are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 44 to 51.
40 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Nominations Committee One Nominations Committee meeting was held during the year.
Attendance Committee members record Oliver Baring Chairman 1 1 Michael Abrahams 1 1 Wolfram Kuoni 1 1 Ihor Mitiukov 1 1 Kostyantin Zhevago 1 1 Nominations Committee Report The Nominations Committee meets as required.
The role of the Nominations Committee is to identify and nominate candidates for the approval of the Board, to fill vacancies and make recommendations to the Board on Board composition and balance.
The Nominations Committee consults regularly with the Board when filling vacancies.
The Executive Directors and Chairman also assist in identifying the scope and required skills for the vacant role.
During the year the Nominations Committee considered and recommended to the Board the appointment of two new Non-executive Directors, whose appointments are to take effect in 2009.
As these appointments were made as a consequence of the acquisition of just under 25% of the Groups voting rights by RPG Industries, it was not appropriate to use external search agents or open advertising.
In recommending the appointments, the Committee took the view that both individuals will enhance the Board with their considerable experience in the mining sector.
In addition, the requirement to maintain a majority of independent Non-executive Directors on the Board, stipulated in the Relationship Agreement and reflected in the Nominations Committee appointment process, will not be affected by these two new appointments.
The Committee also considered the appointment of a new Chief Executive Officer upon the resignation of Mr Oppenheimer, taking into account the change in strategic direction of the Group necessitated by the market downturn.
In coming to its decision to recommend to the Board the appointment of Kostyantin Zhevago, the Committee noted Mr Zhevagos proven ability to conduct business in Ukraine and elsewhere, and in particular to manage the Groups Ukrainian operations.
It is intended that succession planning be reviewed by the Nominations Committee during 2009.
Corporate Safety and Social Responsibility Committee Two Corporate Safety and Social Responsibility Committee meetings were held during the year.
Attendance Committee members record Viktor Lotous Chairman 2 2 Michael Abrahams 2 2 1 John Dawe 1 1 Dave Webster 2 2 1 Kostyantin Zhevago 1 1 2 Mike Oppenheimer 1 1 1 One meeting has been held since appointment to the Committee.
2 Resigned on 1 November 2008 prior to second meeting.
The CSR Committees role is to formulate and recommend to the Board the Groups policy on corporate safety and social responsibility issues as they affect the Groups operations.
In particular it focuses on ensuring that effective systems and standards, procedures and practices are in place in the Group.
The CSR Committee is responsible for reviewing managements investigation of incidents or accidents that occur in order to assess whether policy improvements are required.
The Committee meets not less than twice a year and at such other times as the Chairman of the CSR Committee shall require.
Further details concerning the activities of the CSR Committee are set out in the Corporate Social Responsibility Review on pages 26 to 35.
Committee of Independent Directors The formation of the Committee of Independent Directors CID was approved by the Board on 13 May 2008 in order to consider and if appropriate authorise, on behalf of the Board, related party transactions and otherwise ensure compliance with Chapter 11 of the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority and the Relationship Agreement entered into between Fevamotinico S. a. r. l. Mr Zhevago, The Minco Trust and the Company.
The CID has delegated authority to consider and, if appropriate, authorise conflicts of interest of any member of the Board under the relevant section of the Companies Act 2006.
The CID met formally twice during the year and approved matters by written resolution on four occasions.
41 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Corporate governance Corporate Governance Report continued The Executive Committee exposed rather than eliminate risk altogether.
Consequently it The Executive Committee acts as the main decision making can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against body of the Group.
Its members are detailed on page 9.
It is material misstatement or loss.
responsible for taking all material decisions relating to the Group apart from those that are reserved for the entire Board, such as The Board has delegated its responsibility for reviewing the approving the Groups strategy, capital expenditure and budget.
effectiveness of these controls to the Audit Committee.
The It meets regularly during the year, and no meetings are held in Audit Committee reviews these systems on an annual basis.
It is the responsibility of the Executive day-to-day responsibility for managing risk and the maintenance Committee to ensure its duties are at all times set in the context of the Groups system of internal control is collectively assumed by of the requirements of the Schedule of Matters Reserved for the the Executive Committee.
Key risk and control issues are reviewed Board.
The Board has delegated to the Executive Committee regularly by the Executive Committee.
the responsibility for the successful execution of Boardapproved strategies for the Group, the ensuring of appropriate On behalf of the Board, the Executive Committee has established levels of authority delegated to senior management, the a process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant review of organisational structures and the development risks faced by the Group in accordance with the Turnbull and implementation of Group policies.
The Group has also adopted a risk-based approach in establishing the Groups system of internal control and in Accountability and audit reviewing its effectiveness.
To assist in managing key internal The Board is mindful of its responsibility to present a balanced risks, it has established a number of Group-wide procedures, and clear assessment of the Groups financial position and policies and standards and has set up a framework for reporting prospects.
This assessment is primarily provided in the matters of significance.
The Audit Committee is responsible for Chairmans and Chief Executives Statement and the Financial reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups risk management, Review contained in this Annual Report.
Statements of the internal control systems and the interim and annual financial respective responsibilities of the Directors and auditors are statements before their submission to the Board.
Full details of the Groups policy on risk and uncertainties are Audit Committee Report set out in note 43 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial The Combined Code recommends that all members of the Audit Information on pages 99 to 105.
Committee are independent Non-executive Directors, and that at least one member should have recent and relevant financial The Board has, through the Executive Committee and the Audit experience.
All members of the Audit Committee are considered Committee, reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system of to possess appropriate knowledge and skills.
an independent Non-executive Director, is Chairman of the Audit Committee.
As a result of the continual review of internal control procedures several key elements have been established within the Group to During the reporting period the Audit Committee met four times ensure a sound system of internal control which is described in and carried out the following activities: detail below.
Reviewed with Ernst & Young LLP, the external auditors, the annual and interim financial statements and associated These include: documents and the preliminary results statement, ensuring that Regular review of risk and identification of key risks all material information was properly and clearly disclosed.
at the Executive Committee which are reviewed at the Reviewed with Ernst & Young LLP the scope of the audit work Audit Committee.
proposed for 2008 and audit fees.
Clearly defined organisational and reporting structure and Reviewed periodically the risk matrix and the internal audit limits of authority applied to subsidiary companies including plan, and discussed with BDO Visura International as internal monitoring and reporting on the regular board meetings held auditors the findings of the internal auditors.
at FPM, the key Ukrainian subsidiary.
Monitored the continuing implementation of the financial Clearly defined information and financial reporting systems procedures plan proposed by management post IPO.
including regular forecasts and a rigorous annual budgeting Reviewed and approved the whistleblowing policy whereby process with reporting against key financial and operational staff may, in confidence, raise concerns about financial milestones.
Rigorous investment appraisal underpinned by the budgetary Reviewed effectiveness of external auditors.
process where capital expenditure limits are applied to delegated authority limits.
Internal control Clearly defined treasury policy monitored and applied The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of in accordance with pre-set limits for investment and internal control which includes risk management and reviewing management of the Groups liquid resources including a its effectiveness.
The system of internal control is designed to separate treasury function.
identify, evaluate and manage significant risks associated with the Internal audit by an external independent firm of auditors who achievement of the Groups objectives.
Because of the limitations monitor, test and prove internal controls operating within the inherent in any system of internal control, this system is designed Group at all levels and report directly to the Audit Committee.
to meet the Groups particular needs and the risks to which it is Fraud management through an independent department operating in the Groups key operating subsidiary FPM.
42 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 There are a number of components to the system of internal Going concern controls within the Group which facilitate the control procedures A statement on the Directors position regarding the Group as and these are detailed as follows: a going concern is contained in the Directors Report on page 55.
A risk matrix has been developed and is monitored and reviewed by the Executive Committee and the Audit Committee.
Relations with shareholders A framework of transaction and entity level controls to prevent The Board attaches great importance to effective communication and detect material error and loss.
Executive Directors and senior executives have A budgetary and periodic reporting review process performed frequent discussions with institutional shareholders on a range of by the Executive Committee.
issues affecting the Groups performance, which include meetings A documented structure of delegated authorities and approvals following the announcement of the annual and interim results.
for transaction and investment decisions, including any with The Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, and Head of related parties.
Investor Relations meet with major shareholders to discuss A programme of internal audit reviews has been performed by performance, strategy and governance, and the Non-executive BDO Visura International.
Directors are available for discussions with shareholders if required.
FRMC reviews monthly financial information and management accounts and meets fortnightly.
JPMorganCazenove, the Groups brokers, also provide regular reports to the Board on changes to the shareholdings of the Treasury Groups major investors.
Information about the views of major Details of the Group Treasury policy are referred to in the Business investors is provided to the Board on a regular basis by the Review on page 23 and in the financial statements on pages 99 Chief Executive Officer and Head of Investor Relations.
The Board uses the Annual General Meeting each year to Investment proposals communicate with shareholders and welcomes their participation.
A budgetary process and authorisation levels regulate capital The Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations expenditure.
For expenditure beyond specified levels, detailed Committees endeavour to be present at the Annual General written proposals are submitted to the Executive Committee and Meetings to answer questions from shareholders.
then to the Board for approval.
Information on matters of interest to investors can be found on the Internal audit Groups website at www.
A Group-wide internal audit function has been established using BDO Visura International as an outsourced service provider which The Board approved this report on 23 March 2009. reports to the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
An internal audit programme for 2008 and 2009 has been approved by the Audit Committee and has been targeted to focus on the areas of risk identified by the risk review carried out by the Executive Committee and the Board.
Auditor independence The Audit Committee and Board place great emphasis on the independence and objectivity of the Groups auditors, Ernst & Young LLP, when performing their role in the Groups reporting to shareholders.
The overall performance, independence and objectivity of the auditors is reviewed annually by the Audit Committee, taking into account the views of management, and the outcome of this review is relayed to the relevant partners of Ernst & Young.
The Audit Committee has regular discussions with the external auditors, without management being present.
The Audit Committee has approved separate policies in respect of the provision of non-audit services and employment of former employees of the auditors.
The auditors will also be expected to provide to the Audit Committee information about policies and processes for maintaining independence and monitoring compliance with relevant current requirements, including those regarding the rotation of audit partners and staff, the level of fees that the Group pays in proportion to the overall fee income of the firm, and other regulatory requirements.
43 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008
