Annual Report and Accounts 2008 31 Corporate governance Compliance with The Combined Code Fidessa is committed to high standards of corporate governance.
In respect of the year ended 31st December 2008 the Company has complied with the requirements of Section 1 of The Combined Code.
The Board The Company is controlled through the Board, which at 31st December 2008 comprised the Chairman, two executive directors and three non-executive directors whose Board and Committee responsibilities are set out in the table below: Board Audit Remuneration Nominations John Hamer Chairman Chairman Chairman Chris Aspinwall Chief Executive Member Andy Malpass Finance Director Member Ron Mackintosh Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Member Member Chairman Member Philip Hardaker Independent Non-Executive Director Member Chairman Member Member Elizabeth Lake Independent Non-Executive Director Member After formal review the Board has concluded that Ron Mackintosh, Elizabeth Lake and Philip Hardaker are independent.
In coming to this opinion the Board considered the character and judgement of the individuals concerned and the fact that they: Have never been an employee of the Group: Have never had a material business relationship with the Group: Do not receive any remuneration from the Group other than their non-executive director fees: Do not have close family ties with other directors or senior management of the Group or with advisers to the Group: Have no significant links with other directors of the Group through involvement with other companies: Do not represent a material shareholder of the Company: and Have not served on the Board of the Company for more than nine years.
The Board meets formally on a regular basis to review trading performance and forecasts, strategy, policy and risk and to oversee appropriate shareholder reporting.
During 2008 the Board met on ten scheduled occasions for this purpose.
In addition, impromptu Board meetings occur to consider specific issues as and when necessary.
Meetings were held by the Chairman with the non-executive directors without the executive directors present.
The attendance of individual directors at Board meetings and Committee meetings is presented in the table below: Audit Remuneration Nominations Board Committee Committee Committee meetings meetings meetings meetings attended attended attended attended John Hamer 9 10 4 4 Chris Aspinwall 10 10 Andy Malpass 10 10 Ron Mackintosh 10 10 3 3 4 4 4 4 Philip Hardaker 9 10 3 3 4 4 4 4 Elizabeth Lake 3 3 Elizabeth Lake was appointed to the Board in October 2008 The Board is responsible for the Groups system of corporate governance.
The Board delegates operational control to the executive directors.
At each board meeting the board considers strategic issues, finance, business development, governance and risks facing the business.
The Board is aware of the codification of directors duties which came into force in 2007 under the Companies Act 2006 and takes these duties into account in the consideration of the Companys business.
The board approves the annual budget and monitors the performance of the business.
During the year, the Board reviewed a number of specific projects including the disposal of the Groups stake in Touchpaper and the settlement of the Lava patent dispute.
There is a formal schedule of matters reserved for the decision of the Board that covers key areas of the Groups affairs.
The schedule includes approval of the Annual Report and any other financial statements, the adoption of the Groups budgets or business plans, decisions on acquisitions and disposals, material financial commitments and the release of inside information.
Certain matters require Board approval Fidessa group plc 32 Corporate governance continued and other matters may be approved by senior management but notification to the Board is required.
The schedule of matters reserved for the Board is reviewed annually.
A procedure exists to allow the directors to seek independent legal advice in respect of their duties at the Companys expense where the circumstances are appropriate.
All directors have access to the Company Secretary for her advice and services.
All directors are obliged to submit themselves for re-election at least every three years.
Performance Evaluation The Combined Code requires that the Board undertake a formal annual evaluation of its performance.
The review has been conducted and covered the areas of board structure, effectiveness, committees, information and communication.
Questionnaires were completed by the directors and submitted for discussion.
The feedback generated from the questionnaires including areas where improvement could be made during the coming year were discussed by the Board and the conclusion was reached that the Board is operating effectively.
A review of the Chairman by the non-executive directors without the executives present was also carried out.
There is a formal written policy on the division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive such that their roles are complementary to each other.
Training and Professional Development All directors on joining the Company undergo an induction process and receive ongoing updates to improve their skills and knowledge according to their needs.
The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the board and updating it on governance matters.
In addition to the Remuneration Committee, the details of which are in the Directors Remuneration Report the following committees deal with specific aspects of the Groups affairs and their terms of reference can be found on the Companys website: www.
com Audit Committee The audit committee is chaired by Philip Hardaker who has recent and relevant financial experience as a former partner of KPMG.
It comprises Philip Hardaker and Ron Mackintosh and the Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
It has met three times with the external auditors during the year.
The Chairman and executive directors were invited to attend for part of these meetings.
The committee reviews the interim and annual reports, reports from the external auditors and scope and representation letters in respect of the audit and reviews undertaken by the Auditors as well as the Auditors remuneration and the overall effectiveness of the audit process.
The committee has met and reviewed the terms of reference, scope, programme and reports of the internal audit function.
The committee focuses the activity of the internal audit function on those areas where it considers there to be the greatest risk and engages an external consultant who conducts internal audits on the Groups operations and reports directly to the audit committee on his findings.
The audit committee reviews annually the overall results of ISO 9001:2000 TickIT compliance and the results of the SAS 70 audits.
Nominations Committee The Nominations Committee, which is chaired by John Hamer, comprises John Hamer, Philip Hardaker and Ron Mackintosh and is therefore compliant with the requirements of the Combined Code.
Its role is to review the structure of the Board and to agree succession planning as set out in the Nominations Committee terms of reference.
The procedure for new appointments incorporates the use of independent recruitment consultants.
In respect of the appointment of Elizabeth Lake, search consultants were instructed by the Committee having considered the requisite skills, knowledge and experience required for the position and as a result Ms Lake was selected by the Committee and then her appointment recommended to and approved by the Board.
The Committees terms of reference are available on the Group website at www.
com and set out the Committees responsibilities.
Dialogue with Shareholders The Company values the views of its shareholders and recognises their interests in the Companys strategy and performance.
The Chief Executive and Finance Director hold briefing meetings with analysts and institutional shareholders, primarily following the announcement of interim and preliminary results but also at other times during the year as may be suitable.
The Chief Executive and Finance Director provide feedback to the Board from these briefing meetings.
The Board also obtains formal feedback on the Company and management from analysts and institutional shareholders through the Companys PR adviser and financial adviser.
Communication with private investors is through the Annual Report, the Interim Report and the Annual General Meeting.
Financial and other information is made available on the Companys website, www.
com, which is regularly updated.
The Chairman and Senior Independent Non-Executive Director meet with major shareholders as and when there is a requirement to do so.
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 33 Going concern The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and positions are set out in the Directors Report and within the Overview, Operations Review and the Finance Review.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Finance Review.
In addition, note 23 to the financial statements includes the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
Having reviewed the future plans and projections for the business and its current financial position, the directors believe that the Company and its subsidiary undertakings have adequate financial resources together with long-term contracts with a number of customers and suppliers across different geographic areas to continue to manage its business risks successfully and remain in operational existence for the foreseeable future, a period of not less than 12 months from the date of this report despite the current uncertain macro-economic outlook.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Internal control The Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
However, such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Combined Code requires that directors review the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls, including those of an operational and compliance nature, as well as internal financial controls.
The Board is of the view that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the Groups significant risks and that this has been in place for the period under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report.
The Group has established control processes and procedures to ensure compliance with the best practice governance provisions as advocated by the Turnbull Guidance.
The Boards agenda includes a regular item for consideration of risk and control, and any actions that may be considered necessary, and it receives reports thereon from the executive directors.
Management is responsible for the identification and evaluation of significant risks applicable to their areas of business together with the design and operation of suitable internal controls.
These risks are assessed on a continual basis and may be associated with a variety of internal or external sources including competition, control breakdowns, disruption in information systems, natural catastrophe and regulatory requirements.
A process of control assessment and reporting is established and defined in the Groups Quality Management System.
This system is independently audited on a regular basis and was successfully audited to ISO 9001:2000 TickIT twice this year.
The Group also successfully completed the SAS70 audits during the year.
The directors believe this audit is particularly important to our US clients in enabling them to satisfy their Sarbanes Oxley requirements when using a Fidessa solution.
The treasury function operates within guidelines established by the Board.
A comprehensive budgetary process is completed once a year and is reviewed and approved by the Board.
An updated forecast is regularly prepared throughout the year.
The operating results are reported monthly to the Board and compared to the budget and latest forecast as appropriate.
The Company presents financial statements to its shareholders twice a year.
For details of the Groups financial risk and policies together with its policy with regard to the use of financial instruments, please refer to the Finance Review section of this Annual Report and note 23 to the financial statements.
Auditor independence The Board has considered the issue of external auditor independence and has for these purposes reviewed the work undertaken by the auditor and fees incurred by it.
In addition the Board receives written confirmation from the auditor of any relationships it has which may cause a conflict of interest, together with a declaration from the auditor that it considers itself independent.
Following its review, the Board is satisfied that independence has been maintained.
The Board has approved the auditor undertaking certain other limited activities.
Any assignment outside of these activities requires separate Board approval.
For details of the auditors fees please refer to note 6 to the financial statements.
The Audit Committee has considered the independence of the internal audit function and is satisfied that independence has been maintained.
Fidessa group plc 34 Corporate governance continued Statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report and the financial statements The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Group and parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare Group and parent company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law they are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements on the same basis.
The Group and parent company financial statements are required by law and IFRSs as adopted by the EU to present fairly the financial position of the Group and the parent company and the performance for that period: the Companies Act 1985 provides in relation to such financial statements that references in the relevant part of that Act to financial statements giving a true and fair view are references to their achieving a fair presentation.
In preparing each of the Group and parent company financial statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the parent company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that complies with that law and those regulations.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The Annual Report and accounts complies with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR of the United Kingdoms Financial Services Authority in respect of the requirement to produce an annual financial report.
The Annual Report and accounts is the responsibility of, and has been approved by the directors.
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: the consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the EU: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and the Annual Report and accounts includes a review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they may face.
On behalf of the Board Susanna Freeman Secretary 13th February 2009
