Corporate governance The Company applies all of the main and In August 2007 Dean Finch was appointed c Roles of the Chairman and supporting principles of good governance as Chief Operating Officer, North America, Chief Executive set out in section 1 of the Combined Code overseeing the integration of the businesses The Chairman on Corporate Governance issued by the of Laidlaw International, Inc. in the enlarged The Chairman of the Board is Martin Gilbert.
Financial Reporting Council in 2006 the North American operations of the Group He has a written statement of responsibilities Code.
The way in which it applies those and the management of those operations which has been approved by the Board: principles is set out below.
Except as following the closing of the acquisition on described in paragraph 1.1 b below, the 1 October 2007.
The Chairman is responsible for: Company complies with all of the provisions of section 1 of the Code.
Simultaneously with that appointment the leadership of the Board, ensuring its Board appointed Nick Chevis as Acting effectiveness on all aspects of its role and 1 The Board and its principal committees Finance Director, in which capacity he has setting its agenda, taking into account Details of the Board, its members and its attended all meetings of the Board since the issues relevant to the Group and the principal committees are set out below.
then, although not as a member of the Board.
concerns of all Board members: 1.1 The Board b Board balance and independence ensuring, with the Chief Executive and a Board structure and responsibilities The independence of the Non-Executive Company Secretary, the provision of The Board currently consists of the Chairman, Directors has been reviewed against the accurate, timely and clear information to four Executive Directors and six Non-Executive definition of independence in the Code.
The Board meets at least eight David Begg, David Dunn, Jim Forbes, John times each year and is responsible for setting Sievwright and Audrey Baxter are considered ensuring effective communication with and reviewing the Companys strategy and to be independent within this definition.
shareholders and that the Board develops objectives, reviewing the financial and As Martyn Williams is an employee of one an understanding of the views of major operational performance of each of the of the Groups subsidiaries, he cannot be investors: Groups business units, agreeing and considered to be independent.
However, the reviewing progress against the Groups Board feels very strongly that it is extremely managing the Board, ensuring that annual budgets and setting and reviewing on beneficial for its employees to be represented sufficient time is allowed for the discussion a regular basis its longer-term business plans.
on the Board in this way so that important of complex or contentious issues: It also has a schedule of matters specifically employee-related issues can be raised at the reserved to it including approval of the annual highest level and a two-way communication ensuring a regular evaluation of the and interim financial statements, financing process between the management of the performance of the Board as a whole, arrangements, material capital commitments, Company and its employees is maintained.
its Committees and individual Directors: business acquisitions and disposals, relationships with regulatory authorities Therefore, the Company complies with the taking the lead in identifying and meeting and operating and accounting policies.
Code provision that at least one half of the the development needs of individual Board, excluding the Chairman, is made Directors and the Board as a whole, with During the year, the Board met eight times up of Non-Executive Directors who are a view to enhancing the overall and all members of the Board attended all considered by the Board to be independent.
effectiveness of the team: meetings except for David Begg and John The Directors are satisfied that the current Sievwright each of whom was absent from Board possesses the breadth of business, facilitating the effective contribution of one of those meetings.
financial and international experience Non-Executive Directors and ensuring necessary to manage effectively an constructive relations between Executive The Board also held a number of separate organisation of the size and complexity and Non-Executive Directors: strategy meetings.
ensuring, with the Chief Executive and Company Secretary, that new Directors receive a comprehensive induction programme to ensure their early contribution to the Board: and encouraging active engagement by all members of the Board.
30 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Report of the Directors The Board is of the opinion, reinforced by the d Senior Independent The Board also receives updates, as required, performance evaluation review, that Martin Non-Executive Director on changes to the law and the regulatory Gilberts significant and in-depth knowledge David Dunn, who chairs the Audit Committee, regimes affecting the Group.
and experience of the Groups business, is the Senior Independent Non-Executive combined with his external business Director.
He is available to shareholders if f Performance evaluation experience enables him to provide effective they have concerns that contact through During the course of the year, the Board leadership of the Board and to continue to the normal channels of Chairman, Chief undertook an evaluation of its performance.
make a positive contribution to the Groups Executive, Finance Director or Acting Finance The Chairman led the process, assisted by ongoing business.
Director has failed to resolve or for which the Company Secretary.
The objectives of this such contact is inappropriate.
exercise were to ensure that the Board, its The Chairmans other significant business Committees and each individual Director commitments, which remain unchanged e Information and professional continued to act effectively and to fulfil the from last year, are described in his biography development of Board members duties and responsibilities expected of them, on page 28.
The Board performance The Board receives detailed papers on the and also to identify any additional training evaluation process confirmed that the other business to be conducted at each meeting requirements.
A tailored questionnaire was Board members are satisfied that Martin well in advance and individual Board members developed, which each Director completed.
Gilbert has the necessary time available to have direct access to senior executives The responses were analysed and discussed devote to the proper performance of his should they wish to receive additional at a meeting of the Board.
The Senior duties as Chairman.
information on any of the items for Independent Non-Executive Director led discussion.
The head of each operating a process of evaluation of the performance The Chief Executive division attends Board meetings on a regular of the Chairman.
No significant issues were The Chief Executive is Moir Lockhead.
The basis to ensure that the Board is properly raised in the course of the evaluation process.
Chief Executive also has a written statement informed about the performance of and of responsibilities which has been approved current issues facing that division.
g Re-election of Directors by the Board: Management give presentations on current As required by the Companys Articles of issues facing the business.
A number of Association, Directors offer themselves for The Chief Executive is responsible for: Board meetings each year are held on site at re-election at least once every three years.
operating locations in the UK and US allowing Any Director appointed during the year running the day-to-day business of the the Directors to visit the Groups operations is required to seek re-appointment by Group, within the authorities delegated to and to discuss key issues with local shareholders at the next Annual General him by the Board: operational management and stakeholders.
The biographical details of all the Directors, including those seeking re-election ensuring implementation across the Group All Directors have access to the advice at the 2008 Annual General Meeting, are set of the policies and strategy set by the and services of the Company Secretary out on pages 28 and 29.
Board for the Group: and, if necessary, can seek independent professional advice at the Companys h Appointment of Non-Executive day-to-day management of the executive expense in the furtherance of their duties.
Directors and senior management team: The Company Secretary is responsible for Non-Executive Directors are appointed by advising the Board on corporate governance the Board for an initial term of three years, leading the development of senior matters and for ensuring compliance with subject to re-appointment by shareholders.
management within the Group with the aim Board procedures.
They have letters of appointment, which are of assisting the training and development available on request for inspection.
of suitable individuals for future Director Directors receive induction on appointment to roles: the Board, which is tailored to their individual i Directors and Officers needs.
This includes meetings with senior liability insurance ensuring that the Chairman is kept management and relevant external advisers.
The Company maintained Directors and appraised in a timely manner of the issues In addition, information is provided on their Officers liability insurance cover throughout facing the Group and of any important responsibilities and obligations under law, the year as permitted by the Companies events and developments: and regulation and best practice guidelines.
The cover was renewed on The induction process is supported during 1 April 2008. leading the development of the Groups the year by the programme of business future strategy including identifying and presentations and operational visits assessing opportunities for the growth described above.
of its business and reviewing the performance of its existing businesses.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2008 31 Corporate governance continued 2 Committees of the Board Directors.
Its recommendations are then put The Board considers that each member of In addition to the Audit, Remuneration and to the full Board for consideration.
External the Committee has sufficient and recent Nomination Committees, the terms of search consultants are used to assist the financial experience to enable the Committee reference for which are published on the process, where appropriate.
to discharge its functions effectively.
Companys website and details of which are set out below, the Board has also delegated During the year the Committee met three Under its remit, the Committee keeps under certain matters to Committees.
The principal times and all members of the Committee review the effectiveness of the Companys such Committees are: attended all of its meetings.
financial reporting and internal control policies and procedures for the identification, 2.1 Executive Safety Committee ESC The Employee Director is elected by the assessment and reporting of risk.
It also The ESC is chaired by the Chief Executive Employee Directors forum, which comprises keeps under review the nature, scope and and meets on a monthly basis.
It comprises the Employee Directors and representatives of results of the audits conducted by the internal the Executive Directors, other senior each of the Companys UK subsidiaries, and audit department and the external auditors, managers and safety officers.
The ESC serves a maximum of two three-year terms.
the consistency of accounting policies and reviews the Groups safety performance and reporting across the Group and it reviews the practices, develops safety policies and The Companys policy is to permit Executive half-year and full-year financial statements procedures and follows up on outstanding Directors to accept a limited number of before they are presented to the Board.
During the year, a number of meetings outside non-executive directorships, were attended by independent safety experts recognising that this is an effective way to The Committee considers the Groups and senior representatives of relevant industry broaden their knowledge and expertise.
compliance with the Code and its related bodies, including the Health & Safety Executive.
However, no such appointment can be taken guidance and oversees the objectivity and up without prior Board approval.
The effectiveness of internal audit.
The work of 2.2 Executive Management Board EMB Companys policy on fees relating to such the internal audit department is focused on The EMB, which comprises the Executive outside directorships is set out on page 39 areas of priority as identified by risk analysis Directors and certain senior business of the Directors Remuneration Report.
and in accordance with an annual audit plan managers, is chaired by the Chief Executive.
approved by the Committee and the Board.
It acts as a general operating management 2.5 Remuneration Committee Reports are sent to senior executives of the committee and meets on a monthly basis to The Remuneration Committee, under the Group and subsidiary units and there is a review outstanding issues and to consider the chairmanship of Jim Forbes, met four times follow-up process to ensure that actions to Groups operational and financial performance.
during the year and all members of the resolve identified control weaknesses are Committee attended all of its meetings implemented.
The Group Director of Internal 2.3 Executive Committee except for John Sievwright who was absent Audit has the right of direct access to the The Executive Committee comprises the from one of these meetings.
Details of the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Executive Directors and meets on an ad hoc membership of the Committee are set out in basis to consider matters which arise in the the Directors Remuneration Report on pages The Committee is responsible for making ordinary course of the Groups operations.
37 to 41, together with a statement of the recommendations to the Board in respect It is chaired by the Chief Executive and has Groups remuneration strategy and policy.
of the appointment or re-appointment of the specific delegated powers within prescribed Full details of Directors remuneration appear Groups external auditors and recommends limits to deal with matters arising in the on page 40. to the Board the audit fee to be paid to the ordinary course of business which need to external auditors.
The Boards decision on be considered before the next scheduled 2.6 Audit Committee these matters is subject to the approval of Board meeting.
The Audit Committee is chaired by David shareholders.
The Committee is also charged Dunn and includes David Begg, Jim Forbes, with monitoring the independence of the 2.4 Nomination Committee and John Sievwright and Audrey Baxter.
It met external auditors and the objectivity and appointments to the Board three times during the year and all members effectiveness of the external audit process.
The Nomination Committee is chaired by attended each of those meetings except for The objectivity and independence of the Martin Gilbert, the Chairman, and includes Audrey Baxter and David Begg who were external auditors is considered on a regular David Begg, David Dunn, Jim Forbes, absent from one of these meetings and John basis, with particular regard to the level of John Sievwright and Audrey Baxter.
Sievwright who was absent from two of these non-audit fees.
The majority of non-audit Moir Lockhead attends meetings of the meetings.
The Group Director of Internal work is put out to tender, with the exception Committee at the invitation of the Chairman Audit and the Companys external auditors of due diligence work on acquisitions or of the Committee and Martyn Williams also attended each of those meetings.
Executive potential acquisitions in both the UK and attends such meetings at the invitation of the Directors and other senior managers attended overseas, where the current auditors Chairman of the Committee to represent the where requested and as appropriate.
knowledge of the Companys business Groups employees.
The Committee meets as processes and controls means that they are required to discuss appointments to the best placed to undertake this work costBoard of both Executive and Non-Executive effectively on the Companys behalf.
The majority of the non-audit work undertaken 32 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Report of the Directors by the auditors during the year was associated 4 Internal controls 4.2 Control environment with acquisition-related due diligence.
Details The Board has established procedures to The Board is committed to business of the audit and non-audit fees, including a meet the requirements of the Code and its integrity, high ethical and moral values and breakdown of the non-audit fee, are set out related guidance on internal controls.
These professionalism in all its activities, principles in note 6 to the financial statements.
The procedures, which are subject to regular with which all managers and employees are external auditors have direct access to the review, provide an ongoing process for required to comply.
The Group has a Code Committee to raise any matters that may identifying, evaluating and managing any of Business Ethics, which is part of the concern them.
significant risks faced by the Group.
Groups Corporate Social Responsibility Policy and applies to all of its subsidiary The Committee reviews with management 4.1 Responsibility undertakings, a copy of which is available a detailed analysis of the Groups financial The Board has overall responsibility for the on the Companys website.
information prior to completion and system of internal control and assessing risk.
announcement of the half-year and full-year The responsibility for establishing detailed The Group has a defined divisional results and receives a report from the external control and risk management procedures organisational structure with lines of authority auditors on the audit process.
If necessary, within each subsidiary lies with the Executive and delegated responsibility which allows the the external auditors also meet separately Directors and subsidiary unit managing Board to plan, execute, control and monitor with the Committee and or the Chairman, directors.
A sound system of internal control the business in a manner consistent with the Chief Executive, Finance Director or Acting is designed to manage rather than eliminate Groups objectives.
The day-to-day business Finance Director.
The Annual Report and the risk of failure to achieve business management is delegated to the Executive Financial Statements and interim results objectives and can only provide reasonable Directors and subsidiary unit managing go through a detailed verification and due and not absolute assurance against material directors under the overall direction of the diligence process involving external advisers.
As noted above, the Board reserves to itself a number of specific items, The Committee may request the Executive The Board has continued to strengthen the which ensures that it retains control over Directors and any other officers of the Group on-going process for identifying, evaluating key business decisions and significant to attend its meetings but none has the right and managing the significant risks faced by transactions in terms of size, type or risk.
Committee meetings may be the Group.
As part of this process a Risk A number of the Groups key functions, requested by the external or internal auditors Group has been established, comprising including treasury, taxation, insurance, if they consider it necessary.
senior management representatives from all corporate finance, legal, corporate of the Groups main businesses as well as communications and procurement are The business considered and discussed by from the finance, insurance and Group dealt with centrally.
Each of these functions the Committee during the year included the internal audit functions.
The Risk Group is monitored by an Executive Director.
reports of the external auditors on the halfmeets four times annually and reports to the year and full-year results, the 2008 09 Group Board with the express purpose of reviewing 4.3 Monitoring Internal Audit Plan and budget, papers the risk and control procedures in each of The Group adopts a financial reporting and concerning any regular and special audits the business areas and support functions.
information system which complies with and an executive summary of each internal As an integral part of planning and review, generally accepted accounting practice.
audit report, risk analysis assessments and management from each of the business areas The Group Finance Manual, circulated by the a review of the implications of changes in and support functions identify the risks facing Group Finance function to all subsidiaries, accounting standards and the application their operations, as well as the controls in details the Group accounting policies and and implementation of International Financial place to mitigate those risks.
The probability procedures with which subsidiaries must Reporting Standards.
of risks occurring as well as the likely impact comply.
These are also available on the on the Groups business, should the risks Groups intranet.
Budgets are prepared by 3 Financial reporting occur, are also assessed and documented.
subsidiary company management and are The Directors have a commitment to best These risks are assessed on a regular basis, subject to review by both Group management practice in the Groups external financial taking into account changes in both external and the Executive Directors.
Monthly reporting in order to present a balanced and and internal circumstances, which may forecasts are completed during the year and comprehensible assessment of the Groups include alterations to regulatory requirements, compared against actions required.
Each financial position and prospects to its disruption to information systems, industrial subsidiary unit prepares a monthly report of shareholders, employees, customers, relations issues, control breakdowns and operating performance, with a commentary suppliers and other third parties.
This social, ethical and environmental issues.
From on variances against budget, forecasts and commitment encompasses all published the reports submitted to it by the Risk Group prior year.
Similar reports are prepared at information including but not limited to the the Board is able to keep under regular a Group level.
Key performance indicators, year-end and interim financial statements, review the major risks and mitigating controls both financial and operational, are monitored regulatory news announcements and other facing the Group.
In addition, business units public information.
A statement of the participate in strategic reviews which include Directors responsibility for preparing the consideration of long-term financial projections financial statements may be found on and the evaluation of business alternatives.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2008 33 Corporate governance continued A process of annual self-assessment In North America our businesses cover To help mitigate the risk of legislative or and hierarchical reporting provides for a wide geographic spread competing regulatory changes the Group regularly a documented and auditable trail of with several large companies as well as lobbies both government and accountability from the subsidiary units to a substantial number of smaller, locally transport bodies.
senior management to the Executive Directors.
owned or government owned operators.
Our competitors in the yellow school bus Labour costs A Control Assurance Questionnaire is business can also include school districts Labour costs represent the largest component completed by each operating entity on an since most school districts also operate of the Groups operating costs.
Labour annual basis confirming that management their own school buses.
Similarly, while shortages, or low unemployment rates, have reviewed the effectiveness of the the majority of transit and service business could hinder the Groups ability to recruit and systems of internal controls during the streams are operated by private entities, retain qualified employees leading to a higher year.
Both from this process and as a result including several large companies, our Transit than expected increase in the cost of of planned reviews of operating units by and Services businesses also compete recruitment, training and other staff costs.
Internal Audit staff, invariably a number of with many municipalities.
Our recently minor control weaknesses are identified.
acquired Greyhound coach operations face To mitigate this risk, the Group seeks to These weaknesses are discussed with competition from a number of other coach structure our recruitment and retain the management and actions are agreed to operators in North America as well as from right people.
In North America all of our up visits to the operating entity then ensure businesses continue to compete on service, Fuel costs that the additional controls have been put in quality and price.
Fuel prices and supply levels can be place and are working effectively.
No such influenced significantly by international, weaknesses have resulted in any material Rail franchise agreements political and economic circumstances.
If fuel losses, contingencies or uncertainties that The Group is required to comply with certain supply shortages were to arise because of would require disclosure in the Groups conditions as part of its rail franchise national strikes, world supply difficulties, Annual Report.
If it fails to comply with these disruption of refining capacity or oil imports conditions, it may be liable to penalties the resultant higher fuel prices and disruption 4.4 Risks and uncertainties including the potential termination of one or to services could adversely impact the There are a number of potential risks and more of the rail franchise agreements.
uncertainties that could have an impact on would result in the Group losing the right to the Groups long-term performance.
continue operating the affected operations To mitigate the risks of rising fuel costs the and consequently, the related revenues or Group regularly enters into forward contracts Competitive pressures cash flows.
The Group may also lose some to buy fuel at fixed prices.
In addition All our businesses compete in the areas of or all of the amounts set aside as security the Group seeks to limit the impact of pricing and service and face competition from for performance bonds and the season unexpected fuel price rises through a number of sources.
In UK Bus, our main competitor remains Compliance with franchise conditions are Insurance costs the car.
The cost of driving a car is generally closely managed and monitored on a Insurance reserves are made from estimates perceived as being lower than travelling by monthly basis by senior management and of losses that we will ultimately incur on bus, especially if there is more than one procedures are in place to minimise the accidents or incidents that have been person in the car.
To make bus travel a viable risk of non-compliance.
reported but not paid and accidents or alternative to the car we continue to work incidents that have taken place but have with local authorities to introduce bus priority Legislation and regulation not yet been reported.
measures and effect infrastructure changes Our businesses are subject to numerous promoting bus patronage.
laws regulating safety procedures, equipment These reserves are based on actuarial specifications, employment requirements, valuations that are prepared regularly by The main competitor to our UK Rail environmental procedures, insurance independent actuaries.
The actuarial businesses is again the car, and to a lesser coverage and other operating issues and valuations are prepared after a number of extent, long-distance coach operators and considerations.
These laws and regulations factors are considered, including, historical budget airlines.
To help mitigate the risks are constantly subject to change.
The costs claim payment patterns and changes in case posed by these pressures the Group is associated with complying with the adoption reserves, the assumed rate of increase in working with a number of local and national of new legislation, regulations or other medical treatment cost, property damage bodies to ensure that the services provided laws could adversely impact the results repairs and ultimate compensation.
Historical meet, or exceed, the requirements of of our operations.
experience and recent trends are the most our stakeholders.
significant factors considered in the 34 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Report of the Directors determination of these reserves.
Given the Economy 4.8 Change of control magnitude of the claims involved and the The level of economic activity affects the a Financing agreements length of time until the ultimate cost is number of bus and train journeys taken by The Groups financing agreements, including known, the use of any estimation technique passengers in the UK.
Any changes in the US $2,250m multi-currency term loan is inherently uncertain.
economic activity may impact upon the facility and US $1,500m multi-currency passenger numbers and hence our UK revolving credit and guaranty facility between The Group seeks to mitigate the risk of rising operations.
The potential impact of this is the Company and HSBC Bank plc, JP insurance costs by promoting a culture of reduced on certain rail franchises due to the Morgan plc and The Royal Bank of Scotland safety in everything that we do, through the existence of revenue-share arrangements.
plc dated 9 February 2007, contain ESC that is headed up by the Chief Executive.
In most UK Bus operating companies the provisions entitling the lenders to exercise Group has the ability to modify services by termination or other rights in the event of a Terrorism giving 45 days notice of such modifications.
change of control of the Company.
Following Terrorist acts and the publics concerns any change of control of the Company, the about potential attacks could adversely affect 4.5 Whistleblowing lenders are obliged to negotiate with the demand for our services.
More particularly The Group has established procedures Company with a view to resolving any if we were to be perceived as not taking all whereby employees of the Group may, concerns arising from such change of control reasonable precautions to guard against in confidence, raise concerns relating to and, if the matter has not been resolved to potential terrorist acts this could adversely personal issues, potential fraud, health and the reasonable satisfaction of the majority of affect our reputation with the public.
The safety, harassment, discrimination, security the lenders in that time, the total commitments Group has a Head of Security who is or any other matter.
The confidential hotline under the facility are cancelled and all responsible for improved security awareness, covers all businesses across the Group and outstanding amounts become repayable.
the application of good practice in the each country in which it operates.
The Group implementation of security measures, and is confident that these whistleblowing The 300m 6.875% bonds due 2013 and the the development and training of our arrangements are satisfactory and will enable 250m 6.125% bonds due 2019 issued by employees so that they can respond a proportionate and independent investigation the Company may also be affected by a effectively to any perceived threat or incident.
of such matters and appropriate follow-up change of control of the Company.
change of control may result in an increase in Retention of key management the interest rate payable on those bonds of Attracting and keeping key members of 4.6 Review of effectiveness 1.5% per annum.
However, the interest rate senior management is vital in ensuring that of financial controls on the bonds will only be so increased if the Group continues to have the necessary The Directors confirm that they have reviewed certain further conditions in relation to the expertise and continuity to execute its the effectiveness of the system of internal credit rating of the bonds are also satisfied.
In order that management have control for the year under review and to the diverse and challenging careers they are date of approval of the Annual Report and b UK Rail given autonomy, within parameters set by the Financial Statements through the monitoring The Groups franchised passenger rail Board, to run their businesses.
The Group process described above.
In addition, the operators, First Capital Connect, First also offers market based compensation Directors confirm that they have conducted ScotRail, First Transpennine Express and packages consisting of an appropriate mix a specific annual review of the effectiveness First Great Western, are each subject to of long and short term incentives.
of the Groups internal audit function.
termination clauses in their franchise agreements which may apply on a change Customer service and contract retention 4.7 Treasury operations of control.
These operators and the Groups The Groups revenues are at risk if it does The Board has set a policy for the non franchised rail operators, Hull Trains and not continue to provide the level of service management of those risks and this is set First GBRf, each hold railway licences as expected by customers.
This could result out in more detail in note 25 to the financial required by the Railways Act 1993 which in contracts not being renewed in the case statements.
A Group Treasury Policy has may be revoked on three months notice of our North American business and been formulated and adopted to ensure if a change of control occurs without the passengers no longer using our services compliance with best practice and to control approval of the Office of Rail Regulation.
To mitigate this risk all staff and monitor effectively the risks attendant The Groups railway operators also lease undertake intensive training programmes to upon treasury and banking operations.
rolling stock from specialist rolling stock ensure they are aware of and abide by the leasing companies HSBC Rail UK Limited, levels of service that are required by our Porterbrook Leasing Company Limited and customers in each business.
The Board Angel Trains Limited.
A material number of also monitors in detail a series of customer the individual leasing agreements include service KPIs at each meeting to ensure strict change of control provisions.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2008 35 Corporate governance continued c Joint venture agreements All investors are kept informed of key It is customary for joint venture arrangements business activities, decisions, appointments to include provisions addressing change etc.
via regulatory news and press releases of control.
The Companys joint venture and the Groups website.
There is also arrangements with Keolis UK Limited in regular dialogue with institutional relation to First Transpennine Express and shareholders throughout the year and with DSB in relation to DSB First Aps and general presentations are made by the DSB Sverige AB contain such provisions.
Chief Executive and Finance Director or Acting Finance Director following the d London bus contracts announcement of the full and half-year The Groups UK Bus business operates results.
Other Directors, including London bus routes with London Bus Services Non-Executive Directors, attend meetings Limited.
These agreements include change of with major shareholders if requested.
control provisions, which are significant when all the routes are considered together.
Regular reports on investor relations activity and feedback from investors are submitted 4.9 Auditors to the Board and senior management.
The Deloitte & Touche LLP have expressed their Non-Executive Directors have also had willingness to continue in office as auditors informal contact with major shareholders and a resolution to re-appoint them will be regarding the Group during the year and they proposed at the forthcoming Annual expect that informal dialogue to continue.
6 Annual General Meeting 5 Relations with shareholders All shareholders have the opportunity to put The Group recognises the importance questions to the Directors at the Companys of regular communication with all of its Annual General Meeting, at which a report is shareholders.
The full Annual Report and made on the highlights of the key business Financial Statements are made available developments during the year under review.
to all shareholders and an Interim Report The Chairmen of each of the Nomination, is published and sent to shareholders at Remuneration and Audit Committees attend the half-year.
These reports are intended to the Annual General Meeting to answer provide shareholders and other interested specific questions from shareholders.
All parties with a clear and balanced Directors who then held office were present understanding of the Groups operational at the 2007 Annual General Meeting.
performance, its financial results and prospects.
Notice of the Annual General Meeting is circulated to all shareholders at least 20 working days prior to the meeting.
Separate resolutions are proposed at the Annual General Meeting on each substantially separate issue.
Proxy votes are counted on all resolutions and, where votes are taken on a show of hands, the proxy results are subsequently announced to the meeting.
36 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2008
