Report of the Audit Committee The members of the Audit Committee during the year were: The Terms of Reference of the Committee may be summarised as follows: David Richardson Non-Executive Director Chairman a to consider the appointment of the external Gerry Brown Non-Executive Director auditors, the audit fee and any questions of Struan Robertson Non-Executive Director resignation or dismissal and to make James Tuckey Non-Executive Director recommendations to the Board for it to put to shareholders: The Group Chief Executive, the Group Finance b to monitor and review the external auditors Director and Managing Director, Port of Tilbury, are in independence and objectivity and the attendance at the Audit Committee meetings, effectiveness of the audit process, taking into however, they are not present for the full meeting as consideration relevant UK professional and the Audit Committee has separate sessions with only regulatory requirements: the internal and external auditors present.
The c to discuss with the external auditors the nature Chairman is also in attendance.
and scope of the audit and ensure co-ordination where more than one audit firm is involved: The Group Company Secretary acts as Secretary to d to develop and implement a policy on the the Committee.
engagement of the external auditor to supply non-audit services, taking into account relevant Members of the Audit Committee serve for an initial ethical guidance regarding the provision of period of up to three years with the option to extend non-audit services by the external audit firm: by no more than two additional three year periods e to monitor and review the integrity of the provided the members are considered to be accounts focusing particularly on any changes in independent.
The Chairman of the Committee has accounting policies and practices, major recent and relevant financial experience.
The judgmental areas, significant adjustments Company has complied with the Combined Code resulting from the audit, the going concern throughout the year.
assumption, compliance with Accounting Standards and compliance with UK Listing 55 The Audit Committee met on three occasions during Authority, London Stock Exchange and legal the year to receive reports on various matters requirements: including the full year accounts March, the Interim f to monitor and review any formal announcements Statement August, and on planning work for the relating to the Companys financial performance, 2008 full year audit December.
including the Interim Management Statements: g to monitor and review the Companys internal The Terms of Reference of the Audit Committee financial controls: authorise it to seek any information it requires from h to monitor and review the internal audit any employee and all employees are required to programme, to review the co-ordination between co-operate with any requests made by the Committee.
the internal and external auditors and to ensure The Committee is authorised by the Board to obtain that the internal audit function is adequately outside legal or other independent professional advice resourced to a level commensurate with the and to secure the attendance of outsiders with Companys requirements: Annual Report relevant experience and expertise if it is considered and Accounts necessary.
2008 Report of the Audit Committee continued i to ensure that all matters within the remit of the The Audit Committees policy on the external Committee are dealt with in an open, fair and auditors undertaking non-audit work is as follows: transparent manner: j to report to the Board, identifying any matters in 1.
Audit Related Services respect of which it considers that action or This is the primary area of work for the external improvement is needed and make auditors.
If any additional accounting support is recommendations as to the steps to be taken: required, then this should be considered on a and competitive basis.
k to review arrangements by which staff of the Company may, in confidence, raise concerns 2.
Tax Consulting about possible improprieties in matters of In cases where knowledge of the Groups tax position financial reporting or other matters, and to ensure is important, Forth Ports may use the external that arrangements are in place for the auditors and their associates but this does not proportionate and independent investigation preclude the Group from using other tax consulting of such matters and for appropriate follow firms.
Significant additional tax work should be up action.
The risk management system is reviewed by 3.
General and Systems Consulting the Board.
All significant consulting projects, including due diligence work, should be subject to competitive The Audit Committee has satisfied itself as to the tender.
The Group Finance Director is required to external auditors independence: it has considered give prior approval of work to be carried out by the the external auditors quality control procedures and external auditors if the fee proposal is between has reviewed and approved the level of audit fees by 5,000 and 49,999.
If the fee proposal is in excess reference to the total level of fees which the external of 50,000 this should be pre-approved by the auditor has been paid during the year: it also Chairman of the Audit Committee if it is proposed to compared the fees paid to the external auditor with give this work to the external auditors.
fees paid to other professional advisors for accounting and other tax work.
It received a 56 presentation from the external auditor in which the views of the external auditor were expressed in relation to the question of independence.
It also assessed the effectiveness of the external audit process considering the quality of people and service provided by the external auditor, the robustness of the audit and the quality of delivery.
During 2008, the Company used three different firms The Audit Committee also received a report at all of of professional advisers to advise on accounting, the meetings from the internal auditor on the work corporation tax, VAT and other financial matters.
A separate Internal Audit Plan is The fees received by the external auditors were presented to the Audit Committee by the Internal as follows: Auditor for consideration at the last Audit Committee 2008 2007 meeting of each year in respect of the following 000 000 years work programme.
The Audit Committee Statutory audit fees 434 448 has reviewed the effectiveness of the internal audit Non-audit services: function and is satisfied as to the effectiveness of Tax advisory services 9 28 that function given the size and complexity of Other 6 5 the business.
449 481 A whistle blowing policy is in operation throughout the Group.
This policy sets out the position whereby The Audit Committee carried out a review of its any concerns, including those of a financial nature, effectiveness by considering such matters as skillsets may be raised at the appropriate level within of members, quality of Audit Committee papers, the Group.
relationships with the external auditor and the internal auditor and suggestions for improving the Committees performance.
The results were discussed David Richardson and approved by the Audit Committee which Chairman expressed itself satisfied as to its effectiveness.
16th March 2009 57 Annual Report and Accounts 2008
