The Board uses the Annual General Meeting to Identification of Business Risks and communicate with private investors and encourages compliance with the Guidance their participation both inside and outside the Throughout last year, the Group complied with the formal meeting.
The Group Risk and Insurance Manager oversees the procedures involved in the identification As in prior years, at the 2009 Annual General of business risks and compliance with the Guidance.
Meeting, the Company will ensure that the level The Board regularly reviews the process of of proxies for and against each resolution is intimated identifying, evaluating and managing the Groups to shareholders after each resolution has been key risks which allows it to take a view on the dealt with.
All subsidiaries are required to assess key risks and related control D. Financial Reporting and compliance with the and monitoring procedures on an ongoing basis.
2005 Turnbull Committee Guidance on Internal The Board monitors this process on a regular basis.
Control the Guidance Major Corporate Information Systems Internal Control: The Board is responsible for and The Group operates a comprehensive budgeting and has reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system financial reporting system which, as a matter of of internal control in accordance with the Guidance routine, compares actual results to budget.
Actions were taken in respect of Management accounts are compiled on a monthly the Nordic Group internal controls as set out on page basis.
Variances from budget are thoroughly 24 of the Business Review.
No other significant investigated and revisions to forecasts are made findings were identified which required action to be twice during the year.
Cash Flow projections are taken.
The process of internal control has been in prepared monthly and cover a rolling twelve month place for the year under review and up to the date of period to ensure that the Group has adequate funds.
approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
It The port business uses the Integrated Port Operating should be recognised that such a system can provide System IPOS to provide it with up-to-date only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against information on marine, general cargo and container material misstatement or loss.
The key features of the operations.
Together with Cognos software, this system which have been established are as follows: enables core information to be tailored to 53 managements own particular requirements to assist Control Environment in the day-to-day operation of the business.
The Groups control environment is the responsibility of the Groups Directors and managers at all levels.
Main Control Procedures The Groups organisational structure has clear lines Divisional management establishes control of responsibility.
Operating and financial procedures in response to each of the key risks responsibility for subsidiary companies is delegated identified.
Standard financial control procedures to the local boards.
operate throughout the Group to ensure the integrity of the Groups accounts.
The Board has established procedures for authorisation of capital expenditure and exceptional maintenance.
The Group has an internal audit function which carries out a regular programme of systematic reviews of the financial Annual Report control procedures.
and Accounts 2008 Corporate Governance Report continued Monitoring System used by the Board The maintenance and integrity of the Forth Ports PLC The Board participates in an annual strategy website is the responsibility of the Executive conference which includes a three year forward Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does financial review which is then updated on an annual not involve consideration of these matters and, basis.
The Board reviews and approves budgets and accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for monitors the Groups performance against those any changes that may have occurred to the accounts budgets.
The Board receives reports on a regular since they were initially presented on the website.
basis from the Audit Committee.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of accounts may differ Audit Committee: Full details of the work of the Audit from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Committee are contained in the Report of the Audit Committee on page 55.
Going Concern: The Directors, having made enquiries, have a reasonable expectation that the Directors Responsibilities for the Accounts: Company and the Group have adequate resources to Company law requires the Directors to prepare continue in operational existence for the foreseeable accounts for each financial year which give a true future, and that therefore it is appropriate to continue and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the and the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group accounts.
In preparing those accounts, the Directors are required to: By Order of the Board select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently make judgements and estimates that are Morag McNeill reasonable and prudent Group Company Secretary state that the accounts comply with IFRS as approved by the European Union 16th March 2009 prepare a Directors Remuneration Report prepare the accounts on the going concern 54 basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue in business The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group to enable them to ensure that the accounts comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
