Report of the Nomination Committee The members of the Nomination Committee during The Committee shall also make recommendations to the year were: the Board in respect of the following: Christopher Collins Non-Executive Director a the re-appointment of a Non-Executive Director: Chairman b the re-election by shareholders of any Director Gerry Brown Non-Executive Director under the retirement by rotation provisions in the Struan Robertson Non-Executive Director Companys Articles of Association: David Richardson Non-Executive Director c the continuation in office as a Director of any James Tuckey Non-Executive Director Director at any time: and Charles Hammond Group Chief Executive d the appointment of any Director to Executive or other office other than to the positions of The Group Company Secretary acts as Secretary to Chairman and Group Chief Executive, the the Committee.
recommendation for which shall be considered at a meeting of all the Directors regarding these two Members of the Nomination Committee serve for an appointments.
initial period of up to three years with the option to extend by no more than two additional three year The Committee is authorised to seek any information periods.
it requires from any employee of the Company in order to perform its duties.
It is authorised to obtain, The Committee meets not less than once a year and at the Companys expense, outside legal or other at such other times as business requires.
During the professional advice on any matters within its Terms year one meeting was held.
The Terms of Reference of the Committee may be summarised as follows: a to prepare a description of the role and capabilities required for a particular Board appointment: 67 b to be responsible for identifying and nominating, for approval of the Board, candidates to fill the Board vacancies as and when they arise: c to satisfy itself with regard to succession planning: d to ensure that new Board members have sufficient time to undertake the role: and e to ensure that an appropriate induction plan has been put in place for every new Director.
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Report of the Nomination Committee continued In 2008, the Committee met to discuss the process Following their appointment new Directors and for the appointment of a new Chairman to succeed Senior Managers participate in the Companys Christopher Collins.
The meeting was chaired by induction programmes where each individual will Gerry Brown as Senior Independent Director.
The meet Senior Managers, be shown the principal Committee had before it a paper outlining the roles locations of the Group and be given presentations and responsibilities of a chairman having regard to on the Companys strategy, targets and different the balance of the Board, the business experience of business units.
the existing Non-Executive Directors and the Combined Code.
It also considered a paper prepared by the Group Company Secretary outlining the proposed selection process having regard to the Christopher Collins Combined Code and best practice in other listed Chairman companies.
As required by the Combined Code, the Committee considered whether external candidates 16th March 2009 should be sought.
The Committee, however, believed that the group of internal candidates was extremely strong and that, therefore, external candidates should not be sought.
It was agreed that the selection process would be led by the Senior Independent Director.
He would take confidential soundings from Board members regarding each candidate and their suitability for the position with a view to a consensus being reached in respect of a candidate.
As required by the Terms of Reference for the Committee, the appointment would require the approval of the Board.
Following the confidential soundings, the Committee was delighted to recommend to the Board that David Richardson should succeed Christopher Collins as 68 Chairman of the Company.
