Corporate Governance Report The Directors are committed to high standards of The Directors believe that it is essential that the corporate governance.
The way in which the Group should be led and controlled by an effective Company applies the principles set out in the Board.
The Board has adopted a formal Schedule of Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by Matters specifically reserved to it on such matters as: the Financial Reporting Council in June 2006 the Combined Code is described below.
Agreeing objectives, policies and strategies and monitoring the performance of the Executive Compliance Statement Directors and Senior Management: The Company has been in compliance with all Controlling and monitoring the financial relevant provisions of the Combined Code performance of the Group: throughout the year under review.
Reviewing strategic options on an annual basis to include any major changes in organisation The Combined Code and direction of the Group: Application of Principles Approving major expenditure and transactions with other companies including, for example, A.
Directors acquisitions, disposals and joint ventures: The Board Ensuring compliance in relation to Christopher Collins is the Non-Executive Chairman of a Safety, health and environmental matters the Board and Charles Hammond is the Group Chief b Corporate Governance Executive.
Gerry Brown is Senior Independent Delegating clear responsibility and authority to Director.
At the beginning of the year, the Board of the Chairman, Committees of the Board, the Directors comprised five Non-Executive Directors and Group Chief Executive and other Directors: three Executive Directors.
The Board considers all its Compliance with the Companies Act, UK Listing Non-Executive Directors, with the exception of the Authority, London Stock Exchange and other Chairman, to be independent.
regulations: and Consideration and approval of strategy, budgets No Non-Executive Director has served on the Board and major management financial decisions as for more than nine years from the date of his determined from time to time by the Board.
The Board has adopted the principle that Non-Executive Directors should normally serve 50 Board Meetings two three year terms and that any term beyond six The Board met seven times last year for regular years should be subject to particularly rigorous business and the Directors participated in the Annual review.
In any event, no Non-Executive Director shall Strategy Conference.
The Board meets as necessary serve longer than nine years.
Christopher Collins was for any matters arising at other times.
At each Board appointed for a third term in 2006. meeting, the Board considers reports from each of the Executive Directors covering his area of As noted on page 22, Christopher Collins will be responsibility.
retiring at the end of the year and David Richardson will succeed him as Chairman.
An Annual General Meeting is held every year.
All Directors are subject to re-appointment by shareholders at the first Annual General Meeting after their appointment and thereafter to re-election at intervals of no more than three years.
