50 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Concentrator plant at Fresnillo mine, Zacatecas 2008 ANNUAL REPORT 51 FRESNILLO PLC I.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS 52 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 1234 1.
Alberto Baillres, Mr Lomeln holds a bachelor of science degree in chemical Non-executive Chairman, 77 engineering from the Universidad Nacional Autnoma fide Chairman, Nominations Committee Mexico UNAM and postgraduate studies in Business Administration in the University of Wisconsin and Stanford ExMr Baillres has been on the board of Peoles since 1962 and ecutive program at Stanford University.
has served as chairman since 1967.
The Baillres family first acquired an interest in Peoles in 1962 and Mr Baillres is currently 3.
Lord Cairns, the controlling shareholder.
In addition to Peoles, as part of the Senior Independent Non-executive Director, 69 BAL group of companies, Mr Baillres has interests in Grupo PaChairman, Remuneration Committee lacio fide Hierro, a chain of department stores mainly located in Mexico City, Grupo Nacional Provincial, a leading Mexican insurLord Cairns was appointed to the Board on 15 April 2008.
He ance company, Grupo Profuturo, a pensions and annuities busiis chairman of Zain Africa B. V. formerly Celtel International ness, and other businesses relating to financial services and agBV and the Charities Aid Foundation and is a board memriculture.
Mr Baillres became non-independent Non-Executive ber of the Mo Ibrahim Foundation.
He has previously served Chairman on 15 April 2008.
Mr Baillres holds numerous other as chairman of Actis LLP, CDC Group, Allied Zurich and BAT board appointments, being the chairman of the board of directors Industries after a career with SG Warburg where he had beof Grupo Nacional Provincial, Grupo Profuturo, Grupo Palacio fide come deputy chairman and CEO.
He graduated from Trinity Hierro, Crdito Afianzador, and a member of the board of Fomento College, Cambridge.
Econmico Mexicano FEMSA, a leading international beverage producer and distributor, Grupo Televisa, Grupo Kuo, BBVA Ban- 4.
Fernando Ruiz, comer, and Dine.
Mr Baillres is also currently president of Grupo Non-executive Director, 65 BAL and president of the board of trustees of Asociacin Mexicana Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees fide Cultura, A. C. and Instituto Tecnolgico Autnomo fide Mexico ITAM.
In addition, Mr Baillres is a member of the Consejo Mr Ruiz was appointed to the Board on 15 April 2008.
He Mexicano fide Hombres fide Negocios and of the Fundacin para las is a former managing partner of Chevez, Ruiz, Zamarripa y Letras Mexicanas, A. C. Cia.
S. C. tax advisers and consultants.
He is a member of the Asociacin Mexicana fide Contadores Pblicos.
Jaime Lomeln, president of the Finance Committee of the Consejo CordinaChief Executive Officer, 74 dor Empresarial, as well as an adviser to the organisation.
Mr HSECR Committee Ruiz holds numerous board appointments, including Kimberly Clark fide Mexico, Mexichem, Grupo Cementos fide Chihuahua, Mr Lomeln spent 36 years at Peoles and held the position of Grupo Mexico, Empresas ICA and the Mexican Stock Exchange.
chief executive officer for 21 years.
He previously served as group Mr Ruiz graduated from the Universidad Nacional Autnoma vice chairman of the metals and chemicals division for four years.
fide Mexico UNAM with a degree in public accounting.
Javier Fernndez, director, managing director and manager and vice president of Non-executive Director, 53 mutual funds at Grupo Financiero Inverlat between 1985 and Nominations and HSECR Committees 1994, manager of investment strategies of Operadora fide Bolsa, and investment assistant of Casa fide Bolsa Banamex from 1982 Mr Fernndez Carbajal was appointed to the Board on 15 April to 1983.
Since 1999, Mr MacGregor has been a member of the 2008.
He is Chairman of the Board of Primero Fianzas, a private board of Mexican Stock Exchange and, since 2005, he has been surety company, since March 2007.
He has been engaged as a vice chairman of Mercado Mexicano fide Derivados MexDer.
Mr consultant for public and private investment transactions and is MacGregor holds a bachelor of science degree in business adminan active wealth management advisor since 2002.
For the past 27 istration from ITAM and attended the Stanford Executive Program years, Mr Fernndez Carbajal has held senior executive positions at Stanford University.
at leading Mexican companies, including 14 years of experience in financial services.
He joined Grupo BBVA Bancomer, Mexicos 7.
Juan Bordes, largest financial services company in 1991 as Executive Vice PresiNon-executive Director, 61 dent Strategic Planning and successively served as Deputy President for Systems and Operations and Chief Information Officer, Mr Bordes was appointed to the Board on 11 January 2008.
Mr Deputy President and Chief Financial Officer, and in 1999 was Bordes has been Director Corporativo in Tcnica Administrativa of named President.
Mr Fernndez Carbajal is a member of the board BAL since 1979.
He was the CEO of Artes Grficas Unidas from of directors of FEMSA, a leading Latin American beverage com- 1984 until 1986 and CEO of Fbricas fide Papel Lorteto y Pea pany: of Grupo Aeroportuario del Pacfico, Mexicos largest airport Pobre from 1986 until 1989.
Since 1989, Mr Bordes has been a operator and of VISA, Inc. the worlds largest electronic payment member of the board of directors and a member of the executive network.
Mr Fernndez Carbajal has a degree in Mechanical and committee of each of Industrias Peoles, Grupo Nacional ProElectrical engineering from the Instituto Tecnolgico y fide Estuvincial, Grupo Palacio fide Hierro, Grupo Profuturo, Valores Mexidios Superiores fide Monterrey ITESM and an MBA from Harcanos Casa fide Bolsa, Crdito Afianzador, Compaa Mexicana fide vard Business School.
Garantas, Afore Profuturo GNP, Profuturo GNP Pensiones, Mdica Integral, Bal-Ondeo, Albacor and a member of the Board of 6.
Rafael MacGregor, Trustees of ITAM.
Mr Bordes holds a bachelor of science degree Non-executive Director, 48 in chemical engineering from Universidad Nacional Autnoma fide Chairman, HSECR Committee Mexico UNAM and attended the Stanford Executive Program at the University of Stanford.
He also attended the Business ManMr MacGregor was appointed to the Board on 11 January 2008. agement Course at the Instituto Panamericano fide Alta Direccin He has been a corporate director in Tcnica Administrativa of fide Empresas IPADE.
He is a member of the board of directors and a member of the executive committee of Peoles, Grupo Nacio- 8.
Arturo Fernndez, final Provincial, Grupo Palacio fide Hierro, Grupo Profuturo, Valores Non-executive Director, 55 Mexicanos Casa fide Bolsa, Crdito Afianzador, Compaa Mexicana fide Garantas, Profuturo GNP, Afore, Profuturo GNP Pensiones, Mr Fernndez was appointed to the Board on 15 April 2008.
He is Mdica Integral, Bal-Ondeo and ITAM.
Previous positions held by a member of the board of directors and a member of the execuMr MacGregor have included CEO of Valores Mexicanos Casa fide tive committee of each of Industrias Peoles, Grupo Nacional Bolsa from 1994 to 1999, various positions, including corporate Provincial, Grupo Profuturo, El Palacio fide Hierro, Valores Mexi- 54 54 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 910 11 canos Casa fide Bolsa and Crdito Afianzador.
Mr Fernndez is Internet banking and investment banking divisions.
Mr Rangel also a member of the board of directors of Grupo Bimbo, Minera was CFO of Petrleos Mexicanos PEMEX from 1982 to 87 and Penmont, Qumica del Rey and Tecnologa del Agua TECSA ran his own consulting boutique before joining BBVA Bancomer.
and an alternate director of FEMSA.
Mr Fernndez has been the Mr Rangels earlier career years were spent at Banco Mexicano rector of ITAM, an independent not-for-profit higher education Somex and Citibank Mexico, where he was vice president in corinstitution, for 16 years.
He has also previously served as the porate banking.
He has served as the president of the Consejo head of the tax policy office at the Mexican Ministry of Finance Cordinador Empresarial CCE a leading private sector lobbying and as head of the economic deregulation office at the Mexican group and the Asociacin Mexicana fide Banqueros.
Mr Rangel has Ministry of Trade.
Mr Fernndez holds a bachelor of economics held numerous board positions including Grupo Industrial Maseca, degree from ITAM as well as a PhD in economics from the UniGruma, BBVA Bancomer, Cintra, Grupo Frisa and Bancomext.
obtained his MBA from Stanford University in 1972 and his undergraduate degree in industrial engineering from Purdue Univer- 9.
Guy Wilson, sity in Indiana.
Non-executive Director, 60 Chairman, Audit Committee Director appointed since the year-end Guy Wilson joined the Board on 1 July 2008 following his retire- 11.
Fernando Solana, ment from Ernst & Young LLP.
He joined Ernst & Young in 1967 Non-executive Director, 78 and became a partner in 1979.
Since 1972, he has specialised in Member of the Audit Committee from 18 February 2009 corporate transactions covering IPOs, public fund raisings, acquisitions, disposals and defences against hostile bids.
From 1989 to Mr Solana was appointed to the Board on 18 February 2009.
1991, he was seconded to HM Treasury to assist with the privaHe is currently President of Solana Consultores, Chairman of tisations of the UK water and electricity industries and Scottish the Mexican Council on Foreign Relations and Chairman of the electricity.
From 2000, he primarily, but not exclusively, concenMexican Fund for Education and Development.
He is also an Astrated on transactions in the financial services sector.
sociate Consultant of Analtica Consultores Asociados as well as being a member of the boards of the Euroamerica Foundation in Former Director Madrid and the Institute of the Americas linked to the University of California in San Diego.
He is a member of the Advisory Board 10.
Hctor Rangel, of the Latin American Parliament.
Mr Solana served in Mexican Non-executive Director, 61 Government as Minister of Trade 1976-1977, Minister of EduMember of the Audit and Remuneration Committees cation 1977-1982 and 1993-1994 and Minister of Foreign Afuntil 30 January 2009 fairs 1988-1993.
Mr Solana became President and CEO of Banco Nacional fide Mexico from 1982-1988 during which time he Mr Rangel was appointed to the Board on 15 April 2008 and reserved as Chairman of the Mexican Banking Association 1986- signed on 30 January 2009.
Mr Rangel is currently General Di- 1987.
He was a Senator in the Mexican Parliament from 1994 rector of Nacional Financiera S. N. C. and retired as chairman of to 2000.
He was a member of the boards of the Mexican Amerithe board of BBVA Bancomer in September 2008.
He had been can Foundation for Science and the Canning House in London.
with the institution since 1991 and occupied various managerial Mr Solana studied Civil Engineering, Public Policy and Business positions in the international, corporate, government, business, Administration at the National University of Mexico.
2008 ANNUAL REPORT 55 55 FRESNILLO PLC II.
Jaime Lomeln, Chief Executive Officer, 74 2.
Mario Arregun, Chief Financial Officer, 52 Mr Arregun was previously employed by Peoles where he worked for 17 years.
He was chief financial officer for 11 years and was previously group treasurer for six years.
Prior to joining Peoles, Mr Arregun worked in banking and chemical engineering.
Mr Arregun is a bachelor of chemical engineering, holds an MBA from the University of Chicago and attended the Stanford Executive Program at Stanford University.
Manuel Luvanos, Vice President, Operations, 64 Mr Luvanos spent over 30 years at Peoles, including vice president of mining for three years and a variety of senior management positions over the last 25 years.
Mr Luvanos is a bachelor of chemical engineering and has a post-graduate degree in international business from ITAM and Stanford Executive program at Stanford University.
David Giles, Vice President, Exploration, 58 Mr Giles was previously employed by Peoles where he worked for 30 years and had undertaken a number of senior management positions including Vice President of Exploration.
Before joining Peoles, he worked for AMAX, Corona Gold and Tormex.
Mr Giles has a bachelor of science degree in Geology from the University of Toronto and holds an MBA from the ITESM University.
He is an officer of the Society of Economic Geologists, and the Mexican Association of Mining, Metallurgical and Geological Engineers.
2008 ANNUAL REPORT 57 FRESNILLO PLC COMPLIANCE STATEMENT o Code Provision A.
6.1: Board evaluation has not yet been Fresnillo shares were admitted to listing on the London Stock undertaken.
Most of the directors were only appointed beExchange on 14 May 2008.
The Combined Code on Corporate tween April and July 2008 and, in view of this, the Board Governance the Combined Code has therefore applied to the believes that a meaningful evaluation can only take place Company since May 2008.
In the period leading up to the Listonce the new Board has had a reasonable amount of time to ing, the Board implemented a number of changes to the corpowork together.
A board evaluation process will be developed rate governance of the Company to ensure compliance with the and implemented during the second half of 2009.
In establishing the Companys primary listing on the London Stock Exchange, the Fresnillo board has committed to The Companys auditor has reviewed those parts of this statecomply with the Code on exactly the same comply or explain ment which they are required to review under the Listing Rules of basis as all other companies listed on the Main Board of the Lonthe London Stock Exchange.
THE BOARD STRUCTURE Since the Company was listed for only part of the year this reThe structure and business of the Board is designed to ensure port includes a description of how the Company has applied the that the Board focuses on strategy, management, governance and principles and provisions of the Code since May 2008 and how it control issues.
intends to apply the principles throughout 2009.
Certain aspects of the Boards responsibilities have been delThe Combined Code establishes 17 main principles of good egated to appropriate committees to ensure compliance with the governance in four areas: Directors, Directors Remuneration, UK Companies Act, London Stock Exchange Listing Rules and the Accountability and Audit, and Relations with Shareholders.
It is the responsibility of the Chief Executive and the Execufollowing sections explain how these principles were applied tive Committee to manage the day-to-day running of the Group.
a detailed report on Directors remuneration can be found on pages 64-67.
The Board has delegated authority to the following committees to facilitate the routine business of the Company: Between May and December 2008, the Company has complied with Section 1 of the Combined Code, save in the following respects: The Audit Committee: which has responsibility for, among other o Code Provision A.
1.3: It is anticipated that the Chairmans things, monitoring the integrity of the Fresnillo Groups financial performance would be appraised for the first time as part of statements.
It oversees the Groups relationship with the external the Board evaluation process during 2009: auditors and reviews the effectiveness of the external audit proo Code Provision A.
2.2: The Chairman was not independent at cess.
It also reviews the effectiveness of the Groups system of the time of his appointment.
Alberto Baillres has been a internal controls and risk management systems.
board member of Industrias Peoles, S. A.
B. fide C. V. Peoles since 1962 and its chairman since 1967.
Peoles retains a The Remuneration Committee: which has responsibility for making 77.1% holding the Company.
Mr Baillres has been  to the Board on the Fresnillo Groups policy sible for overseeing the successful development of Fresnillo on the remuneration of senior management being the Executive over many years and, therefore, the Board considers that Mr Directors and the other members of the Executive Committee Baillres continued involvement as its non-executive chairand for the determination, within agreed terms of reference, of man is very important to the Company at the present stage the remuneration of the Chairman and of specific remuneration of its development: packages for each of the executive directors and the members of 58 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE III.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT the senior management, including pension THE BOARD rights and any compensation packages.
The Board intends to meet at least four times a year and has established a programme of meetings.
At these Board meetings the Board takes responsibility for the overall manFull details of the composition and role of agement of the Group and approval of the Groups long-term objectives and commercial this Committee and the Companys comstrategy.
There is a formal schedule of matters reserved for the Boards decision at each pliance with the Code Provisions relating meeting which includes approvals of major expenditure and investments and key policies.
to remuneration are set out in the DirecThe Board met on several occasions prior to the IPO in connection with the IPO itself and tors Remuneration Report on pages 64-67. related activity.
Between the IPO in May 2008 and 31 December 2008 the Board has met three times and the Committees of the Board have also met as required.
The Nominations Committee: which has responsibility for making recommendations A table of attendance of members of the board and board committees at meetings beto the Board on the composition of the tween 14 May and 31 December 2008 is set out below: Board and its committees and on the apBoard Audit Remuneration Nominations pointments of new Directors.
3 meetings Committee Committee Committee 3 meetings 1 meeting 1 meeting Health, Safety, Environment and Community Relations Committee: which is responsiAlberto Baillres 3 - - 1 ble for formulating and recommending to Jaime Lomeln 3 - - - the Board the Fresnillo Groups policy on Lord Cairns 2-1- health and safety as well as environmental Hctor Rangel 3 3 1 - Fernando Ruiz 3311 and local community issues.
Full details of Javier Fernndez 3 - - 1 the role of this Committee are set out in Rafael MacGregor 3 - - - the Sustainable Development Report on Juan Bordes 3 - - - pages 28-35.
Arturo Fernndez 3 - - - Guy Wilson 2 3 - - The Executive Committee: The Executive Appointed on 1 July 2008.
Committee works with the Chief ExecuResigned on 30 January 2009. tive and senior management to supervise and effect the day-to-day operational management of the Companys busiAll meetings of the Board are held in Mexico.
One meeting of the Board was held to nesses including the implementation consider and approve the convening of the Shareholders Meeting on 12 December 2008. of decisions agreed in principle by the Lord Cairns and Guy Wilson did not attend this meeting but communicated their views Board and all executive management of on the business of that meeting to the Chairman beforehand.
the operations of the Group within the strategy approved and budget approved The Chairman and the Non-executive Directors did not formally meet during the period by the Board.
between the Listing and 31 December 2008.
The Chairman intends to meet with the Non-executive Directors without the executives present at least once a year.
The ChairThe terms of reference for each of the Audit, man was appointed to the Company on 15 April 2008 therefore, given the Chairmans Remuneration and Nominations Commitshort tenure the Board does not consider that meaningful evaluation can take place tee are available on the Companys website.
2008 ANNUAL REPORT 59 FRESNILLO PLC BOARD MEMBERSHIP BOARD BALANCE & INDEPENDENCE Fernando Ruiz is a retired partner and conAt the year end the Board consisted of the Chairman, Alberto Baillres, one Executive sultant in the firm Chevez, Ruiz, ZamarDirector, Jaime Lomeln, Chief Executive Officer and eight Non-executive Directors.
S. C. a firm providing profesgraphical details of each of the Directors can be found on page 53 of this Annual Report.
sional services to the Company.
Mr Ruiz is The separate roles of Chairman and of the Chief Executive Officer are recognised and not involved in providing any services to the requirements for these roles have been specified in writing and were agreed by the the Company on behalf of Chevez, Ruiz, Board on 15 April 2008.
S. C. the value of those services is not material to either party.
Lord Cairns has been appointed as Senior Independent Director.
As Senior Independent Director, Lord Cairns is available to shareholders if they have concerns that have not Guy Wilson was appointed to the Board been resolved through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Chief on 1 July 2008 having retired as a partner Financial Officer or Head of Investor Relations.
of Ernst & Young LLP, the Companys auditors and reporting accountants on 30 June The composition of the Board and the roles of the Chairman, Chief Executive Director 2008.
Mr Wilson was not involved in the and the Senior Independent Director have been structured to ensure that no one indiprovision of audit or any other services to vidual can dominate the decision-making processes of the Board.
the Company by Ernst & Young LLP prior to his retirement.
As required by the ComAt the time of the Listing, the Board considered the independence of all of the Directors.
bined Code the Board has considered the Their assessment of the independence of the non-executive directors is set out below: independence of these three Directors and has concluded that they are independent Independent Not independent in character and judgement.
Alberto Baillres Chairman The Non-executive Directors have letRafael MacGregor ters of appointment for periods until at Juan Bordes least the Companys first annual general Arturo Fernndez Lord Cairns Senior Independent Director meeting.
The appointments may be termiHctor Rangel nated by three months notice in writing.
Fernando Ruiz The time commitment required from each Javier Fernndez Non-executive Director is set out in their Guy Wilson letter of appointment.
The fees payable to each Non-executive Director are set by Alberto Baillres, Rafael MacGregor, Juan Bordes and Arturo Fernndez are each dithe Board in accordance with its Schedule rectors of Peoles and have been appointed to the Board by Peoles pursuant to the of Reserved Matters.
None of the Directors Relationship Agreement.
Further information concerning the Relationship Agreement is holds any appointments to the board of set out in the Directors Report on page 69. any FTSE100 quoted company.
As indicated above, the Chairman was not independent at the time of his appointment.
The Executive Director has a service conHowever, Mr Baillres has been responsible for overseeing the successful development tract of no fixed term.
Further details conof Fresnillo over many years and, therefore, the Board considers that his continued cerning the Executive Directors service involvement as its non-executive chairman is vitally important to the Company.
agreement are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 65.
Copies of Hctor Rangel was, until 31 December 2008, the Chairman of BBVA Bancomer which the Directors letters of appointment and provides banking services to the Company.
BBVA Bancomer is one of a panel of banks service agreement are available for inspecused by the Group whose services are assessed by management on strictly arms tion at the Companys registered office.
Mr Rangel has confirmed that he is prohibited from being involved in any aspect of the banking relationship with the Company by BBVA Bancomers own In accordance with the Articles of Assointernal procedures.
ciation, Directors are subject to retirement 60 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE and re-election by shareholders, at the first annual general meetAll Directors have received briefings from the Companys advisers, ing following their appointment and every three years thereafter.
including presentations to familiarise them with their duties and At the forthcoming annual general meeting all of the directors responsibilities as directors of a UK listed company.
The Chairman will offer themselves for election having been appointed to the will ensure that the induction and training processes for new DiBoard during the year.
rectors continue to be developed.
None of the Non-executive Directors is appointed for a term of Board procedures have been established by which Directors can longer than three years.
raise concerns at meetings of the Board and, if necessary, ask for such concerns to be recorded in the Board minutes.
CONFLICTS OF INTERESTS The duty to avoid potential conflicts and to disclose such situaDirectors also have access to the advice and services of the Comtions for authorisation by the Board are the personal responsibilpany Secretary whose appointment and removal is a matter reity of each Director.
Each Director ensures that they keep these served to the whole Board.
A procedure has been established to duties under review and inform the Company Secretary on an enable Directors to obtain independent professional advice at the ongoing basis of any change in their respective positions, such as Companys expense in appropriate circumstances.
The majority of the Directors were appointed in April 2008 imPrior to 30 September 2008, each Director completed a Direcmediately prior to the Listing.
In view of this the Board believes tors List which set out details of situations where each directors that a meaningful evaluation of performance can only take place interests may conflict with those of the Company situational once the new Board has had a reasonable amount of time to work conflicts.
A working group of the Board reviewed each of these together.
An evaluation process will therefore be implemented in and put forward a proposal for the Board to consider the interthe second half of 2009 for all of the Board members including ests that would require authorisation.
Although the Board cannot the Chairman.
delegate or defer its duty to review these situational conflicts, the Board may consider a proposal put forward by the working Directors and Ofcers Liability Insurance cover has been put in place.
group and decide whether they agree with the proposal.
On 30 September 2008, the Board considered the situational conflicts NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE of each director in turn and authorised them subject to certain The members of the Nominations Committee are Alberto Bailprocedural conditions in the event that there was a likelihood that lres Chairman of the Committee, Javier Fernndez and Fercertain situational conflicts would become actual conflicts.
Consequently the majority of the members of the Director voted in respect of the authorisation of his own situCommittee are independent Non-executive Directors.
The role of the Nominations Committee is to identify and nomiThe Directors Lists are updated on a regular basis to provide regunate for approval of the Board, candidates to fill Board vacancies lar updates to the Board on Directors Conflicts of Interests.
Any as and when they arise.
When making an appointment, the Comchanges to the schedule of potential or actual conflicts lists are mittee is required by its terms of reference to evaluate the balnoted and minuted at the beginning of each Board meeting.
ance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board.
BOARD PROCESS The Nominations Committee is also responsible for reviewing the Board papers are circulated in a timely manner to the Board and structure, size and composition, including skills knowledge and exit is the Chairmans responsibility to provide timely information perience of the Board and make recommendations to the Board to the Board.
All proposals presented to the Board for its considerwith regards to any changes.
The Committee must also give full ation under the Schedule of Reserved Matters are first considered consideration to succession planning for Directors and other seand approved by the Executive Committee.
In so doing, the Execunior executives.
tive Committee aims to ensure that any such proposals take into consideration those factors set out in Section 172, Companies The Committee has met once in the year between the Listing and Act 2006.
2008 ANNUAL REPORT 61 FRESNILLO PLC The Nominations Committee has not retained any external conreports on the internal audit reviews conducted by the Internal sultants to assist it in its work.
In considering future appointAudit Department.
Where necessary the Audit Committee will ments to the Board, the Nominations Committee will consider seek assurance that any serious weaknesses have been addressed.
the balance and structure of the Board and the commitments During the period since IPO the Audit Committee has been briefed made by the Board under the Relationship Agreement.
on internal audits conducted during that period but none have required any further action on the part of the Audit Committee.
AUDIT COMMITTEE The members of the Audit Committee, at 31 December 2008, The Audit Committee reviewed the arrangements by which emwere Guy Wilson Chairman of the Committee, Hctor Rangel ployees may raise concerns about improprieties concerning finanand Fernando Ruiz.
Guy Wilson was a partner at Ernst & Young cial or other matters at its meeting in August 2008 and it is satisprior to his retirement on 30 June 2008.
He is therefore confied with the adequacy of those arrangements.
sidered to have recent and relevant financial experience.
Hctor Rangel resigned as a Director and therefore as a member of INTERNAL CONTROLS the Audit Committee on 30 January 2009.
The role of the Audit The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of Committee, among other things, is to monitor the integrity of internal control which includes risk management and reviewing the financial statements of the Company, including its annual its effectiveness.
The system of internal control is designed to and interim reports, preliminary results announcements and any identify, evaluate and manage significant risks associated with the other formal announcement relating to its financial performance.
achievement of the Groups objectives.
Because of the limitations The Audit Committee met three times between May 2008 and 31 inherent in any system of internal control, this system is designed December 2008 to carry out its responsibilities as described in its to meet the Companys particular needs and the risks to which it terms of reference.
It is designed to manage risk rather than eliminate risk altogether.
Consequently it can only provide reasonable and not Accordingly the Audit Committee has reviewed the 2008 Annual absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Report and Accounts including the preliminary results announcement before recommending their approval by the Board.
As part The Board has delegated its responsibility for reviewing the efof this review, the Audit Committee reviewed the accounting fectiveness of these controls to the Audit Committee.
The Audit policies, the clarity of disclosure, compliance with the rules of Committee will review these systems on an annual basis.
The daythe London Stock Exchange, the Listing Rules and other legal and to-day responsibility for managing risk and the maintenance of regulatory requirements and all material information presented in the Groups system of internal control is collectively assumed by the Financial Statements.
The Executive Committee is supported in this task by the Internal Audit Department.
The Audit Committee considered the re-appointment of the Companys auditors before making a recommendation to the Board to On behalf of the Board and the Executive Committee, the Interbe put to shareholders.
The Audit Committee oversees the relafinal Audit Department has established a process for identifying, tionship with the external auditors.
As part of this responsibility, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group the Audit Committee has reviewed the findings of the external in accordance with the Turnbull Guidance.
The Group has also adauditor, reviewed management representation letters, approved opted a risk-based approach in establishing the Groups system of audit plans and timescales and reviewed policies on the indepeninternal control and in reviewing its effectiveness.
Risks have been dence of the external auditor including the policy concerning the categorised into a number of categories of risk for management provision of non-audit services.
Prior to recommending the appurposes.
Based on these risk categories the Audit Committee has pointment of Ernst & Young LLP at the forthcoming AGM to the sought assurance from the Executive Committee and the Internal Board, the Audit Committee conducted a review of the indepenAudit Department on the Groups system of internal control.
The basis upon which assurance has been sought includes: The Audit Committee has received a presentation from the Group Internal Audit Department concerning their workplan for the perio Internal Audit Reviews, including information technology reod from July 2008 to June 2009 and has requested regular update views, undertaken by the Internal Audit Department.
62 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE o Reviews undertaken by the External Auditor ers through telephone calls and meetings.
o Controls and procedures implemented under the Financial Reporting Plan adopted The Company also uses a full programme at the time of the Companys listing on the London Stock Exchange of mining conferences to meet with curo Representations obtained from operational management rent and prospective investors.
Contact with investors in Mexico is maintained The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups risk through the Investor Relations Office in management, internal control systems and the half year and annual financial statements Mexico City.
The Chief Executive Officer, before their submission to the Board.
It also reviews the scope and results of the audit Chief Financial Officer, the Director of Exwith the external auditors and the schedule of work for the Internal Audit Department ploration and the Director of Operations for the internal audit year which runs from July to June.
The Audit Committee is also all participate in the major roadshows to responsible for reviewing the arrangements whereby staff may, in confidence, raise conmeet with analysts and shareholders.
The cerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters.
Head of Investor Relations, supported by the Chief Executive Officer, gives a report There are a number of components to the system of internal controls within the Comat each Board meeting on communications pany and these are detailed as follows: and shareholder activity.
o A risk matrix will continue to be monitored and reviewed by the Executive CommitThe Companys first annual general meettee and Internal Audit Department.
ing as a listed company will be held on 27 o A framework of transaction and entity level controls to prevent and detect material May 2009.
The business of the annual generror and loss.
eral meeting will be conducted in accoro A budgetary and periodic reporting review process performed by the dance with the provisions D. 2.1 and D. 2.2 Executive Committee.
The Chairman and the chairo A documented structure of delegated authorities and approvals for transaction and men of each of the board committees will investment decisions, including any with related parties.
be available to answer questions put foro Progress in implementing the controls and procedures under the Financial Reportward to them by shareholders of the Coming Plan prepared at the time of the Companys listing is being monitored.
The Annual Report and Accounts and o A programme of internal audit reviews has been developed and conducted by the Notice of the Annual General Meeting will Groups Internal Audit Department.
be sent to shareholders at least 20 working days prior to the date of the meeting.
The Board have, through the Executive Committee and the Audit Committee, reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls taking account of the matLord Cairns ters summarised above.
On the basis of this review, the Board considers that the meaSenior Independent Director on behalf sures that have already been implemented both before and after the IPO to initiate a of the Board risk management framework are appropriate to the Groups circumstances.
The Board 20 February 2009 is committed to making further progress in the implementation of its internal control regime, particularly in relation to execution of the planned internal audit programme, with a view to achieving best practice levels of risk management and internal control for international mining companies listed on the London Stock Exchange.
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS As part of the IPO process the Board met with a large number of investors in the UK, mainland Europe and the USA.
The Company has established an office in London and appointed a Head of Investor Relations who is based in London.
The Group has implemented a strong investor relations programme and aims to meet major shareholders and analysts at least twice a year to discuss the results of the Group and to respond to any queries the shareholders may have.
The Head of Investor Relations in London is the first point of contact with investors maintaining ongoing relations with analysts and major sharehold- 2008 ANNUAL REPORT 63 FRESNILLO PLC Part I Unaudited Information rewarded for their individual contributions to the success of the Company.
It will approve the design of, and determine targets for, INTRODUCTION any performance related pay schemes and if appropriate share The board of directors of Fresnillo plc are pleased to present their incentive plans operated by the Company and approve the total first Directors Remuneration Report.
annual payments made under such schemes.
This Report has been prepared in accordance with Schedule 7A of The composition of the Remuneration Committee and its terms the Companies Act 1985 the Regulations and sets out inforof reference comply with the provisions of the Combined Code mation about the remuneration of the Directors and senior manand are available for inspection on the Companys website at agement of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2008. www.
This report has been audited by Ernst & Young LLP to the extent required by the Regulations.
The Chief Executive Officer and Head of Human Resources will usually attend meetings of the Remuneration Committee at the As required by the Regulations, this report will be subject to an invitation of the chairman of the Remuneration Committee and advisory shareholder vote at the Companys forthcoming Annual the Company Secretary acts as secretary to this committee.
Director is present when his own remuneration is being discussed.
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE The Non-executive Directors fees are set by the Board under the The Board established the Remuneration Committee on 15 April Schedule of Matters reserved for its approval.
2008 and it met once during the year.
Lord Cairns is the chairman of the Remuneration Committee and its other members were ADVISERS Hctor Rangel and Fernando Ruiz.
Since the year-end, Hctor RanIn setting executive salaries, benchmarking information is supgel has resigned as a Director and member of the Remuneration plied annually by William M. Mercer and Data Compensation and Committee.
During the year, all the members of the Remunerabiennially by Watson Wyatt to enable the Chief Executive Offition Committee were independent Non-executive Directors.
Atcer to make recommendations to the Remuneration Committee tendance at meetings of the Remuneration Committee by individconcerning the salaries for the other members of the Executive ual members is detailed in the Directors Report on pages 68-71.
The Remuneration Committee have not appointed any adviser.
Terms of reference for the Remuneration Committee have been approved by the Board and its duties include the determination of REMUNERATION POLICY the framework policy for the remuneration of the Chairman, Chief The Remuneration Committee has developed a remuneration polExecutive Officer, other Executive Directors and the members of icy to ensure that the Company is able to attract, retain, and mothe Executive Committee together the senior management, tivate its executives and senior management.
The retention of key as well as their specific remuneration packages, including penmanagement and the alignment of management incentives with sion rights and, where applicable, any compensation payments.
the creation of shareholder value are key objectives of this policy.
In determining such policy, the Remuneration Committee is expected to take into account all factors which it deems necessary In setting the basic levels of pay for the executive directors, the to ensure that members of the senior executive management of Committee seeks to ensure that salaries are market competitive the Group are provided with appropriate incentives to encourwithin the Mexican context and total compensation is set around age strong performance and are, in a fair and responsible manner, the median level.
Salaries are benchmarked annually using two 64 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE IV.
DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT separate agencies and a survey using a comparator group of 18 SHORT-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN STIP companies and total remuneration is benchmarked biennially.
At the beginning of the year a STIP was put in place for the members of the Executive Committee, including the Executive Directors.
The variable component of remuneration is embodied within A number of Key Performance Indicators KPIs were agreed for the short term incentive plan STIP which is available to the each member of the Executive Committee and KPI targets were Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer and the Vice set at which payments equivalent to 0% to 33% of annual salary Presidents of Operations and Exploration as well as other corpocould be earned with 33% of annual salary being earned for 100% rate managers.
The achievement of annual performance targets achievement of their KPI targets.
For each member of the Execuis, therefore, rewarded through an annual performance related tive Committee, the KPIs were weighted to reect the contribution bonus.
The performance targets upon which bonuses are based of each executive to the achievement of that KPI.
The STIP covers include the following mix of financial and operational perforperformance during the period from January to December.
mance measures: In 2008, the following KPIs and measures were used in determino The Groups financial performance ing the bonuses of the members of the Executive Committee: o The relevant executives performance on budget compliance KPI Measures in terms of production, input output ratios and the maintefinance of mine reserves.
Production Achievement of budget o The relative executives performance on health, safety and Costs Achievement of budget environmental standards: and Projects Delivery to budget and plan o Completion of projects on time and to budget.
Safety Fatalities, LTIFR, Lost Days Environment Conformity with environmental standards Community Project delivery It is the Companys policy not to use its equity to incentivise long-term performance.
SERVICE AGREEMENTS CHAIRMAN AND NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Jaime Lomeln is employed under a contract of employment with The remuneration of the Chairman of the Company and the NonServicios Administrativos Fresnillo S. A. fide C. V. a subsidiary of executive Directors consists of fees that are paid quarterly in arFresnillo plc, a Group company.
Mr Lomelns contract is governed rears.
The Chairman and Non-executive Directors do not particiby Mexican Federal Labor Law and does not have a fixed term.
It pate in any long-term incentive or annual bonus schemes, nor do may be terminated in writing by either party on notice.
There is they accrue any pension entitlement.
Neither the Chairman nor no minimum notice period.
There are no benefits payable under any of the Non-executive Directors has a service contract with the service agreement upon termination of employment.
the Company: however each has entered into a letter of appointment with the Company.
The salary payable under Mr Lomelns service agreement is MXN 930,000 per month.
In addition, he receives other payments for LONG-TERM INCENTIVES holidays, company-paid savings contributions and other benefits.
Fresnillo does not offer any shareor cash-based long-term incenIn 2008 he received salary of MXN 15,099,982 US$ 1,343,890 tives to management.
Historically membership of the Group Pension Scheme has been regarded as a means for retaining  ment.
The Remuneration Committee will keep the need for further Under his service agreement, Mr Lomeln is entitled to 26 working long-term incentives under review.
days paid holiday per year.
He is also entitled to life insurance, 2008 ANNUAL REPORT 65 FRESNILLO PLC the payment of medical expenses, medimitment and level of involvement that they are required to make in the activities of the cal benefits and bonuses as otherwise set Board and its committees.
out in the Companys policies from time to time.
He is not entitled to profit-sharing.
There are no special provisions that have been agreed with the Non-executive Directors or the Executive Director with regard to compensation for loss of office.
PENSIONS The Group operates two pension schemes: The key terms of the Non-executive Directors letters of appointment are as follows: i a defined benefit scheme which was Director Date Notice Duration Fees closed to new members on 1 July 2007 of Appointment Period of term p. a. in respect of existing members: and ii a defined contribution scheme which was Alberto Baillres 15 April 2008 3 months 3 years 30,000 introduced on 1 July 2007.
Membership Lord Cairns 15 April 2008 3 months 3 years 90,000 of this scheme is voluntary, contributions Juan Bordes 15 April 2008 3 months 3 years 30,000 Javier Fernandez 15 April 2008 3 months 3 years 30,000 of between 5% and 8% are made to this Arturo Fernandez 15 April 2008 3 months 3 years 30,000 plan by its members and contributions are Rafael MacGregor 15 April 2008 3 months 3 years 30,000 matched by the Group.
Hctor Rangel 15 April 2008 3 months 3 years 30,000 Fernando Ruiz 15 April 2008 3 months 3 years 30,000 Mr Lomelin is entitled to membership of Guy Wilson 1 July 2008 3 months 3 years 90,000 the defined benefit pension plan in respect of service before 30 June 2007.
He has All of the Directors are required by the articles of association of the Company to retire at the elected not to join the defined contribuforthcoming annual general meeting and offer themselves for election to the Board.
The current unexpired term of their letters of appointment is the period from the date of this report tion pension scheme.
until 27 May 2009 when the annual general meeting of the Company will be held.
Subject to NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS LETTERS their being elected at the annual general meeting, their appointments will be for a period of OF APPOINTMENT three years from the date of appointment.
Each of the Non-executive Directors has signed a letter of appointment with the EXTERNAL APPOINTMENTS Company.
The Non-executive Directors It is the Boards policy to allow the Executive Directors to accept directorships of other signed their letters of appointment on 15 quoted companies provided that they have obtained the consent of the Chairman of the April 2008, with the exception of Guy WilCompany.
Any such directorships must be formally notified to the Board.
PERFORMANCE REVIEW The Non-executive Directors have each As required by the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations, the following graph sets out been appointed for an initial period of the performance of the Companys share price since its Listing compared to the FTSE 100 Index and the FTSE 250 Index being the two indices in which the Companys shares have been three years subject to them being reelected at the forthcoming annual genincluded.
These are deemed to be the most appropriate indices for comparative purposes.
eral meeting and their appointments are renewed on a three-yearly basis, subject FRESNILLO VS FTSE 100 AND FTSE 250 Share price performance since IPO 31 December 08 to re-election, when appropriate, by the 110 Company in general meeting.
Unless oth- 100 erwise determined neither the Board nor 90 80 the Director concerned may give less than 70 60 three months notice of termination of 50 40 the appointment.
30 20 10 0 The Non-executive Directors fees have been set at a level to reflect the time comFresnillo FSTE 100 FSTE 250 66 May 08 Jun 08 Jul 08 Aug 08 Sep 08 Oct 08 Nov 08 Dec 08 Jan 09 Feb 09 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Part II Audited Information DIRECTORS REMUNERATION DURING THE YEAR SALARY, ANNUAL BONUS AND OTHER BENEFITS $000 Salary Pension Benets Bonus Total Total Feesin-Kind 2008 2007 Chairman Alberto Baillres 37 0 0 0 37 0 Executive Directors Jaime Lomeln Note 2 1,344 0 53 334 1,731 0 Non-executive Directors Lord Cairns 111 0 0 0 111 0 Juan Bordes 37 0 0 0 37 0 Javier Fernandez 37 0 0 0 37 0 Arturo Fernandez 37 0 0 0 37 0 Rafael MacGregor 37 0 0 0 37 0 Hctor Rangel 37 0 0 0 37 0 Fernando Ruiz 37 0 0 0 37 0 Guy Wilson 73 0 0 0 73 0 Total 1,787 0 53 334 2,174 0 Notes: 1.
No compensation for loss of ofce was paid during the years ended 31 December 2008 and 31 December 2007.
Prior to 15 April 2008, Jamie Lomelns salary was paid by Peoles.
The Chairman and Non-executive Directors fees relate to the period from their respective appointments to the Board and 31 December 2008 PENSION ENTITLEMENT The pension entitlement of the Chief Executive Officer, being the only executive director was as follows: US$000 Accumulated Increase Increase, Transfer accrued in accrued before value of benets benets during ination, increase 31 Dec 2008 the year in accrued before ination, benets during less directors the year contributions Jaime Lomeln 7,377 49 501 49 DIRECTORS INTERESTS IN ORDINARY SHARES The interests of Directors are set out in the Directors Report on pages 68-71.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Shareholders will be asked to vote, on an advisory basis, on this Directors Remuneration Report at the Companys forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
This Report has been approved by the Board of Directors of Fresnillo plc.
Signed on behalf of the Board.
Lord Cairns Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 20 February 2009 2008 ANNUAL REPORT 67 FRESNILLO PLC INTRODUCTION CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Directors have the pleasure in presenting their Annual Report A report on corporate governance and compliance with the proviand the audited Financial Statements for the year ending 31 fidesions of the Combined Code is set out on pages 58-63. cember 2008.
REMUNERATION OF DIRECTORS PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES Details of Directors remuneration can be found in the Directors The Fresnillo Group is a leading precious metals group with significant Remuneration Report on pages 64-67. experience and expertise in all aspects of mining, from exploration through to mine construction and operation.
It is the worlds largest SIGNIFICANT RELATIONSHIPS primary silver producer and Mexicos second largest gold producer.
The following are considered by the Board to be significant relationships which are likely, directly or indirectly to inuence the perforRESULTS AND DIVIDENDS mance of the business and its value.
Results for the year are set out in the Consolidated Income Statement on page 74.
Relationships with Partners: Under an agreement with Newmont Exploration Limited, the Company holds 56% of Minera Penmont with An interim dividend of 5.9 US cents per share was paid on 19 Septemthe aim of exploiting and developing of gold.
The Companys Herber 2008 to shareholders on the register on 29 August 2008.
The Direcradura mine and the Soledad-Dipolos developments are held within tors have recommended a final ordinary dividend of 7.7 US cents per Minera Penmont.
Ordinary Share which will be paid on 29 May 2009 to shareholders on the register on the 8 May 2009.
The dividend will be paid in UK pounds In October 2005, MAG Silver Corporation MAG Silver, Peoles, sterling unless shareholders elect to be paid in US dollars.
Minas Peoles S. A. fide C. V. and Minera Los Lagartos S. A. fide C. V. entered into an agreement for the establishment of the Juanicipio projBUSINESS REVIEW ect.
At the time of the IPO, Peoles transferred its 56% share in the A detailed Business Review for the Group as required by Section project to the Group.
417, Companies Act 2006 can be found in the sections of this Annual Report noted below.
These comment on the operation and Supply Relationships: On 31 December 2007, the Fresnillo Group endevelopment of the business and its future prospects along with tered into long-term arrangements with the Peoles Group the Silverdetails of key performance indicators and the description of the stream Arrangements in relation to the bi-product silver output from principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group.
the Peoles-owned polymetallic mine at Sabinas in Zacatecas, Mexico.
Under the Silverstream Arrangements, Fresnillo is entitled to all of the o The Chairmans Letter set out on pages 2-3. proceeds before deduction of any treatment and rening charges in o The Chief Executive Ofcers Statement set out on pages 4-7. respect of Payable Silver produced from the zinc and lead concentrates o The Business Review set out on pages 8-49 summarising produced by the Peoles Groups Sabinas mine during its life.
Further the Key Performance Indicators, the Market and Geographic information concerning the Silverstream Arrangements can be found Overview, the Review of Operations, the Sustainable Develin the note 15 of the Financial Statements on page 98. opment Report, the Finance Review and the Risks and Uncertainties: and On 8 May 2008, the Company entered into a Transitional Services o This Directors Report.
Agreement with Servicios Peoles for the provision of administrative services in return for arms length fees for an initial period of This Business Review and other sections of this Annual Report 12 months the SIPSA Agreement.
The SIPSA Agreement has subsecontain forward looking statements.
The extent to which the quently been extended for a further four months to 31 August 2009.
Companys shareholders or anyone may rely on these forward Further information concerning the SIPSA Agreement can be found looking statements is set out inside the back cover of this Anin the Finance Review on page 41 and note 6 of the Financial Statenual Report.
68 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE V. DIRECTORS REPORT has also agreed to abstain from voting on any resolution to approve Customer Relationships: Since 2006 the primary products from the a related party transaction as dened in paragraph 11.1.
5 R of the Groups mines, silverand gold-rich lead and zinc concentrates and Listing Rules involving any member of the Peoles Group.
dor have been sold to the Peoles Groups rening and smelting facility at Torron, operated by Met-Mex Penles S. A. fide C. V. Met-Mex under a series of supply agreements the Met-Mex ArDIRECTORS The names and biographies of the current Directors of the Comrangements.
This arrangement enables the Group to benefit from pany are set out on pages 52-55.
Directors may be appointed by relatively low transport costs.
The terms of the supply agreements the Company by ordinary resolution or by the Board.
If appointed with Met-Mex are set on an arms length basis with revenue beby the Board, a Director holds ofce until the next annual general ing determined by the amount of metal contained in the produce meeting.
All of the current Directors will retire and offer themselves and the average market prices over a certain period net of certain for election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Further information concerning the Met-Mex Arrangements can be found in Risks and Uncertainties on pages 44-49.
Directors may be appointed by the Company by ordinary resolution or by the Board.
A Director appointed by the Board holds ofce only Government Relationships: Under Mexican law, government conuntil the next following AGM and is then eligible for election by the cessions are required to explore for and exploit mineral potential.
Each Director shall retire at the annual general meetThe Fresnillo Group holds concessions in respect of its operations, ing held in the third year following the year in which he was elected development projects and exploration projects in return for which it pays fees to the government and has made commitments to or last re-elected by the Company.
maintain certain levels of capital expenditure as well as minimum DIRECTORS INDEMNITIES AND INSURANCE environmental and health & safety standards.
The Company has entered into deeds of indemnity with each Director in respect of proceedings bought by third party and pension scheme Employee Relationships: Approximately two thirds of the Groups liabilities subject to the conditions set out in the Companies Act 1985. workforce is employed and one third are contractors.
ApproxiThe Company has purchased Directors & Ofcers Liability insurance.
mately 80% of the employed workforce is unionised, with substanAll of these arrangements remain in place at the date of this report.
tially all being members of the National Mining and Metallurgical Union of the Republic of Mexico.
The Fresnillo Group, on the whole, DIRECTORS INTERESTS maintains good relationships with the Union.
Further details can be The number of Ordinary Shares of the Company in which the Direcfound in the Business Review on page 48.
The Group has contracts tors were beneficially interested at the date of their appointment with a large number of different providers of contract labour.
fideand at 31 December 2008 were: tails of the service agreement with the Chief Executive officer are found in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 65.
Date of Appointment 31 December 2008 Alberto Baillres - See below RELATIONSHIP AGREEMENT Lord Cairns - 15,000 On 8 May 2008, Peoles and the Company entered into a relationship Hctor Rangel - - agreement to regulate the ongoing relationship between the Company Fernando Ruiz - - and Peoles.
The principal purpose of the relationship agreement is to Javier Fernandez - - ensure that the Company and its subsidiaries are capable of carrying Guy Wilson - 15,000 Juan Bordes - 15,000 on their business independently of the Peoles Group, and that transArturo Fernandez - - actions and relationships with the Peoles Group including any transRafael MacGregor - - actions and relationships with any member of the Fresnillo Group Jaime Lomeln - - are at arms length and on normal commercial terms.
Under this relaAlberto Baillres holds an indirect interest in the Company.
Mr Baillres and tionship agreement, Peoles has undertaken not to exercise its voting companies controlled by Mr Baillres hold, in aggregate 61.3 per cent of the rights to amend the memorandum and articles of association in a way issued share capital and voting rights of Peoles.
Peoles holds 552,595,191 which would be inconsistent with the provisions of the agreement.
It ordinary shares 77.1% in the Company.
2008 ANNUAL REPORT 69 FRESNILLO PLC No Director had any dealings in the shares of the Company beThe rights and obligations attaching to these shares are governed tween 31 December 2008 and 20 February 2009, being a date by UK law and the Companys Articles of Association.
Ordinary less than one month prior to the date of convening the Annual shareholders are entitled to receive notice and to attend and speak General Meeting.
at any general meeting of the Company.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of the Ordinary Shares.
MAJOR INTERESTS IN SHARES As at 20 February 2009, the Company had been advised, in accorSubject to any rights or restrictions attached to any shares, on a dance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial show of hands every shareholder present in person or by proxy or Services Authority, of the following notiable interests whether being a corporation present by a duly authorised representative directly or indirectly held in its voting rights: shall have one vote, and on a poll every shareholder who is present in person or by proxy shall have one vote for every share of Notication received from: Number of voting rights % which he is the holder.
The Notice of AGM species deadlines for exercising voting rights and appointing a proxy or proxies to vote Peoles 552,595,191 77.05 in relation to resolutions to be passed at the AGM.
All proxy votes BlackRock, Inc 48,792,000 6.80 are counted and the numbers for, against or withheld in relation to BlackRock Global Funds 28,832,500 4.02 each resolution are announced at the AGM and published on the Threadneedle Asset Management 26,000,000 3.60 Companys website after the meeting.
CHANGE OF CONTROL The Company does not have any agreements with any Non-executive There are no restrictions on the transfer of the Ordinary Shares Director, Executive Director or employee that would provide compenother than as set out in the Articles of Association and: sation for loss of ofce or employment resulting from a takeover.
o certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed by ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION laws and regulations for example, insider trading laws : and Any amendments to the Articles of Association of the Company o pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authormay be made by Special Resolution of the shareholders.
ity whereby certain Directors, ofcers and employees of the Company require the approval of the Company to deal in the SIGNIFICANT AGREEMENTS CHANGE OF CONTROL Ordinary Shares.
The Penmont Herradura and MAG Silver Juanicipio agreements each contain provisions ensuring that the respective interests of No shareholder holds securities carrying special rights as to the control the shareholders in these respective companies may be transferred of the Company.
There are no limitations on the holding of securiin accordance with their respective bi-laws subject to preferential ties.
There are no restrictions on voting rights or any arrangements rights of existing shareholders.
by which, with the Companys co-operation, financial rights carried by securities are held by a person other than the holder of the securities.
There are no formal change of control provisions within the SilverThere are no agreements between holders of securities that are known stream Arrangements, Met-Mex Arrangements or SIPSA Agreement.
to the Company which may result in restrictions on the transfer or on voting rights.
The Company may repurchase or enter into a contract The Groups mining concessions are held by various of its Mexican under it will or may purchase, any of its own shares.
Whilst the companies holding the mining concessions remain Mexican resident companies, there are no proThe Sterling Deferred Shares only entitle the shareholder on winding up or visions within the concession agreements which would be triggered on a return of capital to payment of the amount paid up after repayment by a change of control of the Company.
The Sterling Deferred Shares do not entitle the holder to payment of any dividend, or to receive notice or to attend and SHARE CAPITAL speak at any general meeting of the Company.
The Company may also at Details of the Companys share capital are set out in note 20 to the its option redeem the Sterling Deferred Shares at a price of 1.00 or, as Financial Statements.
The Company has two classes of share capital custodian, purchase or cancel the Sterling Deferred Shares or require the 1,000,000,000 ordinary shares of US $0.50 Ordinary Shares and holder to transfer the Sterling Deferred Shares.
Accept at the option of the 50,000 deferred shares of 1.00 each Sterling Deferred Shares.
Company the Sterling Deferred Shares are not transferrable.
70 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AUTHORITY TO PURCHASE OWN SHARES GOING CONCERN The Company was authorised by a shareholders resolution passed After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation on 12 December 2008 to purchase up to 10% of its issued Ordinary that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operaShare capital.
Any shares which have been bought back may be held tional existence for the foreseeable future.
In making this assessas treasury shares or, if not so held, must be cancelled immediately ment they have considered the Company and Group budget, the upon completion of the purchase, thereby reducing the amount of cashow forecasts and reviewed the availability of banking facilithe Companys issued and authorised share capital.
This authority ties to the Group.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going will expire at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and a resoconcern basis in preparing the Financial Statements.
lution to renew the authority for a further year will be proposed.
AUDIT INFORMATION No shares were purchased by the Company during the year.
Each of the Directors at the date of the approval of this report confirms that: EMPLOYEES Information relating to employees is given in note 8 to the Finan- 1 so far as he is aware, there is no relevant audit information of cial Statements on page 92 and in the Sustainable Development which the Companys auditors are unaware: and Report on page 35.
2 he has taken all the reasonable steps that he ought to have taken as a Director to make himself aware of any relevant auCREDITOR PAYMENT POLICY dit information and to establish that the Companys auditors At 31 December 2008 the Company had no trade creditors 2007: nil.
are aware of the information.
It is the Companys policy to agree terms of trading, including payments The conrmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance terms, with all suppliers.
Provided suppliers perform in accordance with with the provisions of s234ZA of the Companies Act 1985. the agreed terms payment will be made in accordance with the terms.
AUDITORS MARKET VALUE OF LAND AND BUILDINGS The auditors, Ernst & Young LLP have indicated their willingness to Land is carried in the balance sheet at deemed cost resulting from a continue in ofce and a resolution seeking to reappoint them will revaluation, which was undertaken as at 1 January 2005 as part of the be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Groups transition to reporting under IFRS.
Land and buildings acquired since 1 January 2005 are recorded at cost.
It is not practical to estimate DIVIDENDS the market value of land and buildings at each balance sheet date.
An interim dividend of 5.9 US cents per share was paid on 19 September 2008 to shareholders on the register on 29 August 2008.
POLITICAL AND CHARITABLE DONATIONS The Directors have recommended a final ordinary dividend of 7.7 No donations were made to political organisations during the year US cents per share which will be paid on 29 May 2009 to shareholdincluding in Mexico.
The Group made charitable donations of ers on the register on 8 May 2009.
The dividend will be paid in UK US$0.9 million during the year.
Further information concerning the pounds sterling unless shareholders elect to be paid in US dollars.
community initiatives within the Fresnillo Group are set out in the Sustainability Report set out on pages 28-35.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The Companys Annual General Meeting will be held at Linklaters, FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT One Silk Street, London, EC2Y 8HQ on Wednesday 27 May 2009 The Companys objectives and policies on financial risk can be at 11.30am.
Details of the meeting venue and the resolutions to found in note 32 to the Financial Statements.
Information on the be proposed are set out in a separate Notice of Meeting which acCompanys exposures to foreign currency, credit, commodity, price, companies the Annual Report.
liquidity and interest rate risks can also be found in this note.
For and on behalf of the Board Prism Cosec Limited DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES Company Secretary Information about the Directors responsibilities in respect of the 20 February 2009 preparation of Financial Statements is provided on page 72.
2008 ANNUAL REPORT 71 FRESNILLO PLC VI.
STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Group and parent Companys Financial Statements Financial Statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and those International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS adopted by the European Union.
The Directors are required to prepare financial statements for each financial year which present a true and fair view of the financial position of the Company and of the Group and the financial performance and cash flows of the Company and of the Group for that period.
In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to: o select suitable accounting policies in accordance with IAS 8: Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors and then apply them consistently: o present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: o provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the Company and of the Groups financial position and financial performance: and o state that the Company and the Group has complied with IFRS, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
o prepare the accounts on a going concern basis unless, having assessed the ability of the Company and the Group to continue as a going concern, management either intends to liquidate the entity or to cease trading, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and of the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Acts 1985 and 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable UK law and regulations the directors are responsible for the preparation of a Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Report that comply with that law and regulations.
In addition the directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
