G4S plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2008 27 BOARD OF DIRECTORS Alf Duch-Pedersen 62 Mark Elliott 59 CHAIRMAN NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Alf was appointed to the board in May 2004 and became chairman of the Mark was appointed to the board in September 2006 and is a member board in June 2006.
He is also chairman of the Nomination Committee.
Based in the USA, he worked for IBM Alfs career has involved managing multi-national companies based in both between 1970 and 2008, having occupied a number of senior management Scandinavia and the UK covering a range of industries from manufacturing positions including General Manager, IBM Europe, Middle East and Africa and financial services to food and food products.
He was president and chief where he was responsible for that companys operations in over 120 executive ofTryg-Baltica A S from 1991 to 1997 and fulfilled the same roles countries.
Mark is a non-executive director of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed at Danisco A S from 1997 to 2006.
He is now chairman of the board of Elsevier Group plc, a member of the supervisory board of Reed Elsevier NV Danske Bank A S, chairman of the British Chamber of Commerce in and chairman of Reed Elseviers remuneration committee.
He also serves on Denmark and a member of the executive committee of the Confederation the Deans Advisory Council and theTechnology Advisory Council at Indiana of Danish Industries.
Lord Condon 62 Thorleif Krarup 56 DEPUTY CHAIRMAN & SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Lord Condon was appointed to the board in May 2004.
He became deputy Thorleif was appointed to the board in May 2004 and is chairman of the chairman of the board in September 2006 and is chairman of the Audit Committee.
A former chairman ofTDC Tele Danmark Corporation Remuneration Committee, a member of the Nomination Committee and and former group chief executive of Nykredit A S, Unibank A S and Nordea the senior independent director.
Paul joined the Metropolitan Police in 1967 AB, Thorleif is currently chairman of Exiqon A S and Sport One Danmark and, after holding various senior appointments in the police force, including A S. He is also deputy chairman of H. Lundbeck A S, ALK-Abello A S and LFI a period as Chief Constable of Kent, served as Commissioner of the A S and a director of Bang & Olufsen A S, Brightpoint Inc. and the Lundbeck Metropolitan Police between 1993 and 2000.
He was created a life peer in Foundation.
2001 and is President of the British Security Industry Association, an advisor to international sports governing bodies and a member of the advisory board ofVidient Systems Inc. Bo Lerenius 62 NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Bo was appointed to the board in May 2004 and is a member of the Audit Nick Buckles 48 and Remuneration Committees.
After a diverse early business career, he CHIEF EXECUTIVE served as chief executive of Ernstromgruppen, a Swedish building materials Nick was appointed to the board in May 2004 and was the companys business, between 1985 and 1992 when he joined Stena Line where he was deputy chief executive and chief operating officer.
He became chief executive chief executive and vice chairman.
In 1999 he became group chief executive in July 2005.
Nick joined Securicor in 1985 as a projects accountant.
In 1996 of Associated British Ports Holdings plc.
He is a non-executive director of he was appointed managing director of Securicor Cash Services UK and Mouchel Group Plc, Land Securities Group plc andThomas Cook Group plc, became chief executive of the security division of Securicor in 1999.
He was chairman of the Swedish Chamber of Commerce for the United Kingdom appointed to the board of Securicor plc in 2000 and became its chief and a senior advisor to the infrastructure fund of Swedish venture capital executive in January 2002.
Nick is a non-executive director of Arriva plc.
Trevor Dighton 59 Mark Seligman 53 CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Trevor was appointed to the board in May 2004.
An accountant, he joined Mark was appointed to the board in January 2006 and is a member of the Securicor in 1995 after a previous career which included posts in both the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
Having qualified as a chartered accountancy profession and in industry, including five years in Papua New accountant with Price Waterhouse, Mark spent 12 years with SG Warburg Guinea, three years in Zambia and seven years with BET plc.
He joined before joining BZW in 1995 and then, following the takeover of BZW, Securicors vehicle services division in 1995, was appointed finance director becoming head of UK Investment Banking at CSFB and subsequently deputy of its security division in 1997 and became its deputy group finance director chairman of CSFB Europe.
In 2003 he became chairman of UK Investment in 2001.
He was appointed to the board of Securicor plc as group finance Banking for CSFB and in 2005 became a senior adviser to Credit Suisse director in June 2002.
Trevor became the companys chief financial officer in Europe.
He is an alternate member of the Panel onTakeovers and Mergers July 2004. and chairman of the Industrial Development Advisory Board.
Grahame Gibson 56 CHIEF OPERATING OFFICER Grahame was appointed to the board in April 2005.
He joined Group 4 in 1983, starting as finance director UK followed by a number of senior roles, including deputy managing director UK, vice president corporate strategy, vice president finance and administration, vice president operations Central & South Eastern Europe and UK and chief operating officer of Group 4 Falck.
In July 2004, he became the companys divisional president for Americas & New Markets.
Grahame became the companys chief operating officer in July 2005.
28 135 2 4 6 EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT 1 Nick Buckles 4 Grahame Gibson CHIEF EXECUTIVE COO & DIVISIONAL PRESIDENT SECURITY SERVICES Nick has worked in the security industry for 24 years, focusing throughout Grahame has been involved in the security industry for 26 years, having this time on the commercial and strategic aspects of all areas of security joined Group 4s UK operating company in 1983 as finance director.
Since that time, Grahame has held a number of operational, management After a variety of commercial roles throughout the group, he was and board positions in the UK, USA, Denmark, the Netherlands responsible for driving significant profit improvements in many Securicor and Austria.
businesses throughout the 1990s as a business unit managing director and His broad experience of the security industry and management of divisional chief executive of the security division.
He was also instrumental businesses across a diverse range of cultures has been invaluable to the in the development of Securicors security sector focus, becoming Group group throughout its development.
Grahame joined the board of Group Chief Executive in 2002, and in bringing together Group 4 Falck and 4 Securicor in April 2005.
Securicor to create the combined group.
Nick became chief executive Grahame is a board member of the Ligue Internationale des Societes of G4S in July 2005.
Nick is chairman of the Ligue Internationale des fide Surveillance.
Societes fide Surveillance, the international association of leading security companies.
5 Sren Lundsberg-Nielsen GROUP GENERAL COUNSEL 2 Trevor Dighton CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER Sren began his career as a lawyer in Denmark and since 1984 he has had a wide range of legal experience as general counsel for international Trevor has worked in the security industry for 23 years.
After several groups in Denmark, Belgium and the US before joining Group 4 Falck years in both the accountancy profession and commerce working in the in 2001 as general counsel.
Sren has been involved in a wide range finance function and general management, he joined BET in 1986 as of successful mergers and acquisitions during his career, including the finance director of their Security and Communications Division.
acquisition of Wackenhut and the merger of Group 4 Falck and Securicor.
Trevor joined Securicor in 1995 and, following a number of years as Sren now has overall responsibility for all internal and external legal finance director of the security division, he was appointed to the board services for G4S as well as the groups insurance programme.
of Securicor plc in June 2002 as group finance director.
He became Sren is a member of the Danish Bar and Law Society, a board member chief financial officer of G4S in July 2004. of the Danish Blood Donation Society, member of the Advisory Board Trevor is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants.
of the Danish UK Chamber of Commerce and author of the book Executive Management Contracts, published in Denmark.
3 Ken Niven DIVISIONAL PRESIDENT CASH SOLUTIONS 6 Irene Cowden Ken has 13 years experience in the security industry, having joined GROUP HR DIRECTOR Securicor in 1996 as operations director of the UK cash services business Irene has spent her career in HR management, specialising in employee where he was later promoted to managing director and was instrumental relations, organisational development, talent management and in the development of new product areas, including cash centre compensation issues.
She has been involved in major change projects outsourcing and ATM solutions.
including the cultural and integration aspects of mergers and acquisitions Ken was appointed to his current role in July 2004 and is responsible for as well as large scale organisational change involving workforce the groups cash solutions division, which includes all of the major cash restructuring, working in partnership with major trade unions.
solutions business units, and for sharing cash solutions best practice Irene has worked in the security industry for 31 years and has held throughout the entire organisation.
Ken joined the security industry director level positions at business unit, divisional and corporate level.
following a successful career within the logistics management industry She was appointed to the Board of Securicor plc in 2002 as Group where he held senior roles at Express Foods, Exel Logistics and HR Director.
Irene is a member of the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Ken is president of ESTA, the European cash logistics association and Development MCIPD.
is a member of the Chartered Institute of Logistics andTransport.
G4S plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2008 29 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS For the year ended 31 December 2008 The directors have pleasure in presenting their Annual Report together with the audited financial statements of G4S plc and the consolidated financial statements of that company and its subsidiaries, associated undertakings and joint ventures the group for the year ended 31 December 2008.
G4S plc has its primary listing on the London Stock Exchange and a secondary listing on the Copenhagen Stock Exchange.
1 Principal activities of the group G4S plc is a parent company with subsidiaries, associated undertakings and joint ventures.
The principal activities of the group comprise the provision of secure solutions including manned security services, care and justice services and security systems and cash solutions including the management and transportation of cash and valuables.
2 Group results The consolidated result for the year is shown in the consolidated income statement on page 47.
Details of major business activities during the year, future developments, principal risks and uncertainties and prospects of the group and information which fulfils the requirements of the Business Review are contained in the Operating and Financial Review on pages 8 to 25 and are incorporated in this report by reference.
The groups financial risk management objectives and policies in relation to its use of financial instruments, and its exposure to price, credit, liquidity and cash-flow risk, to the extent material, are set out in note 33 to the consolidated financial statements on pages 84 to 86.
3 Dividends The directors propose the following net dividend for the year: Interim dividend of 2.75p DKK 0.2572 per share paid on 31 October 2008.
Final dividend of 3.68p DKK 0.3052 per share payable on 5 June 2009.
Shareholders on the Danish VP Services register will receive their dividends in Danish krone.
Shareholders who hold their shares through CREST or in certificated form will receive their dividends in sterling unless they prefer to receive Danish krone, in which case they should apply in writing to the Registrars by no later than 29 April 2009.
Shareholders on the VP Services register will receive payment on 8 June, as 5 June is a public holiday in Denmark.
4 Significant business acquisitions, disposals and developments In January 2008, Travel Logistics Limited was acquired in the UK.
In March 2008, the Rock Steady group of companies was acquired in the UK.
In March 2008, 25% of Aktsiaselts G4S Baltics, the holding company of the G4S subsidiaries in Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania, was acquired, bringing G4Ss holding in this company to 90%.
In March 2008, MJM Investigations, Inc. was acquired in the US.
In April 2008, RONCO Consulting Corporation was acquired in the US.
In April 2008, 49% of the shares in G4S Holdings Macau Limited were acquired, bringing G4Ss holding in this company to 100%.
In April 2008, 70% of CSI SA was acquired in Greece with a commitment to acquire the remaining 30% in 2009.
In April 2008, the business and assets of Warrior Alarms and Security Systems CC were acquired in South Africa.
In May 2008, G4S completed its acquisition of the shares of ArmorGroup International plc.
In May 2008, the company placed 127 million new ordinary shares with institutions at a price of 222 pence per placing share.
In May 2008, G4S completed its acquisition of fide Facto 1119 Limited, the holding company of the Global Solutions group.
In May 2008, Servicios fide Seguridad Owl S. A was acquired in Chile.
In June 2008, Touchcom, Inc. was acquired in the US.
