01 OUR PERFORMANCE 17 THE GAME GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007-2008 Lisa Morgan Chief Executive David Thomas Group Finance Director & Deputy Chief Executive The acquisition of Gamestation in 2007 marks a transformation of our UK business.
We now have two popular retail brands appealing to both mass market customers and core gamers.
Our success under both brands is a testament to our qualities as a specialist retailer.
OVERVIEW OUR MARKET GAME Group is Europes leading specialist Technology retailer of pc and video game products.
The Video game technology has evolved rapidly business started trading in 1991 from 11 stores since Atari launched Pong in the 1970s, with in the UK, and has grown both organically present day games offering very realistic and through acquisition to a 1,161 store chain simulations and opportunities for multiple as at 31 January 2008.
We operate stores in players.
The current generation of games nine countries, supported by eCommerce consoles are not purely for playing games.
Following the successful acquisition They can be used to access the web, watch of Gamestation in 2007, we operate in the UK lms, store photos and for many other market under the GAME and Gamestation functions.
The technology in our industry brands and as GAME in all other territories.
is evolving in a number of ways: s To enhance the game play, graphics and content.
Gamers like to experience 2008 2007 the full game-playing power of a next As at 31 January Number Number generation console, driving demand for Company owned and ever more complex games and more concessions realistic simulations.
This, in turn, signicantly UK and Ireland increases the cost of developing GAME 414 407 new games.
Gamestation 235 s To increase the inclusivity of gaming.
Some Total UK and Ireland 649 407 manufacturers are forgoing the race to France 170 130 push the technology in favour of making products that focus on simplicity and Iberia 208 165 having fun.
Scandinavia 62 64 s To extend how and where games are Total Continental Europe 440 359 played.
Portable consoles and online gaming allow people to challenge each Australia 51 16 other or themselves wherever they are.
It is Total International 491 375 also possible to download simple games.
Total owned and concessions 1,140 782 In the short to medium-term, games Franchises manufacturers will continue to create products France 7 11 that realise the potential of the current consoles Iberia 10 18 and their entertainment possibilities, in order to satisfy the demands of the game-playing public.
Australia 4 6 Over the longer term, games are expected to Total franchises 21 35 feature more online play, but current technology constraints are limiting growth.
Total operational outlets 1,161 817 X 18 THE GAME GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007-2008 Digital distribution is another potential route X BUSINESS REVIEW CONTINUED to market but existing domestic broadband networks generally do not deliver speeds of more than 8MB sec and game le sizes are ECOMMERCE increasing, so games are slow to download.
It is also difficult to store large les in a consoles limited memory.
For example, PS3 games can be up to 50GB in size, whereas the PS3 hard drive is limited to 40GB.
Geography There are 229 million games consoles in the top 15 markets, creating an industry worth US$42.5 billion source IDG.
The prime markets are the USA, Japan and Europe.
Japan and the USA are the lead markets, and are also the national homes of the console manufacturers.
In Europe the largest video game market is the UK followed by France, Spain, Germany, Italy and Scandinavia.
65% The US, Japanese and UK markets tend to be the most mature with consumers very Increase in trafc on game.
co. uk aware of the products and choices available to them.
The other European games markets GAME Group is at the forefront of are continuing to evolve rapidly.
The Australian initiatives to deliver customers specialist market shows a strong growth prole, with an service, wherever and whenever they installed base penetration of approximately need it.
one-third of the penetration seen in the The Groups largest transactional UK market.
co. uk was relaunched in Within these economies the games market September 2007, generating a 65 per cent has become part of the wider entertainment increase in trafc.
A range of multi-channel industry, competing successfully for consumer services have revolutionised the site, spend on entertainment.
As with the wider including customer reviews, and a Click entertainment industry, growth in the video and Collect service that allows customers games industry has been driven more by to order online and pick up the product new technology than by the state of the instore.
These are in addition to the existing wider economy.
digital download and games-on-demand Around the globe there are a significant services for pc games.
number of emerging economies with the right Online commentator comScore infrastructure and customer demographic reported that game.
co. uk was the fastest to support a successful pc and video growing retail site in the peak November games market.
Meanwhile web consultancy Webcredibles October Consumer 2007 usability report, which studies the Historically the video game consumer would top 20 High-Street retailers sites, placed have been a male in his teens or early 20s game.
co. uk second, up 18 places from the core gamers.
This has changed radically the previous year.
in the last three years, with the arrival of many GAME Group will continue to invest new and innovative products.
Todays consoles, in eCommerce in 2008 to deliver growth and in particular the Nintendo Wii and DS Lite, and maintain our competitive position.
offer a game play experience that has expanded the consumer base to include children, the over 30s and many more female players the mass market gamers.
01 OUR PERFORMANCE 19 THE GAME GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007-2008 This broadening of the demographic appeal new purchases.
Preowned games allow the of computer games is occurring in all key specialist to offer a broader range and great value to todays more price-conscious consumer.
As a result, hardware manufacturers and games publishers need to satisfy the demands OUR BUSINESS of both the core gamer and the mass The acquisition of Gamestation in 2007 marks a transformation in our UK business.
have two popular retail brands appealing to both the mass market customers and Products core gamers.
Our success under both Typically a successful specialist video game brands is a testament to our qualities as retailer will sell a wide range of hardware, a specialist retailer: software, accessories and preowned products.
s A quality shopping environment Both on Hardware the high-street and online we aim to deliver The consoles used to run the software are customers the best shopping experience manufactured and supplied by Microsoft whilst maximising sales opportunities.
The Xbox360, Sony PS2, PS3 and the hand-held GAME brand provides an easy-to-shop PSP, and Nintendo Wii and hand-held store layout, clear signage, helpful and DS Lite.
Hardware sales drive the future knowledgeable staff and offers and purchase of software products.
promotions tailored to the mass market consumer.
The Gamestation brand, with its Software distinctive advertising, offers and mix of preowned games, has a greater appeal This includes video games for all console to the core gamer.
In both chains, our formats plus game software products for pc.
employees are trained to give the very Like other entertainment products, longstanding highest levels of product knowledge brands are often the most successful.
established franchises such as Mario from Nintendo, Halo from Microsoft, Grand Theft s Product range and choice Our specialist Auto from Rockstar, FIFA from EA, Gran Turismo offer allows us to present to the customer from Sony and Metal Gear Solid from Konami the widest range of pc and video game are classed as AAA launches.
The recent products on the high-street.
To support the explosion of mass market customers has range, we run special promotions, unique lengthened purchasing trends, and new offers and innovative bundling campaigns.
franchises such as Brain Training from Uniquely, GAME stores offer a wide range Nintendo and Guitar Hero from Activision of own-brand accessories which give have achieved strong chart positions.
Preowned products are increasingly popular with Accessories customers and represent a significant part of our business.
They allow both our These include hand-held controllers, steering chains to offer competitive price points wheels, protective cases, cables and other to cost-conscious consumers.
Pricing and attachments that improve the game play stock are controlled centrally to ensure experience.
Casual games are increasingly sufficient stock levels are maintained.
reliant on accessories to maximise the game play including microphones for singing s Price Offerings We use a variety of tools titles, mock guitars for music games, steering to give our customers value for money.
wheels for driving games and add-ons for We work with suppliers to provide attractive the Wii such as the Wii Fit.
promotions, including Deal of the Week and Buy One Get One Free offers.
Our Preowned preowned range offers lower price points, This comprises console software and hardware and customers can save money against that is traded in for cash, credit or a discount their new purchases by trading in their on another purchase.
Trading in games is used games.
Our Reward Card provides a unique way for customers to save money, a 2.5 per cent discount on any purchase using their old games as currency against made and 5 per cent on many pre-orders.
X 20 THE GAME GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007-2008 the UK.
Stores are located in prime locations X BUSINESS REVIEW CONTINUED in shopping centres, high-streets and out-oftown retail parks.
We also have concessions including Hamleys, Selfridges, Debenhams Both on the high-street and and Fenwicks.
GAME UK is supported by a online we aim to deliver state-of-the-art distribution centre and head ofce facility in Basingstoke, built specically customers the best shopping for the Group and comprising some 196,000 experience whilst maximising sq ft of storage space.
Gamestation The Group acquired Gamestation on 2 May 2007, with 1,800 employees and 217 stores.
As outlined in the Chief Executives Review, The majority of Gamestation stores are we have built our specialist retailer proposition located in popular secondary retail sites by having a strong support infrastructure: and appeal more to the typical core gamer.
s supplier relationships to create unique Gamestation added 528 employees in 2007 deals and offers for the consumer: and opened 18 new stores.
Gamestation is supported by a head ofce and distribution s sophisticated distribution and facility in York.
Distribution is managed by a merchandising systems to ensure we get third-party logistics partner.
the right quantities and type of product to meet customer demand whether France online or in-store: GAME in France, where we have 170 stores, s property management to ensure we continues to grow and perform well.
We are are in the right locations for maximising the number two specialist pc and video games customer catchment and profitability: retailer in the market.
France is traditionally s customer relationship management tools a very strong market for Nintendo, which to ensure we respond to our customers has been reected in its sales of the Wii and changing needs and market trends: DS Lite.
The French business is supported by a 16,000 sq ft head ofce and distribution s preowned and trade-in offering a centre, situated in Paris.
preowned alternative to the priceconscious consumers.
Iberia GAME has been the leading retailer of pc We replicate this strong operating chain and video game products in Spain since 2006. and specialist retail proposition in each The operational performance of the business of the territories in which we operate.
GAME has benefited from the rapid growth of shopping centres and is STORE PROFILES represented in every new retail development We aim to produce a standard store format in the country.
We acquired a presence in across our portfolio.
Most measure just over the Spanish market in 2001 and from here 1,000 sq ft, although this does vary by territory.
The Iberian Each is merchandised to provide a great business is supported by a 31,200 sq ft product range across all formats, clear offers head ofce and distribution centre situated and promotions and most of all an easy in Madrid.
and satisfying shopping experience for our customers.
We are constantly updating Scandinavia our proposition to keep up with the latest The operational performance in Sweden, consumer trends and demands, making Denmark and Norway continues to improve, sure the customer remains at the heart and we are very pleased with trading in of everything we do.
We now have 44 stores in Sweden, 8 in Denmark and 10 in Norway.
UK and Ireland The Scandinavian business is supported by GAME a 12,500 sq ft head ofce and distribution With over 4,000 employees and 414 outlets centre situated in Stockholm.
GAME is the leading video games retailer in 01 OUR PERFORMANCE 21 THE GAME GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007-2008 Australia Our presence in Australia has more than GAMESTATION trebled since we acquired a local business in September 2006.
Under the leadership of the experienced existing management team, we have achieved excellent progress.
On acquisition we relocated the head ofce and distribution centre to a 16,700 sq ft facility in Sydney and rebranded the existing stores to GAME.
We also began a rapid store opening programme taking the portfolio from 16 to 51 stores in just over a year.
GAME now has stores in every state in Australia.
ONLINE RETAILING, ONLINE GAMING AND DIGITAL DISTRIBUTION ECommerce has rapidly increased its contribution to the Group and represents 217 a significant opportunity for the future.
Stores added on acquiring Gamestation In the UK we operate retail websites game.
On 2 May 2007 the Group acquired The relaunch of game.
co. uk in September Gamestation, the popular UK based 2007 generated a 65 per cent increase in games retailer.
trafc and a 50 per cent rise in customers Adding an extra 217 stores and 1,800 visiting and purchasing.
The revised site has employees, this transformed our UK won awards for usability and trafc increases business.
The majority of Gamestation in the UK.
In November 2007 we launched stores are in secondary retail sites and a click and collect service which allows appeal more to the core gamer.
customers to order online and collect Gamestation stores offer a wide range products from our stores.
This new channel of new and preowned video games, complements our existing digital download consoles and accessories, with employees and games-on-demand services.
who are passionate about helping customers nd the right games.
PLANNING FOR FUTURE GROWTH Founded in 1993 in York, Gamestation Computer game retailing is evolving grew to 62 stores by 2002.
Rapid expansion rapidly through the combined impact of followed, ahead of the launch of third technological advances and an increasingly generation consoles, and 72 new stores competitive high-street and online market.
Gamestation has We aim to maintain our leading position continued to grow, with 18 new stores by adhering to the core principles of our opening since acquisition.
Group as a specialist retailer, and to continue The Group will operate a dual brand to roll out new stores across appropriate strategy in the UK, using the appeal of the markets.
We plan to open around 100 new GAME and Gamestation brands to serve stores primarily focused on France, Spain, the increasing number and range of and Australia.
customers who are buying video games.
We will continue to review opportunities in our current sectors and in new territories.
We will acquire new stores and businesses We will maintain our focus on the online providing they are a good t with our existing area of our business to ensure that we are outlets and the new businesses meet our well positioned both in terms of eCommerce criteria for capable management, sound and digital distribution.
We aim to build on infrastructure and good financial returns.
recent market share gains and increase In the current year we expect the total the proportion of sales online in the Group.
The successes of our relaunch of game.
co. uk capital expenditure including information technology and head ofce expenditure for will be applied to other Group sites in the the Group to be in the region of 40 million.
