Introduction Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Directors Report Corporate Governance Statement Corporate Governance 02 - 05 Corporate Governance Statement Genus is committed to high standards of corporate governance and is accountable to the Companys shareholders for good corporate governance.
Although the Company was admitted to the Official List on 11 November 2007, the Company has applied throughout the period of this report the principles of corporate governance and has complied with the provisions set out in the June 2006 Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code save as described below.
Statement of Compliance with the Combined Code Throughout the year ended 30 June 2008, the Company has been in compliance with the provisions set out in section 1 of the Code except for provision A.
3.1 of the Code in relation to the tenure of the Companys senior non-executive director, Edwin White, until his retirement on 17 January 2008 which is explained below.
The Workings of the Board and its Committees The Board 06 - 23 The Board is responsible to shareholders for the proper management of the Group and currently comprises two Executive Directors, three Non-Executive Directors and the non-executive Chairman.
Biographies of the directors appear on page 24.
The Board considers that the directors demonstrate a range of experience and sufficient calibre to bring effective judgement to bear on issues of strategy, performance, resource and standards of conduct which are vital to the success of the Group.
The Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors are considered independent.
The Board considers the Chairman to be independent since, other than his interest in the ordinary shares of the Company and as described in note 38 to the financial statements, he has neither a financial nor commercial interest in the Group.
After formal review the Board unanimously agreed that the independence of Edwin White, the Companys senior independent non-executive director until 17 January 2008, had not been in question and that his background, contribution to the Board and relationship with the Companys farmer shareholder base were highly valuable.
Edwin White had before his retirement served on the Board for fourteen years eight years since the Company became a public Company, a period longer than specified by provision A.
The Board met nine times in the period of this report and has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its approval including setting and monitoring Group strategy, reviewing trading performance, ensuring adequate funding, examining major acquisition possibilities, approval of material contracts, formulating policy on key issues and reporting to shareholders.
Additional Board meetings are held when necessary to consider matters that are time critical.
The Board delegates authority 24 - 40 to the Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director and the Chief Operating Officers and their regional management teams to make day-to-day operating decisions to ensure the proper management of the Groups business and implementation of the Boards approved strategy.
In turn, they recommend strategy and plans to the Board, make routine decisions on resources and ensure that robust operational and financial controls are in place.
Members of the regional management teams are invited on a scheduled basis to make presentations to the Board and participate in certain aspects of strategic reviews.
The Chairman, John Hawkins, has primary responsibility for running the Board.
The Chief Executive, Richard Wood, has executive responsibility for achieving operational and financial targets and for executing the Groups strategy.
Clear divisions of accountability and responsibility between the Chairman and Chief Executive have been agreed by the Board and are set out in writing.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the Group Company Secretary & General Counsel and to independent professional advice as required.
In addition, the Company ensures that the directors receive appropriate training as and when necessary.
To ensure the Board is able to discharge its duties, all directors receive appropriate and timely information, with Board packs being issued to all directors well in advance of Board meetings.
The Company Secretary ensures that Board procedures are followed and that statutory and regulatory requirements are 41 - 104 complied with.
Annual Report 2008 I 29 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Statement The attendance of directors at Board and Committee meetings during the period was as follows: Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Committee Committee Committee Chairman non-executive John Hawkins 9 9 3 3 6 6 1 1 Executive Directors Richard Wood 9 9 3 4 1 1 Martin Boden 9 9 3 n a n a Non-Executive Directors Edwin White 5 5 1 1 4 4 1 1 Nigel Turner 4 4 2 2 2 2 n a John Worby 9 9 3 3 6 6 1 Barry Furr 8 9 3 3 1 Note: Figures in brackets indicate maximum number of meetings in the period when the individual was a Board member.
Edwin White retired from the Company on 17 January 2008 and Nigel Turner was appointed as a director of the Company on 17 January 2008.
The Audit Committee The Audit Committee is formally constituted with written terms of reference and meets at least three times a year.
In the period it comprised John Worby Chairman, John Hawkins, Edwin White until 17 January 2008 and Nigel Turner from 17 January 2008.
In compliance with the 2008 version of the Code in particular provision C. 3.1, and with effect from 8 July 2008, John Hawkins is no longer a member of the Audit Committee and Barry Furr has been appointed as a formal member of the Audit Committee.
At the invitation of the Committee, meetings are attended by the Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director and the Groups internal and external auditors.
With effect from 8 July 2008, at the invitation of the Committee, meetings are also attended by the Chairman.
Minutes of the Committee meetings are circulated to all directors.
The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing a wide range of matters including the adequacy of the Groups accounting systems and control environment, the integrity of the Groups financial statements, the Groups internal audit function, the effectiveness and independence of the Groups external auditors, and the Groups reporting to shareholders.
The Audit Committee advises the Board on the appointment of external auditors and their remuneration, and discusses with the external auditors the nature, scope and results of the audit.
The Audit Committee keeps under review the cost-effectiveness, independence and objectivity of the external auditors, including the level of non-audit fees charged.
Auditor objectivity and independence is safeguarded by monitoring the audit professions guidance on independence and partner rotation and by ensuring that non-audit services provided by the external auditors are within the framework approved by the Audit Committee.
The Committee has established a policy covering the type of non-audit work that can be assigned to the external auditors.
The auditors may only carry out such services provided that such advice does not conflict with their statutory responsibilities and ethical guidance.
The Audit Committee chairmans pre-approval is required before the Group uses non-audit services that exceed financial limits set out in the policy.
A separate Audit Committee report is set out on page 33 and provides further details of the role and activities of the Committee and its relationship with the internal and external auditors.
The Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee, comprising Nigel Turner Chairman, John Hawkins and John Worby, meets at least twice a year to review the performance of the Executive Directors and the Chief Operating Officers, and to recommend their remuneration and other benefit packages, including performance related bonus schemes, pension rights and share incentives.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, the Board sets the remuneration of the Non-Executives.
The Remuneration Committee has terms of reference which are set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
The Report of the Remuneration Committee which includes details of directors remuneration and directors interests in share awards is shown on pages 35 to 39.
The Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee, comprising John Hawkins Chairman, Nigel Turner and Richard Wood is responsible for proposing candidates for appointment to the Board, having regard to the balance and structure of the Board.
30 I Annual Report 2008 Corporate Governance Introduction Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Corporate Governance Statement Corporate Governance 02 - 05 Corporate Governance Statement The Committee has written terms of reference covering the authority delegated to it by the Board.
Its duties include reviewing regularly the structure, size and composition including the skills, knowledge and experience required of the Board and making recommendations to the Board with regard to any changes, giving full consideration to succession planning for directors and other senior executives taking into account the challenges and opportunities facing the Company and identifying and nominating, for the approval of the Board, candidates to fill Board vacancies as and when they arise.
Terms of Reference The terms of reference for the Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee and Nomination Committee are available on the Companys web-site: www.
com Board Performance Evaluation The effectiveness of the Board is vital to the success of the Company.
Each year the Board undertakes a formal and rigorous 06 - 23 evaluation of its own performance and that of its Committees and individual directors.
The Board, led by the Chairman and supported by the Group Company Secretary, carried out in the period an evaluation of performance using a system based on the use of a questionnaire and has met to discuss the conclusions of the evaluation exercise.
The performance evaluation exercise focused on matters such as Board process and functioning: Board performance: governance and independence of Non-Executive Directors: Committee functioning, performance and composition: and the Chairmans role and Board composition, including succession planning both in respect of the Board and senior management.
The evaluation exercise showed the Board and its Committees to be working well.
Certain recommendations for improvement have been agreed and will be implemented in the current financial year.
The Board is satisfied that each director continues to contribute effectively and demonstrates commitment to the role.
During the period the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors met as a Group without the Executive Directors present.
Under the leadership of the Senior Independent Director, the Non-Executive Directors have also met without the Chairman present to discuss any appropriate issues and appraise the Chairmans performance, taking account of the views expressed by the Executive Directors.
The Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors plan to hold these meetings at least annually.
Shareholder Relations 24 - 40 The Company has a continuing dialogue with institutional investors through a planned programme of investor relations.
The Chief Executive and Group Finance Director meet frequently with representatives of institutional shareholders and private client brokers.
Feedback from these meetings including that prepared by independent brokers and advisors is discussed at Board meetings enabling all directors, particularly the Non-Executive Directors, to understand the views of major shareholders.
The Chairman and Senior Non-Executive Director also maintain contact with major shareholders.
The Board takes the opportunity at the Annual General Meeting to meet and communicate with private and institutional investors and welcomes their involvement.
The Business Review on pages 8 to 23 provides a detailed review of the Groups performance and future developments.
John Hawkins, John Worby and Nigel Turner will be available to answer questions as Chairmen of the Board and its Committees at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 13 November 2008.
Internal Control and Risk Management The Board has applied principle C. 2 of the Code by establishing a structured risk management system which identifies, evaluates and prioritises risks and uncertainties affecting the Group and actively reviews control and mitigation activities.
The Board has continued to enhance the Groups risk management system during the year.
The system applies on an on-going basis to each business unit of the Group worldwide, divisional management Boards, the Companys Operating Board and 41 - 104 Main Board.
The Groups internal audit function is partially outsourced to Ernst & Young LLP and is tasked to audit specific key business risks identified by the Companys risk management system and agreed by the Board.
In addition, specialist third party consultants may be tasked from time to time to perform an internal audit of a specific key business risk, for example the Companys compliance with environmental and health & safety requirements.
The Board believes this internal audit structure provides an effective internal audit function given the size and geographical spread of the Group.
The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
In compliance with provision C. 2.1 of the Code, the Board, with the assistance of the Audit Committee, has reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control and the Board has reviewed the Groups financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management.
This included the review of reports from management, that were prepared at the time of the approval of the Companys interim and final reports and financial statements, to consider whether significant risks Annual Report 2008 I 31 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Statement were identified, evaluated, managed and controlled and whether any significant weaknesses had arisen and the remedial action that had been taken.
The management reports were based on the responses received to comprehensive questionnaires issued to each of the Groups business units and divisional management, together with the risk events and controls that had been advised to the Groups other means of day to day risk management, namely the divisional management Boards, the Operating Board, the Main Board and insurers.
No significant weaknesses were identified as a result of this exercise.
The Board has performed a specific assessment for the purpose of this annual report.
This assessment considered all significant aspects of internal control arising during the period covered by this report including the work programme of the Companys internal audit function up to the date of the approval of this annual report.
During the course of its review of the system of internal control, the Board has not identified nor been advised of any failings or weaknesses which it has determined to be material or significant.
The key elements of the Groups risk management process are as follows: Management of Business Risk The Board is ultimately responsible for identifying the major business risks faced by the Group.
Key risks facing the business include feed prices and the impact of disease and environmental risks related to the keeping of livestock.
The Board, Chief Operating Officers and their regional management teams are tasked with the responsibility for the ongoing identification, assessment, management, monitoring and reporting of risks to ensure the significant risks affecting the Company are properly identified and managed.
Management Structure Authority to operate the Groups subsidiary companies is delegated to the Chief Operating Officers and their regional management teams within limits set by the Board.
The appointment of executives to the most senior positions within the Group requires the approval of the Board.
Formal empowerment levels, which set out delegation of authority, authorisation levels and other control procedures are in place.
These procedures are supplemented by operating standards set by the Chief Operating Officers and their regional management, as required for the type of business and the geographical location of each subsidiary.
An operating Board, chaired by the Chief Executive and including the Group Finance Director, the Chief Operating Officers, the Group Company Secretary & General Counsel and other executives by invitation meet on a regular basis to review each regions performance against its budget, long and short term strategies and other key business issues, indicators and activities.
Information and Financial Reporting Systems The Groups current planning and financial reporting procedures include detailed operational budgets for the year ahead together with the preparation of three year strategic plans, which the Board reviews and approves.
Performance is monitored and relevant action taken throughout the year through monthly reporting of key performance indicators and variances, updated full year forecasts and information on key business risk areas.
Quality and Integrity of Personnel The integrity and competence of personnel is ensured through high recruitment standards enhanced by post-recruitment training courses.
High quality personnel are seen as an essential part of the control environment and the expected ethical standards are communicated throughout the Group.
Investment Appraisal Capital expenditure is regulated by a budgetary process and pre-determined authorisation levels.
For expenditure above specific levels, detailed written proposals have to be submitted to the Board.
Due diligence work is carried out if a business is to be acquired and postacquisition reviews are conducted on a timely basis.
Investigations are performed on any significant overspends and corrective action is taken where required.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee monitors the controls which are in force and considers and determines appropriate action in respect of any control issues raised by the external auditors and the Groups internal audit function.
Approval This statement was approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: J E Hawkins Chairman 15 September 2008 32 I Annual Report 2008 Corporate Governance
