Corporate Governance Introduction Business Review Financial Statements Corporate Governance Statement Audit Committee Corporate Governance 02 - 05 Audit Committee Summary of the Role of the Audit Committee The Audit Committee is appointed by the Board from its Non-Executive Directors and the Committees terms of reference include all matters indicated by the Code.
The members of the Audit Committee in the period were John Worby Chairman, John Hawkins, Edwin White until 17 January 2008 and Nigel Turner from 17 January 2008.
In compliance with the 2008 version of the Code in particular provision C. 3.1, and with effect from 8 July 2008, John Hawkins is no longer a member of the Audit Committee and Barry Furr has been appointed as a formal member of the Audit Committee.
The principal responsibilities of the Audit Committee are: monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the Group and any formal announcements relating to the Groups financial performance and reviewing significant financial reporting judgements contained therein: reviewing the Groups financial systems, internal financial controls and the Groups internal control and risk management 06 - 23 systems: monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function: making recommendations to the Board, for a resolution to be put to the shareholders for their approval in general meeting, in relation to the appointment of the external auditors and the approval of the remuneration and terms of engagement of the external auditors: reviewing and monitoring the external auditors independence and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process, taking into consideration relevant UK professional and regulatory requirements: and implementing a policy on the engagement of the external auditors to supply non-audit services, taking into account relevant guidance regarding the provision of non-audit services by the external audit firm.
The Audit Committee is required to report its findings to the Board, identifying any matters in respect of which it considers that action or improvement is needed, and make recommendations as to the steps to be taken.
Meetings The Audit Committee is required to meet at least three times a year and has an agenda linked to events in the Groups financial 24 - 40 calendar in the period.
Each Audit Committee member has the right to require reports on matters relevant to its terms of reference in addition to the cyclical items.
The Audit Committee invites the Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, Group Financial Controller, internal auditor and senior representatives of the external auditors to attend its meetings.
With effect from July 2008, and at the invitation of the Committee, the Chairman also attends its meetings.
Other members of management are invited to present such reports as are required for the Committee to discharge its duties.
Overview of the Actions Taken by the Audit Committee to Discharge its Duties In the year ended 30 June 2008 and up to the date of this report the Audit Committee has: reviewed the financial statements in the 2008 reports and financial statements and the interim report issued in February 2008.
As part of this review the Committee received a report from the external auditors on their audit of the annual reports and financial statements and review of the interim report: considered the output from the Group-wide process used to identify, evaluate and mitigate risks: reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls and disclosures made in the annual report and financial 41 - 104 statements on this matter: reviewed and agreed the scope of the audit work to be undertaken by the external auditors: met with the external auditors, without management being present, to discuss any issues arising from the audit: agreed the fees to be paid to the external auditors for their audit of the 2008 financial statements and review of the interim report: reviewed its own effectiveness: reviewed the work to be undertaken by the internal audit function, including the extent and content of internal audit work outsourced to Ernst & Young LLP: reviewed the performance of the external auditors: and received and reviewed presentations on the Groups treasury department.
Annual Report 2008 I 33 Corporate Governance Audit Committee External Auditors Under its terms of reference the Audit Committee is responsible for monitoring the independence and objectivity of the external auditors.
The Groups policy on non-audit services sets out services which the external auditors will and will not be allowed to provide to the Group, subject to fide minimus levels and Audit Committee approval.
The Groups external auditors, Deloitte & Touche LLP Deloitte are retained for tax advisory and tax compliance services.
The Audit Committee is satisfied that the use of Deloitte for such services does not impair their independence as the Groups external auditors.
To assess the effectiveness of the external auditors, the Audit Committee reviewed: the external auditors fulfilment of the agreed audit plan: the robustness and perceptiveness of the auditors in their handling of the key accounting and audit judgements: and the content of the external auditors reports.
As a consequence of its satisfaction with the results of the activities outlined above, the Audit Committee has recommended to the Board that the external auditors be re-appointed.
Internal Audit Function The Audit Committee is responsible for monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Internal Audit function.
The Committee has reviewed in the period Internal Audits scope, resource and activities within the Group.
The Companys Internal Audit function has been partly outsourced to Ernst & Young LLP in the period with the majority of it activities having been performed in the second half of the financial year.
The Audit Committee believes this Internal Audit structure provides an effective internal audit function given the geographical spread of the Group.
The Groups Whistleblowing Policy contains arrangements for the Group Company Secretary to receive, in confidence, complaints on accounting, risk issues, internal controls, auditing issues and related matters for reporting to the Audit Committee as appropriate.
Overview As a result of its work during the year, the Audit Committee has concluded that it has acted in accordance with its terms of reference.
It has also ensured the independence and objectivity of the external auditors, and has assisted the Board in its review of the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee will be available at the Annual General Meeting to answer any questions about the work of the Committee.
Approval This report was approved by the Audit Committee and signed on its behalf by: John Worby Chairman of the Audit Committee 15 September 2008 34 I Annual Report 2008 Audit Committee
