Corporate Governance In accordance with the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, A description of the role of the Board, together with that of the GKN is required to state whether it has complied with the relevant Chairman, Chief Executive, Senior Independent Director and Company provisions set out in Section 1 of the 2006 Combined Code on Secretary, is available on GKNs website and further details of the Corporate Governance the Code and, where the provisions have not Boards role in relation to the Groups systems of internal control and been complied with, to provide an explanation.
GKN is also required to risk management are given on pages 57 and 58.
Descriptions of the explain how it has applied the principles set out in the Code.
specific responsibilities which have been delegated to the principal Board Committees are given on page 56.
The following paragraphs, together with the Audit Committee report on pages 59 and 60 and the Directors remuneration report on pages 61 The Board currently comprises five executive and six non-executive to 71, provide a description of how the main and supporting principles Directors including the Chairman.
Biographical details of the Directors of the Code have been applied within GKN during 2008.
The Directors are given on pages 50 and 51.
With the exception of the Chairman, statement of compliance with the Code is given on page 58. who is presumed under the Code not to be independent, all the non-executive Directors are regarded by the Board as independent The Board of Directors and the Board does not consider that there exist any relationships or The Board is collectively responsible for the success of the Company.
circumstances likely to affect the judgement of any Director.
Its role is to provide entrepreneurial leadership of the Company within The Board normally meets 11 times a year, including at least one a framework of prudent and effective controls which enables risk to meeting at a Group operating company.
A 12 month rolling programme be assessed and managed.
The Board sets the Companys strategic of items for discussion by the Board is prepared to ensure that all aims, ensures that the necessary financial and human resources are in matters reserved to the Board and other key issues are considered at place for the Company to meet its objectives, and reviews management appropriate times.
During the year there are sufficient opportunities performance.
It also sets the Companys values and standards and for the Chairman to meet with the non-executive Directors without the ensures that its obligations to its shareholders including reporting to executive Directors being present should this be deemed appropriate.
shareholders on the Boards stewardship and others are understood and met.
Specific responsibilities reserved to the Board include: The Company maintains appropriate insurance cover in respect of legal proceedings and other claims against its Directors.
Details of setting Group strategy and approving an annual budget and indemnities in place between the Company and the Directors can be medium term projections: found in the Directors report on page 53. reviewing operational and financial performance: Chairman and Chief Executive approving major acquisitions, divestments and capital expenditure: Whilst collectively the Chairman and Chief Executive are responsible for the leadership of the Company, the Chairmans primary responsibility reviewing the Groups systems of financial control and risk is for leading the Board and ensuring its effectiveness and the Chief management: Executive is responsible for running the Companys business.
ensuring that appropriate management development and The other significant current commitments of the Chairman, Roy Brown, succession plans are in place: are listed in his biography on page 50.
The Board is satisfied that his reviewing the activities of the three sub-committees of the commitments do not unduly restrict his availability to GKN and, in Executive Committee: particular, would not do so in the event of GKN being involved in a major corporate transaction or other action.
reviewing matters relating to corporate social responsibility, Information and professional development including the environmental, health and safety performance of The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that Directors receive the Group: accurate, timely and clear information.
The supply of information approving appointments to the Board, to the Executive Committee provided to the Board was reviewed during the year as part of the and to the position of Company Secretary, and approving policies performance evaluation exercise referred to below.
relating to Directors remuneration and the severance of Directors Comprehensive briefing papers are prepared and circulated to all contracts: and Directors one week prior to scheduled Board meetings.
Directors ensuring that a satisfactory dialogue takes place with are continually updated on the Groups businesses, the markets in shareholders.
which they operate and changes to the competitive and regulatory environment through briefings to the Board and meetings with senior The Directors responsibility for the preparation of financial statements executives.
The Chairman usually arranges for the Board to visit at least is explained on page 72 their confirmation that they consider it one of the Groups business locations each year to enable the Directors appropriate to prepare the financial statements for 2008 on a going to meet with local management and employees and to update and concern basis is given on page 37. maintain their knowledge and familiarity with the Groups operations.
