Governance Corporate Governance Audit Committee Report Audit Committee Report The Group Chairman, Chief Executive, Finance Director, Head of Internal Role of the Audit Committee Audit, the engagement partner of  LLP PwC The primary role of the Audit Committee, which reports its findings and other members of the management team attended meetings by to the Board, is to ensure the integrity of the financial reporting and invitation.
The Head of Internal Audit and PwC had the opportunity audit processes and the maintenance of a sound internal control and to discuss matters with the Committee without any executive risk management system.
In pursuing these objectives, the Committee management being present at two and three meetings respectively.
ensures that an appropriate relationship is maintained between In addition, the members of the Committee met separately at the start GKN and the external auditors, considers the effectiveness of the of each meeting to discuss matters in the absence of any persons external audit process and makes recommendations to the Board on attending by invitation.
the appointment of the external auditors.
It reviews the effectiveness of the internal audit function and is responsible for approving the Financial reporting appointment of the head of that function.
The Committee reviews the During 2008, the Committee reviewed a wide range of financial Groups systems of internal control and the processes for monitoring reporting and related matters including the half year and annual and evaluating the risks facing the Group.
financial statements, other related annual report information, and results announcements prior to their submission to the Board.
In the performance of its duties, the Committee has independent The Committee focused in particular on key accounting policies access to the services of the internal audit function and to the external and practices adopted by the Group and any significant areas of auditors, and may obtain outside professional advice as necessary.
judgement that materially impacted reported results.
In its review of Both the Head of Internal Audit and the external auditors have direct the 2008 financial statements the Committee also considered analysis access to the Chairman of the Committee outside formal Committee to support the going concern judgement.
External auditors The Committee has written terms of reference that outline its authority The Audit Committee is responsible for the development, and responsibilities.
These are considered annually by the Audit implementation and monitoring of the Companys policies on Committee and any proposed changes are referred to the Board for external audit.
The policies, designed to maintain the objectivity and approval.
The Committees current terms of reference are available independence of the external auditors, regulate the appointment of on GKNs website.
former employees of the external audit firm to positions in the Group In order that the Board is kept fully appraised of the Committees work, and set out the approach to be taken when using the external auditors the Committee Chairman reports formally on its proceedings at the for non-audit work: the latter policy was reviewed by the Committee next following meeting of the Board, and minutes of meetings of the during the year.
As a general principle the external auditors are Committee are circulated to all members of the Board.
excluded from consultancy work and cannot be engaged by GKN for other non-audit work unless there are compelling reasons to do so.
Membership Any proposal to use the external auditors for non-audit work must be The Audit Committee consists entirely of independent non-executive submitted to the Finance Director, via the Group Financial Controller, Directors and presently comprises John Sheldrick Chairman, for approval prior to appointment.
The Finance Director, who is Helmut Mamsch, Sir Christopher Meyer and Sir Peter Williams, all permitted to delegate approval to the Group Financial Controller for of whom served on the Committee throughout 2008, together with amounts below 20,000, will, depending on the nature of the service, Richard Parry-Jones who became a member of the Committee on his seek the prior authorisation of the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
appointment to the Board on 1 March 2008.
Their biographical details In accordance with its remit, the Committee reviewed and approved are set out on pages 50 and 51.
The Company Secretary acts PwCs plans for the audit of the Groups 2008 financial statements.
as secretary to the Committee.
In approving the terms of engagement for the audit, the Committee As the Chairman of the Committee is the Group Finance Director of considered PwCs proposed audit fee.
It also reviewed PwCs audit of Johnson Matthey plc, the Board remains satisfied that at least one the 2007 annual report and review of the 2008 half year report.
member of the Committee has recent and relevant financial experience During the year, the Committee performed its annual review of as required by the Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
the effectiveness of the external auditors.
This process was based primarily on a format devised by the Institute of Chartered Accountants Report on the Committees activities of Scotland and conducted by means of formal interviews with a Meetings and attendance number of Directors and senior management across the Group and The Committee met on four occasions in 2008 timed to coincide the engagement partner of PwC.
The Committee also reviewed a with the financial and reporting cycles of the Company.
Members formal letter provided by PwC confirming their independence and attendance at the meetings held during the year is set out in the table objectivity within the context of applicable regulatory requirements and on page 57. professional standards and received confirmation of compliance with the policies on the employment of former employees of the external auditors and the use of the external auditors for non-audit work.
com 59 15860GKNPLC BACK A. indd 59 15860GKNPLC BACK A. indd 59 09 03 2009 15:58 09 03 2009 15:58 15860 09 03 2009 Proof 12 Audit Committee Report continued Internal audit and monitoring of control issues At its meetings during 2008 the Committee reviewed the results of the audits undertaken by the internal audit function and considered the adequacy of managements response to the matters raised, including the implementation of recommendations made by the function.
It also reviewed and approved the internal audit plan for the coming year and the level of resources allocated to the internal audit function.
The effectiveness of the internal audit function was reviewed based primarily on guidelines issued by the Institute of Internal Auditors.
Feedback was obtained from a number of Directors and senior management across the Group by means of formal interview.
The Committee reviewed regular reports on control issues of Group level significance, including details of any remedial action being taken.
It considered reports from the internal audit function and PwC on the Groups systems of internal control and reported to the Board on the results of its review.
The Committee also received a presentation on Group IT security and control, examined reports detailing the Groups actual or anticipated material litigation, monitored compliance with the Groups policy for the appointment of agents and consultants which is available on GKNs website, and reviewed the Directors and Company Secretarys expenses.
Whistleblowing To support the Groups Employee Disclosure Procedures Policy which is available on GKNs website, GKN operates international whistleblowing hotlines.
Run by external and independent third parties, the hotlines facilitate the arrangements whereby employees can make on an anonymous basis if preferred confidential disclosures about suspected impropriety and wrongdoing.
Any matters so reported are investigated and escalated to the Audit Committee as appropriate.
Statistics on the volume and general nature of all disclosures made are reported to the Committee on an annual basis.
Effectiveness During the year the Committee undertook a formal review of its own effectiveness.
Further details on the process can be found on page 55.
On behalf of the Committee John Sheldrick Chairman of the Audit Committee 25 February 2009 60 GKN plc Annual Report 2008 15860GKNPLC BACK A. indd 60 15860GKNPLC BACK A. indd 60 09 03 2009 15:58 09 03 2009 15:58 15860 09 03 2009 Proof 12
