64 GSK Annual Report 2008 Report of the Directors Corporate governance continued Chairman and CEO Governance and policy Sir Christopher Gent has chaired the company since 1st January This section discusses GSKs management structures and governance 2005 and was Chairman throughout 2008.
Mr Witty is the Chief procedures.
It includes disclosures on compliance with the Combined Executive Officer CEO.
He succeeded Dr Garnier, who retired Code on Corporate Governance of the Financial Reporting Council from the Board at the end of the AGM on 21st May 2008.
Combined Code and with US laws and regulation.
Mr Wittys biographical details can be found on page 60.
The Board and Corporate Executive Team The Chairman leads the Board, and represents the Board to The Directors are listed under The Board on page 60. the CEO and other CET members as necessary between Board meetings.
The CEO manages the Group and implements the The Board is responsible for the Groups system of corporate strategy and policies adopted by the Board.
The Chairman and governance and is ultimately accountable for the Groups activities, the chairmen of Board Committees communicate regularly with strategy and financial performance.
the CEO and other CET members.
The division of responsibilities Independence between the role of Chairman and the CEO has been set out in The Board considers all its Non-Executive Directors to be writing, agreed by the Board and appears in full on the independent in character and judgement.
Dr Schmitz has served on the Board for more than ten years, The CEO is responsible for executive management of the Group having been appointed to the Board of Glaxo Wellcome plc on and is assisted by the CET.
The CET meets at least 11 times per year 1st January 1997.
During consideration of the Annual Review and otherwise as necessary.
The members and their responsibilities of Board effectiveness at its meeting in January 2009, the Board are listed under Corporate Executive Team page 62. concluded that Dr Schmitz remained independent, notwithstanding Senior Independent Director his length of service.
In the opinion of the Board, Dr Schmitz Sir Ian Prosser was appointed Senior Independent Director SID continued to demonstrate the characteristics of independence, such on 1st January 2005 and held this role throughout 2008.
Sir as objectively challenging management and taking part in rigorous Robert Wilson will become the SID following Sir Ians retirement debate, while at the same time possessing an outstanding knowledge from the Board in May 2009. of the companys business and affairs, together with his experience gained as Chairman of the Audit Committee.
In a long cycle Board process investment business, such as GSK, it was considered to be particularly The Board has the authority, and is accountable to shareholders, important to have experienced members on the Board.
for ensuring that the company is appropriately managed and achieves the strategic objectives it sets.
The Board discharges those When Sir Christopher Gent was appointed to the Board as Deputy responsibilities through an annual programme of meetings which Chairman, he was determined by the Board to be independent.
includes the approval of overall budgetary planning and business Upon taking up the chairmanship of the Board on 1st January strategy.
The Board reviews the companys internal controls and 2005, in accordance with the Combined Code, he was excluded risk management policies and approves its governance structure from the determination of whether at least half the Board are and code of ethics.
Sir Christopher Gent is a member of the Remuneration Committee, as permitted by the The Board appraises and approves major financing, investment and Combined Code, in light of his independence upon appointment licensing decisions in excess of defined thresholds.
In addition, the as Chairman.
Board evaluates and monitors the performance of the Group as a whole.
This includes: The Board considers that Professor Sir Roy Anderson, Dr Burns, Mr engaging at Board meetings with the CEO, the other Executive Culp, Sir Crispin Davis, Sir Deryck Maughan, Dr Podolsky, Sir Ian Prosser, Directors and members of the CET as appropriate, on the Dr Schmitz, Mr fide Swaan and Sir Robert Wilson are independent in financial and operating performance of GSK and external issues accordance with the recommendations of the Combined Code.
material to the Groups prospects Mr James Murdoch will join the Board with effect from 20th May 2009 evaluating progress towards the achievement of the Groups and the Board has determined that he will be an independent Nonfinancial and business objectives and annual plans Executive Director in accordance with the Combined Code.
monitoring, through reports received directly or from various Sir Ian Prosser and Dr Schmitz will retire from the Board following the committees, the significant risks facing the Group.
At the date of publication and throughout 2008, a majority of the Board members, excluding the Chairman, were independent NonExecutive Directors.
GSK Annual Report 2008 65 Report of the Directors Corporate governance continued The Board has overall responsibility for succession planning for the Indemnification of Directors CEO and the other Executive Directors.
The Board has given the CEO Qualifying third party indemnity provisions as defined in section broad authority to operate the business of the Group, and the CEO 234 of the Companies Act 2006 are in force for the benefit of the is accountable for, and reports to the Board on, the performance of Directors and former Directors who held office during 2008. the business.
CET members make regular presentations to the Board Directors Conflicts of Interest on their areas of responsibility, and the Board meets with all the CET Directors have a duty to avoid a situation in which they have, or members on an annual basis to discuss collectively the Groups strategy.
can have, a direct or indirect conflict of interest or possible conflict A primary element of the induction process for new Non-Executive of interest with the company.
The duty applies in particular to the Directors is undertaken by members of the CET, and all Nonexploitation of any property, information or opportunity, whether Executive Directors are encouraged to have separate informal or not GSK could take advantage of it.
The companys Articles of discussions at their discretion with any CET members.
Association include a general power for the Board to authorise such conflicts.
There is no breach of duty if the relevant matter has The Board met six times in 2008, with each member attending been so authorised in advance.
as follows: The Board has established procedures for handling situational Number of meetings held whilst a Board Number of conflicts of interest, which are in line with the best practice Name member meetings attended guidance issued by the General Counsel 100 Group and in Sir Christopher Gent 6 6 accordance with the companys Articles.
It has authorised the Nominations Committee to grant and review periodically, but in Mr A Witty 6 6 any event annually, any potential or actual conflict authorisations.
Mr J Heslop 6 6 Directors are not counted in the quorum for the authorisation of Dr M Slaoui 6 6 their own actual or potential conflicts.
The Company Secretary Professor Sir Roy Anderson 6 6 minutes the consideration of any conflict.
Authorisations granted Dr S Burns 6 6 are recorded by the Company Secretary in a register of conflict Mr L Culp 6 6 authorisations which are noted by the Board at its next meeting.
Sir Crispin Davis 6 6 On an ongoing basis, the Directors are responsible for informing Sir Deryck Maughan 6 6 the Company Secretary of any new, actual or potential conflicts Dr D Podolsky 6 6 that may arise or, if there are any changes in circumstances that Sir Ian Prosser 6 6 may affect an authorisation previously given.
Even when provided Dr R Schmitz 6 6 with authorisation, a Director is not absolved from his or her duty Mr T fide Swaan 6 6 to promote the success of the company.
If an actual conflict arises, Sir Robert Wilson 6 6 post authorisation, the Board will choose to exclude the Director Dr JP Garnier 3 3 from the relevant information and debate, or suspend the Director Mr C Viehbacher 4 4 from the Board, or, as a last resort, require the Director to resign.
Company Secretary Mr Witty and Mr Viehbacher were appointed to the Board on 31st January 2008.
Dr Garnier retired from the Board on 21st May 2008.
The Company Secretary is responsible to the Board and is Mr Viehbacher resigned from the Board on 8th September 2008. available to individual Directors in respect of Board procedures.
The Company Secretary is Mr Simon Bicknell, who was appointed In addition to the six scheduled meetings, the Board also met on a in May 2000.
He is a barrister and joined the Group in 1984.
He is quorate basis on six occasions.
Secretary to all of the Board Committees except the Remuneration Business environment development Committee.
The Deputy Company Secretary, Mrs Victoria Whyte, To ensure that the Board is kept up-to-date on important matters, was appointed Secretary to the Remuneration Committee with including legal, governance and regulatory developments, presentations effect from 27th January 2009.
She is a solicitor and a Fellow of are made on a regular basis by both external and internal advisers.
the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators.
Independent advice Board Committees The Board recognises that there may be occasions when one or The Board has established a number of Committees and provides more of the Directors feel it is necessary to take independent legal sufficient resources to enable them to undertake their duties.
and or financial advice at the companys expense.
There is an Executive Directors are not members of the Audit, Remuneration, agreed procedure to enable them to do so.
This is explained in the Nominations or Corporate Responsibility Committees, although Governance section of the companys website.
they may be invited to attend meetings.
Each Director is a member of the Corporate Administration & Transactions and Finance Committees.
66 GSK Annual Report 2008 Report of the Directors Corporate governance continued Corporate governance framework BOARD Chairman, 3 Executive Directors and 10 Independent Non-Executive Directors Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Corporate Responsibility Chief Executive 6 Independent 4 Independent Non-Executive 4 Independent Non-Executive Officer Non-Executive Directors Directors & the Chairman Directors & the Chairman Nominations Committee Corporate Administration Finance Committee 4 Independent Non-Executive & Transactions Committee CET Directors Directors & the Chairman Directors & CET Members Key Board Committees Management Committee Current membership of these Committees is shown in the table below.
Corporate Audit Remuneration Nominations Responsibility Sir Christopher Gent M C C Professor Sir Roy Anderson Dr S Burns M Mr L Culp M M Sir Crispin Davis M Sir Deryck Maughan M Dr D Podolsky M M Sir Ian Prosser M M M Dr R Schmitz M M M Mr T fide Swaan C M Sir Robert Wilson M C M Key: C Chairman M Member GSK Annual Report 2008 67 Report of the Directors Corporate governance continued Each Committee has written terms of reference which have been approved by the Board.
The following is a summary of the role and terms of reference of each Committee.
The current full terms of reference of each Committee may be obtained from the Company Secretary or the Governance section of the companys website.
No of meetings Committee Report Committee Role and Terms of Reference Membership comprises per year on page Audit Reviews the financial and internal reporting process, Independent Non- 4 73-74 the system of internal controls, the management Executive Directors of risks and the external and internal audit process.
The Committee also proposes to shareholders the appointment of the external auditors and is directly responsible for their remuneration and oversight of their work.
Remuneration Determines the terms of service and remuneration of Independent Non- 4 78-98 the Executive Directors and members of the CET and, Executive Directors with the assistance of external independent advisers, & the Chairman it evaluates and makes recommendations to the Board on overall executive remuneration policy.
The Chairman and the CEO are responsible for evaluating and making recommendations to the Board on the remuneration of Non-Executive Directors..
Nominations Reviews the structure, size and composition of the Independent Non- 1 75 Board and appointment of members to the Board Executive Directors and the CET, and makes recommendations to the & the Chairman Board as appropriate.
The Committee also monitors the planning of succession to the Board and Senior Management.
Corporate Provides a Board-level forum for the regular review Independent Non- 3 75-76 Responsibility of external issues that have the potential for serious Executive Directors impact upon the Groups business and reputation.
& the Chairman The Committee is also responsible for oversight of GSKs worldwide donations and community support.
Finance Reviews and approves, on behalf of the Board, the Executive & NonAs necessary Annual Report and Form 20-F, and convening of the Executive Directors AGM, together with the preliminary and quarterly statements of trading results.
It also approves certain major licensing and capital transactions and changes to the Groups Investment Instrument and Counterparty Limits.
Corporate Reviews and approves matters in connection with Executive & NonAs necessary Administration the administration of the Groups business and Executive Directors, & Transactions certain corporate transactions.
CET members and the Company Secretary 68 GSK Annual Report 2008 Report of the Directors Corporate governance continued The AGM takes place in London, and formal notification is sent Evaluation of the Board, Board Committees and Directors to shareholders at least one month in advance.
At the Meeting, a In previous years the evaluation of the performance of the business presentation is made to shareholders and all Directors able Chairman, the Board, its Committees and Directors has been to attend are available, formally during the AGM, and informally undertaken by the SID, in collaboration with the Committee afterwards, for questions.
Committee Chairmen ordinarily attend the Chairmen.
In 2008 the Board engaged Dr Long of Boardroom AGM to respond to shareholders questions.
The entire Board was in Review to act as an independent facilitator for the Board attendance at the companys AGM in May 2008.
All resolutions at evaluation process.
the AGM are decided on a poll as required by the companys Articles of Association.
The results of the poll are announced to the London The process included a tailored questionnaire, a one-to-one Stock Exchange and posted on the companys website.
Details of interview with each Director and the Company Secretary, the 2009 AGM are set out in the section Annual General Meeting observation of the Board and Committee meetings held in see page 71 and the Notice of AGM is published on the December 2008 and a review of associated papers.
covered a variety of aspects associated with Board effectiveness including Board and Committee roles and responsibilities, culture To ensure that the Non-Executive Directors are aware of and and dynamics, processes and support and individual effectiveness.
understand the views of major shareholders about the company, Feedback from the review was provided in the form of a written the Board has in place a process focusing on sector-specific issues, report and presentation to the Board, which then discussed as well as general shareholder preferences.
The CEO and CFO maintain a dialogue with institutional The review concluded that the Chairman, the Board and its shareholders on performance, plans and objectives through a Committees were operating effectively to a high level.
The programme of regular meetings.
Following his appointment as Board agreed the following actions to generate more inclusive CEO in May 2008, Andrew Witty has undertaken an extensive engagement with the executive management team and further series of meetings with GSKs institutional shareholders.
improve its collective decision making process: The Groups Investor Relations department, with offices in London Identify how to utilise the time spent in Board and Committee and Philadelphia, acts as a focal point for contact with investors meetings more effectively and facilitate further contribution by throughout the year.
Non-Executive Directors on a broader range of issues The Chairman meets regularly with institutional investors to Seek to enhance further the Non-Executive Directors continuing hear their views and discuss issues of mutual importance and education process beyond their initial induction communicates the views of investors to the Board as a whole.
The SID is also available to shareholders.
Provide greater visibility to the Board of GSKs executive talent and the management succession planning process.
The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee meets annually with major shareholders to discuss executive remuneration policy.
The Board members also met separately, without the Chairman being present, to discuss the Chairmans performance and All Non-Executive Directors, including new appointees, are contribution.
It was agreed during this meeting that the Chairman available to meet with major shareholders if requested.
was performing well and had the unanimous and unequivocal The companys website provides access to current financial and support of the other Directors, both Executive and Non-Executive.
business information about the Group.
Dialogue with shareholders Share capital and control Financial results are announced quarterly.
Details of the companys authorised and issued share capital The company reports formally to shareholders twice a year, when and the number of shares held in Treasury, as at 31st December its half-year and full-year results are announced.
The full-year 2008, can be found in Note 33 to the financial statements, Share results are included in the companys Annual Report which is capital and share premium account.
GSKs shares are listed on published for shareholders.
The company now produces an the London Stock Exchange and are also quoted on the New York annual Summary which is sent to all shareholders to advise them Stock Exchange NYSE in the form of American Depositary shares of the availability of the Annual Report and Notice of Meeting ADS.
Each ADS represents two Ordinary Shares.
The CEO and CFO give presentations on the full-year results to institutional investors, analysts and the media.
There are normally webcast teleconferences after the release of the first, second and third quarter results for institutional investors, analysts and the media.
The Annual Report, Summary and quarterly results are available on the companys website.
GSK Annual Report 2008 69 Report of the Directors Corporate governance continued The holders of Ordinary Shares are entitled to receive dividends, The Bank of New York Mellon is the Depositary for the companys when declared, the companys reports and accounts, to attend and ADS, which are listed on the New York Stock Exchange.
Ordinary speak at General Meetings of the company, to appoint proxies and Shares representing the companys ADR program, which are to exercise voting rights.
managed by the Depositary, are registered in the name of BNY Nominees Limited.
Details of the number of Ordinary Shares held There are no restrictions on transfer, or limitations on the holding by the Depositary can be found on page 187. of Ordinary Shares and no requirements to obtain prior approval to any transfers.
No Ordinary Shares carry any special rights with The company has not acquired or disposed of any interests in its regard to control of the company and there are no restrictions on own shares, other than in connection with the companys share voting rights.
Major shareholders have the same voting rights per buy-back programme.
Details of the shares purchased, cancelled share as all other shareholders.
There are no known arrangements and held in Treasury are disclosed in Note 33 to the financial under which financial rights are held by a person other than the statements, Share capital and share premium account.
holder of the shares and no known agreements on restrictions on Directors and Officers share transfers or on voting rights.
The interests of Directors and Officers and their connected Shares acquired through GSK share schemes and plans rank persons in the issued share capital of the company are given in the equally with the other shares in issue and have no special rights.
The trustees of the companys Employee Share Ownership Plan The rules about the appointment and replacement of Directors are ESOP trusts have waived their rights to dividends on shares held contained in the companys Articles of Association.
The companys by the ESOP trusts.
Articles must be approved by shareholders in accordance with the Change of control and essential contracts legislation in force from time to time.
The company does not have contracts or other arrangements The Articles provide that Directors may be appointed by an which individually are essential to the businesses nor is it party ordinary resolution of the members or by a resolution of the to any significant agreements that would take effect, alter or Directors, provided that, in the latter instance, a director appointed terminate upon a change of control following a takeover bid.
in this way retires at the first AGM following his appointment.
The company does not have agreements with any Director or The Articles also provide that Directors should be subject to Officer that would provide compensation for loss of office or re-election at the AGM at intervals of three years or if they have employment resulting from a takeover, except that provisions of held office for a continuous period of nine years or more.
The the companys share plans may cause options and awards granted companys members may remove a director by passing an ordinary under such plans to vest on a takeover.
resolution of which special notice has been given.
A Director may Interests in voting rights automatically cease to be a Director if: Other than as stated below, as far as the company is aware, there he becomes bankrupt or compounds with his creditors generally are no persons with significant direct or indirect holdings in the company.
Information provided to the company pursuant to the he ceases to be a Director by virtue of the Companies Acts or Financial Services Authoritys FSA Disclosure and Transparency the Articles Rules DTRs is published on a Regulatory Information Service and he is suffering from mental ill health on the companys website.
he has missed Directors meetings for a continuous period of six At 24th February 2009, the company had received notifications months without permission and the Board resolves that he shall in accordance with the FSAs DTRs of the following notifiable cease to be a Director interests, in the voting rights in the companys issued share capital: he is prohibited from being a Director by law No.
of Percentage of issued shares capital % he resigns Barclays PLC 186,518,653 3.59 he offers to resign and the Board accept that offer, or Percentage of Ordinary Shares in issue, excluding Treasury shares as at 24th February 2009. all other Directors being at least three in number require him to resign.
70 GSK Annual Report 2008 Report of the Directors Corporate governance continued The definitions of political donations, political expenditure and Memorandum and Articles of Association political organisations used in the legislation are very wide.
The powers of the Directors are determined by UK legislation In particular, the definition of EU political organisations may extend and the companys Memorandum and Articles of Association, to bodies such as those concerned with policy review, law reform, available on GSKs website.
The articles may be amended by a the representation of the business community and special interest special resolution of the members.
The Directors may exercise all groups such as those concerned with the environment, which the the companys powers provided that the Articles or applicable company and its subsidiaries might wish to support.
As a result, legislation do not stipulate that any such powers must be exercised the definitions may cover legitimate business activities not in the by the members.
The Directors have been authorised to issue ordinary sense considered to be political donations or political and allot Ordinary Shares under Article 10 and the company is expenditure.
Such activities are not designed to support any authorised to make purchases of its own shares under Article 7. political party or independent election candidate.
The authority The powers under Articles 8 and 10 are subject to shareholder which the Board has sought annually is a precautionary measure to authorities which are sought on an annual basis at the AGM.
Any ensure that the company and its subsidiaries do not inadvertently shares purchased by the company may be cancelled or held as breach the legislation.
Share buy-back programme With effect from 1st January 2009, to ensure a consistent A 12 billion programme of share repurchases commenced in approach to political contributions across the GSK group, July 2007.
Shares costing 6.2 billion have been repurchased GSK introduced a global policy to stop voluntarily all under this programme and the company does not expect to make political contributions.
The programme covered 2008 2007 purchases by the company of shares for cancellation or to be held Political Donations to: as Treasury shares, in accordance with the authority renewed by EU Political Organisations shareholders at the companys AGM in 2008.
Non-EU Political Organisations In May 2008, the company was authorised to purchase a comprising: maximum of 584 million shares.
Details of shares purchased, USA 319,000 249,000 those held as Treasury shares and those cancelled are disclosed Canada 28,000 27,000 in Note 33 to the financial statements Share capital and share 347,000 276,000 premium account.
In total, the company has purchased Prior to the introduction of the Groups new approach to political 15.3 billion of its own shares since 1st January 2001. contributions, the USA was the largest recipient of political The exact amount and timing of future purchases, and the extent donations.
In line with US law, the corporate donations were to which repurchased shares will be held as Treasury shares rather not made at a federal level, but only to candidates and political than being cancelled, will be determined by the company and is parties at the state and local levels.
In 2008, GSK supported dependent on market conditions and other factors.
those candidates who sought an environment that appropriately rewarded high-risk, high-investment industries.
Donations to EU political organisations and EU political expenditure The situation was similar in Canada, and in the rest of the world At the AGM in May 2001, shareholders first authorised the donations were very rare and of low value.
company to make donations to EU political organisations and to Notwithstanding the new policy, the company continues to incur EU political expenditure, under the provisions of the Political support a GSK Political Action Committee PAC for employees in Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000, of up to 100,000 the USA which gives political donations.
A PAC is an employee each year.
This authority has since been renewed annually.
The law organisation which allows employees to contribute to a fund for requires companies to continue to obtain shareholder approval political donations.
Employees decide upon the recipients of the before they can make donations to EU political organisations or PAC donations.
In 2008, a total of 539,359 522,172 in 2007 incur EU political expenditure.
However, the company does not was donated to political organisations by the GSK PAC.
make and does not intend to make donations to political parties or independent election candidates, nor does it make any donations to EU political organisations or incur EU political expenditure.
GSK Annual Report 2008 71 Report of the Directors Corporate governance continued Shareholders are entitled to appoint one or more proxies to attend Annual General Meeting the AGM and to speak and vote on their behalf.
The AGM will be held at 2.30pm on Wednesday, 20th May 2009 at The Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Details on how to appoint or be appointed a corporate Westminster, London SW1P 3EE.
The business to be transacted at representative or proxy can be found on page 204.
The Notice of the meeting will include: AGM will be published on the companys website.
Receiving and adopting GlaxoSmithKlines 2008 Internal control framework Annual Report The Board recognises its responsibility to present a balanced and understandable assessment of the Groups position and prospects.
Approving the 2008 Remuneration Report The Remuneration Report on pages 78 to 98 sets out the The Board has accountability for reviewing and approving the remuneration policies operated by GlaxoSmithKline and adequacy and effectiveness of internal controls operated by the disclosures on Directors remuneration, including those required Group, including financial, operational and compliance controls by the Companies Act 2006 and the Directors Remuneration and risk management.
The Board has delegated responsibility for Report Regulations 2002.
A resolution will be proposed to such review to the Audit Committee, which receives reports from approve the Remuneration Report.
those individuals identified in the Committees Report on pages 73 to 74.
It is the responsibility of management, through the Retirement, election and re-election of Directors CET, to implement Board policies on risk and control.
The CET is Mr Larry Culp, Sir Crispin Davis, Dr Moncef Slaoui and Mr Tom responsible for identifying, approving, monitoring and enforcing fide Swaan will each retire and offer themselves for re-election key policies that go to the heart of how the Group conducts to the Board under Article 85 of the companys Articles business.
The internal control framework includes central direction, of Association.
resource allocation and risk management of the key activities of Sir Ian Prosser and Dr Ronaldo Schmitz will also be retiring by research and development, manufacturing, marketing and sales, rotation but will not be seeking re-appointment as they will legal, human resources, information systems and financial practice.
be retiring from the Board after the conclusion of the AGM.
As part of this framework, there is a comprehensive planning Mr James Murdoch has been appointed a Director with effect system with an annual budget approved by the Board.
The results from 20th May 2009 and will offer himself for election to of operating units are reported monthly and compared with the the Board.
Forecasts are prepared regularly during the year.
Re-appointment and remuneration of Auditors Extensive financial controls, procedures and risk activities are Resolutions will be proposed to re-appoint reviewed by the Groups internal auditors.
Commercial and  LLP as auditors and to authorise financial responsibility, however, is clearly delegated to local the Audit Committee to determine their remuneration.
business units, supported by a regional management structure.
These principles are designed to provide an environment of Special business central leadership coupled with local operating autonomy as the The company will seek authority to: framework for the exercise of accountability and control within make donations to EU political organisations and incur EU the Group.
political expenditure, each capped at 50,000 The Group also attaches importance to clear principles and allot Ordinary Shares in the company procedures designed to achieve appropriate accountability and control.
A Group policy, Risk Management and Legal Compliance, give the Directors authority to disapply pre-emption rights mandates that business units establish processes for managing and when allotting new shares in connection with rights issues or monitoring risks significant to their businesses and the Group.
otherwise up to a maximum of 5% of the current issued share capital and purchase its own Ordinary Shares up to a maximum The internal control framework also relies on the following for of just under 10% of the current issued share capital overseeing and reporting risk and compliance issues.
exempt the Auditors from having to state the name of their senior statutory auditor for the company in GSKs Annual Report reduce the notice required to call a general meeting to not less than 14 clear days to adopt new Performance Share, Share Option and Deferred Annual Bonus plans.
72 GSK Annual Report 2008 Report of the Directors Corporate governance continued The CEC is managed by the Corporate Compliance Officer, who Risk Oversight and Compliance Council ROCC reports directly to the CEO.
The Corporate Compliance Officer The ROCC is a council of senior executives authorised by the Board chairs the ROCC and provides summary reports on the ROCCs to assist the Audit Committee oversee the risk management and activities and the Groups significant risks to the CET and the Audit internal control activities of the Group.
Membership comprises Committee on a regular basis.
The Corporate Compliance Officers several CET members and some of the heads of departments direct reporting line to the Audit Committee provides a mechanism with internal control, risk management, assurance, audit and for bypassing the executive management should the need compliance responsibilities.
The ROCC meets on a regular basis to review and assess significant Areas of potentially significant risk risks and their mitigation plans and provide oversight of internal For details of risks affecting the Group, see Risk factors on controls to ensure compliance with applicable laws, regulations pages 50 to 53 and Note 44 to the financial statements, and internal GSK policies.
The ROCC, responding to the Group Legal proceedings.
policy referred to above, has provided the business units with a framework for risk management and upward reporting of Effectiveness of controls significant risks.
Mitigation planning and identification of a The internal control framework has been in operation for the manager with overall responsibility for management of any given whole of the year under review and continues to operate up to the risk is a requirement.
date of approval of this report.
The system of internal controls is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of not achieving Risk Management and Compliance Boards RMCBs business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not Risk Management and Compliance Boards RMCBs have been absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
established in each of the major business units.
Membership often comprises members of the senior executive team of the respective The Audit Committee receives reports on areas of significant business unit, augmented by specialists where appropriate.
The risk to the Group and on related internal controls.
Following RMCBs oversee management of all risks that are considered consideration of these reports, the Audit Committee reports important for their respective business units, including those risks annually to the Board on the effectiveness of controls.
Such that are designated as significant to GlaxoSmithKline as a whole, controls may mitigate but cannot eliminate risks.
In addition, thus increasing the number of risks that are actively managed there are areas of the Groups business where it is necessary to across the Group.
take risks to achieve a satisfactory return for shareholders, such as investment in R&D and in acquiring new products or businesses.
Each RMCB regularly reports the status regarding its significant risks to the ROCC.
In these cases, it is the Groups objective to apply its expertise in the prudent management rather than elimination of risk.
Compliance functions The Directors review relates to the company and its subsidiaries In a number of risk areas, specific standards that meet or and does not extend to material associated undertakings, joint exceed requirements of applicable law have been established.
Specialist audit and compliance functions for example Corporate Environment, Health & Safety Audit, Global Manufacturing The Board, through the Audit Committee, has reviewed the and Supply Audit and Risk Management, and Research and assessment of risks and the internal control framework that Development Global Quality and Compliance assist in the operates in GlaxoSmithKline and has considered the effectiveness dissemination, implementation and audit of these standards.
These of the system of internal control in operation in the Group for the audit functions are coordinated by a Corporate Assurance group year covered by this report and up to the date of its approval by reporting to the Corporate Compliance Officer.
The process followed by the Board in reviewing the Corporate Ethics & Compliance CEC system of internal controls accords with the guidance on internal The ROCC is also supported by the Corporate Ethics & Compliance control issued by the Turnbull Committee.
department which is responsible for supporting the development and implementation of practices that facilitate employees compliance with laws and Group policy.
The thrust of the Groups compliance effort is due diligence in preventing and detecting misconduct or non-compliance with law or regulation by promoting ethical behaviour, compliance with all laws and regulations, corporate responsibility at all levels and effective compliance systems.
GSK Annual Report 2008 73 Report of the Directors Corporate governance continued Committee reports Financial & Accounting Experience Board Committees report regularly to the Board on the Mr Tom fide Swaan Chief Financial Officer of ABN AMRO until performance of the activities they have been assigned.
31st December 2005 Audit Committee Report Determined by the Board to be the Audit Committee Financial Expert, as defined by the Attendance at meetings Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002 Sarbanes-Oxley during 2008 Full Quorate Sir Deryck Maughan A Partner of Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. Members Committee member since meetings meetings KKR and Chairman of KKR Japan Mr Tom fide Swaan 1st January 2006 6 6 5 5 Former Chairman & CEO of Citigroup Chairman from International and Vice Chairman of 1st September 2006 Citigroup Inc. Sir Deryck Maughan 21st January 2005 6 6 4 5 Former Chairman and Co-Chief Executive Dr Daniel Podolsky 1st January 2007 6 6 5 5 Officer of Salomon Smith Barney Former Chairman and Chief Executive Sir Ian Prosser 27th December 2000 6 6 4 5 Officer of Salomon Brothers Inc. Dr Ronaldo Schmitz 27th December 2000 6 6 5 5 Sir Robert Wilson 12th December 2003 6 6 4 5 Sir Ian Prosser Former CFO and subsequently CEO of Bass plc Chartered Accountant Other attendees at Committee meetings: Dr Ronaldo Schmitz Former Member of Glaxo Wellcome plcs CEO Audit Committee CFO Former Member of Executive Board of Chairman Directors of Deutsche Bank AG General Counsel Former Head of Investment Banking of Head of Global Internal Audit Deutsche Bank Company Secretary & Corporate Compliance Officer Former member of the Executive Board of External Auditors.
Directors of BASF from 1980 to 1990.
CFO The Committees main responsibilities include: of BASF from 1985 to 1990.
Reviewing the corporate accounting and financial reporting process Former Chairman of the Committee from Monitoring the integrity of the financial statements April 2001 to September 2006 Evaluating the system of internal control and management of risks MBA from INSEAD Overseeing activities of each of the Groups compliance audit functions and overseeing compliance with laws, regulations and Sir Robert Wilson Economist ethical codes of practice.
Chairman of BG Group plc Retired from Rio Tinto in 2003 where he held The Committees oversight role requires it to address regularly the Senior Management positions culminating in relationships between management and the internal and external his appointment as Executive Chairman auditors and understand and monitor the reporting relationships and tiers of accountability between them.
Scientific Expertise The Committee receives regular reports from members of the CET Dr Daniel Podolsky A world renowned researcher with advanced and senior managers covering the key compliance activities of the knowledge of underlying mechanisms of disease Group, including those concerning R&D, manufacturing, sales and and new therapies for gastrointestinal disorders marketing and Environment, Health & Safety.
President of the University of Texas Southwestern Medical Centre Qualifications of Audit Committee Members Committee members, with the exception of Dr Podolsky, Former Mallinkrodt Professor of Medicine bring considerable financial and accounting experience to the and Chief of Gastroenterology at Committees work.
Members have past employment experience Massachusetts General Hospital and Harvard in either finance or accounting roles or comparable experience Medical School.
Dr Podolskys background as a world renowned researcher enables him to bring scientific expertise to the Committees deliberations.
74 GSK Annual Report 2008 Report of the Directors Corporate governance continued In 2008, the Committee worked to a structured programme of The Audit Committee, management, internal auditors and the activities, with standing items that the Committee is required to full Board work together to ensure the quality of the companys consider at each meeting together with other matters focused to corporate accounting and financial reporting.
The Committee coincide with key events of the annual financial reporting cycle: serves as the primary link between the Board and the external and internal auditors.
This facilitates the necessary independence from management and encourages the external and internal auditors to External Auditors reported on all critical accounting communicate freely and regularly with the Committee.
In 2008, policies, significant judgements and the Committee met both collectively and separately with the practices used by the Group, alternative external auditors and the Head of Global Internal Audit, and the accounting treatments which had been Corporate Compliance Officer without members of management discussed with management and their being present.
resultant conclusion, material written communications with management and The Committee has primary responsibility for making a any restrictions on access to information recommendation to shareholders on the appointment, reappointment and removal of the external auditors by annually CFO reported on the financial performance of assessing the qualifications, expertise, resources and independence the company and on technical financial of the external auditors and the effectiveness of the audit process.
and accounting matters In making its assessment, the Committee considers papers which General Counsel reported on material litigation detail the relevant regulatory requirements relating to external Company Secretary reported on corporate governance and auditors and evaluates reports from the external auditors on their & Corporate on the activities undertaken by the ROCC compliance with the requirements.
Where the external auditors Compliance Officer provide non-audit services, the Committee ensures that auditor objectivity and independence are safeguarded by a policy requiring Heads of the the majority of the Heads of these groups pre-approval by the Committee for such services.
These services Groups Compliance reported on their audit scope, annual may include audit services, audit-related services, tax services and and Audit Groups coverage, audit resources and on the other services.
Pre-approval is detailed as to the particular service results of audits conducted throughout or categories of services, and is subject to a specific budget.
the year The external auditors and management report regularly to the Company Secretary, reported on matters that affected the Committee regarding the extent of services provided in accordance as Chairman of quality and timely disclosure of financial with this pre-approval and the fees for the services performed.
the Disclosure and other material information to the The Committee may also pre-approve additional services on a Committee Board, to the public markets and to case-by-case basis.
Expenditure on audit and non-audit services is shareholders.
This enabled the Committee set out in Note 9 to the financial statements, Operating profit.
to review the clarity and completeness of the disclosures in the published The guidelines set out in the companys policy on engaging the annual financial statements, interim external auditors to provide non-audit services include ascertaining reports, quarterly and preliminary results that: the skills and experience of the external auditors make them announcements and other formal a suitable supplier of the non-audit services: adequate safeguards announcements relating to financial are in place so that the objectivity and independence of the audit performance prior to their release by are not compromised: and the fee levels relative to the annual the Board.
audit fee are within the limits set by the Committee.
The company also has well-established policies, including a Code of Ethics, which is available on its website, and a help-line facility for the reporting and investigation of unlawful conduct.
No waivers to the Code were made in 2008.
GSK Annual Report 2008 75 Report of the Directors Corporate governance continued When appointing new Executive Directors and CET members, Nominations Committee Report the Committee considers the skills, knowledge and experience Attendance at required for the particular executive position.
The Committee meetings during will consider potential external and internal candidates before 2008 recommending to the Board to approve the new appointment.
Full Members Committee member since meetings All new Directors offer themselves for election at the companys next AGM.
Their appointments are announced publicly.
Sir Christopher Gent 9th December 2004 3 3 Chairman from The Committee recommended the appointment of Mr Larry Culp 1st January 2005 and Sir Robert Wilson to the Nominations Committee in March 2008.
Mr Larry Culp 28th March 2008 2 2 The Committee also recommended to the Board the appointment of Sir Ian Prosser 27th December 2000 2 3 Mr James Murdoch as a Non-Executive Director and as a member of the Committee Chairman Corporate Responsibility Committee with effect from 20th May 2009.
February-December 2003 Additionally, on the Committees recommendation, the Board Dr Ronaldo Schmitz 17th May 2004 3 3 approved the following changes which take effect on Sir Ian Prosser and Dr Schmitzs retirement from the Board at the conclusion of Sir Robert Wilson 28th March 2008 2 2 the AGM in May 2009: Sir Robert Wilson will replace Sir Ian as the SID, Sir Crispin Davis will replace Sir Robert as the Chairman of the Other attendees at Committee meetings: Remuneration Committee, Professor Sir Roy Anderson will become CEO a member of the Audit Committee and Sir Crispin and Sir Deryck Chief of Staff Maughan will become members of the Nominations Committee.
Head of HR Company Secretary.
Remuneration Report The Remuneration Report can be found on pages 78 to 98.
The Committees main responsibilities include proposing the appointment of Board and Committee members.
Corporate Responsibility Committee Report During 2008, the Committees main focus was on the recruitment Attendance at meetings during of new Non-Executive Directors to refresh the Board.
2008 Full When recruiting Non-Executive Directors, the Committee Members Committee member since meetings considers the particular skills, knowledge and experience that Sir Christopher Gent 9th December 2004 3 3 would benefit the Board most significantly for each appointment.
Chairman from Broad selection criteria are used which focus on achieving a 1st January 2005 balance between the representation of European, UK and US Dr Stephanie Burns 6th December 2007 3 3 markets, and having individuals with CEO experience and skills developed in various sectors and specialities.
During 2008, Dr Daniel Podolsky 1st July 2006 3 3 particular focus was placed upon recruiting replacements for Sir Sir Ian Prosser 17th May 2004 3 3 Ian Prosser and Dr Ronaldo Schmitz, who will retire at the AGM Mr Tom fide Swaan 1st July 2006 3 3 in 2009.
The process continues into 2009, with the Committee placing emphasis on candidates who are current CEOs or have Following his appointment to the Board with effect from had government or administration experience.
Professional 20th May 2009, Mr James Murdoch will also become a member search agencies are engaged specialising in the recruitment of the Committee.
of high calibre Non-Executive Directors.
Dossiers of potential Non-Executive appointees are provided to the Committee and Other attendees at Committee meetings may include: candidates are shortlisted for interview after considering their CEO relevant qualifications.
General Counsel Head of Corporate Communications A customised induction process is conducted for each of the new & Community Partnerships Non-Executive Directors focusing on their particular experience Head of Corporate Responsibility and taking account of their different backgrounds.
This process Chief of Staff includes meeting members of the CET and other senior executives Head of HR and visiting particular operational facilities of the Group.
76 GSK Annual Report 2008 Report of the Directors Corporate governance continued The main responsibilities of the Corporate Responsibility NYSE rules Committee are set out on page 67.
The Committee has a rolling In general, the NYSE rules permit the company to follow UK corporate agenda and receives reports from the members of the CET and governance practices instead of those applied in the USA, provided senior managers to ensure that progress on meeting GSKs that the company explains any significant variations.
This explanation Corporate Responsibility Principles is reviewed.
Five Principles: is contained in the companys Form 20-F filing, which can be accessed access to medicines: standards of ethical conduct: research from the Securities and Exchange Commissions SEC EDGAR and innovation: employment practices: and global community database or via the companys website.
NYSE rules that came into partnerships are reviewed annually.
Other Principles are discussed effect in 2005 require the company to file annual and interim written at least once every two years.
The Committee also reviews and affirmations concerning the Audit Committee and the companys approves the Corporate Responsibility Report.
statement on significant differences in corporate governance.
During the year the Committee reviewed the following areas: Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 Following a number of corporate and accounting scandals in the USA, access to medicines in developing countries Congress passed the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
Sarbanes-Oxley is community partnerships and investment a wide ranging piece of legislation concerned largely with financial reporting and corporate governance.
humanitarian donations As recommended by the SEC, GSK has established a Disclosure employee volunteering Committee.
The Committee reports to the CEO, the CFO and sales and marketing practices to the Audit Committee.
It is chaired by the Company Secretary and the members consist of senior managers from finance, legal, disclosure of funding of medical education and patient compliance, corporate communications and investor relations.
advocacy groups External legal counsel and the external auditors are invited to attend product safety and communication of clinical trial results its meetings periodically.
It has responsibility for considering the R&D on diseases of the developing world materiality of information and, on a timely basis, determining the disclosure of that information.
It has responsibility for the timely use of animals in research filing of reports with the SEC and the formal review of the Annual globalisation and externalisation of R&D Report and Form 20-F.
In 2008, the Committee met 11 times.
reduction of employee numbers through restructuring Sarbanes-Oxley requires that the Annual Report contains a statement as to whether a member of the companys Audit employee consultation requirements Committee is an Audit Committee Financial Expert as defined by employment litigation in the USA.
For a summary regarding the Boards judgement on this matter, refer to page 73.
Additional disclosure requirements GSKs Corporate Responsibility Report is available on the arise under Section 302 and Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley in companys website.
respect of disclosure controls and procedures, and internal control The Combined Code over financial reporting.
Throughout 2008, the company complied with the provisions of the Combined Code, except as follows: B.
1.1 In designing schemes of performance-related remuneration, the Remuneration Committee should follow the provisions in Schedule A to the Code.
Item 6 of Schedule A states that, in general, only basic salary should be pensionable.
The companys position is explained in the Remuneration Report on pages 78 to 98.
US law and regulation A number of provisions of US law and regulation apply to GSK because the companys shares are quoted on the NYSE in the form of ADS.
GSK Annual Report 2008 77 Report of the Directors Corporate governance continued The CEO and CFO expect to complete these certifications and report Section 302: Corporate responsibility for financial reports their conclusions on the effectiveness of disclosure controls and Sarbanes-Oxley also introduced a requirement for the CEO and the procedures on 4th March 2009, following which the certificates will CFO to complete formal certifications, confirming that: be filed with the SEC as part of the Groups Form 20-F.
Section 404: Managements annual report on internal they have each reviewed the Annual Report and Form 20-F control over financial reporting based on their knowledge, it contains no material misstatements In accordance with the requirements of section 404 of Sarbanesor omissions Oxley, the following report is provided by management in respect of the Companys internal control over financial reporting as based on their knowledge, the financial statements and other defined in Rules 13a-15 f and 15d-15 f under the US Securities financial information fairly present, in all material respects, the financial Exchange Act of 1934 : condition, results of operations and cash flows as of the dates, and for the periods, presented in the Annual Report and Form 20-F Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting for the Group.
they are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure Internal control over financial reporting is designed to provide controls and procedures that ensure that material information is reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial made known to them, have evaluated the effectiveness of these reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external controls and procedures as at the year-end, the results of such purposes in accordance with IFRS evaluation being contained in the Annual Report and Form 20-F Management conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness they are responsible for establishing and maintaining internal of internal control over financial reporting based on the control over financial reporting that provides reasonable framework in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and by the Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of the the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in Treadway Commission accordance with generally accepted accounting principles There have been no changes in the Groups internal control over they have disclosed in the Annual Report and Form 20-F any financial reporting during 2008 that have materially affected, changes in internal controls over financial reporting during the or are reasonably likely to affect materially, the Groups internal period covered by the Annual Report and Form 20-F that have control over financial reporting materially affected, or are reasonably likely to affect materially, the companys internal control over financial reporting Management has assessed the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, as at 31st December 2008 and its they have disclosed, based on their most recent evaluation of conclusion will be filed as part of the Groups Form 20-F internal control over financial reporting, to the external auditors and the Audit Committee, all significant deficiencies and material  LLP, which has audited the consolidated weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31st financial reporting which are reasonably likely to affect adversely December 2008, has also assessed the effectiveness of the the companys ability to record, process, summarise and report Groups internal control over financial reporting under Auditing financial information and any fraud regardless of materiality Standard No.
5 of the Public Company Accounting Oversight involving persons that have a significant role in the companys Board United States.
Their audit report will be filed with the internal control over financial reporting.
The Group has carried out an evaluation under the supervision and with the participation of the Groups management, including the CEO and CFO, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of the Groups disclosure controls and procedures as at 31st December 2008.
There are inherent limitations to the effectiveness of any system of disclosure controls and procedures, including the possibility of human error and the circumvention or overriding of the controls and procedures.
Accordingly, even effective disclosure controls and procedures can only provide reasonable assurance of achieving their control objectives.
