qxp:Layout 1 15 9 08 17:15 Page 2 Right place... UKs busiest rail operator UKs busiest rail operator 30% Our operations make us the busiest rail operator in the UK.
In 2007 we expanded Our rail operations are our operations with the London Midland franchise connecting London, the Midlands responsible for nearly 30% and the North West.
In June this year we began operating the Gatwick Express and of all UK passenger rail journeys.
we now carry more passengers on our rail operations than any other company.
significant investment 1billion We have purchased new rolling stock, improved security at stations, introduced The Southern franchise new timetabling and rigorous customer service programmes to ensure passengers included a total investment of have a positive journey experience.
We were the first rail operator to implement 1 billion to transform rolling regenerative braking technology on the third rail system.
This improves energy stock, depots, stations and efficiency by generating and returning electricity to the railway network.
Development opportunities 37mins In addition to our Southern franchise bid, we are well positioned to bid for future It will take only 37 minutes to franchise opportunities of which there are nine by 2014.
We have established a strong travel from Ashford to London and experienced bid team and have a proven track record of winning and improving on our new high speed line.
In 2009 we will operate the UKs first high speed domestic rail service Currently it takes 1 hour across Kent into St Pancras International, signicantly reducing current journey times.
This service will play a key role in the development of the 2012 Olympic site and drive significant regeneration in Kent.
The third rail or conductor rail is the system by which some trains draw their power.
The system is mainly found in the South of England.
Above: Southeastern launched a TV and radio campaign to promote cheap off-peak rail travel.
Opposite photo: Southern began operating the Gatwick Express in June 2008.
The addition of London Midland makes us the busiest rail operator in the UK.
Line with limited London Midland services, but other operators may serve more frequently 2.
Southern have invested 1billion in order to transform the franchise.
Revenue m 557.1 581.6 239.7 part year Managing Director Chris Burchell Charles Horton Steve Banaghan Geographical area London London London Surrey Kent Milton Keynes East West Sussex East Sussex Northampton Hampshire Birmingham West Midlands Kent Liverpool Approx passenger 145 million 160 million 30 million numbers Number of employees 3,787 3,835 2,462 Fleet size 276 trains 344 trains 153 trains Southeastern will operate the UKs first domestic high speed line in 2009.
Rounded to the nearest 5 million.
