Directors Report and Business Review for the 52 weeks ended 27 December 2008 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Board recognises the importance of, and is committed to, The Board Raymond Reynolds Retail Bob Bennett Senior Independent high standards of corporate governance and to integrity and Director, 49, was appointed to Director, 61, was appointed to Composition high ethical standards in all of its business dealings.
the Board on 18 December 2006. the Board in December 2003.
He The Board currently comprises the Chairman, three executive He joined Greggs in retail trained as a Chartered Accountant The Board considers that it has complied, throughout the year and four non-executive directors as follows: management in 1986.
During the with Spicer & Pegler and was under review, with the principles of governance set out in late 1990s, as general manager Group Finance Director of Northern Derek Netherton Chairman, 64, Section 1 of the Combined Code on corporate governance he built a significant new business Rock plc from 1993 until his spent his career in investment published by the Financial Reporting Council the Combined for Greggs in the Edinburgh retirement at the end of January banking and retired in 1996 from his Code effective during the financial year.
The only exception region, and in 2002 he was 2007.
He is a non-executive position as joint head of corporate is that Sir Michael Darrington, formerly Managing Director of appointed Managing Director of director of Redrow plc and Expro finance at J Henry Schroder & Co the Company, has remained on the Board as a non-executive Greggs of Scotland.
He is a non-executive director to assist with the transition to a new Chief Executive, member of the Nominations and Remuneration Committees: director of St Jamess Place plc.
He appointed from outside the Company.
This has resulted in he has been Chairman of the Audit Committee since 2004 and was appointed to the Board on there being less than half of the Board excluding the Julie Baddeley, 57, was appointed became the Senior Independent Director in 2008.
1 March 2002 and was appointed Chairman comprising independent non-executive directors, to the Board in March 2005.
She Chairman in August of the same contrary to Code provision A.
3.2. has held senior executive roles in year.
There have been no significant Roger Whiteside, 50, joined the The following statements, together with the Directors the Woolwich plc where she was changes to the Chairmans other commitments during 2008.
Roger is Remuneration report on pages 71 to 80, describe how the responsible for Information He is Chairman of the Nominations Committee.
Managing Director of the Leased relevant principles and provisions of the Combined Code were Technology and Human division of Punch Taverns plc.
He applied to the Company in 2008 and will be relevant to the Resources, Accenture and Sema was Chief Executive of the Company for the 2009 financial year.
Julie is a nonKennedy McMeikan, Chief Thresher Group off-licence chain executive director of Camelot Executive, 43, joined the Board on from 2004 - 2007.
Prior to this, he Group plc, the Department of 1 June 2008 and became Chief was one of the founding team of Health, Chrysalis VCT plc and is Executive of the Company on 1 Ocado, the innovative online an Associate Fellow of the Said Business School, Oxford.
Ken was Retail grocer operating in partnership is a member of the Nominations and Audit Committees and Director of J Sainsbury plc, having with Waitrose, and served as Joint has been Chair of the Remuneration Committee since 2005. joined them in 2005 after a short Managing Director from 2000 - 2004.
He began his career at period as chief executive of Tesco Marks & Spencer, where he spent 20 years, ultimately in Japan.
Prior to this, he had spent Sir Michael Darrington FCA, 67, becoming head of its Food Business.
Roger is a member of the 14 years in operational roles within qualified as a Chartered Nomination, Remuneration and Audit Committees of the Board.
Tesco, becoming chief executive of Accountant and then spent 17 the Europa Foods convenience store business following its years with United Biscuits, latterly acquisition in 2002, with responsibility for its integration into the in General Management.
During Andrew Davison, LLB, Company Tesco Express format.
this time he attended the PMD Secretary.
Andrew, a solicitor, was course at Harvard Business appointed as Company Secretary School.
He is a member of The Richard Hutton FCA Finance and was appointed Managing London Stock Exchanges North Director, 40, was appointed to the Director in January 1984.
He held East Regional Advisory Group, a Board on 13 March 2006.
He this position until he retired in July former Chairman of the Law qualified as a Chartered Accountant 2008, when he became a non-executive director of the Societys Standing Committee on with KPMG and gained career Company.
He is not a member of any of the Board's standing Company Law and was a member experience with Procter & Gamble committees.
of the Consultative Committee for before joining Greggs in 1998.
He the Fundamental Review of was appointed Finance Director on Company Law, sponsored by the DTI, which led to the passing 10 May 2006. of the Companies Act 2006.
During 2008, Sir Ian Gibson and Stephen Curran retired from the Board.
Kennedy McMeikan and Roger Whiteside joined the Board and Sir Michael Darrington became a non-executive director on his retirement as Managing Director.
Greggs Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Greggs Annual Report and Accounts 2008 28 29
