14909HALFORDS:Layout 1 27 5 08 14:30 Page 46 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Board is responsible for the Groups system of judgement and within the definition of the Combined corporate governance.
The Board is committed to high Code.
Accordingly, no individual or group of individuals standards of corporate governance not only in the dominates the Boards decision-making and the areas of accountability and risk management but also requirement of the Combined Code that at least half of as a positive contribution to business prosperity.
The the Board excluding the Chairman should comprise Board believes in conducting the Groups affairs in a independent non-executive Directors is satisfied.
At the fair and transparent manner and in maintaining the same time in accordance with the Combined Code, highest ethical standards in its business dealings.
separate individuals have been appointed to the positions of Chairman and Chief Executive respectively.
Statement of compliance with the Richard Pym and following the resignation of Ian Combined Code McLeod, Chief Executive Officer, the remaining The Directors consider that the Group as applied the executive Directors Nick Wharton and Paul principles and complied with the provisions of Section McClenaghan were appointed acting joint Managing Directors.
Nigel Wilson has been appointed the senior 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance for independent Director.
the financial period to 28 March 2008.
This report describes how the Group has complied with the Code.
The Chairman and the non-executive Directors contribute external expertise and experience in areas THE BOARD of importance to the Group such as marketing, customer and consumer focus, corporate finance, Board structure general finance and corporate governance.
They also The Board is currently composed of six members, contribute independent challenge and rigour to the consisting of a non-executive Chairman, three nonBoards deliberations and the Board believes that all of executive Directors and two executive Directors.
Up to the Directors devote sufficient time and attention as is 29 February 2008 the Board had three executive necessary in order to perform their duties.
Directors, on which date the Companys Chief Executive Ian McLeod resigned and the remaining Directors and their interests executive Directors Nick Wharton and Paul The following Directors held office during the financial McClenaghan were appointed acting joint Managing period ended 28 March 2008: Directors.
The three non-executive Directors are considered by the Board to be independent in character and Appointment Designation Reappointment date Richard Pym Chairman 8 June 2007 Ian McLeod Chief Executive Resigned 29 February 2008 Nick Wharton Finance Director 3 February 2007 Paul McClenaghan Director of Trading 31 March 2007 Nigel Wilson Senior independent Director 8 June 2007 Keith Harris Non-executive Director 8 June 2007 Bill Ronald Non-executive Director 8 June 2007 Details of the Directors service contracts, emoluments, objectives and ensure that good corporate governance the interests of the Directors and their immediate is practised and that the Group meets its other families in the share capital of the Company and responsibilities to its shareholders, customers, options to subscribe for shares in the Company are employees and other stakeholders.
The Board is also shown in the Directors remuneration report on pages responsible for ensuring that appropriate processes are to.
The Directors have wide experience and in place in respect of succession planning for expertise and biographical details are given on pages appointments to the Board and to senior management to.
Operation of the Board The Board has a formal schedule of reserved powers, The Boards role is to determine the long-term direction which it retains for Board decision-making on a range and strategy of the Group, create value for of key issues, including the formulation of strategy, shareholders, monitor the achievement of business financial reporting and controls, corporate governance 46 Halfords Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 14909 27 05 2008 Proof 3 149 14909HALFORDS:Layout 1 27 5 08 14:30 Page 47 matters, and treasury and risk management.
The Board upon request if they have concerns which contact meets on a regular basis.
During the financial period through the normal channels of the Chairman or the ended 28 March 2008, the Board met formally ten executive Directors has failed to resolve, or for which times.
Details of the number of Board and Committee such contact is inappropriate.
meetings and the attendance at those meetings are set The Group is supportive of executive Directors who out on page.
The Board is supplied in a timely wish to take on non-executive directorship with a manner with information appropriate to enable it to company outside the Group, as exposure to such discharge its duties.
Appropriate management reports duties can broaden experience and knowledge, which and financial information are provided to the Board on will be to the benefit of the Group.
Executive Directors a monthly basis and in advance of each Board may retain any fees they receive.
Ian McLeod served as meeting.
These normally include monthly management a non-executive Director of Fulham Football Club reports, accounts, reports on current trading and during the year, retaining fees of 25,000 per annum papers on matters in respect of which the Board makes 2007: 25,000. decisions or is invited to give its approval.
Specific presentations on business and strategic issues are A procedure has been adopted for Directors to obtain made regularly.
independent professional advice where appropriate, at the cost of the Company, and all Directors have The Chairman is primarily responsible for the workings unrestricted access to the Company Secretary, who is of the Board and is not involved in day-to-day an employee of the Company.
Where a Director has a operational issues.
He sets the agendas in consultation concern over any unresolved business he is entitled to with the executive Directors and Company Secretary.
require the Company Secretary to minute that concern.
Board papers are circulated in advance of each Should that Director later resign over this issue, the meeting.
The Chairman periodically holds meetings Chairman will bring it to the attention of the Board.
with the non-executive Directors without the executive Directors present.
The Group purchases Directors and officers liability and indemnity insurance to cover its Directors and Save for matters reserved for decision by the Board, officers against the costs of defending themselves in the executive Directors, are responsible for the running civil proceedings taken against them in that capacity of the Groups business, carrying out the agreed and in respect of damages resulting from the strategy adopted by the Board and implementing unsuccessful defence of any proceedings.
specific Board decisions relating to the operation of the Group.
Meetings The following table sets out the number of meetings The Chairman, Richard Pym is currently a nonof the Board and its Committees and individual executive Director of Old Mutual plc and Chairman of attendances thereat during the financial period to Brighthouse Group Ltd.
The Board is satisfied that 28 March 2008.
In addition to the meetings detailed these appointments do not conflict with the Chairmans below, additional Board or Board Committee meetings ability to carry out his duties and responsibilities were held during the year for the consideration of effectively for the Group.
Nigel Wilson was the Senior Independent Director throughout the period under review.
The Senior Independent Director is available to meet shareholders Group Board Audit Nomination Remuneration Number of meetings held 10 35 3 Richard Pym 10 3 53 1 Ian McLeod 9 1 2 Nick Wharton 10 3 1 Paul McClenaghan 9 Nigel Wilson 10 35 3 Keith Harris 92 53 Bill Ronald 10 35 3 1 Ian McLeod resigned from the Board on 29 February 2008 and had attended all Board and committee meetings up to that date.
com Halfords Group plc 47 stockcode: HAL Annual Report and Accounts 2008 14909 27 05 2008 Proof 3 Corporate Governance 14909HALFORDS:Layout 1 27 5 08 14:30 Page 48 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued Board Committees Directors interests in contracts The Board has established an effective Committee No Director had a material interest at any time during structure to assist in the discharge of its the year in any contract of significance, other than a responsibilities.
The terms of reference of these service contract see Directors remuneration report on Committees comply with the provisions of the pages to, with the Company or any of its Combined Code and are available for inspection on the subsidiary undertakings.
Remuneration The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Audit, The Directors remuneration report sets out the status Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
Only the of the Companys compliance with the requirements of members of each Committee are entitled to attend its the Combined Code with regard to remuneration meetings, although other Directors, professional matters and includes a statement on the Companys advisers and members of the senior management team policy on Directors and senior managers attend when invited to do so.
The Audit Committee will remuneration, benefits, share scheme entitlements and invite the external Auditors to certain of its meetings.
A resolution to approve the the cases of the Nomination and Remuneration Directors remuneration report will be proposed at the Committees, no member is present when business forthcoming Annual General Meeting AGM.
pertinent to them is under discussion.
A Treasury Committee, composed of senior members of the Appointment of Directors finance and treasury teams and chaired by the Finance The Companys Articles of Association require Director, has been established to manage the day-toDirectors appointed by the Board during the year to day treasury needs of the Group.
When the need retire and offer themselves for reappointment at the arises, separate ad hoc committees may be set up by first AGM following their appointment.
Paul the Board to consider specific issues.
McClenaghan, Director of Trading was appointed to the Board on 31 March 2007 and was subsequently Audit Committee reappointed at the AGM on 25 July 2007.
For the financial period to 28 March 2008, the Audit Committee comprised Nigel Wilson, Keith Harris and Under article 76 of the Companys Articles of Bill Ronald, all of whom are independent non-executive Association there is also a process of retirement by Directors.
The Committee Chairman is Nigel Wilson, rotation, which ensures that approximately one-third of who, being also Chief Financial Officer of United all Directors rounded down are required to retire and Business Media plc, is considered by the Board to seek re-election at each AGM and that no Director have recent and relevant financial experience.
Each of serves for more than three years without being the other independent non-executive Directors on the proposed for re-election at an AGM.
Accordingly, Nigel Committee has, through their other business activities, Wilson and Keith Harris will retire and offer themselves significant experience in financial matters.
for re-election at this years AGM.
The Audit Committee meets at least three times a year, Non-executive Directors are appointed for specified according to the requirements of the Companys terms normally three years, subject to reappointment financial calendar.
The meetings of the Audit under the Companys Articles of Association and subject Committee also provide the opportunity for the to the Companies Act provisions relating to the removal independent non-executive Directors to meet without of a Director.
The Chairman confirms to shareholders the executive Directors present and also the when proposing an appointment or reappointment that, opportunity to raise any issues of concern with the following formal performance evaluation, the individuals Companys external Auditors.
performance continues to be effective and they demonstrate commitment to the role.
The Audit Committee is responsible for making The Board has formally adopted an induction recommendations to the Board on the appointment of programme for new Directors, which will be tailored to the external Auditors and their remuneration, for each new Director who joins the Board and includes reviewing the accounting principles, policies and briefings regarding the activities of the Group and visits practices adopted in the preparation of the interim and to stores.
Documentation and training on their duties annual accounts and reviewing the scope and findings as Directors are also available to all Directors.
The Committee assists the Board in addition, Directors are also informed regularly on achieving its obligations under the Combined Code in relevant material changes to laws and regulations areas of risk management and internal control, affecting the Groups business.
All Directors have focusing particularly on compliance with legal access to the advice and services of the Company requirements, accounting standards and the Listing Secretary, who is also responsible for advising the Rules, and ensures that an effective system of internal Board on all governance matters.
financial and non-financial controls is maintained.
The 48 Halfords Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 14909 27 05 2008 Proof 3 149 14909HALFORDS:Layout 1 27 5 08 14:30 Page 49 ultimate responsibility for reviewing and approving the Company, retirements and appointments of additional annual report and accounts remains with the Board.
and replacement Directors and making appropriate recommendations so as to maintain an appropriate The Committee will keep under review the external balance of skills and experience on the Board.
Auditors independence including any non-audit services that are to be provided by the external The Nomination Committee has established a process Auditors.
The Auditors are also requested to confirm for Board appointments that it considers to be formal, their independence at least annually.
A formal policy rigorous and transparent.
This process includes a has been developed and implemented, which ensures review of the skills, experience and knowledge of the that the nature of the advice to be provided could not existing Directors, to assess which of the potential impair the objectivity of the external Auditors opinion shortlisted candidates would most benefit the balance on the Groups financial statements.
The policy of the Board having regard also to the need for incorporates a fee limit of 25,000, above which a succession planning.
formal tender process must be undertaken and approval of the Committee obtained prior to any During the year, the committee: proposed appointment.
Discussed the resignation of the Companys CEO The Committee has approved a formal whistle-blowing and approved the search process for a new CEO.
policy whereby staff may, in confidence, disclose Discussed the long-term succession planning of the issues of concern about possible malpractice or Board.
wrongdoings by any of the Groups businesses or any Reviewed the size, structure and composition of the of its employees without fear of reprisal.
arrangements to investigate such matters and for Reviewed, amended and approved its own Terms of appropriate follow-up action.
Approved Directors for reappointment at the AGM.
In addition to ensuring the integrity of the Groups halfConsidered the composition of the Boards year and full-year financial statements before committees.
publication, during the year the Committee: Conducted an internal review of its own effectiveness.
Considered the external Auditors report for the period ended 30 March 2007.
The terms of appointment for the non-executive Received regular reports from the internal Auditors Directors are available for inspection on the Companys and agreed the annual audit plan.
Conducted an internal review of its own effectiveness.
Remuneration Committee Reviewed, amended and approved its own Terms of For the financial period ended 28 March 2008, the Reference.
Remuneration Committee comprised Keith Harris Reviewed and approved the Companys whistleChairman, Richard Pym, Nigel Wilson and Bill Ronald.
Keith Harris, Nigel Wilson and Bill Ronald are all Reported to the Board on matters it had identified independent non-executive Directors.
as requiring action or improvement.
Recommended for approval the Groups risk Executive Directors attend Remuneration Committee management and internal control policies.
meetings at the invitation of the Committee Chairman.
Approved the external auditors audit strategy for The Remuneration Committee will normally meet at the period ended 28 March 2008. least twice a year.
Nomination Committee The Remuneration Committee has responsibility for For the financial period to 28 March 2008 the making recommendations to the Board on the Nomination Committee comprised Richard Pym Companys policy on remuneration of executive Chairman, Keith Harris, Bill Ronald, Nigel Wilson and Directors, the Company Secretary and senior Ian McLeod.
Keith Harris, Nigel Wilson and Bill Ronald managers.
It also determines, within agreed terms of are independent non-executive Directors.
The reference, specific remuneration packages for each of Combined Code states that the test of independence is the Chairman, the executive Directors and Company not appropriate in relation to the Chairman after his Secretary of the Company and such members of senior appointment.
management as it is delegated to consider.
This includes pension rights: any compensation payments: The Committee, which will normally meet not less than and the implementation of executive incentive twice a year, has responsibility for considering the size, schemes.
In accordance with the Committees terms of structure and composition of the Board of the reference, no Director may participate in discussions www.
com Halfords Group plc 49 stockcode: HAL Annual Report and Accounts 2008 14909 27 05 2008 Proof 3 Corporate Governance 14909HALFORDS:Layout 1 27 5 08 14:30 Page 50 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued shareholders.
Information available online includes relating to their own terms and conditions of service or copies of the full and half-year financial statements, remuneration.
press releases and Company news, corporate governance information and statements and the terms Further information on the activities of the of reference for the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committee is set out in the Directors Remuneration Committees.
remuneration report on pages to.
The Board is committed to the constructive use of the Evaluation of the Board and its Committees AGM as a forum to meet with shareholders and to hear The Board has established a formal process for the their views and answer their questions about the Group annual evaluation of the performance of the Board, its and its business.
The AGM of the Group is to be held principal committees and individual Directors.
on 23 July 2008 at The Alveston Manor Hotel, Questionnaires are drawn up, which provide the Stratford-upon-Avon.
Notice to this meeting together framework for the evaluation process.
Each member of with an explanatory circular describing any items of the Board or appropriate Committee is invited to special business, can be found on pages to.
The comment on the performance of the individual, the Chairmen of the Remuneration, Nomination and Audit Board, or the appropriate Committee and submits Committees will normally attend the meeting and will replies to the questionnaires, which are then collated.
answer questions that may be relevant to the work of Following a review of these responses by the Board or those Committees.
If they are unable to attend they will by the appropriate Committee, appropriate action will appoint a deputy to attend in their place.
It is the be taken to ensure that the performance of the Board Companys practice to propose separate resolutions on as a whole, its principal Committees and individual each substantially separate issue at the AGM.
The Directors is such that each can perform at the optimum Chairman will advise shareholders on the proxy voting level for the benefit of the Company.
details for each resolution after it has been put to the meeting.
The Senior Independent Director discusses with the Chairman the responses to the Chairmans The Companys financial calendar is set out on effectiveness questionnaire, whilst the Chairman page.
discusses the non-executive Directors performance evaluation with the individual non-executive Directors.
Internal control and risk management The Board has overall responsibility for the system of Relationships with shareholders internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness The Board recognises the importance of establishing throughout the Group and ensuring that there is a and maintaining good relationships with all of the process in accordance with the guidelines laid down by Companys shareholders.
The Chief Executive, Finance the Turnbull Report to identify, evaluate and manage Director and the Chairman meet regularly with analysts any significant risks that may affect the achievement of and institutional shareholders to keep them informed of the Groups strategic objectives.
significant developments and report to the Board accordingly on the views of the major shareholders.
The assessment of effectiveness has been carried out The Senior Independent Director is also available to this year.
The system of internal control is designed to attend such meetings, if required.
Each of the other manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failing to non-executive Directors is also offered the opportunity achieve business objectives and can provide only to attend meetings with major shareholders and would reasonable and not absolute assurance against do so if requested by any major shareholder.
The material misstatement or loss.
The Board and the Audit Companys investor relations programme includes Committee have reviewed the effectiveness of the formal presentations of full year and interim results.
Groups systems of internal control and risk Feedback from these meetings is provided to the Board.
The Company Secretary is also charged with management in accordance with the Combined Code bringing to the attention of the Board any material for the financial period to 28 March 2008, and up to the matters of concern raised by the Companys date of approving the Annual Report and Accounts.
Deloitte & Touche LLP, as independent adviser, is The Interim Report and the Annual Report and formally engaged to provide internal audit services, Accounts are the primary means used by the Board for reporting to the Board, via the Audit Committee.
Their communicating during the year with all of the principal role in fulfilling the Internal Audit function is to Companys shareholders.
The Board also recognises review the effectiveness of the controls operating the importance of the Internet as a means of within the business by undertaking an agreed schedule communicating widely, quickly and cost-effectively and of independent audits each year.
The nature and scope an investor relations website halfordscompany.
com of this annual audit programme is determined by the has been developed to facilitate communications with Audit Committee at the beginning of each calendar 50 Halfords Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 14909 27 05 2008 Proof 3 149 14909HALFORDS:Layout 1 27 5 08 14:30 Page 51 year and may be revised from time to time according to As part of the ongoing process for identifying, changing business circumstances and requirements.
evaluating and managing the key business risks faced by the Group the Board has established a Risk The findings of these risk-based audits are reported Management Group to oversee the implementation of initially to executive management and any necessary the risk management framework, co-ordinate risk corrective actions are agreed.
Summaries of these management activities throughout the business and to reports are presented to, and discussed with, the Audit report to the Board and Audit Committee on risk Committee along with details of progress against issues.
The Risk Management Group is chaired by the action plans as appropriate.
Company Secretary and includes senior managers from Finance, Business Systems, Supply Chain and The Board considers risk assessment and control to be Logistics, Store Assurance and Internal Audit functions.
fundamental to achieving its corporate objectives within an acceptable risk reward profile and there is an Through its normal business operations, the Company ongoing process for identifying and evaluating the is exposed to a number of principal risks and significant risks faced by the Group and the uncertainties which could impact the on the results of effectiveness of related controls.
The key elements of the Company.
These, together with their mitigating this process are: controls, are described in the Finance Directors report on pages to.
a comprehensive system of monthly reporting from key executives, identifying performance against By order of the Board budget, analysis of variances, major business issues, key performance indicators and regular forecasting: Alex Henderson, well-defined policies governing appraisal and Company Secretary approval of capital expenditure and treasury operations: 4 June 2008 reviews of key business risks and of managements controls and plans to mitigate these risks: and an annual corporate governance confirmation made to the Board by all Directors on the effectiveness of the identification of major risks and of the monitoring of internal controls within their areas of responsibility.
com Halfords Group plc 51 stockcode: HAL Annual Report and Accounts 2008 14909 27 05 2008 Proof 3 Corporate Governance
