BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS DIRECTORS REPORT Corporate governance Geoff Unwin Chairman Board performance This section of the report deals with how the Board and its committees The Board evaluates its performance and that of the Remuneration, Audit discharge their duties and how we apply the principles of good and Nomination Committees at least annually.
Each year, we consult the governance in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance which Board to determine whether an external facilitator would enhance our is appended to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority process.
To date, we have concluded that the current, open climate and for which the Board is accountable to shareholders.
The Board that the Board enjoys ensures a full and frank discussion of all matters, is committed to the maintenance of high standards of corporate so an external facilitator is unnecessary.
The policy of the Board is to manage the affairs of the commenced with a self-assessment questionnaire, the results of which Company in accordance with the principles of corporate governance were compiled by the Company Secretary and discussed by the Board contained in the Combined Code.
at the January 2008 Board meeting.
The Board also met in January I am pleased with the progress Halma has made to ensure best practice 2008, separate from any scheduled meeting, for a general discussion is maintained and we continually seek to improve our practices for the on Board effectiveness followed by a meeting of the executive Directors benefit of our shareholders.
with the Chairman, a meeting of the Chairman and non-executive Directors, and then a meeting of the non-executive Directors without the Succession planning Chairman present.
The outcomes of these meetings were then fed back I have always maintained that a key part of my role involves ensuring to individuals by the Chairman, Senior Independent Director or Chief that the right people are doing the right jobs within the Group and that Executive, as appropriate.
there is a sufficient cadre of individuals being nurtured throughout the Group to enable effective succession planning.
Reviews of management Shareholder communication capabilities and potential are performed on a routine basis and I am I would like to encourage all shareholders to nd the time to attend satisfied that sufficient resource within the Group exists and continues our AGM on 31 July 2008.
It is an excellent opportunity to meet the Board, to be developed through programmes such as the Halma Executive the Executive Board and the CEOs of our operating companies, Development Programme which itself evolves to meet the changing all of whom will be in attendance, and hold them accountable for the needs of the Group.
Where a need for improvement to management Groups results and their stewardship of your company.
resources is identied, the necessary attention is provided to ensure full strength is attained as soon as practicable.
Board appointments Geoff Unwin Following the annual general meeting in August 2007, Jane Aikman joined Chairman the Board as a non-executive Director.
As a finance director of both listed and private companies, Janes corporate and international experience complements the Boards current mix of knowledge and skills.
In April 2008 we made another appointment to the Board, Adam Meyers, in contemplation of Keith Roys notication of intention to retire at the end of July 2008.
Adam provides another international dimension to the Board since he is based in the US and we are already benefiting from having him around the Board table.
Our Board composition is discussed further on page 40, but I wanted to add my own conrmation that I am entirely satisfied that our preferred composition of the Board, which is a deviation from the Combined Code, is appropriate to Halma and is one which all of the non-executive Directors support.
No shareholder has ever raised this matter with me and, indeed, when I sought shareholders support at the 2005 AGM, it was unanimous.
Board committees Our committees are a valuable part of the Companys corporate governance structure.
The workload of the committees is far more than the table of scheduled meetings on page 40 would indicate as ad hoc meetings and communications between meetings frequently require considerable amounts of time.
As with the Boards composition, I am equally comfortable that the composition of all of our committees remains appropriate.
Halma p. l. c. Annual report and accounts 2008 39
