BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS HEDP is aimed squarely at employees already serving on subsidiary boards but we also encourage applications from senior managers who can demonstrate they already have equivalent responsibilities and will benefit from the programme.
There are approximately 200 such eligible employees in total.
The programme has been developed from a proven course structure and is specically and continuously tailored to suit Halmas needs, aligning the content to the Groups four core values of Achievement, Innovation, Empowerment and Customer Satisfaction.
It focuses strongly on strategic and leadership capabilities and developing personal attributes commitment, determination and resilience.
There is an emphasis on performance management and team development.
It includes skill-based elements such as sales and marketing management, project leadership, corporate governance, finance and innovation, but all are presented in a strategic context.
The first six programmes have now been completed and the success of the programme can be measured by the enthusiasm of the participants upon their return to their businesses, the achievements of a number of participants and their eagerness to coordinate further sessions to explore topics of particular interest to their programme Group.
With the HEDP now a well-established part of Halmas people development activity, we have established a new programme for subsidiary managers and supervisors the Halma Management Development Programme HMDP.
During the year five programmes were completed for a total of 104 employees.
Programmes were held in the USA, Europe and Asia.
RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENT Investing in Halma shares meets the criteria of many professional and private investors who base their decisions on environmental, ethical and social considerations.
The Group is a world leader in several key environmental technologies and has a reputation for honesty and integrity in its relationships with employees, customers, business partners and shareholders.
Social conditions can be improved for all through the creation of wealth.
Halma creates wealth responsibly allowing our employees, customers, business partners and shareholders to determine where this wealth is best distributed.
Halmas policies reect the core requirements of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work.
We do not tolerate practices which contravene these international standards.
Regulatory demands upon us vary considerably around the world, so Halma establishes the core structure to ensure that Group companies fully comply with regulatory requirements while permitting them to tailor the solutions to their particular needs.
Ethics The Group culture is one of openness, integrity and accountability.
Halma encourages its employees to act fairly in their dealings with fellow employees, customers, suppliers and business partners.
We aim to have suppliers of high quality and operate to acceptable international standards.
Halma operates a condential whistleblowing policy, which enables all Group employees to raise any concerns they may have.
Halma has a zero-tolerance policy on bribery and corruption which extends to all business dealings and transactions in which we are directly involved.
This includes a prohibition on making political donations, offering or receiving inappropriate gifts or making undue payments to inuence the outcome of business dealings.
CAUTIONARY NOTE The Business review has been prepared solely to assist shareholders to assess the Boards strategies and their potential to succeed.
It should not be relied on by any other party, for other purposes.
Forward-looking statements have been made by the Directors in good faith using information available up until the date that they approved the Report.
Forward-looking statements should be regarded with caution because of the inherent uncertainties in economic trends and business risks.
In preparing this Business review, the Directors have aimed to comply with the Accounting Standards Boards 2006 Reporting Statement guidance on Operating and Financial Reviews.
Halma p. l. c. Annual report and accounts 2008 35 DIRECTORS REPORT Board of Directors and executive team Name: Geoff Unwin Name: Andrew Williams Name: Kevin Thompson Title: Chairman Title: Chief Executive Title: Finance Director Appointment:July 2003 Chairman Appointment:July 2004 Board Appointment:April 1998 Board September 2002 Deputy Chairman April 2002 Executive Board January 1995 Executive Board Age: 65 Age: 41 Age: 48 Committees: Nomination Chairman Committees: Nomination Skills and experience: Kevin is Finance Director and Remuneration of Halma.
In 1995 he joined the Halma Skills and experience: Andrew was appointed Executive Board as Finance Director, in 1997 Skills and experience: Geoff is Chairman of Chief Executive of Halma p. l. c. in February became group Finance Director and in 1998 Liberata plc and Taptu Limited.
He became a member of the Executive was appointed to the Halma p. l. c. Board.
He voting board director of Capgemini Group, Board in 2002 as Divisional Chief Executive joined the Group in 1987 as Group Financial a member of the advisory board of Palamon of the Optics and Water Instrumentation Controller and qualied as a Chartered Capital Partners and also chairs one of their Division and was promoted to a Director of Accountant with Price Waterhouse.
Kevin is investments, OmniBus Systems Limited.
He joined Halma an economics and accounting graduate of Previously he was Chief Executive of Cap in 1994 as Manufacturing Director of Palmer Bristol University.
Gemini Ernst & Young until 2002 and Environmental and became Managing Director Chairman of United Business Media plc from of that company in 1997.
Engineer and a production engineering graduate of Birmingham University.
Name: Richard Stone Name: Adam Meyers Name: Neil Quinn Title: Non-executive Director and Senior Title: Chief Executive-Health Optics and Title: Chief Executive-Safety Sensors Division Independent Director Photonics Division Appointment:April 1998 Board Appointment: January 2001 Appointment:April 2008 Board April 1995 Executive Board April 2003 Executive Board Age: 65 Age: 58 Age: 46 Committees: Nomination, Remuneration Skills and experience: Neil was appointed Chief Chairman and Audit Skills and experience: Adam is Chief Executive Executive of the newly formed Safety Sensors of the Health Optics and Photonics Division and Division in 2007 having previously been Chief Skills and experience: Richard is the Senior was promoted to a Director of Halmas p. l. c. Executive of both the Fire and the Fire & Security Independent Director.
He is Chairman of Board in April 2008.
He became a member Divisions commencing in 1994.
He was Drambuie Limited and CSW Group Limited, a of the Halma Executive Board in 2003 as appointed to the Halma Executive Board in non-executive Director of Gartmore Global Trust Divisional Chief Executive of the Fluid Technology 1995 and to the Halma p. l. c. Board in 1998. p. l. c. Trust Union Finance 1991 plc, Engandscot Division.
He joined Halma in 1996 as President He joined the Group as Sales Director of Apollo Limited, TR Property Investment Trust plc and of Bio-Chem Valve and was appointed Assistant Fire Detectors in 1987, becoming Managing Candover Investments plc.
Previously Richard Divisional Chief Executive in 2001.
Neil has a Material Sciences was a member of the Global Board of systems engineering graduate of the University degree from Shefeld University.
 and Chairman of Pennsylvania and gained his MBA from of Coopers & Lybrand.
com BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Board of Directors E Geoffrey Unwin Chairman Andrew J Williams Chief Executive Kevin J Thompson Finance Director Neil Quinn Richard A Stone Keith J Roy Stephen R Pettit E Jane Aikman Adam J Meyers Secretary Carol T Chesney Name: Jane Aikman Name: Stephen Pettit Executive Board Title: Non-executive Director Title: Non-executive Director Andrew J Williams Appointment: August 2007 Appointment: September 2003 Kevin J Thompson Age: 42 Age: 57 Keith J Roy Committees: Nomination, Remuneration Committees: Nomination, Remuneration and John S Campbell Elevator Safety and Audit Audit Chairman Charles E Dubois Fluid Technology Skills and experience: Jane was appointed a Skills and experience: Stephen was appointed Mark Lavelle Process Safety non-executive Director of Halma in August a non-executive Director of Halma in Adam J Meyers Health Optics and Photonics 2007.
She is Finance Director of Innis Limited.
He is chairman of ROK plc Neil Quinn Safety Sensors Jane qualied as a Chartered Accountant and a non-executive director of National Grid Allan Stamper Water and Asset Monitoring with Ernst & Young and has a degree in civil plc and BT Group plc Equality of Access Nigel J B Trodd Fire and Gas engineering from Birmingham University.
Stephen is an Economics and Politics Nigel J Young Special Projects Previously Jane was finance director of both graduate of Cardiff University, has an MSc from Wilson Bowden Plc and Pressac plc.
She spent London School of Economics and an MBA from three years as an internal audit manager with INSEAD.
Previously Stephen was an executive GEC Alsthom and five years in East Asia with director with Cable & Wireless PLC and a Asia Pulp and Paper Co Limited.
divisional chief executive with BP PLC.
Key Board of Directors Executive Board Name: Keith Roy Name: Carol Chesney Title: Director Title: Company Secretary Appointment:April 2001 Board Appointment: April 1998 April 2000 Executive Board Age: 45 Age: 58 Skills and experience: Carol was appointed Skills and experience: Keith was appointed to Company Secretary of Halma p. l. c. in 1998.
He joined Halma spent three years with English China Clays p. l. c. having been joint owner of Reten Acoustics before joining Halma in 1995 as Group Finance when Halma acquired it in 1992 and was Manager.
She is a maths graduate of appointed Managing Director and subsequently Randolph-Macon Womans College, Virginia Chairman of Palmer Environmental.
He became and qualied as a Chartered Accountant with Assistant Divisional Chief Executive in 1998.
In 2000 he was appointed Divisional Chief Executive of the Water Technology Division.
Keith is an electronic engineering graduate of both Nottingham University BSc and Aston University MSc.
Halma p. l. c. Annual report and accounts 2008 37
