DIRECTORS REPORT Board of Directors and executive team continued Name: John Campbell Name: Charles Dubois Name: Mark Lavelle Title: Chief Executive Elevator Safety Division Title: Chief Executive Fluid Technology Division Title: Chief Executive Process Safety Division Appointment: April 1998 Executive Board Appointment: April 2008 Executive Board Appointment: April 2007 Executive Board Age: 49 Age: 42 Age: 49 Skills and experience: John was appointed Skills and experience: Charles was appointed Skills and experience: Mark was appointed Chief Executive of the Elevator Safety Division in Chief Executive of the Fluid Technology Division Chief Executive of the Process Safety Division 2006 after leading the successful disposal of in April 2008.
In 2007 he became Divisional in 2007.
He joined Keeler Instruments in the Groups resistor businesses.
He joined Managing Director of that Division.
He was November 2001 as Managing Director and the Halma Executive Board in 1998 and has appointed President of Diba Industries was promoted to Divisional Managing Director also operated Halma businesses in the Safety following the companys acquisition in 2004. in 2006.
Mark has a chemistry degree from Interlock, Bursting Disk and Automatic Door Charles joined the Group in 1999 as Vice Cambridge University and an MBA from INSEAD.
He joined the Group in 1995 President Sales and Marketing of Perma Pure as President of IPC Resistors and is an LLC.
He holds a Bachelors degree in physics electrical engineering graduate of the from the College of the Holy Cross and earned University of Toronto.
his MBA from the F. W. Olin School of Business at Babson College.
Name: Allan Stamper Name: Nigel Trodd Name: Nigel Young Title: Chief Executive Special Projects Title: Chief Executive Water and Asset Title: Chief Executive Fire and Gas Division Monitoring Division Appointment: April 1994 Executive Board Appointment: July 2003 Executive Board Appointment: October 2007 Executive Board Age: 58 Age: 50 Age: 53 Skills and experience: Nigel is Chief Executive Skills and experience: Nigel is Chief Executive of Special Products with responsibility for Group Skills and experience: Allan was appointed the Fire and Gas Division.
He joined Halma in Management Information Systems and Halma Divisional Chief Executive and a member of the July 2003 as Chief Executive of Process Safety People Development Programmes.
He was Executive Board in October 2007.
He joined Division and a member of the Executive Board.
appointed to the Executive Board in 1994 and the Group in 2002 as Managing Director of Nigel is a business studies graduate of Thames has served as a Divisional Chief Executive since Crowcon Detection Instruments.
Allan is an Valley University and is a member of the 1992.
Nigel joined Halma as Managing Director engineering graduate of both Loughborough Chartered Institute of Marketing.
of Fortress Interlocks when the company University BSc and Imperial College MSc joined the Group in 1987.
He has an MBA and has an MBA from Craneld.
Key Board of Directors Executive Board 38 www.
