Directors Report Governance Performance evaluation 2008 The Remuneration Committee determines, on behalf of the Board, the Building on the external review of the Boards effectiveness and the remuneration and benefits of the Chairman and executive Directors of effectiveness of its Committees undertaken in 2007 by Egon Zehnder, the Company and monitors the levels of remuneration and benefits of the Board has conducted its own review in 2008.
The findings of the selected senior managers of the Group.
In formulating its remuneration review have been considered by the Board and certain actions will be policy, the Remuneration Committee gives full consideration to the implemented as a result.
The Chairman has met with the non-executive matters set out in Schedule A to the Code.
The Groups remuneration Directors, without the executive Directors being present, to consider policy is described in the Remuneration Report on page 47. the findings of the review.
The Senior Independent Director has also The Board as a whole determines the level of fees of non-executive met with the other non-executive Directors to review the Chairmans Directors, after taking into account fees payable by comparable performance, having consulted with the executive Directors.
This has companies and after receiving external advice.
enabled constructive feedback to be given to each Director.
As part of the review, the effectiveness of the Remuneration and Audit Committees Audit Committee was also considered.
The Audit Committee also undertook its own A full report on the activities of the Audit Committee is included on page 42. separate review reported on page 42.
Internal control Following the review, the Chairman is satisfied that each of the Directors The Directors are responsible for the Groups system of internal control being put forward for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General and for maintaining and reviewing its effectiveness.
The Board has Meeting continues to be effective and that their ongoing commitment delegated responsibility for the review of the Groups internal controls to the role is undiminished.
A review has been completed for the year ended 30 June 2008 in accordance with the recommendations of Responsibilities and membership of Board Committees the Turnbull Report.
The Groups systems and controls are designed The Board has agreed written terms of reference for the Nomination to safeguard the Groups assets and to ensure the reliability of Committee, Remuneration Committee and Audit Committee.
The terms information used both within the business and for publication.
of reference for all three Board Committees are published on the Companys website, www.
com, and are also available from Systems are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of the Company Secretary at the Registered Office.
failure to achieve business objectives and can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Nomination Committee key features of the internal control systems which operated throughout The Nomination Committee identifies and selects candidates in the period covered by the financial statements and up to the date of connection with any proposed new appointments of Directors and signing the accounts are described below.
makes recommendations to the Board in respect of such appointments.
Day-to-day responsibility for the management and operations of the Mr R A Lawson chairs the Nomination Committee.
Mrs L M S Knox business has been delegated to the Chief Executive and his Management and Messrs C W Eccleshare, P H Stoneham and P S Harrison were Board, comprising the Group Finance Director, Regional Managing members of the Committee throughout the year.
Mr R J Smelt was Directors, Group Human Resources Director, Group Marketing Director appointed to the Committee on 15 November 2007.
Mr B G Wallace and Group IT Director.
The Company Secretary attends all Management ceased to be a member following his retirement from the Board on Board meetings.
Clear levels of authority exist for the Management 15 November 2007.
The Chief Executive attends by invitation Board.
As far as possible, the business units are given autonomy, whilst when appropriate.
operating within an established internal control environment as set out During the year under review, a new non-executive Director Mr Smelt in the Group Policies and Procedures Manual.
This manual is designed was appointed to the Board.
In consultation with the Board, the Nomination to ensure that significant risks, investment decisions and management Committee identified the type of candidate and experience needed issues are escalated to Board level at the earliest appropriate opportunity.
for the role, using the services of a search agency, and reviewed The Group Policies and Procedures Manual is updated on an ongoing external candidates for the consideration of the Board.
From the basis to reflect changes in procedures as and when they occur.
selection of candidates, the Nomination Committee put forward Certain specific administrative functions are controlled centrally by the Group.
a final recommendation for the appointment of Mr Smelt as a Taxation, treasury and insurance functions report to the Board via the non-executive Director to the Board for approval.
The legal, compliance and health & safety functions report to the Board via the Company Secretary.
Procedures Remuneration Committee Mrs L M S Knox, an independent non-executive Director, chairs the are clearly defined to ensure that the activities of these functions reduce the risk profile of the organisation.
An overview of the Groups treasury Remuneration Committee.
Messrs C W Eccleshare, P H Stoneham and P S Harrison were members of the Committee throughout the policy is set out on page 30.
The Group has an ongoing process for the identification, evaluation and reporting of major business risks.
Mr B G Wallace served as a member of the Remuneration Committee until 15 November 2007 and Mr R J Smelt was on the management of key issues is reported through the management appointed to the Remuneration Committee at that same date.
structure to executive management and to the Board.
The Group Hays plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 39 Directors Report Governance Corporate Governance operates a comprehensive budgeting and financial reporting system.
The Notice of the Annual General Meeting to be held on Wednesday Annual budgets are reviewed and approved at business and Group 12 November 2008, is contained in the separate Shareholder Circular level.
This process includes the identification and quantification of and will be sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the significant risks relating to markets and operations.
Each substantially separate issue is proposed in the Notice is reported against budget and prior year.
The monthly management of Annual General Meeting as a separate resolution and there are accounts analyse and explain variances against budget and report on separate resolutions relating to the Annual Report and Accounts and key indicators, with detailed explanations for variances and movements the Directors Remuneration Report.
Furthermore, it is intended that in forecasts provided to the Board.
the Chairmen of the Nomination, Audit and Remuneration Committees will be present at the Annual General Meeting.
At the meeting all The Group has an Internal Audit department.
The resources of this resolutions will be taken on a poll and the results published on the department are augmented with independent expert external resources, Companys website www.
wherever necessary, to review risk and monitor compliance with the Groups policies and procedures.
Regular reviews of the most important Going concern controls are undertaken to ensure that key control objectives are achieved.
The accounts have been prepared on the going concern basis as Reports on the effectiveness of operational and financial controls are the Directors are satisfied that the Group has adequate resources regularly presented to executive management and to the Audit Committee to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
and recommendations are agreed upon and implemented.
Directors responsibilities Although the Group transformation is complete in all material respects, The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, Directors there is a level of residual risk.
Management continues to monitor and Remuneration Report and the financial statements in accordance with control any matters that arise.
Company law requires the Directors to The monitoring of control procedures is achieved through review by prepare financial statements for each financial year.
The Directors are executive management reporting to the Board.
This is supplemented by required by the International Accounting Standards IAS Regulation to reviews undertaken by the Internal Audit department of the controls in prepare the Group financial statements under International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The operation in the business units.
The internal review process has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of the approval Group financial statements are also required by law to be properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article of the Annual Report and Accounts.
Relations with shareholders IAS 1 requires that IFRS financial statements present fairly for each The executive Directors of the Company have a regular dialogue with financial year the Groups financial position, financial performance analysts and substantial shareholders.
All non-executive Directors are and cash flows.
This requires the faithful representation of the effects aware of the programme of proposed visits and are invited to attend.
of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the Investors are offered the opportunity to meet the Senior Independent definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and Director and the Chairman.
expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards Boards Published broker reports are circulated to the Board which considers Framework for the preparation and presentation of financial statements.
any issues raised within them.
The Groups advisers maintain a dialogue In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved with major shareholders and after each investor roadshow compile a by compliance with all applicable IFRSs.
However, Directors are report of shareholders views on key issues and management performance.
also required to: A summary of this report is subsequently provided to the Board.
properly select and apply accounting policies: The Annual General Meeting is used as an opportunity to communicate present information, including accounting policies, in a manner with all shareholders.
In addition, preliminary results, interim results and that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable quarterly interim management statements are posted on the information: and Companys website, www.
com, as soon as they are announced.
Also, at least four times a year, the Company hosts a teleconference provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific for analysts and investors.
A detailed investor day was held in April requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand 2008 to fully brief major shareholders and the analyst community on the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions the Companys performance, prospects and strategy.
on the entitys financial position and financial performance.
com Directors Report Governance The Directors have elected to prepare the parent Company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
The parent Company financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the parent Company financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The Board confirms to the best of its knowledge: the consolidated financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group: and the Directors Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
Disclosure of information to auditors As required by section 234ZA of the Companies Act 1985, each of the Directors as at 1 September 2008 confirms that: a so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and b the Director has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Words and phrases used in this confirmation should be interpreted in accordance with section 234ZA of the Companies Act 1985.
R A Lawson Chairman Hays plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 41 Directors Report Governance Audit Committee Report recommend to the Board for approval by shareholders, the appointment, re-appointment or removal of the external auditors.
monitor the relationship with the external auditor, including consideration of their fees, the audit scope and the terms of their engagement.
review the effectiveness and objectivity of the external audit as well as the external auditors independence.
review the policy on engagement of the external auditor for the provision of non-audit services and monitor compliance.
review the Companys internal controls and risk management systems.
monitor the effectiveness of the Companys internal audit function.
ensure the Company maintains suitable arrangements for employees to raise concerns in confidence.
Paul Harrison Activities of the Audit Committee Audit Committee Chairman The Committee met four times during the financial year ended 30 June 2008.
Attendance at meetings is shown on page 38.
The Audit Committee is appointed by the Board from the non-executive Directors of the Company.
The Audit Committees terms of reference During the year the Committee discharged its responsibilities as follows: include all matters indicated by the June 2006 Combined Code on Financial statements Corporate Governance the Code published by the Financial Reporting The Audit Committee reviewed the draft annual and interim financial Council.
The terms of reference are considered annually by the Audit statements prior to recommending their approval to the Board.
The Committee and are then referred to the Board for approval.
Committee discussed with the executive Directors and external auditors the appropriateness of accounting policies adopted, significant estimates Composition of the Audit Committee and judgements, whether the financial statements gave a true and fair Mr P S Harrison, an independent non-executive Director, chairs the view and the appropriateness of the going concern assumption.
Mrs L M S Knox and Messrs C W Eccleshare and External auditors P H Stoneham were members of the Committee throughout the year.
The Audit Committee is responsible for recommending to the Board for Mr B G Wallace ceased to be the Audit Committee Chairman following approval by the shareholders the appointment of the external auditor.
his retirement from the Board on 15 November 2007.
The Committee considered the scope and materiality for the audit Mr Harrison, a Chartered Accountant, is the Group Finance Director of work, approved the audit fee, reviewed the results of their work and The Sage Group plc.
As such, he is considered suitably qualified to be considered the effectiveness of the external auditors.
The Committee also met the external auditors without management At the invitation of the Audit Committee, the Chairman of the Board, being present.
the Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director, Head of Internal Audit, The Committee reviewed the policy on the engagement of the external Group Financial Controller and external auditors regularly attend.
auditors for non-audit services and confirmed the applicability of that Membership of the Committee is reviewed by the Chairman of the policy in satisfying itself that the independence and objectivity of the Committee and the Company Chairman, who is not a member of auditors was not impaired.
the Committee, and they recommend new appointments to the The key features of this policy are as follows: Nomination Committee for onward recommendation to the Board.
The Committee comprises four independent non-executive work closely related to the audit e. g. taxation or financial reporting Directors and two members constitute a quorum.
matters can be awarded to the auditors by the executive Directors provided the work does not exceed 150,000 in fees per item.
Role of the Audit Committee all other work either requires Audit Committee approval or forms The terms of reference of the Audit Committee are published on the part of a list of prohibited services where it is felt independence Companys website, www.
com and are also available from the or objectivity may be compromised.
Company Secretary at the Registered Office.
The Committee has reviewed the non-audit services performed by The key responsibilities of the Committee are to: the auditors in the year and has concluded that the policy has been applied and the independence and objectivity of the auditors has not monitor the appropriateness of the financial statements and formal been impaired as a result.
Details of fees paid to the external auditors announcements relating to the financial performance including any during the financial year are set out on page 68. significant judgements.
