Directors Report Governance After due and careful consideration, taking account of the processes above, the Committee recommended to the Board that the external auditors be reappointed.
Internal controls and risk management The Audit Committee reviewed the Companys internal controls and risk management systems by considering the Groups risk assessment process and the effectiveness of the controls to mitigate those risks.
It considered the results of testing performed by both the internal and external audit teams in evaluating the effectiveness of such controls.
Internal Audit The Audit Committee oversees the Internal Audit function.
During the year the Committee reviewed the performance of the Internal Audit function.
To assist the Audit Committee an external review of the function was performed by BDO Stoy Hayward LLP.
The audit plan for the coming year was reviewed and approved, along with the departments resource requirements.
The plan provides a financial and geographical coverage of the business and is focused on reviewing the major business risks identified as part of the Committees risk review.
Internal Audit reports include recommendations to improve internal controls and management action plans to address any issues.
Internal Audit monitor the progress made in the implementation of the recommendations.
The Committee received details of all the key findings and regular updates on progress made in implementing improvements.
The Committee also met the internal auditors without management being present.
Raising concerns in confidence The Audit Committee reviewed the Groups procedures enabling employees to raise concerns in confidence.
The process was updated and concerns can now be raised with an independent third party and a mechanism has been put in place to ensure the Committee receives reports of any serious concerns raised.
These arrangements are considered appropriate for the needs of the Group.
Audit Committee effectiveness The Audit Committee prepared and reviewed with the Board an annual performance evaluation, which concluded that the Committee has acted in accordance with its terms of reference, is operating effectively and met all legal and regulatory requirements.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee will be available at the Annual General Meeting to answer any questions about the work of the Committee.
On behalf of the Audit Committee.
P S Harrison Chairman, Audit Committee Hays plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 43 Directors Report Governance Other Statutory Information Directors and on a poll, every member present in person or by proxy, shall The following were Directors during the year and held office have one vote for every Ordinary share held.
In accordance with the throughout the year, unless otherwise indicated: provisions of the Articles of Association, holders of Ordinary shares are entitled to a dividend where declared or paid out of profits available R A Lawson, Chairman for such purposes.
On return of capital on a winding up, holders of D R Waxman, Chief Executive resigned 15 November 2007 Ordinary shares are entitled to participate in such a return.
A R Cox, Chief Executive appointed 1 September 2007 P Venables, Group Finance Director Restrictions on transfers of securities C W Eccleshare The restrictions on the transfer of shares in the Company are as follows: P S Harrison L M S Knox the Board may, in its absolute discretion and without giving any reason, R J Smelt appointed 15 November 2007 refuse to register the transfer of a certificated share which is not fully P H Stoneham paid, provided that the refusal does not prevent dealing in shares in B G Wallace resigned 15 November 2007 the Company from taking place on an open and proper basis.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, Messrs P the Board may also refuse to register the transfer of a certificated Venables, C W Eccleshare and P H Stoneham will retire by rotation share unless the instrument of transfer is lodged, duly stamped if and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election at the forthcoming stampable, at the office or at another place appointed by the Board Annual General Meeting.
In addition, Mr R J Smelt, having been appointed accompanied by the certificate for the share to which it relates and since the last Annual General Meeting, will retire and, in accordance such other evidence as the Board may reasonably require to show with the Companys Articles of Association, offer himself for re-appointment.
the right of the transferor to make the transfer.
Biographical details for all Directors are shown on page 37. the Board may refuse to register a transfer of shares in favour of four or more persons jointly.
Structure of share capital where a shareholder has declined to provide certain information As at 30 June 2008, the Companys authorised share capital of requested by the Company in accordance with the Companies Act, 88,980,947 comprised 8,898,094,700 Ordinary shares of 1p the Board can in certain circumstances, refuse to register a transfer each.
As at 30 June 2008 the Companys issued share capital of such shares.
No shares were allotted during the year.
restrictions may be imposed on certain Group employees who During the year from 1 July 2007 to 30 June 2008, the Company are required to seek approval from the Company before dealing purchased 73,246,888 Ordinary shares of 1p at a weighted average in shares in accordance with the requirements of the Listing Rules price, including transaction costs, of 124.17 pence and the total of the United Kingdom Listing Authority.
The percentage of awards of shares under the Company incentive arrangements, the issued capital purchased was 5%.
Performance Share Plan, Deferred Annual Bonus Plan and Long The Companies Acquisition of Own Shares Treasury Shares Term Co-investment Plan, are subject to restrictions on transfer Regulations 2003 the Regulations allow companies to hold shares of shares prior to vesting.
acquired by way of market purchase in treasury, rather than having to cancel them.
The Directors may use the authority to purchase shares The Company is unaware of any arrangements between its shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of shares and or voting rights.
and hold them in treasury and subsequently sell or transfer them out of treasury as permitted in accordance with the Regulations rather Exercise of rights of shares in employee share schemes than cancel them, subject to institutional guidelines applicable at the time.
The shares purchased by the Company in the year were held in Certain share awards under Company incentive arrangements are held in trust on behalf of the beneficiaries.
The trustee of the Hays Employee treasury.
At 30 June 2008, 86,640,977 Ordinary shares of 1p were held in Treasury.
100,000,000 shares held in treasury were cancelled Trust Share does not seek to exercise the voting rights on these shares.
No voting rights are exercised in relation to shares unallocated to during the year.
3,310,542 shares held in treasury were transferred during the year to 30 June 2008 to satisfy awards of shares under individual beneficiaries.
the Companys employee share schemes.
No dividends have been paid on shares whilst held in treasury and no voting rights attach Restrictions on voting deadlines The notice of any general meeting shall specify the deadline for to the treasury shares.
exercising voting rights and appointing a proxy or proxies to vote at a general meeting.
It is the Companys policy at present to take Rights and obligations of Ordinary shares On a show of hands at a general meeting every holder of Ordinary shares all resolutions at a general meeting on a poll and the results of the poll are published on the Companys website after the meeting.
present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote shall have one vote 44 www.
