Corporate Social Responsibility Co-operative Relationships Heritage has always been committed to Heritage is committed to integrating CSR into everything it does from being a great place responsible and respectful conduct towards the diverse communities affected by our to work, investing in local communities, minimising environmental impacts and working activities.
Heritages Corporate Social Heritages objective is to Responsibility CSR encompasses the closely with partners and contractors.
minimise its impact on management of relationships with Environment shareholders, employees, contractors and the environment and to There were no environmental issues most importantly the communities in areas encountered by Heritage during 2008. where we work, together with the impact on support development in Heritage is aware that many parts of our society and the environment, especially where business could potentially impact upon the we are the operator.
We recognise we have local communities.
environment and ecosystems within which we specific responsibilities in each of these areas operate.
We pledge to restore sites where we and consider adherence to CSR values to be operate to their original state and to comply a key factor in securing long-term success.
with conditions imposed by bodies such as the National Environment Management Authority Heritage today faces a wide range of both NEMA in Uganda.
Before any well is drilled opportunities and challenges in the area of we conduct a seismic survey which uses CSR.
This is particularly so given the nature reflected sound waves to generate data.
This of the industry and the geographic location information, together with other geological of our operations, many of which are in data, enables our technical team to establish countries with complex social, political and where to drill for the best chance of a economic challenges and or particular discovery.
In 2008, five wells were drilled in environmental sensitivities.
Uganda and all encountered hydrocarbons.
The drill sites are all in the process of being Heritages objective is to minimise our restored under government supervision.
impact on the environment and to support Heritage adheres to a strict clean environment development in local communities.
We philosophy with a comprehensive waste recognise the importance of engaging with management practice.
We contain site drilling local stakeholders and take seriously their effluents which are disposed of in dedicated concerns regarding oil and gas development.
Heritage believes that by working closely with our host communities we are better enabled to Heritage provides support to the Ugandan meet potential challenges.
Heritage works with Wildlife Authority UWA and has recently the communities within which we operate to financed a major overhaul of a ferry which is ensure their needs are fully considered when used to transport both vehicles and people in projects are being planned.
We have also provided scrambler motorcycles for UWA Effective management of CSR allows Heritage rangers and a vehicle for UWA nature wardens.
to identify potential risks and respond to areas of performance where improvement is needed.
Effective CSR can help in attracting and Society Our community development strategies in all retaining the best staff, making us a partner of choice and realising value for shareholders.
areas are designed and implemented through consulting and working with local communities The CSR agenda is to inspire, challenge and empower staff to make a positive contribution and local governments.
This is done from an early stage to ensure that the community has a to local communities and the environment.
32 Heritage Oil Limited Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Opening of the Carl Nedft Memorial Primary School in Buhuka, Uganda sense of ownership of the project and is able Training contractors in health and safety career development for all employees and with to continue the implementation of the project matters was a priority in 2008.
Our personnel a geographically diversified portfolio we on a sustainable basis.
in Uganda, the Kurdistan Region of Iraq and believe that the workforce should reflect Russia attended, or were offered, courses on the communities in which we operate.
It is In Block 3A, Uganda, the inauguration safety issues such as oil spill and HAZMAT important that our employees create and ceremony of the Carl Nedft Memorial Primary Hazardous Materials operational training maintain our business culture within the School at Buhuka was organised by Heritage.
In both the Kurdistan communities where our operations impact.
This was a major project for which we made Region of Iraq and Uganda, Heritage provides Heritage employs local resources wherever available $500,000 and will endow the school nearby villagers with medical checks and possible and also encourages all seismic for many years to come with teaching facilities access to the site clinic.
A senior member of contractors to do the same and to run a and learning opportunities for the children of staff is directly responsible for health and safety programme of training for those with potential the remote Buhuka area.
matters and refers any issues to the Board.
to take on technical roles within future surveys.
Other community work in which we lead Malaria remains the biggest health care issue Government and Partners programmes includes: in Uganda and Heritage is determined to help Relationships are key to the development paving or mending roads providing better address this risk.
A total of 42 workers were of any business and our success would access for villagers to local markets: treated for Malaria in Block 1 and 115 in Block not be possible without the support of all providing fresh water by drilling water wells: 3A, out of total of 786 patients seen which stakeholders including governments and supplying carpets to a local mosque in included residents from the local communities.
We work hard to continuously the Kurdistan Region of Iraq: None of the patients progressed to complicated engage with these groups to generate support providing tremendous opportunities for Malaria and no Malaria related deaths were and understanding of our operations.
employment for the local population: reported, showing that the current Malaria sponsoring pupils to attend university.
We prevention and treatment programme is working.
The Tanzanian National Environmental are currently sponsoring 12 in Uganda: Management Council twice made visits to the sponsoring various community aid and In Uganda we have appointed an HIV and AIDS crews seismic operations in both the Kimbiji womens projects, including a community Co-ordinator who leads related training on the and Kisangire licence areas and senior officers radio station and the Watoto Child Care project locations.
fed back a report which is detailed in our Project in Uganda: and separate CSR report on page 5. sponsoring civil servants in Uganda to In 2008 we sponsored two local Ugandan attend courses on oil legislation and students to attend the Basic Life Support Business Ethics contract terms.
Paramedical Course in Rustenburg, South The Group encourages the highest standards Africa.
Both of these students passed the of integrity and honesty in all business dealings.
course and are now employed on projects as Health and Safety The objective is to maintain and enhance part of the internal training programmes to Heritage is committed to achieving and the reputation of the Company and enforce obtain further paramedical qualifications.
maintaining the highest standards of safety ethical dealings within our areas of operation.
for its employees and the communities within The Board has established a whistleblowing Employees which we operate.
In line with our policy, policy which has been distributed to employees We aim to attract, develop and retain talented Heritage is committed to: and is available in all offices.
The policy and committed people in order to maintain the championing safety to everyone our details procedures for any employee to raise capability to deliver our business objectives activities touch: in confidence any concerns they may have and make Heritage an employer of choice.
We playing a role in promoting best practice about possible improprieties with either the ensure that all of our employees understand in our industry: Chairman or the Chief Executive Officer.
and appreciate our business strategy, goals sharing openly information on our health and values.
It is important to Heritage that and safety performance: and our staff feel valued, safe and free to raise any managing health and safety matters concerns.
There are equal opportunities in as a critical business activity.
Heritage Oil Limited Annual Report & Accounts 2008 33
