Corporate Governance Report The Directors recognise the importance of maintaining good Code Provision A.
5.1: A formal induction process was not corporate governance practices and are committed to applying the in place during the period.
However, it is considered more highest industry standards of business ethics, health and safety, appropriate that the induction of an individual Director is environment, risk management and corporate and social tailor made to suit the needs and experience of that Director: responsibility throughout the Group.
6.1: Board evaluation has not yet been undertaken due to the short time elapsed since Listing.
The To this end, the Board is continuing to put in place policies and Board believes that a meaningful evaluation can only take place procedures within which it will conduct its activities along with once the Board has had a reasonable amount of time to work working practices and a business culture to ensure openness together.
A Board evaluation process will be developed and and full accountability.
implemented during the next year: Code Provision B.
1.6: Notice periods for the Executive Directors As described below, the Company intends in due course to comply are 24 months.
The contracts for the Executive Directors were with the new June 2008 Combined Code on Corporate Governance in place before the Listing of the Company.
There is no current as issued by the UK Financial Reporting Council the Code in all intention to amend the notice periods but this will be kept under material respects.
review by the Remuneration Committee: and Code Provision C. 3.1: The Chairman of the Company, Michael Compliance with the Code Hibberd, is a Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Audit The Company was incorporated on 6 February 2008 and listed on Committee.
However, the Board believes that his recent and the main market of the London Stock Exchange on 31 March 2008 relevant financial experience, including his experience on the Listing.
corporate financial matters, is invaluable in supporting the Audit Committee to perform its role.
This report describes the extent to which the Company has complied with the principles set out in Section 1 of the Code and Board of Directors how it intends to apply those principles to the extent relevant to The initial Board was composed of six Directors which included a the June 2008 code going forward.
Non-Executive Chairman, two Executive Directors and a further three Non-Executive Directors as noted below.
The Board is now Prior to the Listing, the Board took a number of steps, and continues comprised of seven Directors, a further independent Non-Executive to do so, to comply with the Code.
The majority of the Board Director being appointed during the year.
The Chairman and three of previously served as Directors of Heritage Oil Corporation HOC the Non-Executive Directors are deemed to be independent under whose shares were listed on the Toronto Stock Exchange.
All of the Directors bring either extensive Board is, therefore, already accustomed to operating in a highly experience of the oil industry or a broad range of business, regulated corporate governance environment and as a result has commercial and corporate governance experience to the Board.
adopted a number of its processes.
It is the Boards intention to The Executive Directors have close involvement with the operations work towards full compliance with the Code in all material respects.
of the business through their operational roles.
The Board is However, in light of its recent Listing, certain principles of the Code supported by a strong and experienced senior management team.
have not been applied during the reporting period, either because it The biographies of the Board are set out on page 34. is not appropriate to do so at this stage in the Companys development or because of the short period of time that has The Board is accountable to shareholders for the creation and elapsed since Listing.
delivery of strong sustainable financial performance, guidance, perspective and long-term shareholder value.
The Board is Between 31 March and 31 December 2008, the Board considers responsible for ensuring the effectiveness of the system of internal that the Company complied with Section 1 of the Code, save in the controls including effectively managing and considering the following respects: commercial risks and financing needs, the disposal of businesses Code Provision A.
1.3: The Chairmans performance has not yet and assessing the most appropriate balance between acquisition been appraised due to the short time elapsed since listing.
It is led growth and organic growth.
Individual Directors constantly anticipated that the Chairmans performance will be appraised evaluate and challenge the Companys business strategy to ensure for the first time as part of the Board evaluation process during they identify areas where improvements can be made or where the second half of 2009: new opportunities exist so that the strategies remain appropriate Code Provision A.
2.1: The division of responsibilities between the and relevant to the Companys business.
In order to ensure that Chairman and Chief Executive Officer were agreed in writing after the Company complies with its obligations as a listed Company, the the end of the reporting period: Board also has responsibility for communications with shareholders, Code Provision A.
3.2: For part of the year until the appointment health and safety policy and the review of the Companys of Salim Hassan Macki in August 2008 at least half the Board management and financial performance.
Further details of excluding the Chairman were not considered to be independent compliance with these obligations are set out below.
3.3: The Board has yet to appoint a Senior The Board was formed early in 2008 and met five times between independent Non-Executive Director.
Communication between the Listing on 31 March 2008 and 31 December 2008.
The Board the Chairman, Executive and Non-Executive Directors is open will continue to meet sufficiently regularly to discharge its duties and frank and the Board believes that little would be added by the by way of formal Board meetings as well as ad-hoc meetings.
The Board intends to meet at least four times a year.
A formal appointment of a Senior Independent Director at this stage.
In addition, shareholders have access to all of the Directors to raise schedule detailing matters specifically reserved for its decision has been agreed.
The appointment of a Senior Independent Director will be kept under review: 36 Heritage Oil Limited Annual Report & Accounts 2008 The Board has delegated some of its responsibilities to certain committees in line with recommendations of the Code and to facilitate the business of the Company.
These are the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
Further details of these committees and their activities can be found later in this report and also in the Remuneration Report on pages 41 to 46.
A table of attendance of members of the Board and Board Committees at meetings between 31 March 2008 and 31 December 2008 is set out below: Audit Remuneration Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee 5 meetings 3 meetings 3 meetings 1 meeting 1 Michael Hibberd 5 5 3 3 3 3 1 1 Anthony Buckingham 4 5 1 1 Paul Atherton 5 5 John McLeod 5 5 3 3 3 3 2 4 3 Salim Hassan Macki 2 2 1 3 Gregory Turnbull 5 5 General Sir Michael Wilkes 5 5 3 3 3 3 1 1 1 Mr. Hibberd resigned from the Remuneration Committee in December 2008.
2 Mr. Macki was appointed to the Board in August 2008.
3 Mr. Macki was appointed to the Remuneration Committee in December 2008.
4 Mr. Macki was appointed to the Audit Committee in April 2009.
The Company Secretary is a corporate entity based in Jersey that Chairman and Chief Executive Officer deals with the normal statutory compliance for the Company.
The There is a clear division of responsibility between the Chairman Board and its Committees are, therefore, serviced by the Company and Chief Executive Officer to ensure an appropriate balance of Secretary or its nominee.
The other duties that would normally be responsibility and accountability.
These responsibilities have been carried out by the Company Secretary such as the provision of formalised in writing and approved by the Board.
information flows to the Board are dealt with by either the Chairman or Chief Financial Officer or their nominee.
In terms of corporate The Chairmans role is to ensure the effective running of the Board governance issues, the Board is advised by McCarthy Ttrault, in all aspects of its roles and setting its agenda.
His other key Registered Foreign Lawyers & Solicitors, in London.
The Board responsibilities include leading the Board, overseeing effective will monitor the provision of Company Secretarial duties and take communication with shareholders, ensuring constructive relations any action as appropriate to ensure its requirements are met.
The between all Directors and that all Directors are encouraged to appointment or removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for participate fully in the activities and decision making processes of the Board as a whole.
The Chairman also ensures that the Directors receive accurate, timely and clear information with all Board and Committee The Board shall ensure that all Directors and Committee members meeting information being issued to members in advance.
At each have access to independent professional advice whenever it is meeting there is an update on operational and financial performance required and at the Companys expense.
including a review of the performance and future potential of all material assets.
The Chairmans other significant appointments are Non-Executive Directors have executed letters of appointment disclosed to the Board and may be found in the Directors setting out their respective terms of appointment including the biographies on page 34. expected time commitment which has been agreed and confirmed with them.
Further details can be found in the Remuneration Report The Chief Executive Officer is responsible for managing the Groups on pages 41 to 46. business, proposing and developing the Groups strategy and overall commercial objectives in consultation with the Board and, The Directors are aware of their responsibilities and feel able to raise as leader of the executive team, implementing the decisions of the any concerns at Board meetings which are minuted accurately in Board and its Committees.
As required by the Code, the Company maintains Directors and Officers liability insurance cover, in respect of any legal action taken against the Directors, which is reviewed annually.
Heritage Oil Limited Annual Report & Accounts 2008 37 Corporate Governance Report continued Board Balance and Independence responsibilities which are set out in its terms of reference and include responsibility for: The Board is comprised of the following Directors: Michael Hibberd Chairman and Non-Executive Director integrity of financial statements, including annual and interim reports, results announcements and any other formal Anthony Buckingham Chief Executive Officer Paul Atherton Chief Financial Officer announcement relating to its financial performance: considering the establishment of an internal audit function: Salim Hassan Macki Non-Executive Director General Sir Michael Wilkes Non-Executive Director making recommendations to the Board on the appointment, review and removal of external auditors: Gregory Turnbull Non-Executive Director John McLeod Non-Executive Director monitoring external auditors independence: and policy on external auditors non-audit services.
The Board is satisfied that its composition will ensure that no The Audit Committee also oversees the Companys relationship with individual or group of individuals will dominate the decision-making process and that there is a strong presence on the Board of both its external auditors and reviews the effectiveness of the external audit process.
The Audit Committee pre-approves all audit and nonExecutive and Non-Executive Directors.
audit services undertaken by the external auditor, to ensure that the independence of the external auditors is not impaired.
The Audit The Board considers John McLeod, Salim Hassan Macki and General Sir Michael Wilkes are independent in character and Committee was satisfied throughout the year that the objectivity and independence of the external auditor were not in any way impaired judgement and free from relationships or circumstances which may affect their judgement.
On appointment, the Chairman was also by either the nature of the non-audit work undertaken by the external auditor during the year, the level of non-audit fees charged considered to be independent.
for such work or any other facts or circumstances.
The split between audit and non-audit fees is shown on page 49 of the Gregory Turnbull does not meet the independence criteria set out by the Code as he is a partner of McCarthy Ttrault LLP, the Directors Report.
Canadian legal advisers to the Company.
In fulfilling its responsibility of monitoring the integrity of financial reports to shareholders, the Audit Committee reviews the Albion Energy Limited Albion, the Companys largest shareholder, and Anthony Buckingham entered into a relationship agreement with accounting principles, policies and practices adopted in the preparation of public financial information and will examine the Company on 28 March 2008 the Relationship Agreement as documentation in relation to the Annual Report and annual financial part of the Listing.
The ultimate owner of Albion Energy Limited is report announcements.
The ultimate responsibility for reviewing and Anthony Buckingham.
The purpose of the Relationship Agreement is approving the interim and annual financial statements remains with to ensure that transactions and relationships between the Group, the Board.
Albion and Anthony Buckingham are at arms length and on normal commercial terms.
The Relationship Agreement prescribes that at all During the year the Audit Committee considered the following main times, the Board shall comprise of a majority of Directors who are all items of business: independent of Anthony Buckingham.
review of operations: review and approval of corporate budgeting: Board Committees As mentioned above, the Board has three committees, being the review of the integrity of the financial statements and formal announcements relating to the Groups financial performance: Remuneration, Audit and Nomination Committees.
The duties of these Committees are set out in formal terms of reference that were report of the external auditors, KPMG Audit Plc: review of interim financial statements: adopted by the Board on 18 March 2008 and are available on the Company website.
Membership of the Committees was reviewed review of the effectiveness of internal controls: review of whistleblowing policy: during the year.
management representation letters: Audit Committee and Internal Controls audit engagement letter: and Audit Committee Report 2008 audit plan and key audit risks.
The members of the Audit Committee are Michael Hibberd Chairman, John McLeod, General Sir Michael Wilkes and Salim At present there is no internal audit function.
The Board believes Hassan Macki who was appointed on 7 April 2009.
All members, that the current control systems in place and management oversight including the Chairman, are independent Non-Executive Directors.
are sufficient to highlight any areas of weaknesses in the financial Other members of the Board may also be invited to attend as and reporting systems.
The need for an internal audit function is kept when appropriate.
The auditors are also invited to attend regularly.
The Chairman of the Company, Michael Hibberd, is a member of Internal Controls the Audit Committee which is not in line with the recommendations The Audit Committee has responsibility for reviewing the made in the Smith Guidance on the Combined Code.
However, effectiveness of the Companys system of internal controls and risk the Board believes that his recent and relevant financial experience, management systems.
The Board has taken into account the including his experience on corporate financial matters, is invaluable relevant provisions of the Code in formulating the systems and in supporting the Audit Committee to perform its role.
procedures in operation in the Company.
It currently maintains the existing system of internal controls based on that used by HOC The Audit Committee engages in numerous ad-hoc discussions which was subject to compliance with relevant rules and regulations and formally meets at least twice a year to discharge its in Canada.
The Audit Committee considers the system to be effective.
38 Heritage Oil Limited Annual Report & Accounts 2008 The system of internal controls is designed to manage, rather than Following his appointment to the Board Salim Hassan Macki eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can replaced Michael Hibberd as a member on the Remuneration only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against Committee.
All the members are independent Non-Executive material misstatement or loss.
The Board will continue to review Directors.
The Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and and improve its system of internal controls.
external advisers may also be invited to attend.
Further information on the Committee can be found in the Remuneration Report on The Board recognises the need for effective internal controls and for pages 41 to 46. evaluating and managing the risks of the Company.
Such matters are brought to the attention of the Board at its formal Board The Remuneration Committee engages in numerous ad-hoc meetings, ad-hoc discussions or via the whistleblowing policy.
discussions and formally meets at least once a year and has responsibility for making recommendations to the Board on the High level controls in operation include: framework, or broad Company policy, for the remuneration of the review of management accounts with comparison of actual Chairman and the specific remuneration packages including performance against prior periods and budget: pension rights and any compensation payments for each of the approval of orders, authorisation of invoices and two signatories Executive Directors, the senior management and such other required to make a transfer on the principal bank accounts: members of the executive management as it is designated to quarterly reconciliation of all control accounts: consider.
The Committee will also ensure compliance with the approval by the Board for major investments: and Code and Companies Act 2006 in this respect.
No Director may segregation of duties between relevant functions and be involved in any decisions as to their own remuneration.
Nomination Committee Report The Company has implemented a whistleblowing policy and The members of the Nomination Committee are Michael Hibberd Chairman, General Sir Michael Wilkes and Anthony Buckingham.
information has been sent to all employees advising them that they can raise concerns in confidence about possible wrong doing by The majority of the members are independent Non-Executive Directors and Anthony Buckingham is the Chief Executive Officer.
contacting the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
In addition, whistleblowing is an agenda item at Board and Audit Committee External advisers may also be invited to attend meetings as and when required.
meetings with procedures established for appropriate action to be taken as required.
The Nomination Committee engages in numerous ad-hoc The Board is aware of the need to conduct regular risk assessments discussions and formally meets at least once a year and has responsibility for making recommendations to the Board on its to identify any deficiencies in the controls currently operating over all aspects of the Company.
A formal risk assessment is conducted composition including the skills, knowledge and experience, structure and size and that of its Committees, as well as on periodically during the year on internal controls to cover material controls, both financial and operational, and risk management retirements and appointments of additional and replacement Directors taking into account the challenges and opportunities systems.
In due course, as the Company develops, the Nomination Committee will review requirements to formalise The risk assessment and a review of the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls are performed in accordance succession planning and the process for new appointments.
with the Turnbull guidance and they were in place for the year end review process.
During the year the Nomination Committee considered the following items of business: Financial reporting procedures were reviewed as part of the Listing terms of reference: board structure and committees: process and a Board memorandum prepared.
Having considered the findings, the Directors were able to confirm that the financial succession planning: and process for new appointments.
reporting procedures established provided them with a reasonable basis on which to make proper judgements on the financial position The majority of the Board have previously served as Directors of and prospects of the Company on an ongoing basis.
However, one main weakness was noted, concerning accounting for complex HOC and they were judged on their merit before being appointed transactions, although the Company seeks third party advice to to the Board.
Future re-elections of Directors will be subject to mitigate against this weakness.
satisfactory performance reviews and refreshing of the Board.
The Directors recognise the need to maintain financial reporting Two new Non-Executive Directors, Salim Hassan Macki and procedures, to review them on an ongoing basis and to adapt them General Sir Michael Wilkes, were appointed during 2008.
An to changing circumstances and will use the Board memorandum external consultancy was not used in the appointment process as a basis for further developing the Board processes.
as this was not felt appropriate to the circumstances of the recruitments.
Both appointments are an outstanding addition to Details of other principal risks and uncertainties are discussed in the the Board providing a wealth of corporate experience and Mr Macki Financial Review on page 31. is highly regarded internationally in the oil industry.
The Board approved the appointments recognising that their knowledge Remuneration Committee Report will be invaluable in assisting the Company to achieve its planned The members of the Remuneration Committee are John McLeod goals in its core areas.
Chairman, Salim Hassan Macki and General Sir Michael Wilkes.
Heritage Oil Limited Annual Report & Accounts 2008 39 Corporate Governance Report continued Information and Professional Development The Board believes that the Directors possess a wealth of diverse experience and business skills.
Non-Executive Directors are actively encouraged to take up opportunities for questioning, examining and reviewing the Groups businesses and to undertake training applicable to their roles.
The Directors who were members of the Board at the time of Listing received a full and tailored induction from the Companys lawyers as part of the Listing process.
The Company will make the necessary resources available for any Directors development needs including access to independent professional advice, services and any other resources including Company Secretarial services as may be necessary to discharge their responsibilities.
Re-Election All Directors appointed, other than by shareholders, are subject to election by shareholders at the first Annual General Meeting AGM following their appointment.
One-third or the nearest to one-third of the Directors shall retire at subsequent AGMs.
Details of Directors retiring, but subject to re-appointment, at the forthcoming AGM will be detailed in the AGM circular.
Shareholder Relations and Constructive Use of the AGM The Chairman is responsible for ensuring effective communication of shareholders views to the Board as a whole and will update the rest of the Board accordingly.
Board members will use their best endeavours to attend meetings with a broad range of shareholders or otherwise keep in touch with shareholder opinion and discuss strategy and corporate governance issues with them as time progresses.
In addition, the Company has appointed an investor relations specialist who has co-ordinated an investor relations programme to meet with major shareholders and analysts.
The Chairman will also ensure that the respective chairmen of the Remuneration, Audit and Nomination Committees attend the AGM to answer questions and that the other Directors also attend.
Corporate information including the Annual Report and other financial presentations and announcements including the Prospectus are available on the Companys website at www.
Michael J. Hibberd Chairman 28 April 2009 40 Heritage Oil Limited Annual Report & Accounts 2008
