qxp 27 3 09 22:44 Page 72 72 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Governance Annual report 2008 Corporate Governance report Combined Code Composition of the Board The Board is responsible for, and committed to, meeting The Board currently comprises eight members: a the standards of good corporate governance set out in the Non-Executive Chairman, four independent Non-Executive Combined Code on Corporate Governance published by Directors, one Non-Executive Director not classied as the Financial Reporting Council in June 2006 as revised independent for the purposes of the Combined Code and the Combined Code and the corporate governance two Executive Directors.
The names of the Directors and principles set out in the Markets Law of the Dubai Financial their biographical details are set out on pages 68 and 69.
Services Authority the Markets Law together the The Chairman and the Executive Vice-Chairman were Corporate Governance Principles.
This report, the appointed to the Board on the incorporation of the Audit Committee report set out on pages 75 to 77 and the Company on 8 September 2005.
The Chief Executive officer Directors Remuneration Report set out on pages 81 to 91 was appointed to the Board on 1 July 2007, and save for describe how the Board applied the Corporate Governance Ronald Goode, who joined the Board on 12 December 2006, Principles during the year under review.
each of the Non-Executive Directors joined the Board on During the year under review, the Company applied 14 October 2005.
The Non-Executive Directors, who have the principles set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code, diverse business backgrounds, skills and experience, bring including both the main principles and the supporting independent judgement to bear on issues of strategy, principles, and the corporate governance principles.
performance, resources, key appointments, standards At the year end the Company was in full compliance of conduct and other matters presented to the Board.
with the Corporate Governance Principles.
The Chairman, Executive Vice-Chairman and each of The Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority the Non-Executive Directors except Ronald Goode, offer and the Markets Law require the Group to report on their themselves for re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
application of the principles of good governance and the The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive officer extent of their compliance with the Corporate Governance are separate, and their responsibilities are dened in writing Principles.
This statement provides details on how the and approved by the Board.
These guidelines are reviewed Group has applied these principles.
Prior to the appointment of the current Chief Executive officer the Board undertook The Board consultation with its major shareholders and external The Group is led and controlled by the Board of Directors.
advisers regarding the continuation of Samih Darwazah in The Boards role is to determine the Groups long-term his role as Chairman.
The Board concluded that his former strategy: to monitor the achievement of its business objectives: executive role should not prevent him from remaining as to ensure the Group has adequate resources available to Chairman, thus enabling the Group to continue to receive meet these objectives: to promote good corporate governance: important guidance through the Board in his capacity as and to ensure that the Group meets its responsibilities to Non-Executive Chairman.
shareholders, employees, suppliers, customers and other The Board does not classify Ali Al-Husry, as an independent stakeholders.
There is a formal schedule of matters reserved Director for the purposes of the Combined Code as a result to the Board for consideration and decision, which is of his close links to the Darwazah family through Darhold reviewed and, if necessary updated annually.
This includes Limited, the Companys largest shareholder.
However, he approval of strategic plans, approval of financial statements continues to bring broad financial experience to the Board and the annual Group budget, approval of material as well as a detailed knowledge of the MENA region which investment decisions, acquisitions and divestments, is significant to the Groups business.
and review of the effectiveness of the Groups systems The Senior Independent Director is Sir David Rowe-Ham.
No individual or group of individuals Sir David is Chairman of the Nomination Committee and dominates the Boards decision making process.
responsible for chairing the meetings of Non-Executive Except for the matters formally reserved for the Directors conducted without the presence of the Chairman Board, and in accordance with the Companys Articles of or executive management.
He is also the key contact for Association, the Board has delegated responsibility for the shareholders, should they have concerns that they do not management of the Group, through the Chief Executive wish to raise with the Chairman.
officer, to its executive management team.
qxp 27 3 09 22:44 Page 73 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC 73 Annual report 2008 Information ow Board Meeting record Scheduled Other Audit Remuneration Nomination Board and committee papers are circulated to members in Number of meetings 8 5 851 advance of the meetings.
In addition to formal meetings, the Samih Darwazah 85 Chairman and Non-Executive Directors maintain regular Said Darwazah 85 contact with executive management.
The Chairman also holds informal meetings with Non-Executive Directors Mazen Darwazah 85 1 without the executive management present to discuss issues Ali Al-Husry 85 affecting the Group.
Senior executives attend Board meetings Michael Ashton 8 5 851 and make presentations on the results and strategies of their Breffni Byrne 85 8 5 business units.
Sir David Rowe-Ham 8 5 851 All Directors have access to the advice and services of Ronald Goode 85 8 5 the Company Secretary, who is responsible for ensuring that good Board procedures are followed and for advising the Board performance evaluation Board through the Chairman on all matters of corporate governance.
The appointment and removal of the Company All Directors other than Said Darwazah who was appointed Secretary is a matter reserved for the Board.
To the extent on 1 July 2007 and elected by shareholders on 15 May 2008, necessary, the Directors are able to obtain independent and Ronald Goode who was appointed on 12 December professional advice at the Companys expense in the 2006 and elected by the shareholders at the AGM held on performance of their duties as Directors.
6 June 2007, were elected by shareholders at the first Annual General Meeting, held on 25 May 2006 and will therefore be Board training continuing professional development subject to re-election by shareholders at the Annual General The directors maintain a close dialogue between board Meeting to be held on 14 May 2009.
All Directors are subject meetings, ensuring that, amongst other things, the to re-election at intervals of no more than three years.
Non-Executive Directors are kept up to date with major Non-Executive Directors are appointed for an initial term developments in the Groups business.
The Board is also of three years, which can be renewed and extended for not encouraged to visit the major business units and to meet more than two further three-year terms.
the senior management teams in order to facilitate a better As required by the Combined Code, a formal evaluation understanding of the key issues facing business.
In the year of the performance of the Board, the Chairman, the under review, Board meetings were held in Egypt and the Committee Chairmen and the individual Non-Executive USA.
The companys brokers also present industry and Directors was undertaken during the period under review.
market updates to the Board.
These sessions are in addition The evaluation process was led by the Senior Independent to the written briengs on areas of regulatory and legislative Director, who met with each of the Directors and the change presented at each Board meeting.
Committee Chairmen to undertake a formal appraisal of the performance of the Board, its committees and each of the Board meetings individual Directors.
These discussions focused on Board During the year under review, the Board held eight and Committee performance, membership, timetabling, scheduled meetings and five other meetings.
The Company internal and external support, the quality and timely Secretary attended all Board meetings and Committee availability of relevant Board information and the contribution meetings.
A table showing attendance at these meetings is of, preparation for and performance by individual Directors set out below.
Whilst in 2008 all Directors attended meetings at Board and Committee meetings.
The results of the of the Board and committees of which they are members, evaluation process and feedback were reviewed with the to the extent they are unable to attend additional meetings Chairman and formed part of his appraisal of the overall called on short notice, or where prevented from doing so by effectiveness of the Board and its members.
Overall the prior commitments, Directors receive and read the papers review concluded that the Board functions well, with good for consideration at that meeting, relay their comments in communication, and with issues raised in good time to allow advance and, where necessary, follow up with the Chairman for consultation, debate and effective decision-making.
qxp 27 3 09 22:44 Page 74 74 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Governance Annual report 2008 Corporate Governance report continued In addition to the matters set out above in respect of all Remuneration Committee Directors, the Senior Independent Director met with the The Remuneration Committee consists of the Companys Non-Executive Directors to undertake a formal appraisal four independent Non-Executive Directors Michael Ashton of the performance of the Chairman.
This review also Committee Chairman, Breffni Byrne, Sir David Rowe-Ham addressed the effectiveness of his leadership, the setting and Ronald Goode.
The Remuneration Committee therefore of the Board agenda, communication with shareholders, complies with the membership requirements laid out in the internal communication and Board efficiency.
The Committee met five times during the year with full Directors service arrangements and terms of appointment attendance.
The Committee is responsible for setting and Details of the Executive Directors service arrangements reviewing executive remuneration and that of the Company and Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment are Secretary and is able to take advice from external consultants contained in the Remuneration report on page 87. when required.
A full report on the role of the Remuneration Committee is set out in the Directors remuneration report Directors remuneration on pages 81 to 91.
Details of the remuneration of the Executive and Non-Executive Audit Committee Directors are contained in the Remuneration report set out The Audit Committee consists of four independent on pages 87 and 88.
Non-Executive Directors Breffni Byrne Committee Board committees Chairman, Michael Ashton, Sir David Rowe-Ham and Ronald Goode.
The Audit Committee therefore complies In accordance with the principles of good corporate with the membership requirements laid out in the Corporate governance and in compliance with the Combined Code Governance Principles.
and the Markets Law, the Board maintains three committees The Committee met eight times during the year with full the Audit Committee, Nomination Committee and attendance.
A full report of the role of the Audit Committee Remuneration Committee.
The Group also has an Executive and the details of how it carried out its duties is set out in Committee, an Ethics Committee and a Corporate Social the Audit Committee report on pages 75 to 77.
All draw their members from the Board and the senior management of the Group.
Executive Committee Each of the three Combined Code committees has terms The Executive Committee is made up of the Executive of reference, which were reviewed during the year.
Copies are Directors and senior management of the Group.
published on the corporate website at www.
The Committee oversees the Groups operations and Their Chairmen give regular reports of the committees implements the decisions of the Board.
Ethics Committee Nomination Committee The Ethics Committee is chaired by Ronald Goode and The Nomination Committee consists of two independent draws its members from the Board and senior management Non-Executive Directors Sir David Rowe-Ham across the Group.
The Ethics Committee aims to monitor Committee Chairman and Michael Ashton and the ethical behaviour and integrity across all areas of the Groups Executive Vice-Chairman, Mazen Darwazah.
Thus, the Committee is responsible for the review by the Corporate Governance Principles, the majority of the and approval of statements and policies on ethics, conduct, members of the Committee are independent Non-Executive values and principles within the Group.
Directors and an independent Non-Executive Director CSR Steering Committee holds the Chairmanship of the Committee.
The CSR Steering Committee is chaired by the Executive The Nomination Committee is responsible for succession Vice-Chairman, Mazen Darwazah and draws its members planning and for ensuring that all appointments to the from the Board Ronald Goode and senior management.
Board are made on objective criteria.
In accordance with its The CSR Committee is responsible for reviewing and terms of reference, the Committee is required to take into implementing the strategy and direction of all matters account the skills, knowledge and experience of the Board in within the Group pertaining to social, community and making its decisions and is able to use external search rms environmental matters.
The Committee is also responsible or open advertising to compile shortlists of candidates for for the appointment of the CSR Working Committee the Board.
It is also charged with reviewing the appropriateness to undertake the implementation of the Groups of the size, structure and composition of the Board.
The Nomination Committee met once during the year, with full attendance.
qxp 27 3 09 22:45 Page 75 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC 75 Annual report 2008 Internal control Audit Committee report The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the The Combined Code requires that this Annual Report Groups systems of internal control and risk management separately describes the work of the Audit Committee and and has complied with the requirements of the Corporate how it discharges its responsibilities.
Governance Principles in establishing a continuous process Terms of reference for identifying, evaluating and managing the risks the The Audit Committee terms of reference include all matters Group faces.
The Board is responsible for monitoring the indicated by the Corporate Governance Principles and effectiveness of these systems on an ongoing basis and, at clearly sets out its authority and duties.
These can be found least annually, conducting a formal review of the Groups on the Companys website at www.
com and are policies on internal control.
The system of internal control summarised as follows: provides reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
monitor the integrity of the financial statements and The key elements are as follows: any other formal announcements relating to the Groups financial performance and review summary financial a reporting structure with clear procedures, authorisation statements and significant financial returns to regulators: limits, segregation of duties and delegated authorities: review and challenge accounting policies and accounting annual budgets, updated forecasting, and long-term business for significant or unusual transactions: plans for the Group that identify risks and opportunities review and challenge the adoption of accounting standards, which are reviewed and approved by the Board: estimates and judgements and the clarity of disclosure in a comprehensive system of internal financial reporting financial reports: which includes regular comparison of financial results and review and challenge compliance with stock exchange, key performance indicators against budget and forecast, UK Listing Authority and legal requirements including the informed by management commentary: requirements of the Combined Code and Markets Law: a clearly dened process for controlling capital expenditure review arrangements for employees to raise concerns, in and other financial commitments, including appropriate confidence, about possible wrongdoing in financial reporting authorisation levels, which are monitored and approved by or other matters: the Board as appropriate: monitor and review the internal financial controls and the written policies and procedures for all material Groups overall risk identication and management systems: functional areas with specic responsibility allocated to individual managers.
consider and approve the remit and effectiveness of the internal audit function, its annual plan, its resources and During the year under review, Ernst & Young continued its access to information and its freedom from management management and execution of the Groups internal audit or other restrictions: function on a global basis under a three year contract which review and monitor managements responsiveness to the commenced in 2006.
This involves a risk-driven approach findings and recommendations of the internal auditors: to internal audit which is overseen by the Audit Committee.
The internal audit process focuses on reviewing areas of consider and make recommendations for appointment, business risk, internal controls over financial reporting and re-appointment and removal of the Companys external other systems in the Companys main subsidiaries and at auditor, and oversee the relationship with the external auditor: the corporate level, with regular reports of its findings made review and monitor the quality, independence and objectivity to the Audit Committee.
Ernst & Young have direct access to of the external auditor accounting for relevant UK and the Audit Committee and the Board Chairman.
professional regulatory requirements and approve their The Board confirms that, in accordance with the remuneration and terms of engagement: requirements of the Corporate Governance Principles, a review of the effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal develop and implement a policy on the supply by the external controls was conducted during the year.
auditor of non-audit services, taking into account relevant ethical guidance and potential conicts of interest.
Insurance The Company maintains an appropriate level of Directors and Ofcers insurance in respect of action taken against Directors.
qxp 27 3 09 22:45 Page 76 76 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Governance Annual report 2008 Corporate Governance report continued The Audit Committees terms of reference were reviewed by audit plans for 2009 for both internal and external auditors the Audit Committee during the period under review and and the related scope of internal audit work to be undertaken.
amended to include responsibility for the operation of the The Committee reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups Companys policies for monitoring directors conicts of internal controls and risk management processes and the interest.
The terms of reference were subsequently reviewed disclosures made in the annual report and financial and approved by the Board.
The Committee also reviewed its own terms of reference and general effectiveness, both Composition specically and in the context of the overall annual review of Hikmas Audit Committee comprises four members corporate governance matters conducted by the Company.
Breffni Byrne, Michael Ashton, Sir David Rowe-Ham, and The Groups external auditors, Deloitte LLP, attended Ronald Goode all of whom are independent Non-Executive four Audit Committee meetings for the purposes of Directors, and whose biographical details are set out on presenting their 2007 audit results and findings, the results page 69.
The Committee is chaired by Breffni Byrne, who is a of the 2008 interim review and their audit plan for 2009. chartered accountant and who is considered by the Board to The internal auditors, Ernst & Young presented the results have recent and relevant financial experience.
No members of their audit programme for 2008 to the Audit Committee of the Committee have links with the Companys external together with their proposed audit plan for 2009.
The Company therefore considers that it complies Committee continues to review the response by management, with the Corporate Governance Principles regarding the proposed action plans and the overall effectiveness of the composition of the Audit Committee.
The Committee internal audit function.
In accordance with the Combined Chairman receives additional remuneration to compensate Code, the Audit Committee also met with the Groups him for his additional responsibilities.
external auditor and internal auditor without executive Responsibilities management present.
The Audit Committee assists the Board in discharging its In addition, during 2008, the Audit Committee met responsibilities with regard to financial reporting, external with the external auditor in the United States and the Audit and internal audit and internal control.
This includes Committee Chairman met with external auditors in Jordan reviewing the Companys annual financial statements, and Algeria.
The Audit Committee Chairman also met with interim report, interim management statements and trading Ernst & Young in Jordan to discuss the results of the 2008 updates, reviewing and monitoring the extent of non-audit internal audit programme.
work undertaken by external auditors, and monitoring the Attendance of members at Audit Committee meetings effectiveness and output of the Companys internal audit is shown on page 73 of the report on corporate governance.
activities, internal controls and risk management systems.
External auditors The Audit Committee is also responsible for making The Audit Committee is responsible for the development, recommendations to the Board on the appointment, implementation and monitoring of the Groups policy on re-appointment and removal of the external auditors, as external audit, and has adopted a policy in relation to the well as the effectiveness of the audit process.
The ultimate provision of non-audit services by the external auditors.
responsibility for reviewing and approving the annual Fees paid in respect of audit, audit-related and non-audit report and financial statements and the half-yearly reports services are outlined in Note 6 to the Group Financial remains with the Board.
This year the Board delegated Statements.
Audit-related services are services carried out responsibility for the operation of the Companys policies by the external auditor by virtue of its role as auditor on monitoring directors conicts of interest to the Audit and principally include assurance-related work and Committee.
This responsibility has been included in the accounting advice.
In line with audit independence requirements the Meetings external auditor does not provide services such as The Audit Committee met eight times during the year under information system design and valuation or advocacy review, with the Chief Financial officer and the Company work which could be considered to be inconsistent with Secretary in attendance.
The Audit Committee reviewed the the audit role.
In addition audit related and non-related 2007 annual report and financial statements, the 2008 interim services provided by the external auditor in excess of report the two interim management statements released by certain monetary limits require prior approval by the Audit the Company and each of the regulatory statements made by Committee.
The Committee has reviewed the non-audit the Company in respect of trading and results issued during services provided by the external auditor and is satisfied the year.
The Committee also reviewed and approved the that the nature of these services has not compromised the auditors independence.
qxp 27 3 09 22:45 Page 77 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC 77 Annual report 2008 A policy has also been adopted whereby prior approval by The Board is kept updated on the views of shareholders and the Audit Committee is required before the recruitment the market in general through the feedback from the investor of a senior member of the audit team or the recruitment meeting programme and results presentations.
Analysts of an employee of the external auditors to a senior finance reports are circulated to the Board members together with position within the Group.
The Group Whistleblowing Policy contains arrangements Procedures to deal with conict of interests for the Chairman of the Audit Committee, the Senior Independent Director, and Ronald Goode as a US-based The Company has implemented procedures to deal with member of the Audit Committee to receive, in confidence, Directors conicts of interest or potential conicts of complaints on accounting, risk issues, internal control interest.
Responsibility has been delegated to the Audit and other instances of allegedly improper behaviour by Committee to operate, monitor and review the procedures, Group employees.
Overview The Audit Committee concludes that it has acted in accordance with its terms of reference and ensured the independence of external auditors.
The Audit Committee also reviewed the effectiveness of the external auditors and recommends to the Board that they be re-appointed.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee will be available at the Annual General Meeting to answer questions on the work of the Committee.
Dialogue with shareholders Ongoing communication with shareholders is a high priority.
The Company undertakes a continuous programme of meetings with institutional shareholders in the UK, Europe, the United States and the MENA region.
This programme includes but is not limited to one-on-one meetings, investor days, conference calls and presentations at investor conferences.
In addition the Company makes formal presentations at the time of its annual and interim results which are webcast and disseminated on the Companys website.
The Chief Executive officer, Executive Vice-Chairman, Chief Financial officer and other senior corporate executives have all participated in the investor programme during the period under review.
The principal ongoing communication with shareholders is through the publication of the Companys annual report and accounts, interim results and interim management statements, together with the opportunity to question the Board and committees at the Annual General Meeting.
Shareholders are encouraged to attend the AGM and if unable to do so are encouraged to vote by proxy.
Copies of presentations made at the AGM are available on the website after the event together with the results of the voting.
The full Board is present at the AGM.
The Company maintains a website www.
com containing financial and other information which is updated regularly.
Additionally, the Company presents a balanced view of the Groups performance and prospects through the release of appropriate press announcements and other updates.
