Corporate governance Compliance with the Code changes to the share capital of the Company: The Company has complied throughout the year with the appointment and removal of all Directors and senior provisions set out in Section 1 of the June 2006 FRC Combined management: and Code on Corporate Governance the Combined Code.
The following paragraphs, together with the Directors corporate governance and corporate social responsibility remuneration report on pages 22 to 31, provide a description of the Company.
of how the Combined Code has been applied.
In accordance with the Combined Code at least half the Board, excluding the Chairman, comprise independent Non-Executive The Board Directors.
Non-Executive Directors are appointed for an initial As at the end of the year under review the Board comprised four term of three years and the Articles of Association include a independent Non-Executive Directors, the Chairman, and three requirement that all Directors submit themselves for re-election Executive Directors being the Chief Executive Officer, the Group by the shareholders at the first Annual General Meeting following Finance Director and the Managing Director of Waterstones appointment and thereafter every third calendar year.
The biographical details of the members of the those Directors who will stand for re-election at the forthcoming Board are set out on pages 16 and 17.
The Board considers that Annual General Meeting can be found on page 37.
Each of these each of Roy Brown, Lesley Knox, Christopher Rogers and Philip Directors has been subject to evaluation, as indicated below, Rowley are independent.
In addition, the Board determined that and continue to demonstrate commitment to the role and be an Carl Symon was independent at the time of his appointment as effective member of the Board.
Accordingly, the Board believes Chairman on 1 February 2006.
The Company used external these Directors should be re-elected.
search consultants in respect of the appointment of Mr Rowley.
On appointment to the Board, Directors are given a formal Whilst the Board is collectively responsible for the success of the induction and thereafter receive further guidance and training as Company, the Chairman manages the Board to ensure that: and when required.
There are also procedures for the Directors to take independent professional advice at the cost of the the Company has appropriate objectives and an Company, if appropriate.
All Directors have access to the advice effective strategy: and services of the Company Secretary who is responsible to the there is a Chief Executive Officer with a team to implement Board for ensuring that Board procedures and applicable rules the strategy: and regulations are followed.
The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole.
there are procedures in place to inform the Board of performance against objectives: and Performance evaluation the Company is operating in accordance with the principles The Board has an established process for evaluating the of corporate governance.
individual Directors, the Board as a whole and each of the Board Committees.
This evaluation process involves an objective and The Chairmans other significant commitments are noted on comprehensive evaluation of the balance of skills, knowledge page 16.
The Board considers that these are not a constraint and experience of the Board and any development plans for the on the Chairmans agreed time commitment to the Company.
The evaluation process for the Board as a whole and for The Senior Independent Director acts as an alternative each of its Committees was conducted by means of detailed channel of communication for shareholders.
He also oversees questionnaires completed by all Directors.
The results of the senior executives remuneration and remuneration policy evaluation of each of the Board Committees were reviewed and as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
The Chief discussed by each of the relevant Committees and then reported Executive Officer has overall responsibility for running the to the Board as a whole, together with the results of the appraisal Companys business.
A number of recommendations were agreed The Board has a schedule of matters specifically reserved to it for the Board and its Committees and these will be implemented for decision.
These include the following major matters: during 2008.
The Chairman appraises the performance of the individual approval of any material investments, capital expenditure, Board members through discussion with all Directors individually.
acquisitions and disposals by Group companies: The Senior Independent Director is responsible for the evaluation substantial alteration in the general nature of the business: of the Chairman and the views of the other Directors are canvassed.
The results of the performance evaluation for each approval of the operating plan and the three year of the Directors and the Chairman were reported to the Board.
strategic plan: The development plans for the Board and the performance setting of financial and dividend policies: evaluation process will continue to be reviewed annually.
The Non-Executive Directors met on several occasions consideration of interim and final dividends: without the Executive Directors being present during the year change of auditors, accounting policies and practices: under review.
They also met on several occasions without the presence of the Chairman.
18 HMV Group plc Annual report and accounts 2008 Board Committees Nomination Committee There are three principal Board Committees, each of which The Nomination Committee, as at the end of the year regularly reports to the Board and each of which has clear terms under review, comprised Carl Symon, who was appointed of reference which can be found on the Companys website Chairman of the Committee on 1 February 2006, Roy Brown, www.
Each Committee has and will keep under Lesley Knox, Christopher Rogers and Philip Rowley.
Mr Brown review its terms of reference and its effectiveness and make and Mrs Knox were appointed to the Committee on 23 April recommendations to the Board of any appropriate changes.
2002 and Mr Rogers and Mr Rowley were appointed to the The chairman of each of the Board Committees will be available Committee on 1 October 2006 and 1 October 2007 respectively.
to answer shareholders questions at the forthcoming Annual Mark McCafferty was a member of the Committee until he retired General Meeting.
from the Board on 6 September 2007.
The Company Secretary is the Secretary to the Committee.
The Committee meets as and Audit Committee when required and during the period under review the Committee The Audit Committee, as at the end of the financial year, met on four occasions.
These meetings were to evaluate the comprised Christopher Rogers Chairman, Lesley Knox, Roy Committees own performance and to deal with succession Brown and Philip Rowley.
Mark McCafferty was a member of the planning issues.
Committee until he retired from the Board on 6 September 2007.
Members attendance at meetings of the Committee during Mr Rogers was appointed to the Committee on 1 October 2006, the period under review is set out on page 20.
The Committee Mr Brown and Mrs Knox were appointed to the Committee on is responsible for identifying and nominating executive and non- 23 April 2002 and Mr Rowley was appointed on 1 October 2007. executive candidates for approval by the Board to fill vacancies The Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Group Finance Director, as and when they arise and to put in place succession plans for the Head of Internal Audit, and the external auditors were invited Directors and other senior managers.
The Committee has access and attended meetings of the Audit Committee.
to such information and advice both from within the Group and Christopher Rogers, Chairman of the Committee, is a externally, at the cost of the Company, as it deems appropriate.
qualified Chartered Accountant, and Finance Director of External consultants are used to assist in identifying suitable Whitbread plc, and thus, has recent relevant financial experience.
external candidates based on a written specification for each The Board believes that the other Committee members have appointment.
Committee members prepare a shortlist of relevant experience to serve on this Committee.
candidates for consideration by the Board.
The final candidate is The Committee is required to meet a minimum of three then subject to formal nomination by the Committee and approval times a year and members attendance at the Committee can by the Board.
In addition, the Committee will review the Board be found on page 20.
Both the Head of Internal Audit and the structure, size and composition and from time to time make any external auditors have direct access to the Chairman of the relevant recommendations to the Board.
Committee outside the formal Committee meetings.
Remuneration Committee The main duties of the Committee are as follows: The Remuneration Committee is required to meet at least twice i monitoring the integrity of and reviewing the financial a year.
As at the end of the year under review, the Committee statements: comprised Roy Brown Chairman, Lesley Knox, Christopher Rogers and Philip Rowley.
Mark McCafferty was a member of the ii the appointment of and the review of the effectiveness and Committee until he retired from the Board on 6 September 2007. independence of the external auditors: Mr Brown and Mrs Knox were appointed to the Committee on iii approval of the scope of the Companys risk management 23 April 2002, and Mr Rogers and Mr Rowley, were appointed programme and review of the risk management process: to the Committee on 1 October 2006 and 1 October 2007 respectively.
No person other than the members of the iv reviewing the operation and effectiveness of the internal Committee is entitled to be present at meetings but others may audit function: and be invited by the Committee to attend.
No Director is present v to oversee the establishment and maintenance of good when the Committee considers matters relating to him or her business practices throughout the Group.
or acts in matters relating to them.
The Committee is responsible for approving the terms of During the period under review, the Committee met on four service and setting the remuneration for the Executive Directors occasions in order to review a wide range of financial matters, and other senior managers of the Group in accordance with a including annual and half year profit figures, financial statements, remuneration policy which is approved by the Board.
It is also trading statements and other regulatory information disclosed responsible for determining the fees of the Chairman and the to the public, to conduct a review of the internal audit function terms upon which the service of Executive Directors is terminated, and to receive regular reports from internal audit, before making having regard to a severance policy adopted by the Board.
appropriate recommendations to the Board.
It also prepares for approval by the Board the annual report on Directors remuneration set out on pages 22 to 31.
19 HMV Group plc Annual report and accounts 2008 Corporate governance continued A record of members attendance at the Board and Committee meetings is as follows: Board attendance chart Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Roy Brown 12 13 4 4 6 6 4 4 Neil Bright 12 13 4 1 Simon Fox 13 13 4 5 1 Gerry Johnson 8 8 Lesley Knox 12 13 4 4 6 6 4 4 Mark McCafferty 5 6 2 2 3 4 2 2 Christopher Rogers 13 13 4 4 5 6 3 4 Philip Rowley 7 7 1 2 2 2 2 2 Carl Symon 13 13 4 5 4 4 Figures in brackets denote the maximum number of meetings that each Director could have attended.
Not a Committee member but invited to attend all or part of the number of meetings indicated.
Instances of non-attendance were in respect of additional meetings arranged at short notice or where a Director had a conflict with another meeting.
Internal control detailed risk registers, which describe the significant risks and The Board attaches considerable importance to, and control strategies in each area of the business and which are acknowledges its responsibility for, the Groups system of internal reviewed annually: control and risk management and carries out regular reviews of a comprehensive system of financial reporting, which their effectiveness.
A system of internal control is designed to includes an annual budget process, monthly reporting with manage rather than eliminate risk of failure to achieve business rolling forecasts, and half year and annual reporting to enable objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute the Group to meet its public financial reporting requirements: assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Audit Committee reviews the effectiveness of the risk management regular performance monitoring, with remedial action taken process and significant risk issues are referred to the Board for where necessary: consideration.
The Board confirms it has reviewed the Groups regular Board meetings, with a formal schedule of matters system of internal controls including financial, operational and reserved to the Board for decision: compliance controls as well as risk management, and that these accord with the guidance on internal controls set out in established procedures for planning, approving and the Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the monitoring major projects: Combined Code, issued by the Financial Reporting Council in a policies and procedures manual, which sets out, inter alia, October 2005, and that such controls have been in place during authority limits and guidelines for capital expenditure, which the year under review and up to the date of approval of the include annual budgets and appraisal and review procedures.
Annual Report and accounts and that there are satisfactory All operating businesses have to confirm compliance with the ongoing processes for identifying, evaluating and managing manual on an annual basis: the significant risks faced by the Group.
The systems of internal control and the processes used by the Board to review the certain centralised functions, that are staffed by appropriately effectiveness of those systems include: qualified individuals who draw on external professional advice.
These functions include finance, tax, treasury, Group management information systems, legal, company secretarial an internal audit function, which carries out a programme of and internal audit: and audits covering the management of significant corporate risks clearly defined organisational structures and appropriate and reports directly to the Audit Committee and the Board on delegated authorities.
the effectiveness of key internal controls: 20 HMV Group plc Annual report and accounts 2008 Audit Committee Accountability and audit approving the scope of the annual Group risk management The Board is aware of its responsibility to present a clear and programme: balanced assessment of the Groups financial position and prospects.
This assessment is provided in the statement of the reviewing the results of the risk identification process: Chairman on page 3 and the Business and financial review on providing input on risks and internal controls into the annual pages 4 to 15.
Board strategy discussions: The Audit Committee reviews the independence and objectivity of the external auditors with a view to confirming that, reviewing the effectiveness of the risk management process in its view, the maintenance of objectivity on the one hand and and discussing significant risk issues with the Board: value for money on the other has been kept appropriately in considering reports from internal and external audit balance.
The external auditors have in place processes to ensure on the system of internal control and any material their independence is maintained including safeguards to ensure control weaknesses: that where they provide non-audit services their independence is not threatened.
In this context, the Audit Committee considers reviewing the internal audit and external audit work plans: and that it is appropriate for the external auditors to provide to the at the year end, before producing the Statement of Directors Group tax advice and other accounting services, including those Responsibilities in the Annual report and accounts, the in connection with supporting and reporting on financial Board, through the Audit Committee, considers reports representations in public documentation.
generated from the internal and external auditors on any During the year under review the auditors were used for tax major problems that have occurred during the year.
advice work and the Company foresees using the auditors for this advice in the future.
The provision of other services is considered Relations with shareholders on an ad hoc case-by-case basis.
Details of the fees paid to the The Board places high importance on maintaining good auditors in the year, for audit and non-audit services, are given relationships with both institutional and private investors on page 55. and ensures, through its investor relations programme, that shareholders are kept informed of significant Group By order of the Board developments.
Shareholders can access further information on the Group via the Companys website at www.
Elaine Marriner The Chief Executive Officer and Group Finance Director meet Company Secretary regularly with institutional shareholders and analysts.
Major institutional shareholders are given the opportunity to meet with 30 June 2008 the Chairman and the Senior Independent Director.
In addition, the Directors welcome the opportunity to meet with private investors at the Companys general meetings, where shareholders are invited to ask questions and express views on the Companys business.
The views of shareholders are reported to the Board as and when appropriate.
21 HMV Group plc Annual report and accounts 2008
