Corporate governance report Introduction Attendance by Directors at the Board meetings held during the The Hochschild Mining plc Board believes that its participation year is summarised in the table below.
in an established investment market carries significant responsibility to manage the Company transparently and in a Possible Actual manner appropriate to a successful business.
Accordingly, the Director attendance attendance Board fully supports good corporate governance and intends Eduardo Hochschild 8 7 to comply, wherever possible, in the interests of shareholders Roberto Daino 8 8 and other stakeholders, with the Combined Code on Corporate Alberto Beeck 7 6 Governance the Code.
Sir Malcolm Field 8 7 Statement of compliance Nigel Moore 8 7 The Company complied in 2008 with the provisions set out in Jorge Born Jr. 8 7 Section 1 of the Code with the following exceptions: the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive were not Dionisio Romero 8 7 separated in the period from 1-8 January 2008: and the performance evaluation process undertaken during The principal matters considered by the Board during the the year was focused principally on the performance year included: of the Board collectively and hence individual directors the Groups strategic plan and annual budget.
performance, including that of the Chairman, was not corporate development opportunities.
appraised during the year as required by the Code.
various corporate social responsibility related issues.
The Board The Board is responsible for approving the Companys Directors receive a full pack of papers for consideration in strategy and monitoring its implementation, for managing advance of each Board meeting and in the event that a the operations of the Company and for providing leadership Director is unable to attend, comments are relayed to the and support to the executive management team in achieving Chairman who seeks to ensure that all views are represented on sustainable added value for shareholders.
It is also responsible any given matter.
for enabling the efficient operation of the various businesses by providing adequate financial and human resources and In addition, Directors are kept abreast of latest developments an appropriate system of financial control to ensure these through monthly reports on the Companys operations and resources are fully monitored and utilised.
The Board consists of four Executive Directors: Eduardo Chairman and Chief Executive Hochschild Chairman, Roberto Daino Deputy Chairman, In the period from the Listing until 8 January 2008, Eduardo Miguel Arambur Chief Executive Officer and Ignacio Rosado Hochschild served as the Executive Chairman and, with Chief Financial Officer, and four Non-Executive Directors: Sir the support of the Executive Committee, he also fulfilled the Malcolm Field Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, function of Chief Executive Officer.
As disclosed in previous Jorge Born Jr. Nigel Moore and Dionisio Romero.
Annual Reports, the Board considers that this dual role did not contravene the spirit of the Code as the Group established a Eduardo Hochschild, who controls the major shareholder governance structure with a number of checks and balances of the Company, Pelham Investment Corporation the that ensured no individual or group dominates the Boards Major Shareholder, has considerable knowledge and decision-making.
experience in the Latin American gold and silver mining industry.
Accordingly, the other Directors believe that Eduardo The above notwithstanding, the Board acknowledges that the Hochschilds membership of the Board and participation in the management structure of the Group will need to evolve as it management of the Company is vital to the continued success establishes its presence as a company with a main-market and growth of the Company.
Prior to the Companys Listing, listing in London and becomes increasingly aware of the the Major Shareholder, its Controlling Shareholders at that time expectations of the UK market generally and of its investors in including Eduardo Hochschild, and the Company entered into particular.
In recognition of this, the Board announced the an agreement regulating their ongoing relationship.
Further appointment of Miguel Arambur as Chief Executive Officer with details concerning this agreement are set out on page 46. effect from 8 January 2008.
There is an agreed schedule of matters reserved for the In preparation for this appointment, documents setting out Board which was originally agreed at the time of the IPO and the division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the subsequently revised by the Board on 11 January 2007.
Such Chief Executive Officer were considered and approved by the matters include the approval of annual and half-yearly results, Board.
The Chairman, Eduardo Hochschild, is responsible for the Groups strategy, the annual budget and major items of the running and leadership of the Board and, in conjunction capital expenditure.
with the Chief Executive Officer, the formulation of the vision and long-term corporate strategy of the Group.
The approval of the There were four scheduled meetings of the Board and a Groups strategy is a matter for approval by the Board.
meeting dedicated to strategic planning held during the year, which were attended by all Directors.
In addition, four ad-hoc The Chief Executive Officer is responsible for leading an executive meetings were convened to deal with operational matters.
team in the day-to-day management of the Groups business.
45 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Overview Business review Corporate Governance Financial statements governance report continued Further information At the time the separate post of Chief Executive Officer was The Board is of the opinion that all four independent Directors created, the Board felt time was needed for the new position enhance the Boards capacity to oversee and grow the to be established within the organisation and hence, a Board Companys operations.
This notwithstanding, the membership position was not conferred to the postholder at the outset.
of each main Board committee shall be reviewed by the Board However, within 12 months of his appointment, the Board on an on-going basis as a matter of good practice.
announced at the end of 2008 that Miguel Arambur, together with Ignacio Rosado, the Chief Financial Officer, In addition to their legal responsibilities as Directors, the would be assuming their places on the Board with effect Non-Executive Directors are expected to contribute to issues from 1 January 2009. of strategy and management performance through the application of their independent judgement and to scrutinise Senior Independent Director managements performance against objectives.
To this end, the Sir Malcolm Field has been appointed as the Senior Non-Executive Directors have held informal private discussions Independent Director and, as such, is available to meet with with the Chairman.
major shareholders if their concerns have not been resolved by the Chairman or the other Executive Directors.
Consistent with the Code, consideration of the remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors is a matter reserved for the Board.
Board balance and independence Despite the changes to the Board composition during the year, Relationship Agreement it remained compliant at all times with the requirement of the Prior to the Companys IPO, the Major Shareholder and Code that a majority of Directors excluding the Chairman shall its controlling shareholders at the time including Eduardo comprise Non-Executive Directors considered by the Board to Hochschild collectively the Controlling Shareholders and be independent.
the Company entered into an agreement regulating their ongoing relationship.
The principal purpose of the Relationship Agreement is to ensure that the Company and its subsidiaries The Board believes that its membership during the year was, and its current membership is, well balanced and capable are capable of carrying on their business independently of the Controlling Shareholders and any of their respective associates, of managing the Company in an effective and successful manner.
Whilst the Chairman is not considered to be and that transactions and relationships with the Controlling Shareholders and any of their respective associates are at arms independent, the Board is satisfied that decisions can be made without any one Director exercising undue influence.
The Board length and on normal commercial terms.
is also of the opinion that Eduardo Hochschilds long-term relationship with the Company, and his importance to it, make The Company and the Major Shareholder agree in the Relationship Agreement that they will comply with the his presence on the Board of vital importance and is in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders generally.
applicable obligations under the Listing Rules and to exercise their powers so far as they are able to ensure the Company is Moreover, the undertakings given in the Relationship managed in accordance with the Code.
Under the agreement, the Major Shareholder has the right to appoint up to two Agreement by the Major Shareholder and Eduardo Hochschild, ensure that the Company is managed in accordance with Non-Executive Directors to the Board for so long as the Major Shareholder holds an interest of 30% or more in the Company the Code.
Accordingly, the Board believes that during the year under review, the Company was structured so as to ensure that and the right to appoint one Non-Executive Director for so long as it has an interest of 15% or more in the Company, and in no individual had unfettered powers of decision making.
each case to remove any such Director s previously appointed.
The Relationship Agreement continues for so long as the The Board considers that all of the Non-Executive Directors are independent of the Company as defined by the Code.
Companys shares are traded on the London Stock Exchange or until such times as the Controlling Shareholders including In reaching its conclusion, the Board paid particular regard to the situations described below in relation to two of its Eduardo Hochschild cease to own or control in aggregate a minimum of 15% or more of the issued share capital or voting Non-Executive Directors.
i Dionisio Romero is Chairman of Banco fide Credito del Per, a provider of finance to the Company and a Director of Appointments to the Board and re-election of Directors Board nominations are recommended to the Board by the TECSUP, a non-profit organisation affiliated to the Company.
Nominations Committee which met during the year under review to consider the appointments of Miguel Arambur the Board does not consider Dionisios involvement with either of these two organisations to be sufficiently material Chief Executive Officer and Ignacio Rosado Chief Financial Officer to the Board with effect from 1 January 2009.
These to interfere with the exercise of independent judgement when dealing with the Companys affairs.
Consequently, appointments were made in recognition of the significant contributions made to date by these senior executives and to he is regarded as being independent for the purposes of the Code.
ensure the representation of the appropriate skills at Board level in order to advance the Groups strategy.
ii Prior to the Listing, Jorge Born Jr. received payments In accordance with the provisions of the Articles of Association, of approximately $72,000 from the Company for his participation on the Companys Advisory Board, which has Miguel Arambur and Ignacio Rosado will be subject to election by shareholders at the forthcoming AGM.
In addition, since been dissolved.
Jorge Born Jr. and Nigel Moore will retire by rotation and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election by shareholders also at the amount paid is not considered to be material and consequently, the Board regards Jorge as being the forthcoming AGM.
Biographical details of these Directors are given on page 38. independent for the purposes of the Code.
46 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Board development The Audit Committee is chaired by Nigel Moore who has The Directors have received regular briefings on their extensive and substantial financial experience gained whilst responsibilities as Directors of a UK listed company, particularly holding a number of senior appointments with Ernst & Young.
in light of the Companies Act 2006 and on other relevant UK Further details are given in the biography on page 38.
In addition, the Chairman has made other members of the Audit Committee are Sir Malcolm arrangements to ensure that the Directors have free access to Field and Jorge Born Jr. both of whom are considered to be the Companys officers and advisers and to visit the Companys independent Directors.
An induction programme for new Board appointees incorporates meetings with the Companys principal advisers The lead partner of the external auditors, the Executive Directors and visits to the Groups operations.
and the Head of Internal Audit attend each Audit Committee meeting by invitation.
It is the responsibility of the Chairman to ensure that the Directors update their skills and are provided with the necessary During the year under review, there were four meetings of the resources to continue to do so.
Audit Committee each of which was attended by all members.
The following matters featured among those considered by the The Company has procedures by which members of the Board Committee during the year: may take independent professional advice at the Companys expense in the furtherance of their duties.
Financial reporting The Audit Committee reviewed the 2007 Annual Report and Accounts and the 2008 Half-yearly Report Board evaluation before recommending them to the Board for approval.
As As the Board undertook a process to evaluate its performance, part of its review of each, the Audit Committee reviewed the performance of its Directors and of its committees in accounting policies, estimates and judgements that had the latter part of 2007, it was not considered necessary for been applied in preparing the relevant report and accounts and the transparency and clarity of disclosures contained an evaluation of similar scope to be conducted in 2008.
Accordingly, an evaluation focusing on the workings of the within them.
Board was carried out during the year under review.
Risk management Risk matrices highlighting the significant risks at each of the Groups operations have been considered In keeping with the previous year, the evaluation was conducted through the use of questionnaires which were by the Audit Committee together with the accompanying evaluation and action plans to manage the identified high designed to gauge the Boards view on, amongst other things, the composition and workings of the Board.
also given the opportunity to suggest how current practice could be amended to allow the Board to function more Internal audit The Audit Committee has overseen the Groups adoption of a risk-based approach to internal audit effectively.
The findings were considered by the Chairman and the Senior Independent Director and a number of and has approved the Internal Audit Work Plan for the current financial year.
recommendations arising from the process were considered and approved by the Board.
The recommendations principally Internal control The Audit Committee has continued to relate to Board composition, contingency planning in respect of the Chairmanship and implementation of the Groups review the monthly management accounts process and the adequacy of the Groups information technology IT strategic plan.
Treasury procedures and controls have also been the focus of separate reviews during the year.
The Group As the Board did not consider that a detailed evaluation of individual directors performance was necessary, an continues to operate the arrangements under which staff may raise, in confidence, concerns about possible evaluation of the Chairmans performance was not carried out during the year.
improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters and which enables proportionate and independent The Boards committees investigation of any such improprieties with suitable follow-up action.
The Board has delegated authority to the following standing committees which report regularly to the Board: External audit The Audit Committee considered the rethe Audit Committee.
appointment of the Companys external auditors before making a recommendation to the Board that the same the Nominations Committee.
the Corporate Social Responsibility Committee.
The Audit Committee oversees the relationship with the external auditors.
As part of this The terms of reference for all the Board committees are responsibility, the Audit Committee has reviewed the findings of the external auditors, reviewed management available for inspection on the Companys website at www.
representation letters, approved audit plans, reviewed and agreed audit fees and evaluated its performance.
Audit Committee In addition, the Audit Committee has adopted policies, which The role of the Audit Committee is to: monitor the integrity of the Companys financial statements: it continues to oversee, with the aim of safeguarding the independence and objectivity of the auditors including a policy monitor the effectiveness of the Companys internal controls and risk management systems: on the provision of non-audit services.
This document specifies those non-audit services that the external auditor may provide oversee the relationship with the Companys external auditors: and in the absence of any threat to its independence which include support in relation to M&A, and Joint Ventures and tax review the effectiveness of the external audit process.
advisory services which are not incompatible with the 47 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Overview Business review Corporate Governance Financial statements governance report continued Further information auditors statutory responsibilities.
The policy also sets out those Corporate Social Responsibility Committee services which the auditors are prohibited from rendering The role of the CSR Committee is to oversee and to make all and where it is not in the best interests of the Group for the necessary recommendations to the Board in connection work to be undertaken by the external auditor.
Such services with corporate social responsibility issues as they affect the include management of, or significant involvement in internal Companys operations.
In particular, it focuses on compliance audit services, advice to the Remuneration Committee and with national and international standards to ensure that valuation services.
effective systems of standards, procedures and practices are in place at each of the Companys operations.
The CSR Details on the fees paid to the external auditors during the year Committee is also responsible for reviewing managements in respect of audit and non-audit work are provided in note 30 investigation of incidents or accidents that occur in order to to the financial statements.
assess whether policy improvements are required.
Remuneration Committee The CSR Committee is chaired by Roberto Daino and its other The role of the Remuneration Committee is to determine and members are Sir Malcolm Field and Eduardo Hochschild.
During agree with the Board the broad policy for the remuneration of the year, the CSR Committee held two meetings which were executives and senior management as designated, as well as attended by all members.
In addition, detailed updates on CSRspecific remuneration packages, including pension rights and related matters were presented at two of the Board meetings any compensation payments.
The Remuneration Committee comprises the following Further details concerning the CSR Committee and the independent Non-Executive Directors: Jorge Born Jr. Groups activities in this area are set out in the corporate social Chairman, Sir Malcolm Field and Nigel Moore.
The Committee responsibility report on pages 30 to 35. held 11 meetings during the year under review at which all members were in attendance with the exception that Nigel Internal control Moore was unable to attend one meeting.
Whilst the Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control including risk management and for Further details concerning the activities of the Remuneration reviewing its effectiveness, responsibility for the periodic review Committee are set out in the Directors remuneration report on of the effectiveness of these controls has been delegated page 50. to the Audit Committee.
The system of internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure Nominations Committee to achieve business objectives and it must be recognised that such a system can only provide reasonable and not absolute The role of the Nominations Committee is to identify and nominate candidates for the approval of the Board to fill Board assurance against material misstatement or loss.
These controls are managed by the use of formal procedures designed to vacancies and make recommendations to the Board on Board composition and balance.
The Nominations Committee also highlight financial, operational, environmental and social risks and provide appropriate information to the Board enabling it to prepares the Chairmans job description including any other significant commitments which he should be responsible for.
protect effectively the Companys assets and, in turn, maintain shareholder value.
The process used by the Audit Committee to The members of the Nominations Committee are Eduardo assess the effectiveness of internal control includes: Review of budgets and reporting against budgets.
Hochschild Chairman, Sir Malcolm Field and Dionisio Romero.
Consideration of achievement of strategic plans and objectives.
All members of the Nominations Committee were present at the three meetings held during the year under review with the Monitoring the risks faced by the Groups operations through reports from the Head of the Internal Audit function.
exception that Dionisio Romero was unable to attend one of these meetings.
Review of accounting and financial reporting together with The matters considered by the Nominations Committee during the internal control environment existing at Group level.
the year were: the appointment of Alberto Beeck as a Non-Executive Based on its review of the process, the Audit Committee is reasonably satisfied that the internal controls are in place at Director.
the relevant recommendations arising from the Board the operational level within the Group.
In accordance with the Revised Turnbull Guidance, the Board confirms that there is an evaluation process.
any potential conflicts of interests relating to, and the ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Company, and that it has been in subsequent appointments to the Board of, Miguel Arambur CEO and Ignacio Rosado CFO with effect from 1 January place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of this Annual Report.
The Board, via the Audit Committee, 2009.
48 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 continues to monitor the internal control environment of the Group The Company announces its production results on a quarterly alongside the development of risk management processes.
basis and analysts are invited to briefings following release of the annual and half-yearly results as well as to join discussions Overall, the Board acknowledges that the steps taken to on the quarterly production results.
The Executive Directors, initiate a risk management framework are appropriate to Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer are the Groups circumstances.
available to discuss the concerns of major shareholders at any time during the year.
The Chairman, Deputy Chairman and Going concern the Chief Executive Officer, in particular, will be responsible for A statement on the Directors position regarding the Company discussing strategy with the Companys shareholders and will as a going concern is contained in the Directors report on communicate the views of shareholders to the other members page 43. of the Board.
Company Secretary The main means of communication with shareholders are The Company Secretary is appointed and removed by the Annual and Half-yearly Reports which are available on the Board and is responsible for advising the Board on request.
The Company also uses the AGM as an opportunity to governance matters and the provision of administrative communicate with its shareholders.
and other services to the Board.
All the Directors have access to the Company Secretary.
Notice of the 2008 AGM was circulated to all shareholders at least 20 working days prior to the meeting and the Chairmen Investor relations of the Audit, CSR, Remuneration and Nominations Committees The Company is fully committed to achieving an excellent were available at the meeting to answer questions.
A poll vote relationship with investors and contact with investors is the was taken on each of the resolutions put before shareholders.
responsibility of the Executive Directors, the Chief Executive Officer, It is intended that this approach will also be taken at the 2009 the Chief Financial Officer and the Head of Investor Relations.
AGM and, in keeping with historic practice, results of the voting at the AGM will be announced and published on the Companys website as soon as possible after the meeting.
Further information on matters of particular interest to investors is available on page 132 and on the Companys website at www.
com 49 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008
