CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 64165 p01-p60 Q7:Layout 1 24 3 09 17:40 Page 42 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Statement of compliance The Board is committed to high standards of corporate governance and confirms that throughout the year ended 31 December 2008 the Company has applied the principles of good governance contained in the Combined Code and complied with its best practice provisions as set out below in the Boards report on corporate governance and in its Remuneration Report on pages 46 to 60.
The Board is able to report compliance with the Combined Code throughout 2008.
The Board At the end of the year the Board comprised nine directors: the Chairman: Chief Executive: four independent non-executive directors: the Finance Director and two operational executive directors.
Changes in the composition of the Board during the year are noted in the Directors' Report.
The non-executive directors are all free from any business or other relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
All of them meet the criteria for independence under the Combined Code and are regarded by the Board as independent of the Group's executive management.
The Chairman, Norman Askew, was also regarded as independent at the date of his appointment in May 2005.
Terry Gateley is the senior non-executive director.
The independent non-executive directors are from varied backgrounds and bring with them a wide range of skills and experience of senior management in commerce and industry.
Biographical details of the current directors are shown on pages 34 and 35.
Each new appointee to the Board is required to stand for election at the next annual general meeting following their appointment.
In addition, one third of the Board retire by rotation at each annual general meeting and each director stands for re-election at least once every three years.
The Board provides leadership, direction and control for the Group and oversees business and management performance.
The Board has an established list of matters reserved to it and written delegations of authority for its committees and the executive directors.
Board reserved matters include strategy and key areas of policy, major operational and strategic risks, significant investment decisions and material changes in the composition of the Group.
The Board reviews budgets, forecasts and plans for the businesses of the Group on an annual basis.
Quarterly meetings of the Board consider detailed financial and management reports on the operational and strategic progress of the Group.
Senior executives from around the Group are invited by the Board to attend certain meetings to make presentations and join in discussion.
There is a clear division of responsibility between the Chairman and Chief Executive, which is reflected in a written statement approved by the Board.
In summary, the Chairman is responsible for the leadership and running of the Board but does not have any executive powers or responsibilities.
The Chief Executive leads the executive management team in running the business and implementing operating and strategic plans under authority delegated by the Board.
The executive team during the year comprised: the Chief Executive, Martin Lamb, Finance Director, Douglas Hurt, and two operational executives, David Nicholas, responsible for Fluid Controls, and Roy Twite, responsible for Retail Dispense.
Changes in executive responsibilities were announced in March 2009 and are described in the Chairman and Chief Executives Statement on page 11.
Non-executive directors are supported in becoming familiar with the businesses and there is regular contact between management and non-executive directors during site visits and formal meetings.
The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that the Board meetings operate to an appropriate agenda, and that adequate information is provided sufficiently in advance of meetings to allow proper consideration.
He is supported by the Company Secretary, who also assists in ensuring that the Board operates in accordance with good corporate governance under the Combined Code and relevant regulatory requirements.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to all of the standing committees of the Board.
The Board has a recognised procedure for any director to obtain independent professional advice at the Companys expense and all directors have access to the Company Secretary who is a solicitor.
The Board met on eight occasions during the year including four quarterly reviews, strategy days, visits to operations and meetings convened for special purposes as the need arose.
All members of the Board were in attendance at each of the meetings held during their tenure save that Douglas Hurt missed one meeting.
Pursuant to the Combined Code, and in accordance with best practice, the non-executive directors met as a group with the Chairman on a number of occasions during the year and the senior independent director, Terry Gateley, convened one such meeting in the absence of the Chairman.
Standing committees of the Board The standing committees of the Board are: the Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee, the Nominations Committee and the Executive Committee.
Each of these committees operate under written terms of reference which clearly set out their respective delegated responsibilities and authorities.
The full terms of reference of the Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee and Nominations Committee were updated in December 2008 and appear on the Company website www.
42 Corporate Governance 64165 p01-p60 Q7:Layout 1 24 3 09 16:10 Page 43 The Audit Committee was chaired by Terry Gateley.
All of the other independent non-executive directors were also members of the Audit Committee.
Terry Gateley is a qualified chartered accountant and has significant relevant financial experience.
The terms of reference of the committee were amended in December 2008 with reference to the revised Financial Reporting Council guidelines on the role of audit committees published in October 2008, the so-called Smith Guidance.
The committee received reports from the external auditor who attended its meetings when required to do so.
The committees work included reviewing the financial statements, accounting policies, significant issues of judgement including contingent liabilities, fair values and write downs, and, as described below under the section headed Internal Control on page 44, it looked at the effectiveness of internal financial controls.
The committee approved the proposed external audit approach and scope as well as the internal audit programme.
The committee considered the independence and objectivity of the external auditor.
In assessing auditor independence the committee had regard to the Smith Guidance for audit committees and required the auditor to confirm that its ethics and independence policies complied with the requirements of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
The Group policy on the use of the auditor for non-audit work is monitored by the committee.
The policy requires committee approval for any non-audit engagement where fees exceed 100,000 and does not allow work to be placed with the auditor if it could compromise auditor independence, such as valuations work.
The committee also receives reports from and monitors the work of the internal audit function, known as the IMI Group Assurance Department, and reviews the operation of the Group Reporting Concerns policy and procedure which was enhanced during the year by the launch of an independent hotline www.
During the year the committee surveyed the main subsidiaries to assess the performance and efficiency of the external auditor.
The committee recommended and the Board approved the proposal to re-appoint the external auditor at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
The committee has decided to commence a formal, competitive process for the selection of an audit firm.
It is intended that the chosen firm will be in place in time for the review of the Group's interim management report due to be issued in August 2009 and therefore also for the audit in respect of 2009.
KPMG Audit Plc, the Group's current auditor, will be asked to participate in the process as a candidate for selection as auditor.
The committee met on four occasions during the year with all members in attendance.
The committee regularly calls upon the Chairman, Chief Executive, Finance Director and other personnel, including the Controller and the Group Assurance Manager, to attend for parts of its meetings.
The committee approved the foregoing report on its work.
The Remuneration Committee was chaired by Kevin Beeston.
Norman Askew, Anita Frew, Terry Gateley and Lance Browne were members of the Remuneration Committee throughout the year.
Bob Stack joined the committee on 13 June 2008 and Lance Browne retired as a director at the year end.
The committee's main responsibilities are to determine the remuneration policy and individual terms and conditions in respect of the executive directors including new appointments and to set the Chairmans remuneration.
As well as salary and annual bonuses, the committee is responsible for the structure and level of performance related elements of executive remuneration and other benefits.
The committee also reviews the packages of those at the next most senior level of management.
The committee reviewed the remuneration policy and concluded that changes to incentive arrangements were appropriate.
More details of these changes are given in the Remuneration Report.
External consultants were engaged by the committee to provide advice and the Chief Executive, Finance Director and the Group Human Resources Director attended its meetings when required.
The committee approved the foregoing report on its work and more details are given in the Remuneration Report.
The Nominations Committee comprised the Chairman, Norman Askew, who chaired the committee, all of the independent non-executive directors and the Chief Executive.
During the year the committee reviewed the Board composition and made nominations for appointments to the Board and its committees.
External consultants were engaged by the committee in relation to the search for successor non-executives and worked to an agreed brief from the committee defining the core competencies and profile for the roles.
Appointments of non-executives are made on the basis of a standard form of appointment letter.
Each non-executive director and the Chairman were appointed on the basis of a stated minimum time commitment judged appropriate by the committee.
The committee considered that the time given by each non-executive was sufficient.
The committee also reviewed the roles of the non-executive directors and made recommendations, which were approved by the Board, concerning the composition of the Audit Committee and the Remuneration Committee.
The committee met on two occasions during the year with all members in attendance.
The committee led the selection process for a new non-executive director and recommended the appointment of Bob Stack.
The Executive Committee of the Board is chaired by the Chief Executive and consists of all the executive directors, the Company Secretary and the Group Human Resources Director.
It meets monthly and more often as may be required in order to monitor performance, review business management issues and formulate budgets and proposals on strategy, policy and IMI plc Annual Report 2008 43 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 64165 p01-p60 Q7:Layout 1 24 3 09 16:12 Page 44 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Standing committees of the Board contd resource allocation for consideration by the Board.
Its minutes are circulated to all members of the Board.
It also acts as the Risk Committee reporting to the Board and receives regular reports on health and safety, compliance, business and other risks.
Senior executives from around the Group are regularly called upon to attend meetings of the Executive Committee.
Board induction, continuing professional development and evaluation A formal induction process for new directors has been in operation for several years.
It is overseen and kept up to date by the Chairman with support from the Chief Executive, Company Secretary and the Group Human Resources Director.
During and after induction directors are encouraged to visit business units around the Group and to meet with operating management and corporate staff.
Appropriate coaching and access to training and other continuing professional development is available to all directors and all directors participated in some appropriate training during the year.
An internal evaluation of the Board, its committees and individual directors, was commenced in 2008 and the Chairman reported on it to the Board in March 2009.
This process included questionnaires and interviews and appropriate follow up discussions involving the Chairman and Group Human Resources Director.
In addition, the non-executive directors met with the senior independent non-executive director regarding the performance of the Chairman and the Chairman met individually with each of the directors to canvass their views.
The Board received the findings of the evaluation in March 2009 and the directors confirmed that the Board is fulfilling its responsibilities appropriately.
In addition it was agreed that the strategic review process undertaken in 2008 should be continued on an annual basis and additional time should be spent on succession and organisation development matters.
The evaluation concluded that the Board and its committees were effective and that each director demonstrated a valuable contribution.
The contribution and performance of individual directors standing for election or re-election is commented on in the notice of the annual general meeting issued to shareholders with this annual report.
Investor relations The annual general meeting is regarded by the Board as an important opportunity to meet and communicate with shareholders, particularly private investors.
The 2008 annual general meeting was chaired by the Chairman, and attended by the chairmen of the standing committees of the Board and all of the other directors.
The Chairman encouraged debate and questions at the formal meeting and informally during refreshments afterwards.
Each substantially separate issue was put to the 2008 annual general meeting as an individual motion and the meeting was invited to adopt and approve the financial statements and the directors report for 2007.
A separate resolution for the approval of the Remuneration Report was also put to the meeting.
Notice of the 2008 annual general meeting was despatched more than twenty working days in advance and the level of proxy votes lodged for and against each resolution, together with details of abstentions, were disclosed at the meeting and are shown on the Companys website.
In addition to the annual report, the Company publishes an interim report to shareholders and issues interim management statements in May and November.
The Company has its own website www.
com which includes recordings of certain key presentations made by senior management, recent annual and interim reports, interim management statements, other corporate announcements and links to the websites of Group businesses.
The Company has arranged a dealing service for the convenience of shareholders with JPMorgan Cazenove details are shown on page 118.
The Board as a whole seeks to maintain a balanced understanding of the issues and concerns of major shareholders.
Dialogue is maintained with shareholders and the executive directors meet regularly with institutional investors.
The Chief Executive and Finance Director have primary responsibility at board level for investor relations and report thereon to the Board at least quarterly.
They are supported by the Investor Relations Director, Will Shaw, who joined IMI in October 2008.
In addition, financial analysts notes are circulated to the directors and regular feedback reports from the Companys brokers are supplemented by periodic, independent surveys of major investors views.
The Chairman, senior independent non-executive director and other non-executives will meet with major shareholders upon request and otherwise if any of them considers appropriate.
Internal control The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control and confirms that the system of internal control takes into account the Combined Code and relevant guidance as updated by the Financial Reporting Council the Turnbull Committee Guidance.
Consistent with the Turnbull Committee Guidance, the Board has assigned responsibility for the continuous review of risk management and controls to the Executive Committee.
During the year the Board received reports on risk issues from the Executive Committee and reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control in relation to financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management.
In addition, the Audit Committee considered and reported to the Board on the financial aspects of internal control.
The Audit Committee also reviewed the nature and scope of the external audit and the internal audit work carried out by the IMI Group Assurance Department.
44 Corporate Governance 64165 p01-p60 Q7:Layout 1 24 3 09 16:13 Page 45 Each operating unit is required to undertake a continuous process of business risk assessment and reporting.
This is reviewed by the most senior executive within the relevant business and any major risk issues are considered by the Executive Committee.
The Executive Committee makes regular reports to the Board on major business risks faced by individual operations and by the Group and how those risks are managed.
Through this process major business risks are identified, assessed and ranked according to their probability and materiality and the Board considers what measures are appropriate in order to control such risks.
The Board has clearly defined in writing those matters which are reserved to it and the respective delegated authorities of its committees and the executive directors.
The Group has a clear organisational structure and well established reporting and control disciplines.
Managers of operating units assume responsibility for and exercise a high degree of autonomy in running day-to-day trading activities.
They do this within a framework of clear rules, policies and delegated authorities regarding business conduct, approval of proposals for investment and material changes in operations.
All operating units prepare forward plans and forecasts which are reviewed in detail by executive directors and consolidated for review by the Board.
Performance against forecast is continuously monitored by the executive directors, reviewed at monthly meetings of the Executive Committee and on a quarterly basis by the Board.
Minimum standards for accounting systems and controls, which are documented and monitored, are promulgated throughout the Group.
Certified quarterly reports are required from senior executives of operating units, confirming compliance with Group standards.
There is also a central internal audit function, the IMI Group Assurance Department, which operates a rolling programme of internal assurance reporting and reviews.
These include on site reviews of selected operating units which are carried out by the IMI Group Assurance Department and co-ordinated with the divisional financial management review processes and external audit.
Additionally, visits to operations are carried out by senior Group finance personnel in conjunction with the external auditor.
Capital investments are subject to a clear process for investment appraisal, authorisation and post-investment review, with major investment proposals referred for consideration by the Executive Committee or the Board, as appropriate, according to their materiality.
In addition, the Executive Committee and the Board regularly review the operation of corporate policies and controls in relation to ethics and compliance matters, treasury activities, environmental issues, health and safety, human resources, taxation, insurance and pensions.
Compliance and audit reports are made to the Board and the Audit Committee, as appropriate, to enable control issues and developments to be monitored.
Control processes are dynamic and continuous improvements are made to adapt them to the changing risk profile of operations and whenever weakness in the internal control system is identified appropriate remedial action is taken.
As a result of internal investigations it became apparent that improper payments and trade law violations had occurred in IMI's CCI business.
IMI had established policies and controls in place to guard against such non compliance, but these were circumvented through collusion by a group of employees.
Significant employee changes have been made in CCI as a result and a major ethics and compliance program driven by a new compliance function has been adopted by the Group under the leadership of the Chief Executive.
Through the procedures outlined above the Board has considered the effectiveness of all significant aspects of internal control for the year 2008 and up to the date of this Annual Report, including the changes to personnel and compliance procedures within CCI.
The Board believes that the Groups system of internal control, which is designed to manage rather than eliminate risk, provides reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Responsible business The Company has a Code of Responsible Business The IMI Way which appears on its website www.
The Board takes account of the social, environmental and ethical impact of its decisions and the Code of Responsible Business incorporates a series of corporate policies and standards for responsible business across the Group.
At a Group level, responsible business activity is coordinated through a steering group chaired by an executive director and key issues of corporate social responsibility are identified, monitored and addressed through the Groups risk assessment processes.
The Company satisfies the FTSE4Good global corporate responsibility criteria and has been awarded membership of the FTSE4Good Index.
In addition, in 2008 IMI was selected as a member of the Dow Jones Sustainability Index DJSI and IMI is a signatory to the UN Global Compact.
More information on corporate social responsibility matters is given on pages 28 to 33 and on the Company website.
By order of the Board John OShea Company Secretary 4 March 2009 IMI plc Annual Report 2008 45
