DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance Report The Board of Directors the Board remains committed International Premier Tier of OTCQX under the ticker to maintaining high standards of corporate governance, symbol ITYBY.
which it sees as a cornerstone in managing the business While registered under the US Securities Exchange Act 1934, affairs of the Group and a fundamental part of discharging Imperial Tobacco was subject to the provisions of SOXA and its stewardship responsibilities.
management was responsible for establishing and maintaining Applicable Corporate Governance Provisions an adequate system of internal control over financial reporting.
and Compliance Management used the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations Throughout the year under review and up to the date of of the Treadway Commission COSO framework to evaluate the approval of the Annual Report, the Group has complied with effectiveness of that system.
Following deregistration, Imperial the governance rules and best practice provisions applying Tobacco is no longer required to comply with SOXA, however, to UK listed companies as contained in section 1 of the management recognises the benefit of the system of financial Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code which controls introduced to meet its requirements and has therefore was introduced in 1998 and further revised during 2006.
The decided to maintain the key elements of the system.
Code is publicly available on the Financial Reporting Councils Update on Ongoing Enquiries website www.
German Investigations During the financial year Imperial Tobacco Group PLC also Certain investigations were initiated by German authorities in had securities registered with the US Securities and Exchange January 2003 into alleged foreign trading and related violations Commission the SEC and complied with the appropriate by a number of people, including Reemtsma employees, during provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 SOXA until a period prior to its acquisition by Imperial Tobacco Group in delisting on 12 September 2008.
In the course of 2005, parts of the investigations into The Board recognises that it is accountable to shareholders certain of the individuals were terminated on terms agreed by for the Groups standard of governance and this report, the individuals with the authorities and settlement was made of together with the Directors Remuneration Report, seeks to any duty payable as a result of certain of the activities being demonstrate how the principles of good governance, advocated investigated at no cost to the Imperial Tobacco Group.
In 2006 by the Code, have been and continue to be applied in practice and 2007, investigations against some of the other individuals within the Group.
were terminated for lack of evidence.
During the course of the financial year the Board and its Audit In September 2006, charges relating to smuggling were Committee have continued to keep under review the Groups brought in connection with one of the investigations against entire system of internal control, encompassing both financial 18 individuals, one of whom is a former Reemtsma employee.
and operational controls, as well as compliance and risk In November 2006, in connection with a separate investigation, management.
Based on these reviews the Board is satisfied charges relating to violations of the German foreign trade act that an appropriate internal control framework is in place were brought against four other former Reemtsma employees.
October 2008, the German court agreed to open the trial in relation to the charges of smuggling, but no hearing date has been set.
Throughout the Group, formal procedures, including well established and embedded internal controls, have been and In connection with the charges relating to violations of the continue to be maintained.
Such procedures, together with German foreign trade act, the authorities have applied for continued regular formal reporting to the Audit Committee, have financial penalties to be imposed on Reemtsma.
Such penalties ensured the maintenance of a strong procedural framework for could be imposed if the former employees who have been the ongoing identification, evaluation and management of the charged are ultimately found to have committed offences.
In significant areas of risk to achievement of the Groups strategic those circumstances, the Imperial Tobacco Group would seek objectives.
Any weaknesses identified have a plan of remedial recovery of any losses under arrangements made on the action, progress against which is regularly reported to the Audit acquisition of the business.
A Risk Co-ordination Committee was established A Board Committee established in 2003 remains in place to during the year in order to further enhance the Groups top monitor the progress of the investigations and the Groups down risk management activities.
responses on behalf of the Board.
The German authorities During the course of the year business reviews of the Groups investigations are based on alleged activities prior to the operations have been performed as part of the Group Groups acquisition of Reemtsma and the Committee remains Compliance functions programme of activity.
This has satisfied that, since the acquisition, the Group has not been highlighted a small number of controls requiring minor involved in any activities of a nature similar to those alleged remediation work which is currently being completed.
From reports to the Group Compliance function by the business Office of Fair Trading operations of any potential instances of fraud or accounting As previously reported, information was supplied by Imperial irregularity that may have occurred during the financial year, Tobacco Group and a number of other companies to the UK the Audit Committee concluded that neither individually nor Office of Fair Trading OFT in October 2003 in relation to an OFT collectively did they have a material impact on the results or investigation into the operation of the UK tobacco supply chain.
performance of the Group for the financial year.
Further information was supplied in April 2005.
On 24 April 2008 the OFT issued a Statement of Objections SO alleging that Consequences of Delisting from the NYSE and certain tobacco manufacturers and retailers had engaged in fide-registration from the SEC unlawful practices in relation to retail prices for tobacco products Subsequent to the delisting of the Groups American Depositary in the UK.
Shares ADSs from the NYSE on 12 September 2008 it had retained a level 1 American Depositary Receipt ADR program.
The SO sets out the OFTs allegations against tobacco Imperial Tobacco Groups ADSs are now listed on the manufacturers, Imperial Tobacco Group and Gallaher, and 44 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2008 11 retailers Asda, the Co-operative Group, First Quench, Imperial Tobacco Group has been advised would also exclude Morrisons, Safeway, Sainsbury, Shell, Somerfield, T&S Stores, duty.
In addition, if the OFT were to make an infringement finding, Tesco and TM Retail.
The OFT alleges that these tobacco it could issue orders prohibiting that activity in the future, whilst manufacturers and retailers variously engaged in one or more the infringing company might face the prospect of damages unlawful practices in relation to retail prices for some or all of actions from third parties.
If the OFT were to make an a number of tobacco products in breach of Chapter I of the infringement decision, Imperial Tobacco Group would be able Competition Act 1998 which prohibits anti-competitive to appeal the OFTs decision to the Competition Appeal Tribunal, agreements and concerted practices that have the object or and ultimately, on a point of law to the Court of Appeal.
effect of preventing, restricting or distorting competition in the UK Board and Board Committee or a part of it and which may affect trade in the UK or a part of it.
Board Structure The alleged practices comprised: The Board of Directors, which met nine times during the year a arrangements between each manufacturer and each retailer with two of the meetings having a duration of two days, that restricted the ability of each of these retailers to currently comprises a Non-Executive Chairman, eight determine its selling prices independently, by linking the independent Non-Executive Directors, one Non-Executive retail price of a manufacturers brand to the retail price of Director not classified as independent for the purposes of the a competing brand of another manufacturer.
The alleged Code when determining the composition of the Board or its infringements span different periods for different parties Committees, and four Executive Directors.
between 2000 and 2003: and There is a clear separation of the roles of the Chairman, b in the case of Imperial Tobacco Group, Gallaher, Asda, Mr I J G Napier, and the Chief Executive, Mr G Davis, to ensure Sainsbury, Shell, Somerfield and Tesco, the indirect exchange an appropriate balance of power and authority.
The Chairman is of proposed future retail prices between competitors.
The responsible for the leadership of the whole Board, with the Chief alleged infringements span different periods for different Executive, in conjunction with the Chief Executives Committee, parties between 2001 and 2003. responsible for managing the Group and implementing the Following the issue of the SO, the OFT invited recipients of the SO strategy and policies which have been set by the Board.
to enter into without prejudice settlement discussions to reach Mr J-D Comolli is Deputy Chairman and Dr P H Jungels is the early resolution agreements with the OFT in which they were recognised senior independent Non-Executive Director to whom invited to admit liability for the conduct set out in the SO in return the Company would encourage shareholders to raise any for a reduction in the level of fine that the OFT indicated it would concerns they may have.
On 11 July 2008 the OFT announced that six of the parties subject to the SO had reached early resolution Following the annual Board evaluation and consideration of all agreements with the OFT, in which they admitted liability in respect other relevant factors contained in the Code and the New York of all of the infringements alleged against them in the SO and Stock Exchange NYSE Corporate Governance rules, the agreed to pay individual penalties which amounted to a combined Board concluded at its meeting in September 2008 that all maximum of 173.3 million before discounts 132.3 million if all Non-Executive Directors continue to contribute effectively and leniency and early resolution discounts are given.
Those constructively to Board debate, to challenge and question companies are Asda, First Quench, Gallaher, One Stop Stores management objectively and robustly and at all times to have formerly named T&S Stores, Somerfield and TM Retail.
the best interests of the Group in mind and that, taking account The parties which have not settled, and are therefore contesting of these factors, together with the other relevant factors the OFTs allegations other than Imperial Tobacco Group, are the contained in the Code and the NYSE Corporate Governance Co-operative Group, Morrisons including Safeway, Shell and rules, with the exception of Mr J-D Comolli, the other nine NonTesco.
According to the OFTs press release of 11 July 2008, Executive Directors including the Chairman remain independent Sainsbury has been granted leniency and will, therefore, receive for the purposes of the NYSE Corporate Governance rules and complete immunity from financial penalty if it continues to the other eight Non-Executive Directors excluding the Chairman co-operate fully with the OFT.
Imperial Tobacco Groups detailed as required by the Code remain independent for the purposes written response to the SO was submitted to the OFT on of the Code.
An oral hearing has been scheduled for The Board does not classify Mr J-D Comolli, for the purposes of 3 December 2008 for Imperial Tobaccos representatives to the Combined Code and the NYSE Corporate Governance rules, make submissions to the OFT in defence of the allegations.
as an independent director, due to his ongoing Chairmanships of No timetable for the remainder of the OFTs enquiry has been certain subsidiaries within the Group and his provision of published.
In light of the responses it receives to the SO, the consultancy services to the Group.
OFT may decide to close the investigation, present additional evidence by issuing a supplemental SO, or proceed to an The Board has satisfied itself that there is no compromise to the infringement decision.
independence of those Directors who have appointments on boards of, or relationships with, companies outside the Group.
If the OFT proceeds to an infringement decision, it may impose The Board requires Directors to declare all appointments and a fine.
The amount of the fine is calculated by reference to the other situations which could result in any possible conflict of turnover of the infringing company.
The rules regarding the interest and has adopted appropriate processes to manage and maximum amount of such a penalty changed on 1 May 2004. if appropriate approve any such conflicts.
In this regard, and to Before that date, the maximum amount of a fine was 10 per cent underpin his independence, the Company has entered into an of a companys UK turnover for up to three years.
In the three agreement with Mr B Setrakian, a former Non-Executive Director years to 30 September 2003 Imperial Tobacco Groups of and legal adviser to Altadis, to minimise the risk of any conflict aggregate net UK turnover was 2,215 million.
The applicable of interest between, inter alia, the law firm Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP, turnover on which the amount of a fine is based expressly of which he is a partner, and the Company.
excludes VAT and other taxes directly related to turnover, which www.
com 45 DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance Report continued The Directors biographies, appearing on pages 38 and 39, In addition the Altadis board was requested to submit two demonstrate a detailed knowledge of the tobacco industry and of its non-executive directors to be invited to join the Board the wider Fast Moving Consumer Goods sector, together with as non-executive directors.
After due consideration of the a range of business and financial experience which is vital to appropriate candidates and the approval of the Nominations the management of an expanding international company.
The Committee and the Board, Messrs B F Bich and B Setrakian biographies also include details of any other major directorships.
joined the Board as Non-Executive Directors on 25 April 2008 and 25 June 2008 respectively.
Board Changes During the year the Nominations Committee again reviewed the As previously announced, Messrs D Cresswell and composition and balance of the Board.
This review took into A G L Alexander retired on 31 December 2007 and account not only the overall balance of skills, knowledge and 29 January 2008 respectively.
experience of Board members but also of the wider provisions In addition to extensive Investor Relations roadshows, of the Code and the results of the annual evaluation of the Mr I J G Napier met with a number of key shareholders during performance of the Board, its Committees and individual Directors.
The opportunity also exists for major shareholders As announced last year, Mr J-D Comolli was invited to become to meet with new and existing Directors.
In addition, Directors Non-Executive Deputy Chairman and to provide certain made themselves available to meet shareholders after the consultancy services to the Group.
Following approval by formal business of the Annual General Meeting AGM had the Board Mr J-D Comolli was appointed on 15 July 2008. been completed.
Structure of the Board and Board Committees Audit Remuneration Nominations Board Committee Committee Committee Executive Directors G Davis Member R Dyrbus Member G L Blashill Member A J Cooper Member Non-Executive Directors I J G Napier Chairman Member Chairman B F Bich Member Member K M Burnett Member Member J-D Comolli Deputy Chairman Member M H C Herlihy Member Member Member Member P H Jungels Senior Independent Director Member Member Chairman Member C F Knott Member Member Member Member S E Murray Member Member Member Member B Setrakian Member Member M D Williamson Member Chairman Member Member Performance Evaluation The Chairman held meetings exclusively with the Non-Executive During the year, in accordance with the Code and with the Directors to consider, amongst other things, succession issues assistance of an external consultant, the Board formally and the performance of the Executive Directors in the discharge reviewed and evaluated its own performance together with the of their duties.
performance of its Committees and individual Directors.
The Following these reviews the Board and its Committees are reviews were conducted by way of detailed questionnaires, satisfied that they are operating and performing effectively.
completed by the Directors, followed by one to one interviews No fundamental issues or training needs were identified and between each Director and the external consultant.
Feedback the Board is also satisfied that each of the current Directors on individual Directors was discussed with the Chairman and this has sufficient time, knowledge and commitment to contribute in turn was followed by private feedback meetings between the effectively to the Board and its Committees.
Accordingly, the Chairman and each of the Directors.
A report on the performance Board recommends that Mr G L Blashill and Dr P H Jungels of the Board as a whole and of the Board Committees was made should stand for re-election and that Messrs B F Bich, to the Board at its meetings in September and November 2008.
J-D Comolli and B Setrakian should stand for election at the Following a private feedback meeting with the external 2009 AGM.
consultant, Dr P H Jungels, the senior independent NonThe key positive theme which emerged from this years Executive Director, met with the Non-Executive Directors evaluation was that, notwithstanding the Altadis acquisition, as a group, without the Chairman present, to consider the the increased size of the Board and refreshment of Board performance of the Chairman.
After also taking account of the membership, there remains a high degree of Board unity views of the Executive Directors and the results of the Chairmans with all Board members working well together.
formal performance evaluation, Dr P H Jungels held a private feedback meeting with the Chairman.
46 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2008 The key themes for development included the need to ensure supplied with information on the progress of the business in a a continued high degree of Board unity and effectiveness during timely manner and that at Board meetings the Directors were the ongoing Board succession and refreshment process.
properly briefed on issues arising.
All Board members receive Commencing with the Remuneration Committees September reports from the chairmen of all Board Committees and receive 2008 meeting, a standing item has been added to the copies of each Committees minutes.
Committees agenda allowing the members of the Committee The Non-Executive Directors also play a leading role in to meet without the Company Chairman, any Executive Director corporate accountability and governance through their or other manager being present.
membership of the Remuneration Committee, the Nominations The Board plans to continue to conduct evaluations on an annual Committee and the Audit Committee.
The membership and remit basis and may employ alternative formats and approaches in of each Committee are considered below, together with a record future years.
of each Directors attendance at Board and Board Committee meetings during the year.
As part of the Groups policy of annual Board Operations review, the terms of reference for each of these Committees The Board is the principal decision making forum of the Group were reviewed, and updated where necessary, during the year and manages overall control of the Groups affairs by the and are published on the Imperial Tobacco Group website, schedule of matters reserved for its decision contained in www.
They are also available from the the Groups Corporate Manual.
These include, inter-alia, Company Secretary.
responsibility for the Groups commercial strategy, the approval of financial statements and corporate plans, the overall corporate The Group has procedures in place to allow Directors to seek governance framework, acquisitions and disposals, treasury, both independent professional advice, at the Groups expense, tax and risk management policies and appointment and removal and the advice and services of the Company Secretary in order of Directors and the Company Secretary.
The Group maintains appropriate insurance The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Board, cover in respect of Directors and Officers liabilities.
The through the Chairman, on all governance matters and for Company has entered into qualifying third party indemnity ensuring Board procedures are followed and applicable rules arrangements for the benefit of all its Directors in a form and and regulations complied with.
scope which comply with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and the transitional arrangements in respect of the All Directors are equally accountable in law for the proper Companies Act 1985. stewardship of the Groups affairs, with the Non-Executive Directors having a particular responsibility for ensuring that Chief Executives Committee strategies proposed for the development of the business, Over the financial year, the Chief Executives Committee, resources and standards of conduct are critically reviewed using comprising the Executive Directors, the Manufacturing Director, their independent judgement and experience.
This ensures that the Chief Operating Officer Cigar, the Group Human Resources the Board acts in the best long-term interests of the Companys Director and the Company Secretary, met 11 times to ensure members, takes account of the wider community of interests appropriate control and management of day-to-day business represented by employees, customers and suppliers, and that matters.
Within the framework of the Chief Executives environmental, community, ethical and reputational issues are Committee, the Board delegates day-to-day and business fully integrated into the Groups decision making and risk control matters to the Chief Executive and the Chief Executives assessment processes.
Committee, who are responsible for implementing Group policy and monitoring the detailed performance of all aspects of the During the year matters considered by the Board included the business.
They have full power to act, subject to the reserved acquisition of Altadis, together with the follow-on bid resulting powers and sanctioning limits laid down by the Board and the in the subsequent acquisition of all Logista shares not already Groups policy guidelines.
owned by Altadis, review of Group funding arrangements, including the one for two Rights Issue, the divestment of Aldeasa, Mr G Aldridge joined the Chief Executives Committee as the Board changes detailed above, review of the strategy and Manufacturing Director with effect from 1 January 2008. operating results of the business, approval of annual and mediumMr F Domnguez joined the Chief Executives Committee as Chief term plans and brand divestments which were a condition of the Operating Officer Cigar Business Unit with effect from 11 June 2008.
European Commissions approval of the Groups acquisition of Altadis and the integration of Altadis.
Actual results of the Group Between formal Board and Board Committee meetings, the were reviewed at each Board meeting, with monthly reports, Chairman and chairmen of the Board Committees communicate including detailed commentary and analysis, being provided in regularly with the Chief Executive and other members of the the intervening periods.
This ensured that Board members were Chief Executives Committee.
com 47 DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance Report continued Meetings of the Board, Board Committees and Shareholders Annual Audit Remuneration Nominations General Board Committee Committee Committee Meeting Total number of meetings in 2008 9 4 6 2 1 Number of meetings attended in 2008 Executive Directors Mr G Davis 9 9 1 1 Mr R Dyrbus 9 9 1 1 Mr G L Blashill 9 9 1 1 Mrs A J Cooper 9 9 1 1 1 Mr D Cresswell 1 1 Non-Executive Directors Mr I J G Napier 9 9 6 6 2 2 1 1 2 Mr A G L Alexander 4 4 1 1 3 Mr B F Bich 3 4 1 1 Dr K M Burnett 9 9 2 2 1 1 3 Mr J-D Comolli 1 1 Mr M H C Herlihy 9 9 4 4 6 6 2 2 1 1 Dr P H Jungels 9 9 3 4 6 6 1 2 1 1 Mr C F Knott 9 9 3 4 6 6 2 2 1 1 Ms S E Murray 9 9 3 4 6 6 2 2 1 1 3 Mr B Setrakian 2 2 Mr M D Williamson 9 9 4 4 5 6 2 2 1 1 1 Mr D Cresswell retired from the Board on 31 December 2007.
2 Mr A G L Alexander retired from the Board on 29 January 2008.
3 Messrs B F Bich, B Setrakian and J-D Comolli were appointed on 25 April 2008, 25 June 2008 and 15 July 2008 respectively.
Prior to his appointment Mr Bich informed the Company that he would be unable to attend one Board meeting due to a prior engagement.
The maximum number of meetings for each individual Director is the number which they were eligible to attend.
Remuneration Committee The membership and responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee are contained in the Directors Remuneration Report which appears on page 55.
The Committees terms of reference are published on the Imperial Tobacco Group website, www.
The Remuneration Report, which has been approved by the Remuneration Committee and the Board and signed by the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, outlines remuneration strategy and policy, details the Committees activities over the financial year and contains full details of Directors emoluments.
The performance of the Committee was evaluated as part of the Board performance evaluation process described above.
48 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2008 Induction and Training Nominations Committee Report Detailed training and briefing is provided to all Directors on appointment to the Board, taking into account their individual Members qualifications and experience.
Mr I J G Napier Chairman : Messrs B F Bich and J-D Comollis induction programme Mr A G L Alexander retired 29 January 2008 : included meetings with the Groups advisers and key Group Mr B F Bich appointed 25 April 2008 : personnel representing major functions, and site visits.
These Dr K M Burnett: meetings also included briefings on relevant corporate Mr J-D Comolli appointed 15 July 2008 : responsibility and corporate affairs issues, legal matters, Mr M H C Herlihy: product stewardship, environmental management, social Dr P H Jungels: impact, scientific and regulatory affairs and commercial risk Mr C F Knott: management.
Mr B Setrakian completed a similar induction Ms S E Murray: process subsequent to the end of the financial year.
Mr B Setrakian appointed 25 June 2008 : Ongoing training is made available to all Directors to meet their Mr M D Williamson: and individual needs.
Regular briefings are also provided to Directors Mr M R Phillips, Company Secretary, acts as Secretary on relevant issues such as legislation and regulation changes to the Committee.
During the year the Groups external lawyers briefed the Board on topical items of Responsibilities interest, including the implications of the Companies Act 2006.
The responsibilities of the Committee include:- The Audit and Remuneration Committees also received briefings the evaluation of the balance of skills, knowledge and from  and Hewitts Limited respectively experience on the Board: to ensure they remain up to date with current regulations and the development of role specifications: developments.
the formulation of succession plans: and the making of recommendations to the Board with regard to the appointment of Directors.
Membership The Nominations Committee comprises all the Non-Executive Directors and meets on an as required basis.
During the year the Committee met twice.
Overview The Committees terms of reference are published on the Imperial Tobacco Group website, www.
In the financial year the Committee met its responsibilities by the identification of suitable candidates, who met the relevant skill profile, from the Non-Executive Board Members of Altadis, in fulfilment of a commitment given on acquisition.
The Committee also made a number of recommendations to the Board resulting in the appointments as detailed in the Board Changes section above, consideration of succession plans and the annual review of the Committees terms of reference.
Following recommendation by the Nominations Committee, Directors are appointed by the Board.
They must, however, submit themselves for election by shareholders at the AGM following their appointment.
Thereafter all Directors, in accordance with the Code, are subject to re-election at least every three years.
Furthermore, it is the Companys practice that any Non-Executive Director, including the Chairman, having been in post for nine years or more is subject to annual re-election.
The performance of each Director is considered before recommending such election or re-election.
In order to facilitate succession planning, during the year there were a number of opportunities for Board members to interact with senior management, for example during strategy days, Board meetings and Board dinners.
Succession planning was also discussed at Non-Executive Director dinners held during the year.
com 49 DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance Report continued consideration of and recommendations to the Board regarding Audit Committee Report the reappointment of the Auditors: review of audit fees and of non-audit fees paid to the Auditors Members and other accountancy firms: Mr M D Williamson Chairman : review of the Going Concern statement prior to consideration Mr M H C Herlihy: by the Board: Dr P H Jungels: oversight and monitoring of the Groups Public Interest Mr C F Knott: Disclosure Whistleblowing Policy: Ms S E Murray: and the financial integration of acquired businesses: Mr M R Phillips, Company Secretary, acts as Secretary review of Group Compliances performance: and to the Committee.
review of the Groups control and corporate governance environments including risk management systems.
Responsibilities The responsibilities of the Committee include:- The performance of the Committee was evaluated as part of review of internal control and risk assessment: the Board performance evaluation process described above.
oversight of the Group Compliance function: During the year the Head of Group Compliance provided monitoring of external audit: the Committee with detailed reports to facilitate the regular review of financial statements: and monitoring and review of its activities and effectiveness oversight of other matters including the requirements of including those in respect of the programmes of activity in the UK listing authority and the Groups Public Interest place to enable the Group to meet the requirements of both Disclosure Whistleblowing Policy.
the Code and section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act up to 12 September 2008.
The Committee undertook its annual review of the scope Membership and content of the risk assessment and compliance The Audit Committee, which has determined that all its members programme implemented by the Group Compliance function are independent Non-Executive Directors, met four times during and confirmed its approval.
The Committee continually monitors the year and members attendance is set out in the table on and critically reviews the authority, effectiveness and level of page 48. resource allocated to the activity.
During the year a Risk Messrs M D Williamson and C F Knott are qualified accountants Co-ordination Committee was established in order to further and, therefore, are appropriately qualified to discharge the enhance the Groups top down risk management activity.
responsibilities that Audit Committee membership entails and The Risk Co-ordination Committee will provide regular reports are regarded as financial experts for the purposes of both the to the Audit Committee.
Code and section 407 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act with which The Finance Director, the Group Financial Controller, the Head the Company had to comply until deregistration from the of Group Compliance, the Deputy Company Secretary and other Securities & Exchange Commission on 12 September 2008. financial management were invited to attend each meeting of the The remaining members of the Committee supply a supporting Committee.
A standing item on each agenda allowed for the mix of skills and backgrounds.
Head of Group Compliance to meet formally with the Committee, Mr M R Phillips, Company Secretary, acts as Secretary to the without any Executive Director or other manager being present, Committee.
in line with the Codes requirements.
Overview In addition, the Groups Auditors attended each meeting of the The Committees terms of reference cover the matters Committee during the year and, as a standing item on each recommended by the Code and are published on the Imperial agenda, had the opportunity to meet with the Committee Tobacco Group website, www.
During the members without the presence of any Executive Director or other year and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report, the manager, providing a direct line of communication between the Committee worked with a structured agenda of matters focused Auditors and Non-Executive Directors.
to coincide with key events of the annual financial reporting cycle, Auditor Independence Policy together with standing items that the Committee is required to The Group regularly reviews its Auditor Independence Policy, consider at each meeting.
During the year the Committee met its which provides clear definitions of services that the external responsibilities by:- Auditors can and cannot provide such that their independence monitoring internal control throughout the Group: and objectivity are not impaired.
The policy also establishes approving the Groups accounting policies, including changes a formal authorisation process, including the tendering and to segmental reporting, impairment testing and provisions: pre-approval by the Audit Committee for allowable non-audit consideration of the accounting treatment of the ongoing work that they may perform, establishes guidelines for the enquiries detailed above on pages 44 and 45: recruitment of employees or former employees of the external Auditors and for the recruitment of the Groups employees reviewing the interim and annual financial statements, together by the external Auditors.
This policy is published on the Groups with the USA filing on Form 20-F in respect of the 2006 07 website, www.
Financial Year, prior to submission to the Board: reviewing the scope of the external audit plan and the internal Group Compliance work plan: consideration of any related party matters: review of Auditor performance and independence, including rotation of Senior Audit Partner: 50 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2008 The Audit Committee also carried out bi-annual reviews of The Audit Committee has delegated responsibility for the remuneration received by the Auditors for audit services, considering Group-wide operational, financial and compliance audit-related services and non-audit work with the aim of risks on a regular basis.
The Group Compliance Function seeking to balance objectivity, value for money and compliance formally reported at each Audit Committee meeting the with this policy.
The outcome of these reviews was not only that outcome of its ongoing activities, including its programme of performance of the relevant non-audit work by the Auditors was compliance reviews and any, more general, business reviews.
the most cost-effective way of conducting the Groups business These reports have supported the Audit Committee and the but also that no conflict of interest existed between such audit Board in assessing the effectiveness of internal controls within and non-audit work.
The fees for such non-audit work within the business operations.
In this way, the Audit Committee the financial year were principally related to acting as reporting satisfied itself that the Groups exposure to major business accountant in connection with our offer for Altadis and the risks is minimised such that the levels of retained risk are associated Rights Issue and tax advisory work.
Such fees are acceptable to the Group: shown on page 87.
A Risk Co-ordination Committee has also been established to supplement the bottom-up risk profiling exercises described Following a review during the year by the Audit Committee of above with a top-down approach: and the scope, efficiency and effectiveness of the audits performed A summary of the principal risks facing the business is by the Auditors it was agreed that the Group continues to receive included on pages 22 to 24. an efficient, effective and independent audit service.
Internal Control Control Environment and Control Activities: The Board acknowledges responsibility for the Groups system The Group is organised on a functional basis with of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Audit manufacturing, cigar, logistics, sales and marketing and Committee, on behalf of the Board, reviewed the effectiveness of central support functions each having their own management the system in accordance with the guidance set out in the Code and control structures which satisfy the Groups controls, from information and regular reports provided by management, accounting policies and regulatory responsibilities: the internally independent Group Compliance Function and The Board continually reviews the Groups organisational external Auditors.
However, given the size and complexity of the structure to ensure that clearly defined lines of responsibility Groups operations, such a system can provide only reasonable with appropriate delegation of authority and segregation of and not absolute assurance of meeting internal control objectives duties exist, with personnel of the necessary calibre in place by managing rather than eliminating risk and can only provide to fulfil their roles.
Such delegated authority ensures that reasonable and not absolute assurance against material decisions, significant either because of their value or impact misstatement or loss.
on other parts of the Group, are taken at an appropriate level: The Board has formally adopted, and annually reviews, the The Board, either directly or through the Audit Committee, schedule of matters of a strategic, financial, operational or regularly reviewed the effectiveness of the key procedures which compliance nature, which are required to be brought to it have been established to provide internal control.
It confirms that for decision: an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the Groups significant risks operated throughout the year and up to The Group has an established framework of policies and the date of the approval of the Annual Report.
procedures laid down by the Board which personnel are expected to comply with.
These cover key issues such The Group has established control processes and procedures as acceptable business practices, authorisation levels, to ensure compliance with the best practice UK governance segregation of duties, ethical compliance matters and provisions as advocated by the Turnbull Guidance.
The Group legislation, physical and data security as well as regulatory, considers its approach, methodology and actions in support of governance and health, safety and environmental issues.
maintaining high standards of corporate governance satisfy the This framework of policies and procedures, which has been requirements of the Turnbull Guidance.
developed and issued, with consistent communication throughout the Group, is reviewed and updated on a The following key features have operated to provide reassurance periodic basis to ensure it continues to provide the requisite of both the reliability of information and the safeguarding of assets: control guidance and remains pertinent to the Groups Risk Assessment: business activities: The Group has clearly set out its strategic objectives as part A cross-functional project team has reviewed the Groups of its medium-term planning process.
These objectives are framework of policies and procedures with respect to their incorporated as part of the annual planning cycle: usefulness to the business and their relationship to each other.
A detailed assessment of strategic risks was undertaken by A new corporate documents intranet site has been created the Executive Directors as part of the medium-term planning in order to provide improved clarity on the purpose of the and annual and monthly forecasting reporting cycles: documents, how they are connected, how they are maintained All areas of the business undertook bottom-up, risk-profiling and how they are to be used by the business: exercises to formally review their principal areas of risk so that A major focus during the year has been the rollout of our all major risks were reviewed at all levels across the Group.
This included a briefing This formal system is based on the annual submission of risk to senior management during the first week following assessment summaries from each of the business operations acquisition, the rollout of interim control measures, business identifying their major areas of business risk, together with the and budgetary reviews within the first month, establishment controls embedded in the business processes to mitigate such of Imperial Tobaccos reporting processes, changes to the risks.
This review is ongoing throughout all business operations boards of Altadis SA and its subsidiaries and post acquisition of the Group to ensure that there continues to be clear and due diligence.
Imperial Tobaccos corporate governance consistent procedures for monitoring, updating and processes, including risk assessments and control implementing appropriate controls to minimise the risk certifications, have also been rolled out across the exposure identified: Altadis business: www.
com 51 DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance Report continued A formal policy and arrangements for dealing in confidence The Audit Committee confirms it has reviewed and reported to with issues of genuine and significant concern raised by the Board on the system of internal control for the financial year employees or others relating to perceived malpractice, ended 30 September 2008, and up to the date of approval of the improper business practices, management impropriety or Annual Report, in accordance with the requirements of the Code other similar matters, whether financial or non-financial and Turnbull Guidance.
Through the procedural and reporting commonly referred to as Whistleblowing arrangements framework for monitoring business risks and controls, as set out operates throughout the Group: above, and review of the Groups financial statements, the Board The Group has an established and consistent methodology is satisfied there is sufficient information to enable it to review the for ranking the level of risk from each of its business operations effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control.
and identifying significant risk issues associated therewith.
Disclosure Committee: Appropriate strategies have been implemented to deal with In line with recommendations issued by the US Securities each significant risk that has been identified, including not and Exchange Commission and to meet corporate governance only internal controls but also other external measures such best practice in the UK, the Group has a Disclosure Committee as insurance and dual sourcing of supplies: comprising appropriate senior executives: There are well-defined procedures for appraisal, approval, control and review of capital and strategic expenditure Company Secretary Chairman : including acquisitions: Head of Group Compliance Co-ordinator : The Groups treasury function operates within a well-defined Head of Group Legal Affairs: and policy designed to control the Groups financing arrangements Group Financial Controller.
and to minimise its exposure to interest rate and foreign The Deputy Company Secretary acts as Secretary to exchange risks through treasury instruments: and the Committee.
The Board reviews annually the Groups Treasury and Tax policies and Occupational, Health, Safety and The External Auditors, together with other senior management, Environmental matters.
are invited to attend or to submit matters for the attention of the Committee.
Information and communication: The Committee, in accordance with its terms of reference, Each area of the business produced detailed financial plans, considered the significance of relevant information identified after prior to the start of the financial year, which were reviewed due enquiry by its members both prior to each meeting and on for robustness and realism: and an ongoing basis.
A comprehensive system of controls, including regular periodic performance reviews for each area of the business, During the year the Disclosure Committee reviewed all the ensured that major variances against plan were promptly Groups major financial disclosures including Trading Updates, and thoroughly investigated.
These reviews were conducted Interim Management Statements, Half Year Report, Report & at a detailed level within each function and at a high level by Accounts, Form 20-F and documentation in respect of the the Chief Executives Committee.
European Medium Term Note Programme.
The achievement of business objectives, both financial and The Committee reported on its evaluation of such information non-financial, were assessed on a regular basis using a range to the Chief Executive, Finance Director and, as appropriate, the of key performance indicators.
These indicators are periodically Audit Committee to assist them in their evaluation of material reviewed to ensure that they remain relevant and reliable.
issues for the purposes of any disclosure that may be required.
Monitoring: The terms of reference of the Disclosure Committee were A range of procedures is used to review the risk profile and reviewed during the year.
monitor the effective application of internal controls across the Group.
These included independent reviews by the Group The Disclosure Committee will continue to operate following Compliance Function, together with self-assessment of risks the Groups USA delisting and deregistration.
Furthermore both the senior operational Going Concern and financial managers of each business and function annually The Directors are satisfied that the Group and Company has certify that effective systems of internal control, in accordance adequate resources to meet its operational needs for the with the Groups policies and covering all business activities foreseeable future and, accordingly, they continue to adopt both financial and non-financial, have been maintained within the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
their area of responsibility: The Group Compliance Functions responsibilities include Pension Fund reporting to the Audit Committee on the effectiveness of The Groups main pension fund, the Imperial Tobacco Pension internal control systems, focusing on those areas of greatest Fund, is not controlled by the Board but by Trustees consisting perceived risk to the Group.
This is now a standing item on of five nominees from the Company: one member of which is the Chief Executives Committees agenda: chosen by employees and two by current and deferred Follow-up procedures ensure that there is an appropriate pensioners.
The Trustees look after the assets of the pension response to recommendations for any enhancement to risk fund, which are held separately from those of the Group and are controls as identified by the independent reviews of the Group managed by independent fund managers.
The pension fund Compliance Function: and assets can only be used in accordance with the funds Rules and for no other purpose.
A Risk Co-ordination Committee chaired by the Company Secretary and comprising senior representatives of the Groups functions was established during the year.
The remit of this Committee is to ensure relevant risks identified within the Group from a top-down perspective are efficiently co-ordinated and to track mitigation activities by operational management.
52 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2008 Political Donations All shareholders are offered the choice of receiving shareholder As in the previous year, no political donations were made to EU documentation, including the Annual Report, and submitting political parties, organisations or candidates.
However, one proxy votes either electronically or in paper format, including acquired business made corporate donations to candidates and the ability to abstain if desired.
political parties in three USA states, as detailed on page 43.
In addition, at the AGM in 2008 individual shareholders received These donations were stopped with effect from 30 September presentations from the Chairman and Chief Executive on the 2008.
Groups performance and current business activities and were New York Stock Exchange Corporate Governance given the opportunity to question the Chairman and the chairmen Requirements of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees and On 12 September 2008 the Groups voluntary delisting from the other Directors.
In accordance with the Groups practice, the New York Stock Exchange NYSE became effective.
Until that Annual Report and Accounts and Notice of the AGM were sent date, as a listed non-USA issuer, the Group was required to to shareholders more than 20 working days prior to the date of comply with some of the NYSEs listing standards relating to the meeting.
the corporate governance practices of listed companies, but Separate resolutions are proposed on each discrete subject, was exempt from others.
with all resolutions put to a poll.
The Company indicates the level This included an obligation to disclose any significant ways in of proxy votes lodged in respect of each resolution proposed which the Groups corporate governance practices differed during its AGMs, together with the number of votes for, against from those followed by USA companies under the NYSE listing and withheld for each such resolution.
During the period of its NYSE listing, the Group at the AGM represented approximately 77 per cent of the believes that it was in compliance in all material respects with Companys then issued share capital excluding shares held in the relevant NYSE listing standards.
After the conclusion of the meeting the final results are published through a Regulatory Information Service and on It is, however, the Board that develops, recommends and adopts the corporate governance principles to be applied throughout the Companys website.
In addition, the role of an internal audit department is Statement of Directors Responsibilities incorporated within the general remit of the internally independent The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, Group Compliance Function.
the Directors Remuneration Report and the Group and the The Group will continue to provide a high standard of corporate parent Company financial statements in accordance with governance, information and disclosure in line with the current applicable law and regulations.
UK corporate governance code and regulatory requirements, Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial and will use the progress it has made in achieving compliance statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors with regulations under section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act have prepared the Group financial statements in accordance as part of its ongoing approach to governance, internal control with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as and reporting.
adopted by the European Union, and the parent Company Communication with Shareholders financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report in Communication with all shareholders is given a high priority and accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting a number of methods are used to promote greater understanding Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting and dialogue with investment audiences.
The Group and parent Company financial statements Executive and Finance Director, together with feedback from are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of external advisers, ensured that the views expressed at meetings affairs of the Company and the Group and of the profit or loss with major shareholders were communicated effectively to the of the Group for that period.
Board as a whole such that any issues or concerns were fully In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required understood.
to:- At the half year a Half Yearly Report was published, which select suitable accounting policies and then apply them together with this Annual Report, is available online through the consistently: Imperial Tobacco Groups website, www.
com, make judgements and estimates that are reasonable together with all announcements, investor presentations and and prudent: share price information.
state that the Group financial statements comply with IFRSs During the year shareholders were kept informed of the progress as adopted by the European Union, and with regard to the of the Group via Interim Management Statements, trading parent Company financial statements that applicable UK statements and of significant developments through other Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any announcements.
These were also made available on other material departures disclosed and explained in the financial news services and on the Groups website.
There was regular statements: and dialogue with institutional shareholders and participation in sector prepare the Group and parent Company financial statements conferences, which has been extended to ensure that major on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to shareholders are given the opportunity to meet Non-Executive presume that the Group will continue in business, in which Directors on appointment and the senior independent Noncase there should be supporting assumptions or qualifications Executive Director will, if so requested, attend meetings with as necessary.
The Directors confirm that they have complied with the above requirements in preparing the financial statements.
The Group regularly liaises with its major shareholders and their representative bodies on significant issues.
The Group also met with Corporate Governance representatives of investors when requested.
com 53 DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance Report continued The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and to enable them to ensure that the Group financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and the parent Company financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Disclosure and Transparency Rules The Directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge:- the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and the management report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
Statement of Auditors Responsibilities Imperial Tobacco Group PLCs registered Auditors,  LLP, are responsible for forming an independent opinion on the financial statements of the Group and on the financial statements of the Company as presented by the Directors, on other elements of the Annual Report and Accounts as required by legislation or regulation, and for reporting their opinion to members.
Their report is set out on page 72.
