Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 01-37 38-57 58-120 Inside back cover 45 Governance Corporate governance report Governance framework There is a schedule of Matters Reserved for the Board, which is The Board is committed to ensuring that the Group delivers reviewed annually, and which identies those matters that the shareholder value in the long term and recognises that good Board does not delegate to management.
Matters are referred to the Board as a whole and no one individual or small group governance will facilitate the achievement of sustainable growth.
of individuals has unfettered powers of decision making.
The following sections explain how the Company has complied with the main and supporting principles of the 2006 Combined Matters Reserved for the Board Code Code.
It is the Boards view that it has been fully compliant Summary Responsibility for overall management of the Group and with the Code throughout the year.
the approval of long-term objectives and strategy: A statement of the  for preparing the Approval of the Groups financial policy, material capital Financial statements, including a statement regarding the status expenditure, acquisitions and disposals: of the Company as a going concern, is on page 42.
Approval of any changes to the Groups capital structure, The Board of Directors corporate structure and operational structure: The Board comprises a Non-executive Chairman, seven Non-executive Directors and two Executive Directors.
Approval of Annual and Interim reports and any financial results: The role of Chairman and Group Chief Executive are separate Declaration of interim and recommendation of final dividend: and there is a clear division of responsibilities.
The Chairman, Approval of accounting and treasury polices: Peter Johnson, is responsible for the leadership of the Board and the balance of its membership.
The Group Chief Executive, Andr Ensuring maintenance of internal control systems and Lacroix, is responsible for leading and managing the business, risk management processes: with support from the Executive Committee.
Approval of all circulars, listing particulars and resolutions sent Will Samuel is the Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent to shareholders: Non-executive Director.
Approval of changes to the Board and its Committees, and Ken Hanna is the Chairman of the Audit Committee, Michael Wemms approval of the Committees terms of reference and the is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and Peter Johnson is schedule of Matters Reserved for the Board: Chairman of the Nominations Committee.
Approval of the division of responsibilities between the Graham Pimlott was appointed as a Non-executive Director Chairman and Group Chief Executive: on 25 March 2008.
Recommending the election or re-election of Directors to The biographies of the Directors including details of other shareholders and the appointment or removal of the Group directorships held and the Executive Committee are on page 39 Company Secretary: and 43 to 44 respectively.
The Chairmans other significant Recommending the appointment or removal of the external commitments are also included in his biography on page 39 and auditor to the shareholders: the Board is satisfied that these do not have a detrimental impact on his time commitment to the Company.
Reviewing the Groups corporate governance arrangements and approval of the Groups policies: At the 2008 Annual General Meeting AGM, Peter Johnson announced his intention to retire from the Company.
Ken Hanna, Approval of major changes to the Groups pension schemes a Non-executive Director, will take over the role as Chairman at the and changes in the fund management arrangements: 2009 AGM.
Further details of the appointment can be found in the Approval of the appointment of principal external advisors.
Nominations Committee report on page 50.
The full schedule of Matters Reserved for the Board can be found The Companys articles of association require that every Director at www.
will seek re-election to the Board at least every three years, subject to election by shareholders at their first AGM.
The reappointment of Specic responsibilities have been delegated to Board Committees, a Non-executive Director after six years is subject to a rigorous review.
details of which are given on pages 49 to 51.
A Non-executive Director who has served for more than nine years The Company provides insurance cover in respect of legal action is subject to annual re-election.
All Directors are subject to the against its Directors, which is reviewed on an annual basis.
provisions of the Companies Act 2006 in relation to the removal of directors.
Board meetings and attendance The Board held nine scheduled meetings during 2008, which The details of those Directors subject to re-election are shown included overseas meetings at the Companys facilities in on page 41.
The Board also met for ad hoc meetings In accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and the principles to deal with specic issues.
Where a Director is unable to attend of good governance, the Board is collectively responsible for a meeting, he she is advised in advance of the matters to be promoting the success of the Company and for providing strong discussed and given an opportunity to make his her views known leadership within a framework of prudent and effective controls to the Chairman, Committee Chairman or Group Company that enable risks to be assessed and managed.
com 46 Governance Corporate governance report continued Audit Remuneration Nominations Board Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings Number Attended Number Attended Number Attended Number Attended Raymond Chien 9 9 Karen Guerra 9 9 2 2 Ken Hanna 98332221 Peter Johnson 9 9 2 2 Andr Lacroix 9 9 2 2 Graham Pimlott 9 7 3 2 Barbara Richmond 9 9 Will Samuel 99332222 David Scotland 99332222 Michael Wemms 99332222 Graham Pimlott joined the Company on 25 March 2008.
If any Director were to have any concerns regarding the running Balance of independent Directors of the Company or a proposed action, such concerns would be Executive Directors 2 Independent Non-executive recorded in the Board minutes.
If a Director were to resign over Directors 6 an unresolved issue, the Chairman would bring the issue to the attention of the Board.
No such issues or concerns arose during Non-independent the year.
Non-executive Directors 1 In addition to the Board meetings, a Strategy Review day was held where the Board and members of the Executive Committee agreed Chairman 1 the strategic agenda for the year.
The Strategy Review day included updates from each of the operating businesses.
The Non-executive Directors also met during the year without the Information, training and development Executive Directors.
The Board receives, in advance of each Board meeting, detailed Board balance and independence financial information and presentations relating to items for decision All Directors bring an individual judgement to bear on issues of from members of the Executive Committee and operational and strategy, performance, resources including key appointments functional heads.
The Non-executive Directors share responsibility for the execution of the Boards duties, taking into Each Director is continually updated on the Groups businesses: the competitive, regulatory and legislative environments in which they account their specic responsibilities.
They comprise the principal operate: corporate governance and responsibility matters and other external presence in the governance of the Company and provide changes affecting the Group and the markets in which it operates, a strong independent element.
with briengs from the Companys external advisors if appropriate.
The Board considers all its Non-executive Directors, with the These arrangements are designed to ensure that the Directorsskills, exception of Raymond Chien due to the length of his service knowledge and familiarity with the Company are kept up to date, and previous employment with Crown Motors, to be independent therefore enabling the Directors to make informed decisions and for the purposes of the Code.
to full their role on both the Board and on its Committees.
The Board has also determined that Ken Hanna will be considered The Group Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring that independent upon his appointment as Chairman under provision Board processes and procedures are followed, to support effective A.
New Directors are given an appropriate induction upon joining the Company.
This may include advice from external Graham Pimlott was appointed to the Board during 2008.
In particular, it provides information on the business, that his extensive skills and knowledge within the private and public including visits to retail centres and overseas operations, to ensure sector would enhance the composition of the Board.
awareness of responsibilities and a full appraisal of the Groups Will Samuel and Michael Wemms are both Non-executive Directors activities and strategic direction.
The Group Company Secretary of Galiform plc.
Having regard to all the circumstances, including is also responsible for ensuring that Directors receive appropriate the independence they have demonstrated as Non-executive training.
The appointment and removal of the Group Company Directors of the Company and the fact that there are no crossSecretary is a matter for the Board as a whole.
shareholdings or business relationships between Galiform plc and The Directors may take independent professional advice at the the Company, the Board is satisfied and has determined that they Companys expense.
None of the Directors sought to do so in 2008. are both independent.
The terms and conditions of appointment of Non-executive Directors are available from the registered ofce.
Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 01-37 38-57 58-120 Inside back cover 47 Performance evaluation The AGM provides an opportunity for private shareholders to The Board undertook a formal evaluation of its own and each engage with the Directors and shareholders are invited to raise any Board Committees performance, roles and terms of reference.
matters of interest to them.
At the meeting the Company complies The Board considers that an evaluation of its performance is key to with the Code as it relates to voting, the separation of resolutions ensuring an effective Board, which in turn is vital to the success of and the attendance of Committee chairmen.
In line with the Code, details of proxy voting by shareholders, including votes withheld, are the Company.
The Board reviewed the process in November 2008 and determined that an external facilitation was not necessary.
made available on the Companys website following the meeting.
The decision was based on the fact that the composition of the The Company continues to monitor and encourage provisions Board had not changed signicantly during 2008 and the Board allowing shareholders to receive electronic communications.
had successfully implemented recommended changes from the These arrangements allow the Company to take advantage 2006 external evaluation and the 2007 evaluation.
of environmental and cost benets from reduced paper usage, Led by the Chairman and supported by the Group Company printing and postage costs whilst investors are able to receive Secretary, a performance evaluation questionnaire was used for communications in the form most appropriate to their needs.
Shareholders are entitled to change the way in which they the performance evaluation process.
This questionnaire covered the receive shareholder communications at any time.
effectiveness of the Board, each Committees performance against objectives, preparation for and performance at meetings and The Disclosure Committee ensures that all relevant communications corporate governance matters.
It addressed the issues raised by are made available to the London Stock Exchange and the Higgs Review on the role and effectiveness of Non-executive shareholders.
All material information reported is made available Directors published in January 2003.
Following the evaluation, the simultaneously on the Companys website, ensuring access to Board members concluded that appropriate actions have been Company announcements.
identied to address areas that could be improved and that, overall, the Board and Committees continued to perform effectively.
Internal controls The Board is responsible for the establishment and review of the The Chairman evaluates the performance of the Non-executive Companys internal operational and compliance control systems.
Directors and met with each individually to discuss performance.
The internal control systems are designed to ensure: The Non-executive Directors, chaired by the Senior Independent Effective and efficient operations: Non-executive Director, met without the presence of the Chairman to evaluate the Chairmans performance.
Quality of internal and external reporting: Following the performance evaluation process, the Chairman has Internal control and compliance with appropriate laws confirmed that the Non-executive Directors standing for re-election and regulations.
at this years AGM continue to perform effectively and demonstrate The implementation of internal control systems is the responsibility commitment to their roles.
The Board will continue to review of the Executive Committee.
In compliance with provision C. 2.1 of the Code and the Turnbull Relationship with shareholders guidance, the Board annually reviews the effectiveness of the The Board understands the importance of maintaining good Companys internal control systems and reports to shareholders.
After the preliminary and interim announcements, meetings are held with institutional investors The Board has ensured that a process for managing significant to keep them up to date with the Companys progress throughout risk has been in place during the year.
the year and to discuss any issues they may have.
This ensures that The process is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of investors have a balanced view of performance and the issues failure to achieve business objectives.
In establishing and reviewing facing the Company.
the system of internal control, the Directors have regard to the nature In 2008, the meetings were attended by the Group Chief Executive, and extent of relevant risks, the likelihood of loss being incurred and the Group Finance Director and the Investor Relations Manager.
Chairman and Non-executive Directors are also given the opportunity The system can only provide a reasonable but not absolute to meet institutional shareholders.
The Senior Independent Nonassurance against any material mis-statement or loss and cannot executive Director is available to shareholders if contact through eliminate business risk.
The Board has delegated the responsibility of reviewing in detail the Other meetings are held for investors and analysts that cover a wide effectiveness of the Companys internal control systems to the Audit range of issues including strategy, performance and governance.
The Audit Committee reports its findings to the Board as The Investor Relations Manager provided the Board with regular a whole so that a view can be taken.
updates on the views of the Companys major investors.
During the year, the Board received external presentations from advisors, Risk identication, assessment and management including the Companys brokers, on shareholder and market To assist the Board and the Audit Committee in managing internal perception of the Companys strategy.
controls, the Group operates a Risk Management Strategy Group RMSG, which is chaired by the Group Chief Executive.
Membership The Board is equally concerned with the views of private throughout the year comprised the Group Finance Director, the shareholders.
The Group Company Secretary manages day to Group Company Secretary, the Group Treasury Director and the day communication with these shareholders and they are actively Group Audit and Risk Director.
encouraged to give their views using the prepaid reply form issued each year with the AGM documentation.
This is particularly useful for shareholders unable to attend the AGM in person.
com 48 Governance Corporate governance report continued The RMSG meets quarterly to consider what changes to risk In preparing those Financial statements, the Directors are required to: management and control processes should be recommended.
Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them Its review covers matters such as responses to significant risks that consistently: have been identied, output from monitoring processes including internal audit reports and changes to be made to the internal Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and control systems.
It also follows up on areas that require improvement prudent: and reports back to the Audit Committee.
State that the Group Financial statements comply with IFRS as Control procedures and monitoring systems adopted by the EU, and, with regard to the parent Company A Group Risk Register, which identies key risks, the impact should Financial statements, that applicable UK Accounting Standards they occur and actions being taken to manage these risks at the have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed desired level, is produced for each business unit.
In addition, actions and explained in the Financial statements: to be taken in the event that such risks crystallise and proposed Prepare Group and parent Company Financial statements on improvements to the way they are managed are also included.
a going concern basis, unless it is inappropriate to presume that The Group Risk Register is approved by the RMSG and the Executive the Company and the Group will continue in business, in which Committee and forwarded to the Audit Committee for discussion case there should be supporting assumptions or qualications at their meetings.
The Group also monitors its control procedures in the following The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records, key areas: which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial Financial reporting position of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure There is a comprehensive system with an annual budget approved that the Group Financial statements comply with the Companies by Directors.
Monthly actual results are reviewed and reported against Act and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and the Company Financial budget and, where appropriate, revised forecasts are presented at statements and the  report complies with Board meetings.
the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Investment appraisal Group, and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention The Group has clearly dened policies for capital expenditure.
and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
These include annual budgets and detailed appraisal and review procedures.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website.
The work carried out by the auditors does Internal audit not involve consideration of these matters, and accordingly the The adequacy and effectiveness of the Groups internal control auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have systems are monitored by the Internal Audit team who report to occurred to the Financial statements since they were initially the Audit Committee on a regular basis.
Internal Audit also works presented on the website.
Information published on the internet is closely with management and the external auditor.
accessible in many countries with different legal requirements.
Business unit controls Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of Each business in the Group is required to identify its key risks and the Financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
control procedures in place to mitigate those risks.
This evaluation Each of the Directors confirms that to the best of their knowledge: takes place twice a year as part of the preparation and update of the business plans.
The Group Financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair In 2008, the Managing Director and Finance Director of each view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the business unit in the Group was asked to sign a compliance Group, and: certicate to confirm: the accuracy and completeness of the accounts submitted for consolidation: compliance with local laws The Operating review and Financial review shown on pages and regulations: the absence of fraud: the absence of conicted 16 to 29, include a fair review of the development and directorships and compliance with Inchcape policies.
performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and  uncertainties that it faces.
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards Board committees IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU, and the parent Company Financial statements and the  Inchcape plc report in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom Accountancy Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
The Group and parent Company Financial Corporate Audit Remuneration Executive Nominations Responsibility statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee state of affairs of the Company and the Group and the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
Risk Management Group Capital Strategy Group Committee Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 01-37 38-57 58-120 Inside back cover 49 The Board delegates certain responsibilities to its principal Reviewing the external auditors independence and objectivity Committees.
All Committee Chairmen report verbally on the and the effectiveness of the audit process: proceedings of the Committee at the next Board meeting.
The Group Reviewing and implementing the policy on the engagement Company Secretary acts as Secretary to all of the Board Committees.
of the external auditor to supply non-audit services: and The Executive Committee has primary responsibility for the day to Reviewing the Companys arrangements for employees to raise day management of the Groups operations within agreed limits concerns condentially about possible improprieties in relation set by the Board.
It is chaired by the Group Chief Executive.
to financial reporting or other matters.
The Corporate Responsibility Committee is chaired by the Group The Audit Committee discharged all its responsibilities, as set out Chief Executive.
Its report is set out on pages 30 to 37. in its Terms of Reference, during the year.
Audit Committee report The full Terms of Reference can be found at Members From To www.
Ken Hanna Chairman 16 May 2002 To date Activities During 2008, the principal activities of the Audit Committee included Will Samuel 26 January 2005 To date reviews of the following: Michael Wemms 29 January 2004 To date Interim and full year results and all other formal announcements David Scotland 24 February 2005 To date relating to financial performance: Graham Pimlott 25 March 2008 To date The internal audit plan and the results of the internal auditors work, including monitoring managements responsiveness to Governance findings and recommendations: The Audit Committee comprises five independent Non-executive The Companys internal financial controls and the internal Directors.
The Committee is chaired by Ken Hanna who is a control and risk management system: chartered accountant with extensive experience of serving as a Finance Director of a FTSE 100 company.
The terms of engagement with the external auditor at the start of each audit and the scope of the audit to be provided: Will Samuel is a chartered accountant.
The Board has determined that he has recent and relevant financial experience.
Graham The audit plan with the external auditor at the planning and Pimlott is a member of the UK Auditing Practices Board.
reporting stage: The Audit Committee met three times during 2008, to coincide with The effectiveness of the internal and external audit function: key dates in the Companys financial calendar.
Attendance of these Whistleblowing provisions: meetings are shown on page 46.
Relevant disclosures in this report: and No-one other than the Audit Committee Chairman and its members is entitled to attend the meetings.
However, the Chairman, Group Terms of Reference.
Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, Group Audit and Risk The Companys whistleblowing policy is communicated to Director and the external auditors attend by invitation.
The policy enables employees to In addition, the Audit Committee meets privately with the external raise concerns with the Disclosure Response Team in cases where auditors twice a year.
conduct may be deemed to be contrary to the Companys policies or values.
The Audit Committee may take legal, accounting or other advice, at the Companys expense, when it believes it necessary to do so.
In addition to the above activities, the Audit Committee reviewed None was taken during 2008, other than from the Companys its policy regarding the scope and extent of any non-audit services external auditors.
provided to it by its external auditors.
The purpose of the policy is to ensure that the external auditors remain objective and independent.
Responsibilities A procedure is in place which must be complied with prior to the Monitoring the integrity of the Financial statements of the auditors being engaged in non-audit work.
There is a clear division Company and any formal announcement relating to its of responsibility between audit and non-audit staff, and financial performance: limits are imposed on permitted areas of non-audit work such as Reviewing internal financial controls and internal control and tax advice.
The Audit Committee has acted in compliance with this risk management systems: policy during 2008.
Monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the internal A full statement of the fees paid for audit and non-audit services is audit function: note 3 on page 79. provided in Making recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment and removal of the external auditor: www.
com 50 Governance Corporate governance report continued Nominations Committee report Activities The principal activities during 2008 were Board composition and Members From To succession planning in respect of the Executive Directors and Peter Johnson Chairman 1 January 2006 To date Executive Committee members.
Will Samuel 1 April 2005 To date After a review of the Board composition, Graham Pimlott was appointed in March 2008, as recommended by the Nominations Ken Hanna 26 February 2004 To date Committee.
He received a formal letter of appointment setting out Michael Wemms 29 July 2004 To date clearly expectations in terms of time commitment, Committee service and involvement outside Board meetings.
David Scotland 29 November 2005 To date Following the announcement by Peter Johnson of his intention to Andr Lacroix 1 January 2006 To date retire after the 2009 AGM, a programme to nd his replacement commenced with external advisors.
The Nominations Committee Governance prepared a job specication for the appointment of the Chairman The Nominations Committee is chaired by Peter Johnson who is which included an assessment of the time commitment expected Chairman of the Board of Directors.
It comprises the Chairman, for the role.
The Nominations Committee recommended to the Board four independent Non-executive Directors and the Group that Ken Hanna would be most suited to take on the role of Chairman Chief Executive.
The Nominations Committee was satisfied that the appointment process had been thorough and comprehensive.
In line Only members of the Nominations Committee have the right with the provisions of A.
4.1 of the Code, Peter Johnson did not chair to attend Committee meetings.
However, other individuals such the Nominations Committee when dealing with the appointment as the Group Human Resources Director and external advisors of the successor to the chairmanship.
Ken Hanna also did not may be invited to attend for all or part of any meeting, as and participate in discussions concerning the new chairmanship.
The Nominations Committee also approved the recommendation The Nominations Committee held two scheduled meetings during that Ken Hanna succeeds Peter Johnson as Nominations 2008.
Attendance of these meetings is shown on page 46.
Committee Chairman and Graham Pimlott succeeds Ken Hanna Responsibilities as Audit Committee Chairman after Peter Johnsons retirement Evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge and experience from the Company.
on the Board: A review of succession planning for the Executive Committee Reviewing the leadership needs of the Group to ensure was carried out during the year and provisions were put in place competitiveness in the marketplace: to ensure the continued ability of the Group to compete effectively in the marketplace.
Identifying and nominating suitable candidates to ll Non-executive vacancies: The Nominations Committee made recommendations for the election and re-election, by shareholders, of Directors retiring at the Succession planning: 2009 AGM.
No Director was present when his or her election or reRecommending the membership and chairmanship of the election was considered.
In particular, the Nominations Committee Audit and Remuneration Committees to the Board: and reviewed the continued service of any Non-executive Director who has served six or more years, to ensure that Board members Reviewing the extent of Directorsother interests and any continue to possess the skills deemed appropriate for the needs of changes to those interests.
the Company and its stakeholders.
The Directors offering themselves The Nominations Committee discharged its responsibilities for re-election are shown on page 41. as set out in its Terms of Reference during the year.
The Nominations Committee annually reviews the re-election The full Terms of Reference can be found at of any Board member who has served for longer than nine years www.
Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008
