THE BOARD, SENIOR MANAGEMENT AND THEIR RESPONSIBILITIES Corporate governance 35 Corporate governance Combined Code compliance The review was carried out through the monitoring process set out above, which accords with the Turnbull Guidance.
The system The Board is committed to compliance with the principles set of internal control is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, out in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and it must be and considers that the Company has complied with the Code recognised that it can only provide reasonable and not absolute requirements throughout the year ended 31 December 2008. assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Whilst areas As InterContinental Hotels Group PLCs shares are also listed on for improvement in internal control have been identified and the New York Stock Exchange NYSE, the Company is subject to actions initiated as a result of the above process, no significant the rules of the NYSE, US securities laws and the rules of the shortcomings in internal control have been identified from the Securities and Exchange Commission SEC.
As required by the annual assessment.
SEC, a statement outlining the differences between the Companys To comply with the Groups US obligations, arising from the corporate governance practices and those followed by US Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002, a project has been completed to identify, companies may be found on the Companys website at evaluate and test key financial controls across all our business www.
com investors under corporate governance NYSE units.
This enabled appropriate representations regarding the differences.
effectiveness of internal financial controls to be made in the Companys Annual Report on Form 20-F, filed with the SEC in Control environment March 2008, in compliance with these US obligations.
The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and risk management and for reviewing its effectiveness.
In order With regard to insurance against risk, it is not practicable to insure to discharge that responsibility, the Board has established the against every risk to the fullest extent.
While the insurance market procedures necessary to apply the Code, including clear operating has eased in some areas, certain risks, eg natural catastrophe, procedures, lines of responsibility and delegated authority.
remain difficult to insure both as to breadth and cost of coverage.
In some cases external insurance is not available at all or not at Business performance is managed closely and, in particular, an economic price.
The Group regularly reviews both the type and the Board, the Executive Committee and the Regional Operating amount of external insurance that it buys, bearing in mind the Committees have established processes, as part of the normal availability of such cover, its price and the likelihood and magnitude good management of the business, to monitor: of the risks involved.
strategic plan achievement, through a comprehensive series of Group and regional strategic reviews: Board and Committee structure financial performance, within a comprehensive financial To support the principles of good corporate governance, the Board planning and accounting framework: and Committee structure operates as set out below.
capital investment performance, with detailed appraisal and authorisation processes: and The Board risk management through an ongoing process, which has been The Boards current composition of the Non-Executive Chairman, in place up to the date of the accounts, providing assurance two Executive and five Non-Executive Directors meets the through reports from: the Head of Risk Management: the Head requirement of the Combined Code for at least half the Board, of Internal Audit: and, in certain instances, from management, excluding the Chairman, to be independent Non-Executive that the significant risks faced by the Group are being identified, Directors.
In the Boards view, all of the current Non-Executive evaluated and appropriately managed, having regard to the Directors are independent.
balance of risk, cost and opportunity.
The Board is responsible to the shareholders for the strategic In addition, the Audit Committee reviews: direction, development, performance and control of the Group.
It therefore approves strategic plans and capital and revenue regular reports from management, Internal Audit and the budgets.
It reviews significant investment proposals and the external auditor on the effectiveness of systems for internal performance of past investments and maintains an overview control, financial reporting and risk management: and control of the Groups operating and financial performance.
the timeliness and effectiveness of corrective action taken It monitors the Groups overall system of internal controls, by management: and governance and compliance.
The Board ensures that the necessary material financial and non-financial risks.
financial and human resources are in place for the Group to meet its objectives.
The Board has established a schedule of matters The Board has conducted a review of the effectiveness which are reserved for its attention and decision.
These may be of the system of internal control during the year ended found on the Companys website.
This covered all material controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls, The Board adopts objective criteria for the appointment of and risk management systems, and took into account any Directors, and the roles of the Chairman and of the Chief Executive material developments since the year end.
have been defined in writing and approved by the Board.
36 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 Corporate governance continued The Board has responsibility for the planned and progressive It is unavoidable, particularly given the other corporate and refreshing of the Board and its Committees.
It establishes and international responsibilities of the very experienced people regularly reviews its policy in both of these areas and it is the concerned, that, from time to time, individual Non-Executive Nomination Committees responsibility to evaluate formally the Directors may be unable to attend a Board meeting.
Any such required skills, knowledge and experience of the Board, in a non-attendance is occasional and the Board is satisfied that all structured way.
Directors remain committed to their roles and responsibilities.
The following were Directors of the Company during the year: All Directors are briefed by means of comprehensive papers in advance of Board meetings and by presentations at meetings.
Date of original Their understanding of the Groups operations is enhanced by 1 Position appointment regular business presentations outside Board meetings and David Webster Non-Executive Chairman 15.4.
05 2 The Companys Articles of Association were amended with effect Richard Solomons Finance Director 10.2.
03 from 1 October 2008 to allow the Directors to authorise conflicts 3 Stevan Porter President, The Americas 15.4.
03 and potential conflicts, where appropriate, as now permitted David Kappler Non-Executive Director and under the Companies Act 2006.
Each of the Directors was asked Senior Independent Director 21.6.
04 to identify any conflicts or potential conflicts by returning a Ralph Kugler Non-Executive Director 15.4.
03 questionnaire to the Company Secretary.
The Board considered Jennifer Laing Non-Executive Director 25.8.
05 all the responses to this questionnaire at a meeting of the full 4 Robert C Larson Non-Executive Director 15.4.
03 Board and has approved those potential conflicts it considered Jonathan Linen Non-Executive Director 1.12.05 appropriate.
The Board will review formally the conflict 5 Sir David Prosser Non-Executive Director 15.4.
03 authorisations granted each year, but continues to have Ying Yeh Non-Executive Director 1.12.07 conflicts of interest as a standing agenda item at each meeting.
1 The capital reorganisation of the Group, effective on 27 June 2005, entailed Performance evaluations of the Board and the Directors were the insertion of a new parent company of the Group.
All Directors serving at that time signed new letters of appointment effective from that date.
An independent third-party facilitator assists dates shown above represent the original dates of appointment of each of in the performance evaluation in alternate years.
The 2008 the Directors to the Groups parent company.
2 Richard Solomons also served as interim President of the Americas region from July to December 2008, following the illness and subsequent death The 2008 Board evaluation, including that of the Chairman and of Stevan Porter.
the Executive Directors, involved completion of questionnaires and 3 Stevan Porter relinquished his responsibilities in July 2008, due to illness.
the Chairman having discussions with each Director individually.
4 Robert C Larson retired as a Director of the Company on 31 December 2008.
Feedback was provided to the Board through a formal report 5 Sir David Prosser retired as a Director of the Company on 31 May 2008. and the findings were discussed.
The Board concluded that it was operating in an effective manner and identified certain areas Current Directors biographical details are set out on page 30 where more emphasis might be given.
These include their main external commitments.
With regard to the performance of individual Directors, as part On appointment, Non-Executive Directors participate in induction of the evaluation process, the Chairman held meetings with each programmes designed to meet their individual needs and to Director and it was concluded that they continue to make an introduce them to, and familiarise them with, the principal effective contribution to the work of the Board.
All Directors are activities of the Group and with central and regional management.
well prepared and informed concerning items to be considered by Comprehensive induction programmes are also put in place for the Board, have a good understanding of the Groups business any Executive Director who may join the Group.
These induction and retain a strong commitment to their roles.
programmes accord with the guidelines referred to in the Combined Code.
The updating of all Directors skills and During the year, the Non-Executive Directors met together without knowledge is a progressive exercise.
This is accomplished at the Chairman present, under the chairmanship of the Senior Board and strategy meetings, through presentations and visits Independent Director, to appraise the Chairmans performance.
to hotels and other business premises, and through contact with The outcome of this appraisal was positive.
The work and effectiveness during the year of the Audit, Eight regular Board meetings are scheduled each year and further Remuneration and Nomination Committees were also evaluated.
meetings are held as needed.
During 2008, nine Board meetings These reviews concluded that each Committee was operating in were held.
These were attended by all Directors with the exception an effective manner.
that Robert C Larson, Sir David Prosser and Ying Yeh could not attend one meeting each.
Despite being unable to attend meetings, these Directors were provided with all the papers and information relevant to those meetings and were able to discuss matters arising with the Chairman and the Chief Executive.
THE BOARD, SENIOR MANAGEMENT AND THEIR RESPONSIBILITIES Corporate governance 37 Chairman The Company Secretary acts as secretary to each of the main Board Committees.
George Turner became Company Secretary David Webster was Non-Executive Chairman throughout the year.
He is also Non-Executive Chairman of Makinson Cowell Limited.
He is a member of the Appeals Committee of the Panel on Committees Takeovers and Mergers, and in 2008 was appointed a Director of Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC.
Each Committee of the Board has written terms of reference which are approved by the Board and which are subject to The Chairman has responsibility for ensuring the efficient review every year.
operation of the Board and its Committees, for overseeing corporate governance matters and ensuring they are addressed, Audit Committee for representing the Group externally and communicating The Audit Committee is chaired by David Kappler who has particularly with shareholders.
Working closely with the Chief significant recent and relevant financial experience and is the Executive and the Company Secretary, he also ensures that Committees financial expert.
During 2008, the other Committee Directors receive a full, formal and tailored induction to the Group members were Sir David Prosser until his retirement on and its business and that all Directors are fully informed of relevant 31 May 2008, Ralph Kugler and Jennifer Laing.
The Chairman also meets with the Non-Executive scheduled to meet at least four times a year.
The Committee met Directors, without Executive Directors present.
These meetings were attended by all Committee members.
The Audit Committees role is described on page 39.
Chief Executive Remuneration Committee Andrew Cosslett was Chief Executive throughout the year.
He has The Remuneration Committee, chaired by Sir David Prosser until responsibility to recommend to the Board and to implement the his retirement on 31 May 2008, and thereafter by Ralph Kugler, Groups strategic objectives.
He is responsible for the executive also comprises the following Non-Executive Directors: David management of the Group.
He is a member of the Executive Kappler, Robert C Larson until his retirement on 31 December Committee of the World Travel & Tourism Council and a member 2008, Jonathan Linen and Ying Yeh.
It meets at least three times of the Presidents Committee of the CBI.
Neither of these positions a year.
Its role is described on page 40.
The Committee met four is remunerated.
Robert C Larson and Ying Yeh were unable to attend one meeting each.
Senior Independent Director Nomination Committee David Kappler was Senior Independent Director throughout the The Nomination Committee comprises any three Non-Executive year.
His responsibilities include being available to liaise with Directors although, where possible, all Non-Executive Directors are shareholders who have issues to raise and leading the present.
It is chaired by the Chairman of the Company.
Its terms performance evaluation of the Chairman.
of reference reflect the principal duties proposed as good practice and referred to in the Combined Code.
The Committee nominates, Non-Executive Directors for approval by the Board, candidates for appointment to the A team of experienced independent Non-Executive Directors Board.
The Committee generally engages external consultants represents a strong source of advice and judgement.
There are to advise on candidates for Board appointments.
Candidate currently five such Directors, in addition to the Non-Executive profiles and objective selection criteria are prepared in advance Chairman, each of whom has significant external commercial of any engagements.
The Committee also has responsibility for experience.
The Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman, succession planning and assists in identifying and developing the meet during the year to consider the Groups business and role of the Senior Independent Director.
The Committee met five management.
Non-Executive Directors have the opportunity of continuing professional development during the year and of gaining further Executive Committee insight into the Groups business.
During 2008, visits to operating This Committee is chaired by the Chief Executive.
It consists of premises including hotels were undertaken.
In addition, the the Executive Directors and senior executives from the Group and training requirements of the Non-Executive Directors are kept the regions and usually meets monthly.
Its role is to consider and under review.
manage a range of important strategic and business issues facing the Group.
It is responsible for monitoring the performance of the Company Secretary business.
It is authorised to approve capital and revenue investment All Directors have access to the advice and services of the within levels agreed by the Board.
It reviews and recommends to Company Secretary.
His responsibilities include ensuring good the Board the most significant investment proposals.
information flows to the Board and its Committees and between Corporate Responsibility Committee senior management and the Non-Executive Directors.
He In December 2008 it was proposed to establish an additional facilitates the induction of Directors, the regular updating and Committee of the Board, to advise on matters relating to the refreshing of their skills and knowledge and he assists them in important area of Corporate Responsibility.
This new Committee fulfilling their duties and responsibilities.
Through the Chairman, was established in February 2009. he is responsible for advising the Board on corporate governance and generally for keeping the Board up to date on all legal, regulatory and other developments.
38 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 Corporate governance continued Disclosure Committee Shareholder relations The Disclosure Committee, chaired by the Groups Financial The Group reports formally to shareholders twice a year when its Controller, and comprising the Company Secretary and other half-year and full-year results are announced.
The Chief Executive senior executives, reports to the Chief Executive, the Finance and the Finance Director give presentations on these results Director and to the Audit Committee.
Its duties include ensuring to institutional investors, analysts and the media.
Telephone that information required to be disclosed in reports pursuant to dial-in facilities and live audio webcasts enable access to these UK and US accounting, statutory or listing requirements, fairly presentations for all shareholders.
In addition, there are telephone represents the Groups position in all material respects.
conferences after the release of the first and third quarter results.
The data used in these presentations and conferences may be General Purposes Committee found at www.
com investors under financial library presentations.
The General Purposes Committee comprises any one Executive Committee member together with a senior officer from an agreed IHG also has a programme of meetings throughout the year with and restricted list of senior executives.
It is always chaired by an its major institutional shareholders, which provides an opportunity Executive Committee member.
It attends to business of a routine to discuss, using publicly available information, the progress of the nature and to the administration of matters, the principles of which business, its performance, plans and objectives.
The Chairman, have been agreed previously by the Board or an appropriate the Senior Independent Director and other Non-Executive Directors Committee.
are available to meet with major shareholders to understand their issues and concerns and to discuss governance and strategy.
Any Appointment, removal and re-election new Director is available for meetings with major shareholders as of Directors a matter of course.
The rules governing the appointment and removal of Directors Additionally, the Annual General Meeting provides a useful are set out in the Companys Articles of Association.
New interface with private shareholders, many of whom are also Directors are subject to election by shareholders at the next customers.
The Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Annual General Meeting following appointment, and the office Nomination Committees are available at the Annual General of a Director shall be vacated in the circumstances defined in Meeting to answer questions.
Information about the Group is Article 90 of the Articles of Association, eg prohibition by law, maintained and available to shareholders through the website.
A formal external review of shareholder opinion is presented to the The Companys Articles of Association provide that those Directors Board on an annual basis and both the Executive Committee and the who have not been subject to election by shareholders within the Board receive regular updates on shareholder relations activities.
last three years, must retire and stand for re-election at the next Annual General Meeting.
In 2009, two Directors fall into this Further information category.
Therefore, Jennifer Laing and Jonathan Linen will retire The terms of reference of all the Committees of the Board by rotation and offer themselves for re-election at the Annual were reviewed during the year.
It was confirmed that all terms General Meeting on 29 May 2009.
Additionally, solely for the of reference continue to reflect best practice.
A number of minor purposes of good governance, Richard Solomons will also retire amendments were made to update the terms of reference of the at the Annual General Meeting and offer himself for re-election.
Principal Committees terms of The Notice of Annual General Meeting, sent to shareholders reference are available on the Companys website with this Report, provides further information about the Directors www.
com investors under corporate governance committees standing for re-election.
Information on Executive Directors or from the Company Secretarys office on request.
service contracts is set out on page 43.
The Non-Executive The Memorandum and Articles of Association of the Company are Chairman and the five independent Non-Executive Directors available on the Companys website www.
com investors under have letters of appointment.
The terms and conditions of appointment of Non-Executive Directors are available on request.
Independent advice There is an agreed procedure by which members of the Board may take independent professional advice in the furtherance of their George Turner duties and they have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary Company Secretary.
