Corporate governance 78 International Power Annual Report 2008 Corporate governance The Board has established business values and standards for the Group, which provide a framework for the Group to balance the interests of all its stakeholders in the conduct of its business.
We are committed to high standards of corporate The full Board met seven times during 2008. governance and in this section set out how we Attendance by Directors at these and the Board comply with the principles in the Combined Code, committee meetings held during the year are and explain our reasons for any areas of nondetailed in the table below.
In addition to the Board and committee meetings, a meeting of the Chairman and the Non-Executive The Board Directors was held without the Executive Directors In 2008 the effectiveness of the Board was being present.
The Non-Executive Directors also underpinned by a balance between Executive and met without the Chairman being present.
The Board believes that meeting was chaired by Tony Isaac, the Senior it has the skills and experience necessary to provide Independent Director, and included a review effective leadership and control of the Company.
On 15 May 2008, Ranald Spiers was appointed Executive Director with responsibility for the Board membership Middle East and Asia.
There were no other changes In accordance with the Combined Code and the to the Board during the year.
At the end of the year Companys Articles of Association, all Directors the Board comprised of the Chairman Sir Neville submit themselves for re-election every three years Simms, Executive Directors Philip Cox, Mark and newly appointed Directors are subject to Williamson, Tony Concannon, Steve Riley, Bruce election by shareholders at the first Annual General Levy and Ranald Spiers and four Non-Executive Meeting AGM after their appointment.
In addition, Directors Tony Isaac, Alan Murray, John Roberts the Board seeks to maintain a balance between and Struan Robertson.
Sir Neville Simms was continuity and new blood amongst the Nonconsidered independent on his appointment as Executive Directors.
In accordance with this policy, Chairman and the four Non-Executive Directors Ranald Spiers will submit himself for election at the are also considered to be independent.
Tony Isaac 2009 AGM and John Roberts, Mark Williamson and is the Senior Independent Director.
Steve Riley will submit themselves for re-election at this meeting, in accordance with the three-year The structure of the Board is not in strict compliance re-election policy.
with the Combined Code in that the number of Non-Executive Directors is less than the number Tony Isaac is also subject to re-election under the of Executive Directors.
However, the Directors terms of the Articles of Association.
Tony was first consider that the Board currently works effectively appointed to the Board in October 2000 and and that the Non-Executive Directors have a continues to be effective and demonstrates sufficiently strong and independent presence at commitment to the role.
The Board wishes Tony Board meetings to provide an effective counter to continue in his role through 2009 and until a balance to the Executive Directors.
The size and suitable successor is appointed.
In accordance with structure of the Board is kept under review annually.
the terms of the Combined Code he will be subject to annual re-election if the Board wishes him to continue beyond the AGM in 2010.
Board Audit Remuneration Appointments HS&E 1 seven Committee Committee Committee Committee meetings three meetings five meetings one meeting two meetings Sir Neville Simms 7 n a 5 1 Philip Cox 7 n a n a n a 2 Tony Concannon 7 n a n a n a 2 Tony Isaac 6 3 4 Bruce Levy 7 n a n a n a Alan Murray 7 3 5 1 Steve Riley 7 n a n a n a 2 John Roberts 7 3 5 1 2 Struan Robertson 7 3 5 1 2 3 Ranald Spiers 4 n a n a n a Mark Williamson 7 n a n a n a 1 The members of the Health, Safety and Environment HS&E Committee are the Chairman Struan Robertson, the CEO Philip Cox and one other NonExecutive Director.
In addition the relevant Regional Director attends HS&E Committee meetings held at assets in their region.
In 2008, meetings took place at Deeside and Rugeley, so Steve Riley attended these meetings.
2 Tony Isaac missed one Board meeting during 2008 due to a pre-existing business commitment.
He passed comments on each of the relevant papers to the Chairman, prior to the meeting.
3 Ranald Spiers joined the Board in May 2008.
He has attended all Board meetings since that date.
Governance 79 In respect of Board performance for 2008, Board training following an external assessment of its performance Arrangements are in place to ensure that newly in 2007 carried out by Professor Rob Goffee of appointed Directors receive a comprehensive the London Business School, the Board conducted briefing on the Company, and training is provided an internal performance assessment.
The results for Directors on their roles and their legal obligations of the review demonstrated that the Board to ensure that they are fully conversant with their members were satisfied with the performance responsibilities as Directors.
In accordance with and commitment of each of the Directors and the this policy, Ranald Spiers underwent a training operation of the Board and its committees.
The programme on his obligations as a director of Oyster Creek, US contribution by individual Directors to Board and a public limited company.
A programme of committee meetings was considered to be high.
continuous training is also provided for the Directors.
Periodically, the Board meets at the site of one of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Groups power stations and briefings are also given at Board meetings on particular parts of the business, There is a clear division of responsibilities at the head including regional and functional reviews.
In January of the Company between the roles of the Chairman 2009 the Board visited the Groups business in and the CEO.
The Chairman is responsible for the Australia where it toured certain plants, met the leadership and effective operation of the Board, regional management team and received a briefing in terms of its agenda, decision making and about the local business operations.
Directors are the utilisation of the skills and experience of the also kept informed of changes to the regulatory Directors.
He monitors, with the assistance of regime such as the new Companies Act.
All of the the company secretary, the information provided Directors have access to the advice and services to the Board to ensure that it is sufficient, pertinent, of the company secretary and also to external timely and clear.
The Chairman is also responsible independent advice should they so wish.
for ensuring that there is effective engagement and communication with shareholders.
The CEO Insurance is responsible for the overall management of the The Company has in place appropriate insurance Company, and leading the executive and operational cover in respect of legal action against its Directors.
teams in implementing the strategies approved by the Board.
Operation of the Board The Board has responsibility for defining strategy, Non-Executive Directors and their function ensuring the successful implementation of Through membership of the Board committees, the approved projects proposals and for the financial Non-Executive Directors have responsibilities for: policies of the Group.
It also reviews the risk policies overseeing that systems of internal control and and profile of the Group and it maintains a schedule risk management are appropriate and effective of all matters requiring specific Board approval.
managing the relationship with the external Throughout 2008 this included all strategy auditor decisions and significant capital investment proposals and acquisitions.
The Board receives evaluating the performance of management information on capital expenditure projects in meeting targets and objectives and investment proposals in advance of Board setting the remuneration of Executive Directors meetings, as well as management reports on the operational and financial performance of the appointing Executive Directors business.
Financial performance is monitored on planning senior management succession a monthly basis and the overall performance of the Group is reviewed against approved budgets.
At least once a year, the Chief Executive Officer Executive Directors holding CEO presents a corporate strategy plan to the non-executive directorships Board for review and approval.
Each investment The Company has a policy of encouraging its decision is made in the context of this plan.
Executive Directors to hold a non-executive directorship in another company.
This broadens The Board has established business values and their experience and helps improve their standards for the Group, which provide a contributions to the Group.
Philip Cox is a framework for the Group to balance the interests Non-Executive Director of Wincanton plc.
His of all its stakeholders in the conduct of its business.
remuneration from this role is retained by him and The business values FIRST are set out on pages for the year ended 31 March 2008 was 49,000.
8 and 9 of this Annual Report.
The Companys Code Similarly, Steve Riley and Mark Williamson are of Business Conduct has been formally adopted by respectively Non-Executive Directors of Shanks the Board and is set out on the Companys website.
Group plc and Imperial Tobacco Group plc.
They are This Code includes a whistle-blowing procedure.
each entitled to retain their remuneration for their The Board has also reviewed potential conflicts roles which was, in 2008, 35,000 for Steve Riley of the Directors in accordance with the Companies and 70,000 for Mark Williamson, who is Chairman Act 2006. of the Audit Committee at Imperial Tobacco.
Corporate governance 80 International Power Annual Report 2008 Time was set aside for the Committee to meet Board committees the external auditor and the head of internal The Company has established the following audit without executive management present.
committees: the Audit Committee: the In addition to the members of the Committee, Remuneration Committee: the Appointments regular attendees at the Audit Committee meetings Committee and the HS&E Committee.
No person included representatives of the external auditor, other than a Committee member is entitled to the Chairman, the CEO, the CFO, other Executive attend the meetings of these committees, except Directors, the Group controller and the head of at the invitation of the Committee.
The full terms internal audit.
of reference for each Committee are available on the Companys website.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee is responsible Audit Committee for ensuring that the overall remuneration of The Committee manages the relationship with Executive Directors is maintained on a sensible the external auditor.
The Committee annually and comparable basis and enables the Company reviews and approves the terms of the appointment of the external auditor and its engagement.
It fixes to compete effectively for good calibre executives.
the level of the auditors remuneration ensuring It monitors the performance of Executive Directors it is appropriate and does not compromise the against targets, it sets the performance conditions effectiveness of the audit and reviews the scope for long-term incentive plan awards and reviews the and adequacy of the audit.
The Committee also remuneration levels and other conditions of service puts in place policies and procedures to ensure of senior managers immediately below Board level.
that the external auditor remains independent The Committee comprises the independent and reviews them and the auditors independence Non-Executive Directors of the Company and and objectivity each year.
This review includes the the Chairman.
The Chairman of the Committee overall relationship between the auditor and the for 2008 was John Roberts.
The company secretary Company, including the safeguards established by acts as secretary to the Committee and the the external auditor for maintaining independence, director of global resources acts as advisor to the rotation of partners and staff who work on the the Committee.
In 2008, Towers Perrin acted audit and the level and nature of non-audit services as external advisor to the Committee.
The Committee reviews all financial reports Appointments Committee which for 2008 consisted of the preliminary The Appointments Committee is responsible for announcement, Annual Report and the Interim matters of management succession and the Report including consideration of the Groups identification and appointment of Directors.
It also accounting policies and major judgemental areas.
reviews the Board structure, size and composition, The Committee reviews the effectiveness of the and makes recommendations to the Board with Groups systems of internal control, and reviews regard to changes that are deemed desirable.
The the scope and the annual plan of the internal Committee comprises the Chairman and all of audit function and satisfies itself of its adequacy, the independent Non-Executive Directors of particularly in terms of resources and performance the Company.
The Chairman of the Committee against its annual plan.
In addition it reviews the is Sir Neville Simms.
The company secretary acts report prepared by the Risk Committee to ensure as secretary to the Committee.
all relevant risks are addressed in these external and internal audit processes.
Health, Safety and Environment Committee The HS&E Committee was established with effect During 2008 the Company replaced its quarterly from 1 January 2008.
It is responsible for reviewing financial results report with Interim Management the Groups HS&E policies, objectives and Statements IMS.
Each IMS is approved by a performance.
The Committee is chaired by Struan committee of the Board comprising the Chairman, Robertson and also comprises one other Nonthe chair of the Audit Committee, the CEO and Executive Director and the CEO.
In addition the Chief Financial Officer CFO.
director of operations and engineering attends During 2008 the Audit Committee comprised all meetings of the Committee.
During 2008 the HS&E the independent Non-Executive Directors of the Committee met twice, once at Deeside Power Company.
The Audit Committee Chairman was, Station and the other at Rugeley Power Station.
until March 2008, Tony Isaac, who is a Fellow of the At these meetings the Committee toured the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants power station, reviewing HS&E matters and and, before becoming Chief Executive of The BOC met with employees.
The station manager and Group plc, was its Group Finance Director.
Tony Regional Director, Steve Riley, were also invited Isaac was replaced by Alan Murray as Chairman of to the meetings.
The company secretary acts the Audit Committee in April 2008.
Alan Murray is as secretary to the Committee.
a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants and was previously Chief Financial Officer of Hanson PLC.
The company secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
Governance 81 An explanation of the respective responsibilities Relations with shareholders of the Directors and external auditor in connection The Board is accountable to shareholders for with the financial statements is set out in the the performance and activities of the Group.
The International Power ensures that its AGM provides Directors confirm in the Directors report their shareholders with an opportunity to receive view that the Group is a going concern.
comprehensive information on all aspects of the Groups business activities and to question senior The Audit Committee has a process in place to management about business issues and prospects.
approve all non-audit services provided by the external auditor to ensure that the objectivity All proxy votes are counted and the level of proxy and independence of the external auditor are not votes lodged for each resolution is reported at the compromised.
Our procedures specify the services AGM and on the Companys website.
In line with from which the external auditor is excluded and best practice, the Company aims to ensure that the approval process for all other services.
the notice of AGM and the Annual Report are sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the AGM.
Internal control The Board has responsibility for the Groups system International Power also runs, within the terms of internal control and for monitoring and reviewing of the regulatory framework, frequent contact its effectiveness.
programmes with industry analysts and institutional investors to discuss matters of strategy and financial Systems are in place to meet the requirements performance.
Contact is made principally by the of the Combined Code and Turnbull Guidance.
On issues of major importance Following the Company deregistering from its the Chairman communicates with major registration with the Securities and Exchange Ras Laffan B, Qatar shareholders.
The Senior Independent NonCommission in the US, it is no longer required to Executive Director Tony Isaac is also available comply with the terms of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
as an alternative point of contact if shareholders However, it has implemented procedures and have concerns over the Chairmans performance, systems deriving from that compliance programme or where contact with the Chairman or the use to ensure key controls are embedded into the of other communication channels would be internal control framework.
All results presentations and Any system of internal control is designed to manage, Stock Exchange announcements are available rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve to shareholders on the Companys website.
The system can only provide At each Board meeting, an update is given on reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against movements in major shareholdings and on contact material financial misstatement or loss.
The Board programmes between the Executive Directors and reviewed the effectiveness of internal control institutional shareholders.
Reports on the Company procedures during 2008.
The principal features issued by financial analysts are circulated to Board of the Groups systems of internal control are: members.
These reports enable the Directors to gain an understanding of the views and opinions Control environment of those with an interest in the Company.
The Board encourages a culture of integrity and openness.
The Group has an organisational Saltend, UK During 2007 the Company implemented the structure with clear lines of accountability provisions approved by shareholders at the 2007 and authority across its worldwide operations, AGM that allow for all shareholder documents to be supported by appropriate reporting procedures.
provided electronically unless otherwise requested Each of the regional businesses is accountable by the shareholder.
To ensure all shareholders are to the CEO and is managed within the strategic kept informed of the Companys performance for guidelines and delegated authorities adopted by 2008, all the shareholders who did not elect to the Board.
An executive management team, chaired receive a hard copy of the Annual Report will receive by the CEO and comprising the Executive Directors the Results Brief.
This balances the Companys desire and functional heads, meets regularly to discuss to reduce its costs and impact on the environment issues facing the Group.
with keeping shareholders informed of the Groups progress.
In addition, during 2008, the Companys Control procedures CEO and CFO met with representatives of the Control procedures have been established in United Kingdom Shareholders Association.
each of the Groups operations to safeguard the Groups assets from loss or misuse and to ensure Accountability and audit appropriate authorisation and recording of financial The Board is mindful of its responsibility to present transactions.
All acquisition and investment a balanced and understandable assessment decisions are subject to disciplined investment of International Powers financial position and appraisal processes.
Risk management procedures prospects, both to investors and regulatory are in place for the Groups operations, including authorities.
The preliminary announcement, its energy marketing and trading activities, which Annual Report, Interim Report and IMSs are are overseen by the Global Commodities Risk the principal means of achieving this objective.
Committee, which comprises Executive Directors and senior management, and is chaired by the CFO.
The Group treasury function operates under defined policies and the oversight of the Treasury Committee, chaired by the CFO.
Corporate governance 82 International Power Annual Report 2008 Ras Tanura, Tihama, Saudi Arabia Monitoring Performance reporting and information The Board reviews the effectiveness of established Corporate plan Executive management submits internal controls through the Audit Committee, an annual corporate plan to the Board for approval.
which receives reports from management, the The plan for each business unit is the quantified Groups Internal Audit function and the external assessment of its planned operating and financial auditor on the systems of internal control and risk performance for the next financial year, together management arrangements.
with strategic reviews for the following four years.
Group management reviews the plans with each The Internal Audit department reviews the operational team.
The individual plans are based effectiveness of internal controls and risk on key economic and financial assumptions and management through a work programme, which is incorporate an assessment of the risk and based on the Groups objectives and risk profile and sensitivities underlying the projections.
is agreed with the Audit Committee.
Findings are reported to operational and executive management Performance monitoring Monthly performance and financial reports are produced for each business and the Audit Committee.
unit, with comparisons to budget.
Reports are Business unit managers provide annual selfconsolidated for overall review by executive certification statements of compliance with management, together with forecasts for the procedures.
These statements give assurance KAPCO, Pakistan income statement and cash flow.
Detailed reports that controls are in operation and confirm are presented to the Board on a regular basis.
that programmes are in place to address any Performance review Each business unit is subject weaknesses in internal control.
The certification to regular performance reviews with Group process embraces all areas of material risk.
The management during the year.
Actual results and Internal Audit department reviews the statements forecasts for the year are compared to budget.
on behalf of the Disclosure Committee and reports Key operational and financial results are reviewed any significant issues to the Audit Committee.
together with the risk profile and business environment of the reporting unit.
Compliance with the Combined Code There were two areas where the Board was not Investment projects These are subject to formal fully compliant with the requirements of the revised review and authorisation procedures with Combined Code throughout 2008.
During 2008, designated levels of authority, including a review there were more Executive Directors than Nonby an Investment Committee ICOM chaired by Executive Directors on the Board.
The Board the CEO and comprising the Executive Directors has reviewed the structure of the Board and has and senior managers.
Major projects are subject concluded that there is no need to change the to Board review and approval.
on our investment process is available in our Group overview on pages 10 to 16.
The Senior Independent Director does not have a contact programme to communicate with Corporate reporting The Company has a institutional investors, primarily to avoid potential Disclosure Committee which is chaired by confusion over channels of communication and the company secretary and is comprised of because the Board considers this unnecessary.
members from the Internal Audit, Corporate During 2008 no institutional shareholder has Communications, Global Resources, Operations requested such communication.
and Engineering, Company Secretariat and Group Reporting departments.
It reviews In all other respects, the Company has complied the Annual Report, the Summary Annual Report with the provisions of the Combined Code and the Results Brief.
throughout the period of the review.
Risk identification and management As outlined in the section Our approach to risk and risk management there is a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and managing the key risks faced by the Group.
Activities are co-ordinated by the Risk Committee, which is chaired by the CFO, and has responsibility, on behalf of the Board, for ensuring the adequacy of systems for identifying and assessing significant risks, that appropriate control systems and other mitigating actions are in place, and that residual exposures are consistent with the Group strategy and objectives.
