Directors report Corporate governance The Company is committed to achieving and maintaining details of which are set out later in this report.
From time to high standards of corporate governance throughout the time the Board also establishes certain other committees Group and to integrity and high ethical standards in all its with defined terms of reference to deal with a specific issue business dealings.
which the Board has approved, such as the acquisition or disposal of a business.
The Company is required to comply with the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority the FSA which require The Board normally meets monthly throughout the year and the Company, amongst other things, to make a statement on on an ad hoc basis to consider any matters which are whether it has complied throughout the accounting period time-critical.
Attendance at Board and committee meetings with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined by individual directors during the year is set out in the Code on Corporate Governance, published by the Financial table below.
Reporting Council in June 2006 the Combined Code.
The Company must also provide an explanation of how it has Board Audit Remuneration Nomination applied the principles set out in Section 1 of the Combined Number of Meetings 12 56 6 Code to enable its shareholders to evaluate how the G P Balfour 12 56 6 principles have been applied.
Where the Company has not Lord Blackwell 12 -6 6 complied with the Combined Code provisions it must specify L G Cullen 12 56 6 those with which it has not complied and where relevant S L Dance 12 for what part of the accounting period such non-compliance T C Jones 12 continued, giving reasons for any non-compliance.
N F Keegan 12 56 6 B A Melizan 12 -- - Between 10 January 2008, when Messrs Dance and Melizan A M Ringrose 12 - 6 were appointed to the parent Board the Board, and D A Trapnell 11 46 5 1 January 2009, when Mr Thorpe was appointed to the Board, J H Vyse 12 the Company was not in compliance with Combined Code Messrs Dance and Melizan were appointed to the Board on 10 January 2008. provision A.
3.2 which specifies that at least half of the Board, excluding the Chairman, should comprise non-executive The Board also meets at least once a year to review the directors determined by the Board to be independent.
Having strategic direction of the Group.
taken into account the independence of the Group Chairman and all the non-executive directors, the benefits of having Mr Balfour is a director of Interserve Trustees Limited, the both a strong executive and non-executive presence on the corporate trustee of the Interserve Pension Scheme, and takes Board and the Chairmans casting vote in the event of equality no part in Board consideration of any key pension issues.
of voting at Board meetings, it was considered that the balance between executive and non-executive directors would The Group Chairman holds at least two meetings a year with not be adversely affected by these two appointments.
the non-executive directors without the executive directors being present.
The non-executive directors also meet at least The directors consider that the Company has, other than set twice a year, under the chairmanship of Mr Balfour, without out above, complied with the provisions of the Combined Code either the Group Chairman or the executive directors being throughout the accounting period ended 31 December 2008. present and during one of these meetings the Chairmans performance is appraised.
Directors The Board The Company maintains an appropriate level of directors The Board is responsible for overall Group strategy and core and officers insurance in respect of legal actions against the values including the creation, acquisition or disposal of directors.
The insurance does not provide cover where the corporate entities and material assets: financial reporting: director has acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
approval of annual budgets: the Groups finance, banking and capital arrangements: Stock Exchange Listing Rules Below the Board is the Executive Board, comprising Companies Act matters: material contracts and contracts at 31 December 2008 the executive directors, the senior otherwise than in the normal course of business of the executives Mr B W Spencer and Mr D I Sutherland, and the Company and its subsidiaries: matters which could affect the Company Secretary.
Mr D J Paterson joined the Executive Groups reputation: employee issues and key appointments: Board on 1 January 2009. risk management strategy including internal controls and Group insurances: health and safety: defence and settlement Chairman and Chief Executive of material litigation: and social, environmental and ethical The roles of the Group Chairman and Chief Executive are matters.
It also has oversight of the Groups operations.
The Group Chairman is responsible These responsibilities are set out in a schedule of matters for the leadership of the Board and creating the conditions reserved for the approval of the Board.
for overall Board and individual director effectiveness, both inside and outside the boardroom.
The Chief Executive is In order to facilitate the efficient use of its time the Board responsible for running the Groups business.
has delegated certain of its powers to Board committees, 38 Interserve Plc Annual report 2008 The Group Chairman, assisted by the Company Secretary, sets Secretary is secretary to the Committee.
The Committee the agenda for Board meetings.
The Group Chairman also has its own terms of reference which deal clearly with ensures that Board members, especially the non-executive its authority and duties, and which are available on the directors, receive timely information and are briefed on Companys website at www.
issues arising at Board meetings to assist them in making an The role of the Nomination Committee is to consider and effective contribution.
The Company Secretary is responsible review the structure, size, composition and balance of for disseminating Board papers, which are normally skills, knowledge and experience of the Board and to make circulated in advance of each meeting, presenting certain recommendations to the Board with regard to any changes.
papers to the Board and its committees, advising on Board The Committee is responsible for the supervision of the procedures and ensuring the Board follows them.
recruitment process of potential Board appointees, considering any candidates who are put forward by the The Board concluded that Lord Blackwell was independent directors and external consultants and recommending to upon appointment, on the basis of the criteria specified in the Board the appointment of all directors after having paragraph A.
3.1 of the Combined Code and generally, and interviewed shortlisted candidates.
It is also responsible that he continues to be so.
for making recommendations to the Board concerning the re-appointment of any director retiring by rotation.
The Chief Executive bears primary responsibility for the management of the Company and of the Group and in leading The terms and conditions of appointment of all the the formulation of and, once set by the Board, implementing non-executive directors and those of the Group Chairman the strategy for the Group.
The Chief Executive chairs the are available for inspection at the Companys registered Executive Board and Risk Committee, leads the executive office during normal business hours.
Each letter of management team and investor communications and is appointment specifies the anticipated level of time responsible for social and ethical matters within the Group.
commitment including, where relevant, additional responsibilities derived from involvement with the Audit, Board balance and independence Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
Non-executive Following the appointment of Messrs Dance and Melizan to directors and the Group Chairman are required to confirm, the Board as executive directors on 10 January 2008, the on appointment, that they have sufficient time to meet what Board, which operates as a single team, comprised five is expected of them and to seek the Committee Chairmans executive directors, four non-executive directors and the agreement, or in the case of the Group Chairman, the Group Chairman.
On 1 January 2009 Mr Thorpe was appointed Senior Independent Directors agreement, before accepting to the Board as a non-executive director.
As previously additional commitments that might impact upon the time announced, Mr Vyse will retire as an executive director on they are able to devote to their role as a non-executive 3 April 2009 and Mr Keegan has decided to stand down as director of the Company.
non-executive director at the AGM in May 2009.
Following completion of these changes, the Board will comprise four Information and professional development executive directors, four non-executive directors and the The Board papers include information from management on Group Chairman.
financial, business and corporate issues to enable the directors to be properly briefed on issues to be considered The individual directors have different skills, experience and at Board meetings.
Matters requiring Board and committee qualifications in other sectors of the economy and are able approval are generally the subject of a proposal formulated to bring independent judgement to bear on matters for by the executive directors and circulated, together with consideration by the Board.
supporting information, as part of the Board papers.
The Board considers each non-executive director to be The Group has a comprehensive system for reporting independent, on the basis of the criteria specified in financial results, cash flows and projections to the Board paragraph A.
3.1 of the Combined Code and generally, and on a monthly basis.
Forecasts of prospective financial free from any relationships or circumstances which are performance are prepared as at the end of March, May and likely to affect, or could appear to affect, their judgement.
Monthly and year-to-date financial Furthermore, the Board considers its non-executive directors performance is compared with budgets approved by the to be of sufficient calibre and number that their views may be Board prior to the commencement of each financial year and expected to be of sufficient weight that no individual or small against the May and September forecasts of the year end group can dominate the Boards decision-making processes.
The financial summaries are accompanied by a written report explaining operating and Mr Balfour, as Senior Independent Director, is available to financial performance, the cause and effect of variance from shareholders should they have any concerns which contact the agreed budgets and forecasts and other information that through other channels has failed to resolve or for which may be relevant from time to time.
Monthly written such contact may be inappropriate.
divisional trading reports on the performance of each division are provided as part of the Board papers.
Those members of Appointments to the Board the Executive Board who are not Board directors attend that Nominations for appointments to the Board are made by the part of each Board meeting dedicated to management and Nomination Committee, which comprises the Group financial reporting, during which health, safety and Chairman, who is chairman of the Committee, the Chief environmental matters are discussed, and present their Executive and all the non-executive directors.
The Company Interserve Plc Annual report 2008 39 Directors report Corporate governance continued reports and respond to any matters concerning their division Performance evaluation raised by the Board.
They also attend the relevant part of During 2008, the performance of the directors was appraised the Board meeting at which trading updates, interim by the Group Chairman and the Chief Executive and, in the management statements, half-yearly and annual results are case of the Chief Executive, by the Group Chairman, having considered, and when the annual budget and plans are consulted with the other directors.
The Group Chairmans presented for approval and adoption.
performance was reviewed by the Senior Independent Director, with feedback being provided as appropriate from The Board receives monthly reports, quarterly summaries the remainder of the Board.
and an annual report from the Group Health, Safety and Environmental Manager covering the Company and its The Board also conducted a formal and thorough evaluation subsidiaries health and safety performance, periodic of its own performance and that of its committees in environmental reports and an annual presentation covering accordance with the performance evaluation guidance in the both performance during the past year and targets for the Higgs Report.
Each Board member completed a detailed forthcoming year.
The Board also receives half-yearly reports questionnaire, the results from which were collated by the from the Head of Real Estate and quarterly written reports Company Secretary, reviewed by the Group Chairman and from the Group Insurance Manager, the Group General discussed by the Board.
Whilst consideration was given to the Counsel and the Head of Investor Relations, covering any engagement of an external body to manage the performance matters of significance.
Human resources matters are evaluation, it was concluded that it remained appropriate for included within the monthly divisional trading reports.
the Board to evaluate its own performance.
On appointment, the directors take part in an induction The Board also reviewed and updated its procedures, the programme given by the Company Secretary during which matters reserved for its decision and the terms of reference they receive information about the Company, the role of the of certain of its committees.
Board and the matters reserved for its decision, the terms of reference and membership of the Board and its committees, Re-election the powers delegated to those committees, the Companys All directors are required by the Companys Articles of corporate governance practices and procedures, including Association to be elected by shareholders at the first AGM the powers reserved to the Groups most senior executives following their appointment, if appointed by the Board.
and the latest financial information.
In addition to this, Directors must subsequently retire by rotation and may offer visits to certain of the Groups operations are undertaken in themselves for re-election at the AGM at intervals of not more order for the new directors to gain an appreciation of, and than three years.
The Board typically expects non-executive familiarise themselves with, the business of the Group.
There directors to serve two three-year terms, although a is also in place an ongoing programme of site visits by the non-executive director may be invited to serve one Group Chairman, which also provide additional opportunities additional three-year term.
Thereafter, if re-appointed, for the other non-executive directors to visit various the non-executive director concerned would be expected to operations of the Group.
The Group Chairman has also held retire annually and offer himself for re-election.
Biographical a number of lunchtime meetings with invited managers from details of all the directors, including those subject to across the Company and its UK subsidiaries at which reelection, are set out on pages 6 and 7 of this Annual managers can discuss their work and talk freely about any report and financial statements to enable shareholders to issues of concern.
take an informed decision on any re-election.
The Company Secretary keeps the directors informed of Procedures to deal with directors conflicts of interests appropriate briefings, seminars and training courses, makes At the 2008 AGM, shareholder approval was given to amend the necessary arrangements for their attendance, and provides the Companys Articles of Association to include provisions information to the Board on regulatory and legal changes.
for dealing with directors conflicts of interests in accordance with the new regime introduced by the Each non-executive director attended at least one briefing or Companies Act 2006.
During 2008, the Board established a seminar relevant to their role during the year under review.
Conflicts Committee, the purpose of which is to: Throughout their period in office the directors are updated review any interests a director may have which conflict or on the Groups business and the competitive and regulatory possibly may conflict with the interests of the Company: environments in which it operates.
make recommendations to the Board or the Nomination Individual directors may, after consultation with the Group Committee as to the authorisation of such conflicts and Chairman, take independent legal advice in furtherance of the conditions or restrictions attaching thereto: their duties at the Companys expense up to a limit of 10,000 in relation to any one event.
In the case of the ensure that formal letters are issued to directors Group Chairman he must consult with the Senior Independent detailing any authorisation and the scope of such Director.
All directors have access to the advice and services authorisation: and of the Company Secretary, whose appointment or removal is a matter reserved for the approval of the Board or any duly review conflict authorisation on an annual basis.
40 Interserve Plc Annual report 2008 Prior to this new legislation coming into force, the details as at 31 December 2008, the Group had revenue visibility disclosed by each of the directors of their interests which over 79 per cent of anticipated 2009 revenues and a total conflicted or possibly may conflict with the interests of the future workload at that date of 6.2 billion: and Company, were provided to the Board.
These interests were authorised, as appropriate, with effect from 1 October 2008, the Group has access to committed debt facilities subject to various conditions pertaining to how any actual totalling 250 million until at least May 2011. conflict of interest should be addressed and the treatment and use of confidential information.
These authorisations Accordingly, the Company and the Group continue to adopt were then communicated to the directors in writing.
the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Remuneration The level and make-up of remuneration Internal control The Remuneration Committee, composed entirely of The Board has overall responsibility for internal control, independent non-executive directors, was chaired by including risk management, and sets appropriate policies Mr Trapnell.
The names of the Committee members are having regard to the objectives of the Group.
set out in the table on page 38.
The responsibilities of the Committee, together with an explanation of how it applies The Executive Board is responsible for the identification and the directors remuneration principles of the Combined evaluation for consideration by the Board of risks faced by Code, are set out in more detail in the Directors the Group and for designing, operating and monitoring a remuneration report on pages 52 to 60. suitable system of internal control embracing the policies adopted by the Board.
Accountability and audit Financial reporting The principal features of the system of internal control are: The Board aims to provide a balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys position and prospects.
It uses An established management structure comprising the the Chairmans statement and the detailed reviews of the Board with its various committees and an Executive performance and financial position of the Companys Board.
The Executive Board is responsible for the operations included in the Directors report to assist with operational management and delivery against budget and this.
The directors responsibility for the preparation of the forecast of the Group, implementing resolutions of the financial statements and notes and the statement by the Board, formulation of strategy, annual budgets and other auditors about their reporting responsibilities are described proposals for consideration by the Board and devising and on pages 61 and 62, respectively, of this Annual report and implementing suitable policies and procedures for health financial statements.
and safety, environmental, social and ethical, treasury, human resources and information technology.
Going concern basis The Groups business activities, together with the factors The Board receives comprehensive monthly reports likely to affect its future development, performance and comparing performance against the annual budget and position are set out in the Business review on pages 9 to 37. periodic forecasts.
Each division prepares monthly trading The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity reports with a comparison against budget or forecast, position and borrowing facilities and details of its financial together with certain key performance indicators.
The risk management are described in the Financial review on Board reviews these for the Group as a whole and pages 22 to 25 and in notes 22 and 24 to the consolidated determines appropriate action.
financial statements on pages 85 to 88.
Documented delegated authority limits relating to The directors have, in making their assessment of the expenditure which are kept under regular review by the Groups ability to continue as a going concern, had regard to Board.
Larger value proposals and business acquisitions the update for directors of listed companies on going concern and disposals are controlled by the Board.
and liquidity risk published by the Financial Reporting Council in November 2008.
Whilst the current economic environment A PFI Committee with authority to execute contractual is uncertain, the directors believe that the Company and the documentation for PFI projects where prior approval of Group are well placed, at the time of approving the financial the Board has been given to participation in a particular statements, to manage their business risks successfully, and PFI project, and which reports its actions to the Board.
have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future, noting in particular that: A Risk Committee, comprising the Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, Group Internal Audit Manager, Group the majority of the Groups revenue is derived from Health, Safety and Environmental Manager, Group long-term contracts with approximately two-thirds Insurance Manager, the Company Secretary who is its of these with central or local government or the secretary and a representative from each of the Groups privatised utilities: operating divisions.
The Risk Committee meets at least four times a year, has written terms of reference and provides copies of its meeting minutes to the Board.
Interserve Plc Annual report 2008 41 Directors report Corporate governance continued A General Purposes Committee, comprising any two During the course of each year members of the Executive executive directors one of whom shall be the Chief Board or other senior operational and financial Executive or, in his absence, the Group Finance Director, management visit all trading companies, including those with written terms of reference, which exercises certain located overseas, to discuss and monitor performance of powers of the Board delegated to it and reports upon its those businesses.
The Group has in place a whistle-blowing policy which An Inside Information Committee, comprising the Group was reviewed in December 2006 and re-launched in Chairman, Chief Executive and Group Finance Director, January 2007 together with a Group response plan to with written terms of reference, which is empowered to set out a framework for dealing with any allegations of assess quickly if information is inside information, release fraud, financial misreporting and any whistle-blowing inside information to the regulatory information service notification.
in the event that it is not possible to convene a Board meeting at very short notice and is responsible for setting An ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing up and monitoring the systems and controls with regard the significant risks faced by all companies within the Group to inside information.
has been in place for the period under review and until the date of approval of this Annual report and financial A Conflicts Committee, comprising the Group Chairman statements.
There is also an ongoing process to embed or, in the event that he is interested in the matter to internal control and risk management further into the be considered, the Senior Independent Director, and the operations of the businesses, to deal with areas of Company Secretary.
The Committee has written terms improvement which are identified from time to time and to of reference and meets as and when necessary to review derive the maximum benefit to the business through the use any interests a director may have which conflict or of risk management procedures.
possibly may conflict with the interests of the Company and twice yearly to conduct a review of the conditions of Internal controls are normally reviewed in March and August any conflict authorisations and make recommendations to by the Board, which accords with the Revised Guidance for the Board or the Nomination Committee, as appropriate.
Directors on the Combined Code produced by the Financial Reporting Council in October 2005.
Manuals setting out Group policy and procedures, with which all Group companies must comply.
These manuals Because of the limitations that are inherent in any system of set out the necessary levels of authorisation applicable internal control, the Groups system of internal control is for different transactions.
designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide A risk management policy document including the Boards reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material own risk management matrix as part of the Groups misstatement or loss.
The Board has reviewed the internal controls manual.
effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control for the period under review and has neither identified nor been The Group has certain key areas which are subject to advised of any failings or weaknesses which it has central management or control, which include Company determined to be significant within contemplation of the and subsidiary health, safety and environmental, legal, Combined Code.
insurance, treasury, real estate, and company secretarial.
These functions report to members of the Executive Audit Committee and auditors Board and operate within defined limits and levels Role of authority.
The primary role of the Audit Committee is to review and monitor the integrity of the Company and the Groups An internal audit function, currently co-sourced with financial statements and any formal announcements relating  LLP, whose responsibility is to to the Groups financial performance, provide an provide an objective appraisal to the Board, through the independent overview of the Company and the Groups Audit Committee, of the adequacy and effectiveness of systems of internal control, risk management and financial the processes established to control the business and to reporting processes through the co-ordination and supervision assist the Board in meeting its objectives and discharging of the quality, independence and effectiveness of the its responsibilities.
internal and external auditors, and to make recommendations to the Board.
The effectiveness of the Company and the One or more members of the Executive Board and, in Groups internal control and risk management systems is most cases, either the Chief Executive or the Group reviewed by the Board.
Finance Director, attend each of the monthly divisional board meetings.
42 Interserve Plc Annual report 2008 Composition Overview of actions The Committee is composed entirely of independent During the year the Committee: non-executive directors and is chaired by Mr Cullen.
The members of the Committee any two of whom constitute reviewed the 2007 annual report and financial statements a quorum are: and the 2008 half-year report, in advance of their consideration by the Board, including whether they Date of appointment provided a true and fair view, the appropriateness and Name to Committee Qualification consistency of application of accounting policies adopted in their preparation and the basis of any major judgements G P Balfour 1 January 2003 MA Cantab, Solicitor and estimates.
As part of this review the Committee L G Cullen 14 November 2005 BSc Hons FCCA FCT MBA received a report from the external auditors on their N F Keegan 11 September 2003 MA Hons FCA audit of the 2007 annual report and their review of the D A Thorpe 1 January 2009 CPFA 2008 half-year report: D A Trapnell 11 September 2003 BSc Hons reviewed proposed changes to the Groups internal Appointments to the Committee are made by the Board, on controls: the recommendation of the Nomination Committee and in consultation with the Committee Chairman.
Appointments received a report from the external auditors on, and are for a period of three years, extendable by no more than considered the effectiveness of, the Groups accounting two additional three-year periods.
and internal control systems and monitored the actions taken by management in response: The Audit Committee is required to include at least one financially qualified member as recognised by the reviewed, prior to their consideration by the Board, the Consultative Committee of Accountancy Bodies.
Messrs representation letters to be given to the external auditors Cullen, Keegan and Thorpe are all financially qualified.
in respect of the 2007 annual report and the 2008 half-year report: The Company Secretary is secretary to the Committee.
considered and agreed the scope of the review to be Terms of reference undertaken by the external auditors on the 2008 half-year The Committee has written terms of reference dealing report: clearly with its authority and duties.
These are available on the Companys website at www.
com and on considered and agreed the scope of the audit work to be request, and include all matters indicated by paragraph 7.1 undertaken by the external auditors on the 2008 annual of the FSAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules and the report: Combined Code.
The terms of reference are considered at least annually by the Committee with any changes being agreed the fees to be paid to the external auditors for referred to the Board for approval.
the review of the 2008 half-year report and for the audit of the 2008 annual report: Meetings As required by its terms of reference, the Committee meets received updates from the auditors on new accounting at least four times a year to coincide with the key dates pronouncements, regulation and best practice: and in the Companys reporting cycle and works to an annual calendar of actions designed to assist it in discharging reviewed its own effectiveness.
The Committee Chairman reported to the Board on the work The Committee met five times during the year.
The external carried out by the Committee, including any improvement auditors were present at three meetings and the Group actions required, and copies of the minutes of its meetings Internal Audit Manager and representatives from were included within the Board agenda papers.
 LLP, as part of the co-sourced internal audit function, were present at four and three of External audit the meetings, respectively.
The Group Chairman, the Chief The Committee is required to make recommendations to the Executive and the Group Finance Director attended the Board as regards the appointment, re-appointment and meetings by invitation.
removal of the external auditors, oversee the Companys relations with the external auditors, review the management The Committee has taken the opportunity to seek the views letter or equivalent, seek to ensure co-ordination between of the external and internal auditors in private and both the the activities of the external and internal auditors and to external and internal auditors have the opportunity to address review the effectiveness of the audit at the end of the the Committee in private at any time should they so wish.
Interserve Plc Annual report 2008 43 Directors report Corporate governance continued As required by its terms of reference, the Committee: Internal audit The Committee is required to approve the internal audit assessed the external auditors independence and functions remit, monitor and assess its role and effectiveness objectivity and the effectiveness of the external audit in the overall context of the Companys and the Groups risk process at the end of the 2007 audit cycle: management system, review and assess the scope of and progress against the internal audit work plan and review reviewed and approved the external auditors terms of and monitor managements responsiveness to the internal engagement for the 2008 half-yearly review and for the auditors findings and recommendations.
audit of the 2008 annual report: Internal audit work is undertaken largely by received a transparency report from the auditors  LLP as part of a co-sourced internal describing their leadership and governance, quality audit function.
control procedures, the systems and procedures to help safeguard the objectivity of its people and the firm, Reports were received during the year in accordance with avoid conflicts of interest and to comply with ethical the 2008 internal audit plan covering such matters as: and other applicable standards, the legal structure and network of the firm, partner remuneration and financial financial controls health checks: information showing the relative importance of audit services to the business as a whole: fraud risk management: assessed the risk associated with the possible withdrawal cash flow forecasting: of the external auditors from the market: and tendering and bidding: and made a recommendation to the Board that the external auditors should continue in office for the next financial commercial contract management and delivery.
year, taking into account such matters as the auditors tenure, audit partner rotation, quality and delivery of audit The Committee agreed an internal audit work plan for 2009, services, the incumbent auditors knowledge of the Group which builds upon the work conducted over the previous two and the advice from the Market Participants Group of the years, the objectives of which are to: Financial Reporting Council on the provision of audit services by firms outside the big four auditing partnerships.
provide assurance that certain existing and emerging key There were no contractual obligations that acted to restrict risks facing the Group as a whole or which are common to the Committees choice of external auditors.
several businesses within the Group are being managed effectively: To assist the Committee with its assessment of auditor independence, the Committee has a policy which prohibits confirm that the Groups core assurance procedures are the auditors auditing their own work, making management being operated as intended, whether documented or decisions, entering into any arrangement whereby a joint undocumented, in accordance with good practice: and interest is created between the Company and the auditors in the outcome of the instruction, acting in the role of support the management and mitigation of key risks in advocate for the Company or being appointed as recruitment specific businesses to confirm that they are being consultants to the Company without the Audit Committees mitigated to a sufficient degree so as not to threaten the prior consent.
The policy also contains a set of authority achievement of Group objectives or the sustainability of limits governing the award by management of various the individual businesses.
categories of non-audit work to the auditors.
The Committee also reviewed the role and effectiveness of The Committees procedures require a report to be provided to the internal audit function in the context of the Company each meeting detailing the level of fees incurred in the year and the Groups overall risk management system and to date for audit and non-audit services by division and by received reports on investigations conducted and actions category and the projected level of such fees for the remainder taken as a result of notifications made under the Groups of that financial year.
These reports are used by the Committee whistle-blowing policy.
to monitor auditor independence on an ongoing basis.
Overview After receiving four reports during the course of the year and After undertaking a review of its own performance the upon reviewing the actual fees paid to the external auditors Committee concluded that it had been effective in in respect of audit and non-audit work for the Group during discharging the obligations entrusted to it by the Board.
2008, the Committee concluded that the nature and extent of those non-audit fees, which related primarily to tax advice, The Chairman of the Audit Committee will be available at the did not compromise auditor independence.
Further details of AGM to answer questions about the work of the Committee.
the audit and non-audit fees paid to the auditors are included in note 4 to the financial statements on page 74.
44 Interserve Plc Annual report 2008 Relations with shareholders Dialogue with institutional shareholders The Company encourages two-way communication with both institutional and private investors.
The Chief Executive, accompanied by the Group Finance Director, attended 79 meetings with analysts and institutional investors during the year ended 31 December 2008.
In addition, the Chief Executive and Group Finance Director attended a further 16 and 11 meetings each, respectively, accompanied by another member of staff.
The Chief Executive arranges for the Companys brokers to produce periodic notes of the feedback from institutional investors which are reported to the Board.
All directors and the members of the Executive Board also have the opportunity to attend analyst briefings.
Shareholders are also kept up to date with Company affairs through the annual and half-yearly reports, trading updates and, increasingly, the Companys website.
Constructive use of AGM All shareholders are given at least 20 working days notice of the AGM, at which all directors and committee chairmen are introduced and are available for questions.
