com Directors Report Governance Corporate Governance Report Introduction approval of treasury and risk management policies.
The Group is committed to high standards of The Board matrix was reviewed, amended and corporate governance and this report outlines its approved by the Board during 2008. compliance with the provisions of the revised The Board matrix also identifies areas where executive Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued management can grant approval subject to certain by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2006 financial limits.
Where any of the activities involve the Code.
During 2008, the Group complied with amounts greater than those limits they are referred to almost all of the provisions of the Code.
The Board matrix is communicated to all of non-compliance are as follows, and are further senior management to ensure that approval limits are discussed and explained below: known throughout the Group.
the Board did not comprise at least half Board management independent Non-Executive Directors: and During the year the Board consisted of the Chairman the membership of the Audit and Risk Committee Vanni Treves, the Non-Executive Deputy Chairman and the Remuneration Committee each included Richard Nelson, the Chief Executive Officer Wolfhart two independent Non-Executive Directors instead Hauser, the Chief Operating Officer Mark Loughead, of three, because, as Chairman of the Company, the Chief Financial Officer Bill Spencer, and three Vanni Treves is not viewed as independent by independent Non-Executive Directors, David Allvey, the Code.
who is also the Senior Independent Director, The Board is accountable to shareholders for good Christopher Knight and Debra Rade.
The Directors corporate governance and this statement describes biographies appear on page 32.
The Senior how the relevant principles of governance have Independent Director is readily available to been applied.
shareholders if they have concerns that remain unresolved after contacting the Group through the The Board usual channels of the Chairman or any of the Executive An effective Board, which provides strategic leadership Directors or where such contact is inappropriate.
and controls the Group, is in place.
The Boards main If a Director has any concerns about the Group or a roles are to create value for shareholders, to lead the proposed action, then such concerns are recorded in Group, to approve the Groups strategic objectives the Board minutes as a matter of course.
and to ensure that the appropriate financial and other resources as required are made available to enable There is a clear division of responsibilities between it to meet those objectives.
The Board is responsible the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer and to shareholders for the proper management of the they have been set out in writing and approved by Group.
All Directors have a wide range of experience the Board.
On appointment to the Board in May and skills, bringing independent judgement to bear 2002, the Chairman met the independence criteria on issues of strategy, performance, resources and as set out in the Code.
The responsibilities of Vanni Treves as Chairman include There were nine scheduled Board meetings held in those contained in the supporting principle to 2008 and three unscheduled supplementary meetings.
2 of the Code, namely leadership of the There was, in addition, frequent informal contact Board, ensuring its effectiveness in all aspects of its role between Directors to discuss the Groups affairs and and setting its agenda: ensuring that the directors develop its business.
Directors attendance at Board receive accurate, timely and clear information: ensuring meetings is shown in the table on page 38.
Also, on effective communication with shareholders: facilitating several occasions, the Chairman met with the Nonthe effective contribution to the Board of the NonExecutive Directors without the Executive Directors Executive Directors in particular: and ensuring being present.
The Non-Executive Directors have also constructive relationships between the Executive and had discussions without the Chairman being present.
The Chairmans other main commitments are detailed in his biography on page 32.
Board matrix The Chief Executive Officer has direct charge of the The Group has identified a number of key areas that Group on a day-to-day basis and is accountable to the are subject to regular reporting to the Board, so that Board for the financial and operational performance the performance of management can be reviewed and of the Group.
A Board matrix is in place which formally outlines the matters specifically requiring the consent David Allvey, Christopher Knight and Debra Rade of the full Board and includes, inter alia, the approval are clearly independent Non-Executive Directors.
of the Group strategy and operating plans, the annual They have been Directors for less than nine years, budget, the Annual Report, the Half Year Results were never employed by the Group and have and related announcements, substantial capital no material relationships or links to the business expenditure, material contracts, acquisitions and which would compromise their independence.
disposals, the recommendation of dividends and the Richard Nelson is not considered to be independent 28653 pp036-041.
indd 36 5 3 09 23:57:50 37 Annual Report 2008 37 in his position as Non-Executive Deputy Chairman changes to legislation, most recently the Conflicts because of his previous service in the Group.
of Directors Interests provisions under the However, during the year Richard Nelson continued Companies Act 2006.
The Non-Executive Directors to bring valuable expertise to the Board through his also attend various seminars during the year on extensive knowledge of the business and industry.
topics relevant to a publicly listed company.
The Non-Executive Directors have a particular All Directors have access to the advice and services responsibility to ensure that the strategies proposed of the Group Company Secretary who will assist in by the Executive Directors are fully discussed and arranging any additional training and information critically examined, not only in the best long-term as required.
The appointment and removal of the interests of shareholders, but also to ensure that Group Company Secretary is a matter for the Board they take proper account of the interests of as a whole.
customers, employees and other stakeholders.
The All Directors are entitled to obtain independent Non-Executive Directors are all experienced and professional advice, at the Groups expense, in the influential individuals and through their mix of skills performance of their duties as Directors.
No such and business experience they contribute significantly advice was sought during the year.
In accordance to the effective functioning of the Board and its with the Companys Articles of Association, the committees, ensuring that matters are fully debated Company has granted a deed of indemnity, to the and that no one individual or group dominates the extent permitted by law, to each of the Directors decision-making process.
Directors and The Code requires that half of the Board comprises officers liability insurance is in place.
However, The Board believes that strong corporate governance following the appointment of Mark Loughead to improves the performance of the business and the Board on 1 January 2008 independent Directors enhances shareholder value.
During its meetings in represent less than half the Board.
The Board 2008, the Board received and discussed reports from believes that its current composition, taking into the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Operating Officer account the overall balance of skills, knowledge, and Chief Financial Officer, strategy, debt financing, commitment and experience, results in an efficient market reports, share trading reports, analysts and effective board operation, whilst maintaining forecasts, potential acquisitions, litigation reports, an appropriate balance between Executive and final and interim dividend recommendations, Non-Executive Directors.
Nevertheless, in order to potential contract bids, road show and investor ensure the continual refreshment of the composition feedback, budgets, tax policy, Annual Report, Half of the Board, the Nominations Committee appointed Year results, interim management statements and an independent search consultancy in January 2009 announcements, and a wide range of other issues.
to conduct a search for a new Non-Executive Director.
The Companys Articles of Association Board Committees contain provisions relating to the retirement, The Board has established three Committees, each election and re-election of directors.
At the with clearly defined terms of reference, procedures forthcoming AGM Wolfhart Hauser, Chief Executive and powers.
These terms of reference are available Officer, and Christopher Knight and Debra Rade, on request from the Group Company Secretary at both Non-Executive Directors, will retire and, being the registered office or can be downloaded from eligible, will offer themselves for re-election.
The Directors who held office during the year and the number of full Board meetings To enable them to discharge their duties, all Directors and Committee meetings attended by each Director have full and timely access to all relevant information.
during the year are given in the table on page 38.
Papers are circulated well before the Board and Committee meetings to ensure that Directors have Membership of the three relevant Board the necessary time to read and review them.
The Committees is set out below.
Non-Executive Directors receive monthly management The Remuneration Committee accounts and regular management reports and This Committee currently comprises three information which enable them to scrutinise the Non-Executive Directors, David Allvey Chairman, Groups and managements performance against Vanni Treves and Christopher Knight.
The Code agreed objectives and prior performance.
requires the Remuneration Committee to have at A formal induction programme has been established least three independent Non-Executive Directors for new Directors, tailored to suit the individuals whilst allowing the Chairman of the Board of previous experience.
Ongoing training is provided to Directors of the Company, if considered independent Directors as necessary and visits to sites arranged to on appointment, to be a member.
The Committee, further their knowledge of the Groups operations.
therefore, does not currently comply with the Code.
Directors are regularly briefed on best practice and During 2008, the Remuneration Committee was 28653 pp036-041.
com Directors Report Governance Corporate Governance Report Audit and Risk Nomination Remuneration Scheduled Committee Committee Committee Name Position Board meetings meetings meetings meetings Vanni Treves Chairman 9 9 4 4 3 3 5 5 Richard Nelson Non-Executive Deputy Chairman 8 9 n a n a n a Wolfhart Hauser Chief Executive Officer 9 9 n a n a n a Bill Spencer Chief Financial Officer 9 9 n a n a n a Mark Loughead appointed 1 January 2008 Chief Operating Officer 9 9 n a n a n a David Allvey Senior Independent Non-Executive Director 9 9 4 4 3 3 5 5 Debra Rade Independent Non-Executive Director 9 9 n a n a n a Christopher Knight Independent Non-Executive Director 9 9 4 4 3 3 5 5 Figures in brackets indicate the number of meetings held during the year evaluated and the Board agreed that membership right people in the right jobs at the right time, of the Committee was appropriate and effective.
including identifying and preparing the next generation.
This approach was first introduced The Committee has responsibility for making in 2006.
The 2008 objectives were to: recommendations to the Board on the remuneration of the Chairman, Executive Directors and senior re-run the talent map for the top 224 roles executives and for the determination, within agreed which comprise the Intertek leadership team: terms of reference, of additional benefits for each of launch and plan the roll-out of the new the Executive Directors, including pension rights and organisational structure comprising seven divisions any compensation for loss of office.
The Committee is in lieu of four, and country management: also responsible for the implementation and operation engage and transition to the new Group and of employee share incentive arrangements.
Division Executive Vice Presidents and Intertek Operations Committee IOC.
Details of the matters discussed and actions taken by the Remuneration Committee, including the Reviews are conducted by career committees of Groups remuneration for Executive Directors, the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Operating Officer, and details of benefits, share options, pension Division Executive Vice President, Group Vice President entitlements, service contracts and compensation HR and the Division Vice President HR.
The Intertek payments are given in the Remuneration Report talent mapping process includes the identification and which starts on page 42. readiness of potential successors and highlights coaching, mentoring and training if required.
The Nomination Committee This Committee currently comprises three NonBearing in mind the balance of existing skills, Executive Directors, Vanni Treves Chairman, David knowledge and experience of the Board, a job Allvey and Christopher Knight.
During 2008, this description is prepared for any new Board position Committee was evaluated and the Board agreed and when a Non-Executive Director is appointed, that membership of the Committee was appropriate the Committee requires confirmation that he or she and effective.
The composition of the Committee is can devote sufficient time to fulfil the commitments in compliance with the Code.
The terms and conditions of appointment of Non-Executive Directors are This Committee, which met three times during the available for inspection by any person at the year, nominates candidates to fill board vacancies, Companys registered office during normal business reviews talent mapping and succession planning hours and at the AGM for 15 minutes prior to the for the Board and senior management and makes meeting and during the meeting.
All new Directors recommendations on the balance and composition are subject to election by shareholders at the first of the Board.
AGM after their appointment and then subject to Talent mapping and succession planning is an re-election by shareholders once every three years.
important component in ensuring the continued success of the Group.
The goal of Intertek talent The policy on Directors service contracts is set out mapping is to have the right organisation with the in the Remuneration Report.
indd 38 5 3 09 23:57:51 39 Annual Report 2008 39 The Audit and Risk Committee compliance with this policy are in place, and that This Committee currently comprises three Nonthese processes are monitored regularly.
A detailed Executive Directors, David Allvey Chairman, Vanni breakdown of the audit and non-audit fees paid to Treves and Christopher Knight.
The Code requires the Groups auditors during the year is set out in the Audit and Risk Committee to have at least three note 5 to the financial statements.
As Chairman At its meetings during 2008, the Committee of the Company, Vanni Treves is not viewed as reviewed and endorsed, prior to submission to the independent by the Code and therefore the Board, the Groups 2007 Annual Report, Half Year Committee does not currently comply with the results, and 2008 interim management statements.
During 2008, the Audit and Risk Committee The Committee also monitored and reviewed the was evaluated and the Board agreed that standards and effectiveness of risk management membership of the Committee was appropriate and and internal control, the Groups internal audit effective.
Both David Allvey and Christopher Knight function and its plans and performance.
It also have recent and relevant financial experience as reviewed the Groups arrangements for the detailed in their biographies on page 32 and 33. avoidance and detection of fraud and related The Audit and Risk Committee monitors the integrity matters, whistle-blowing and hotlines, compliance, of the Groups financial statements and any formal training, e-learning, quality assurance systems and announcements relating to the Groups performance.
substantial claims affecting the Company.
The Committee is responsible for monitoring the The ultimate responsibility for reviewing and effectiveness of the external audit process and making approving the Annual Report and the Half Year recommendations to the Board in relation to the Results announcement remains with the Board.
appointment, reappointment and remuneration of the external auditors, and for ensuring that an appropriate During 2008 the Audit and Risk Committee met relationship is maintained between the Group and its four times.
The Chairman and other Committee external auditors.
It also reviews annually the Groups members also attend meetings with the external systems of internal control, risk management, the auditors and management to discuss any accounting processes for monitoring and evaluating the risks issues associated with the annual audit.
facing the Group and the effectiveness of the internal Performance evaluation audit function.
It reviews the progress of internal A stringent performance evaluation process led by audit activity against the annual plan, and reviews the Chairman is applied to each Director, Committee the strategy, scope and approach of the internal and the Board as a whole.
This comprises a series of audit and compliance teams.
It reviews the corrective detailed questionnaires which provide a framework action taken by management to address any for the evaluation process, and provides the control issues identified by the internal audit and Chairman with a means of making year-on-year compliance function.
It is responsible for approving comparisons.
There are questionnaires for each of the appointment and termination of the Vice President the following: the Board: each individual Director: Risk Management and Internal Audit and meets with and the Remuneration, Nomination and Audit and him at least once a year without management present.
Committee meetings are usually attended by the This annual evaluation of the effectiveness of the Groups external auditors, Chief Executive Officer, Board and its Committees ensures that the Chief Financial Officer, Vice President Financial performance of each individual Director and the Control and the Vice President Risk Management functioning and constitution of the Board and each and Internal Audit.
The Groups external auditors Committee are properly measured and debated.
meet with the members of the Audit and Risk Committee alone at least once a year.
The Chairman assesses the individual performance of each Director, taking into account discussions The Audit and Risk Committee seeks to ensure with other Directors.
The Senior Independent the continued independence and objectivity of Director has discussions with the other Executive the Groups auditors.
A policy on the provision of non-audit work by the external auditors has been and Non-Executive Directors, without the Chairman approved by the Board to ensure that auditors being present, in order to appraise the Chairmans objectivity and independence are safeguarded.
For the year under To this end, the policy highlights those areas where review these assessments concluded that the the external auditor cannot provide services to the performance of the Board and each Director was, Group, including inter alia, the provision of Group and is, effective, and that all Directors demonstrate management functions, internal audit outsourcing, full commitment in their respective roles to the provision of legal advice and recruitment and Company evidenced, inter alia, by the Board and remuneration advice.
The auditors confirm by way Committee attendance records set out in this report.
of letter to the Board that processes to ensure The evaluations further demonstrate that the Board 28653 pp036-041.
com Directors Report Governance Corporate Governance Report has an appropriate set of skills, that all the Directors and long-term value, including those arising from add value to the overall effectiveness and success social, environmental and ethical matters.
This process of the Group, and that no substantial issues have has been in place for the year under review and up to arisen out of the evaluation process.
the date of approval of the Annual Report is regularly reviewed by the Board and accords with the Turnbull After a rigorous review of performance and in Guidance.
Any breaches of internal controls identified view of their continued robust contribution and by the Groups control review procedures are reported commitment to the Board, Christopher Knight and to the Audit and Risk Committee and corrective action Debra Rade are to continue in their roles on the taken.
In carrying out the risk review, the Board is Board for a further three-year term subject to satisfied that it received adequate information from re-election at the AGM in accordance with the the operations around the world.
Training is provided Articles of Association.
to Directors on these matters where necessary.
The Remuneration, Nomination, and Audit and Risk The Audit and Risk Committee has reviewed the Committees also each held an evaluation of their effectiveness of the system of financial and nonwork and effectiveness during the year, the results financial internal control during the year.
In particular, of which were reported to the Board by the Group it has reviewed and continues to seek to improve the Company Secretary.
The reviews concluded that process for identifying and evaluating the significant each Committee was operating in an efficient and risks affecting the business and the policies and effective manner.
procedures by which these risks are managed.
This is The Board will continue to develop the evaluation reinforced by the Intertek Compliance Code and Code of Ethics, which provides practical guidance process in order to ensure that it can properly and instruction for staff.
The Codes are available at review, on an annual basis, its performance and that of its individual members and Committees.
so, consideration is given to succession planning The Group operates a zero tolerance policy in regard requirements and the Board will act accordingly to breaches of ethics and all employees are required with the assistance of the Nominations Committee.
to sign a certificate confirming their understanding that any breaches of the Groups Code of Ethics will Procedures to deal with Directors conflicts of interests result in disciplinary action that may include summary During 2008, the Board implemented a formal dismissal of the employee concerned.
To support system to deal with conflicts of Directors interests.
Group policies and to facilitate the raising of concerns All Directors completed an initial questionnaire to about possible improprieties in matters of financial identify any conflicts or potential conflicts of interests.
reporting or any other matters, the Group provides The Board discussed all questionnaires and and publicises email and telephone hotlines so that authorisation of conflicts and potential conflicts was staff may report anonymously any inaccurate or granted by the non-conflicted Directors in accordance unethical working practices.
All complaints are with the Companys Articles of Association.
All investigated thoroughly with action taken as authorisation decisions were recorded and will be appropriate.
The number of complaints received, reviewed annually by the Board.
together with the corrective actions taken, are reported to the Audit and Risk Committee.
During Internal control 2008, 42 complaints were received and investigated.
The Groups primary business objectives require Most investigations concluded that the complaint was adherence to local, national and international laws unfounded, but corrective action was taken where and require the Groups employees to show integrity appropriate.
and honesty in all business dealings.
Risk management and internal controls are therefore In carrying out its review, the Audit and Risk embedded in the running of each division, assuring Committee endeavours to ensure that the Group has the accuracy and validity of reports and certificates in place the most appropriate and effective controls, that the Group provides to customers.
Although the checks, systems and risk management techniques so as Directors are ultimately responsible for establishing to be in line with best practice on such matters.
and maintaining the Groups system of internal Each operating division is responsible for the control and for reviewing its effectiveness, such a identification and evaluation of significant risks system can realistically only manage, rather than applicable to that area of business, together with eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business the design and operation of suitable internal controls.
objectives and can only provide reasonable These risks are assessed on a continual basis, and assurance against material misstatement or loss.
may be associated with a variety of internal or The Board confirms that, in addition to internal audits, external sources including control breakdowns, there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating disruption of information systems, competition, and managing any significant risks to the Groups short natural catastrophe and regulatory requirements.
indd 40 5 3 09 23:57:52 41 Annual Report 2008 41 Operation of the controls is designed to minimise mix of techniques is used to attain the level of the occurrence of risk or its consequences.
assurance required by the Board.
A process of control using self-assessment and The Chief Executive Officer also reports to the Board hierarchical reporting has been established which on significant changes in the business and the external provides a documented trail of accountability.
These environment which could impact on risk.
The Chief procedures are applied across Group operations and Financial Officer provides the Board with monthly provide for continuing assurances to be given at financial information, which includes the comparison of increasingly higher levels of management and finally, key performance figures against budgets and forecasts, to the Board.
This process is facilitated by Internal and risk indicators.
Where areas for improvement in Audit which also provides assurance as to the the system are identified, the Board considers the operation and validity of the system of internal recommendations made by management and the controls.
Planned corrective actions are Audit and Risk Committee.
The Board approves the independently monitored for timely completion.
treasury policy and the Treasury departments activities are also subject to regular internal audits.
Each division reports annually to the Audit and Risk Committee via the Vice President Risk Management Relations with shareholders and Internal Audit on its review of risks and how they Communications with shareholders are given a high are managed.
Each year senior managers throughout priority.
The Group produces an Annual Report which the Group confirm the adequacy of their systems of is available to shareholders and also publishes interim internal controls, compliance with Group policies, management statements and its Half Year Results.
local laws and regulations and report any control The Group website www.
com contains weaknesses identified in the past year.
One of the up-to-date information on its activities and published Audit and Risk Committees main roles is to review, financial results.
Shareholders can subscribe via the on behalf of the Board, the key risks inherent in the Investors section of www.
com to receive business and the system of controls necessary to email alerts of important announcements made by ensure such risks are properly managed.
At the AGM in 2007 the Company took advantage of provisions contained within The Chief Financial Officer heads a central compliance the Companies Act 2006 and the Disclosure and team, which co-ordinates the quality assurance Transparency Rules of the Financial Services Authority function.
Quality assurance audits are carried out by the divisions, and the findings reported to divisional enabling communication with shareholders using management and to compliance officers.
Each division electronic means via the Group website or by email.
has at least one compliance officer who undertakes The Groups Annual Report, notices of meetings and investigations of issues that arise either from quality proxy forms are now provided electronically as a assurance audits or by other means, such as the default option.
However, shareholders are also able to employee hotline.
Reports of significant findings are request paper copies of documents if they so choose.
presented to the Audit and Risk Committee.
Each The Chairman ensures that any comments he receives geographic region has at least one internal auditor from institutional shareholders are communicated who is independent of the divisions.
The main directly to the Board, and all analysts and brokers reporting sites are reviewed annually.
The other reports on the Group are sent to each Director.
sites are reviewed regularly on a schedule based on materiality and risk.
Reports of significant findings are The Board views the AGM as an opportunity to presented to the Audit and Risk Committee which communicate with private and institutional investors monitors and reviews the effectiveness of the internal and welcomes their participation.
All Board members audit function.
The internal audit department was attend the AGM and in particular, the Chairmen of awarded ISO 9001: 2000 accreditation in 2003 and the Audit and Risk, Nomination and Remuneration was re-accredited in 2008.
Committees are available to answer questions.
At General Meetings, a schedule of the proxy votes The Group will, from time-to-time, be required by cast is made available to all shareholders and is also its customers to operate in countries where there available on the website.
The Company proposes a is potential political and economic risk.
In doing so, resolution on each substantially separate issue and the Group fulfils its policy of facilitating international does not combine resolutions inappropriately.
trade inspection and audit services that help to prevent corruption and assist with humanitarian Going concern aid.
Where there are no laws in place that prohibit After making diligent enquiries, the Directors business dealings in certain countries, the Group will have a reasonable expectation that the Group has consider operating in those countries, but only in adequate resources to continue in operation for the strict accordance with its stringent Code of Ethics.
Accordingly, they continue to The Audit and Risk Committee reviews the adopt the going concern basis in preparing the assurance procedures, ensuring that an appropriate Groups financial statements.
