CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Combined Code principles and compliance non-executive directors.
The Board considers that all of the This report has been prepared in accordance with Section 1 of the non-executive directors are independent for Combined Code Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial purposes.
Reporting Council in June 2006 the Combined Code.
The report, together with the Remuneration report on pages 49 to 58, The Board has a majority of independent non-executive directors describes how the principles set out in the Combined Code have and a good balance between non-executive and executive been applied.
directors, ensuring that no individual or small group dominates the Boards decision making.
Terms and conditions of appointment of The Board is committed to high standards of corporate governance non-executive directors are available on request from the Company and is pleased to report that throughout the year under review Secretary.
Non-executive directors are appointed for an initial three Invensys has been compliant with the provisions of the Combined year term from the date of their first election by shareholders until Code.
The Invensys Code of Conduct which is part of a broader the date of the third Annual General Meeting thereafter.
After the Compliance Programme aims to ensure the businesses act with initial term, their appointment may be extended for a second term, integrity and comply with all laws.
subject to mutual agreement and shareholder approval.
The Board Division of responsibilities The Board is chaired by Martin Jay, who was appointed nonThere is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman executive Chairman in July 2003.
At 14 May 2008, the Board and the Chief Executive which is defined in writing and approved consisted of two executive directors and four non-executive by the Board.
The Chairman is responsible for leadership of the directors, in addition to the Chairman.
Biographies of all directors Board and ensuring its effectiveness.
He facilitates the contribution are presented on pages 10 and 11.
Pat Zito was appointed to the of the non-executive directors and ensures constructive relations Board as a non-executive director on 23 May 2007.
The Senior between the executive and non-executive directors and effective Independent Director is Michael Parker, who has held this role communication with shareholders.
The Chief Executive is since 7 December 2006.
Mr Parker, as Senior Independent Director, responsible for executing the strategy approved by the Board and is available for shareholders to contact.
Mr Jay has informed the other members of the Board that he Company Secretary is intending to retire as Chairman and a director of the Company The Company Secretary is responsible to the Board and advises at the 2009 Annual General Meeting.
By then, he will have been on all corporate governance matters, ensuring that all Board Chairman for six years and believes that it will be an appropriate procedures are followed and that there is a good information flow.
time to hand over to a successor.
He has made his intentions clear To enable the Board to perform its duties, all directors have full now so that the Board can put in place a thorough and orderly and timely access to all relevant information and to the services process to appoint a new Chairman and ensure that a smooth of the Company Secretary.
The Company Secretary is Victoria Hull transfer of responsibilities can take place.
who was appointed on 1 January 2006 and who acts as secretary to all of the committees of the Board.
Ms Hull is also the General Executive directors are encouraged not to hold more than one Counsel.
The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary external non-executive directorship which is in line with the is decided upon by the Board as a whole.
Combined Code requirement that boards should not agree to fulltime executive directors taking on more than one non-executive Meetings directorship.
Mr Henriksson joined the board of Hexagon AB as a There is an agreed schedule of Board and committee meetings.
In line with the Combined During the year each of the directors attended such scheduled Code requirement, this is the only non-executive directorship that meetings as set out in the table below.
This analysis includes the Mr Henriksson holds.
Hexagon AB is a Swedish global technology members attendance at meetings and does not include attendance group, listed on the Swedish Stock Exchange, specialising in of other directors attending at the invitation of the respective measurement technologies, polymers and key components.
Prior to giving Mr Henriksson permission to accept this role, the In addition to the scheduled meetings, the Board met on a further Board undertook a review to ensure there was no conflict between 10 occasions, the Remuneration Committee on six occasions, and the business of the Group and Hexagon AB.
the Nominating Committee on two occasions.
There were also informal meetings of the Chairman and the non-executive directors Board independence without the executive directors being present.
The Senior The Board meets the Combined Code requirement that at least half Independent Director and non-executive directors also met during of the Board, excluding the Chairman, should be independent the year to appraise the Chairmans performance.
1 1 1 Audit Remuneration Nominating 1 Board Committee Committee Committee Attended Possible Attended Possible Attended Possible Attended Possible Martin Jay 10 10 6611 2 Ulf Henriksson 10 10 Steve Hare 10 10 Bay Green 10 10 666 611 3 Jean-Claude Guez 10 10 226 611 2 Michael Parker 10 10 666 6 4 Pat Zito 885 555 1 Scheduled Board committee meetings.
2 Attendance at Nominating Committee meetings from date of appointment as a member on 6 February 2008.
3 Attendance at Audit Committee meetings until 1 August 2007 when he stepped down as a member.
4 Attendance at Board, Audit Committee and Remuneration Committee meetings from his date of appointment to the Company on 23 May 2007.
Invensys plc Annual report accounts 2008 45 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Independent financial and professional advice is available to the 2007, met senior corporate and business leaders and advisers of directors and Board committees, collectively and individually, as the Group.
The continuing development of directors, collectively circumstances require at the Companys expense.
and individually, is mainly effected through the provision to them by relevant external and internal advisers of briefings on matters Role and procedures of current significance to the Group and also through attendance There is a formal schedule of matters relating to all major strategic at external briefings.
During the year directors received regular and financial decisions which are reserved for the decision of the updates on legislative developments e. g. the Companies Act 2006 Board.
During the year, these matters were reviewed against the and the Corporate Manslaughter and Corporate Homicide Act Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators model and 2007 and other matters of legal significance.
session was also organised, which all directors attended.
The Board ensures that directors have access to independent professional The matters reserved for the Board include approval of the interim advice on how to discharge their responsibilities as directors of results and the formulation of strategic and annual operating the Company.
In addition, certain decision-making is delegated through structured procedures to committees and, for operational matters, Communication with shareholders to senior management.
Although all the directors have an equal Communication with shareholders is at all times given a high responsibility for the operations of Invensys, the role of the priority and a number of means are used to promote greater non-executive directors is particularly important in ensuring that understanding and dialogue with investment audiences.
In order the strategy and business proposals of the executive management to develop an understanding of the views of major shareholders, team are fully discussed and examined to ensure that they meet the Board receives regular reports from the Chief Executive and the long-term interests of shareholders and also take account of the Groups investor relations team.
The Chairman and the Senior issues affecting employees, customers, suppliers and the many Independent Director are available to meet with major communities within which Invensys conducts its business.
At least shareholders on request.
one full days meeting every year is devoted to the overall strategic planning of the Group.
The Board delegates specific authorities to As explained in the Chairmans statement, the Board has decided to its Nominating Committee, Audit Committee and Remuneration cease full quarterly reporting following the redemption of the Committee.
Reports of these committees are set out on pages 46 remaining High Yield Bonds in March 2008.
All directors receive copies of all committee minutes and the however be kept informed of the progress of the Group during chairman of each committee provides an update on matters of the course of a year through half year and full year results, interim significance at the Board meeting following the committee meeting.
management statements and other announcements of significant developments that are released through the London Stock Board and committees: performance evaluation Exchange and other news services.
The Chief Executive and Chief The Board has a formal review process with discrete components Financial Officer maintain regular dialogue with institutional covering the evaluation of the Boards collective performance, the shareholders and participate in sector conferences.
Shareholders appraisal of the performance of individual directors, including the can also raise questions directly with the Company at any time by Chairman, and each of the Boards committees.
contacting the investor relations team, whose contact details are listed on the Groups website.
Evaluation of executive directors is conducted by the Chairman and non-executive directors.
Appraisal of the non-executive directors is Additionally, directors are available at the Annual General Meeting led by the Chairman in consultation with all directors.
The Annual report and accounts are each non-executive director is asked to assess themselves.
The made available to shareholders at least 20 working days prior to evaluation of the Chairman is led by the Senior Independent the Annual General Meeting.
Voting on resolutions proposed Director in consultation with the other non-executive directors, separately is conducted by polls at general meetings and voting taking into account the views of the executive directors.
Individual results are announced through the London Stock Exchange and feedback is provided by the Chairman to each of the non-executive other news services: the results and proxy levels are available on directors and by the Senior Independent Director to the Chairman.
the website and on request.
At the last Annual General Meeting, the Companys Articles of Association were amended to permit the In relation to the evaluation of the Board and its committees, an Company to send or supply communications to shareholders internal questionnaire based on the Combined Code provisions is electronically and the Company now supplies information such as used for this process.
The evaluation process involves assessment notices of meetings, forms of proxy and the annual report via the by reference to the relevant roles and responsibilities under review, website.
Shareholders will be notified by email or post when new the current terms of reference of the committees and best information is available on the website.
The Company will continue practice.
The results of the evaluation provide the basis for to send hard copy communications to those shareholders who continuous improvement in the Boards procedures and the have requested to receive communications in hard copy form.
Boards action plans and objectives for the following year.
Shareholders may at any time revoke a previous instruction in order to receive hard copies or electronic copies of shareholder The Board remains satisfied that each ongoing director remains information.
committed to his role and that the Board and each of its committees remains effective.
Nominating Committee report Membership Induction and development The Nominating Committee currently comprises the Chairman On appointment, new directors receive an induction programme who chairs the Nominating Committee, the Chief Executive tailored to their experience, including an induction pack and three independent non-executive directors.
The table below comprising relevant information, scheduled meetings with key details members of the Nominating Committee during the year personnel and advisers and site visits.
As part of his induction, under review: Mr Zito, who was appointed as a non-executive director on 23 May 46 Invensys plc Annual report accounts 2008 Name Date of appointment Mr Green is a qualified chartered accountant and fellow of the Current members Institute of Chartered Accountants of England and Wales and, with Martin Jay January 2003, Chairman of the Nominating over 30 years in financial roles, he is considered to have recent and Committee since 23 July 2003 relevant financial experience for the purposes of the Combined Bay Green 1 January 2005 Code.
He has held a number of senior positions in Dresdner Jean-Claude Guez 23 July 2003 Kleinwort and is a specialist adviser to the Wholesale and Institutional Ulf Henriksson 6 February 2008 Markets Business Unit of the Financial Services Authority.
Michael Parker 6 February 2008 Role Role The Audit Committee is appointed by the Board from the nonThe current terms of reference for the Nominating Committee are executive directors of the Company.
The current terms of reference available on the Groups website.
for the Audit Committee are available on the Groups website.
The Nominating Committees responsibilities include: The Audit Committees responsibilities include: making recommendations to the Board for the appointment, monitoring the integrity of the Groups financial statements and reappointment and retirement of directors: reviewing significant financial reporting issues and accounting reviewing the performance of directors: policies: reviewing the composition and size of the Board and its reviewing the Groups systems of internal control and risk committees: management: setting the procedure for the appointment of new directors reviewing the effectiveness of the internal audit function: to the Board: and making recommendations to the Board on the appointment, succession planning.
dismissal, remuneration and terms of engagement of external auditors: Meetings reviewing the external auditors qualification, expertise, The Nominating Committee held one scheduled meeting and two resources, independence and effectiveness, taking into account unscheduled meetings during the year under review.
Attendance at professional and regulatory requirements: the scheduled meeting is shown in the table on page 45.
At the implementing policies on the engagement of external auditors request of the Nominating Committee, the Chief Executive prior to supply non-audit services: and to his appointment as a member and Chief Financial Officer were reporting to the Board any matters where it considers invited to attend some meetings of the Committee.
improvement is needed and making recommendation as to the steps to be taken.
Principal matters considered during the year under review included the evaluation of those directors proposed for election or Meetings re-election at the Annual General Meeting with no individual The Audit Committee held six scheduled meetings during the director participating in any matter relating to himself and Board year under review.
There were no unscheduled meetings.
Attendance is shown in the table on page 45.
At least once a year, the Audit Committee and external auditors meet without All directors are required to retire by rotation no later than the management present.
At the invitation of the Audit Committee, third Annual General Meeting following their appointment or all directors who are not members normally attend all meetings.
No director is proposed for election for a further In addition, other senior managers are invited as required.
term of three years unless the Nominating Committee has, following evaluation, recommended such reappointment to the Principal matters considered during the year under review Board.
The recommendation of the Nominating Committee on the included: re-election of Bay Green as a director is described in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
The terms and conditions of appointment review of the financial disclosures in the Groups Annual report of non-executive directors are available on request from the and accounts, half-yearly financial report and quarterly Company Secretary.
financial results: review of the effectiveness of the internal audit function, Audit Committee report consideration of internal audit reports and the annual internal Membership audit programme: The Audit Committee currently comprises three independent review of the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls and non-executive directors.
Details regarding members of the Audit risk management processes and procedures: Committee during the year under review are set out below: approval of the external audit plan and fee proposal: the policy on auditor independence and provision of audit and Name Date of appointment non-audit services by the auditor: Current members the assessment of the effectiveness of the external auditors: Bay Green Acting Chairman of the Audit Committee recommendation to the Board of the reappointment of from 3 August 2006 and appointed Ernst & Young LLP as the external auditor: and permanent Chairman from 7 December 2006 monitoring, through the Risk Committee, the Groups whistleMichael Parker 2 August 2006 blowing programme.
Pat Zito 23 May 2007 The Audit Committee has guidelines to ensure that the independence Jean-Claude Guez served on the Audit Committee from 20 September of Ernst & Young LLP, as the auditor of the Groups financial 2006 until 1 August 2007. statements, is not impaired by providing non-audit services.
These guidelines govern the provision of non-audit services by Ernst & Young LLP by identifying certain non-audit services that Invensys plc Annual report accounts 2008 47 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED the auditor is prohibited from providing.
Permitted categories Following detailed review, the Audit Committee reported on its of non-audit services are defined and approved by the Chairman findings to the Board.
The Board is satisfied that the information of the Audit Committee.
The engagements for non-audit services that it has received throughout the year and for its annual review are subject to formal approval based on the level of fees involved.
together with the procedural review framework that has been The Audit Committee has agreed a pre-approval process whereby established are sufficient to enable it to review the effectiveness certain non-audit services up to an agreed value can be provided.
of the Groups system of internal control.
Whilst areas for Such services are subsequently reported to the Audit Committee.
improvement in control have been identified and actions initiated Details of the amounts paid to Ernst & Young LLP as external on account of the above processes, no significant shortcomings auditor during the year for audit and other services are set out in internal control were identified as a result of the annual in Note 5 to the Group financial statements.
The internal control process has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Remuneration Committee report report and accounts.
Details of the Remuneration Committee and its policies, together with information on the remuneration and share interests of Internal audit directors, is set out in the Remuneration report on pages 49 to 58.
Internal audit has a direct reporting line to the Chairman of the Audit Committee and its responsibilities include the examination Internal control and evaluation of the scope and effectiveness of the Groups The Board has ultimate responsibility for the system of internal system of internal control.
The audit plan is constructed to provide control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Each of the Groups geographic coverage over broadly a three year cycle with a degree businesses is individually accountable to the Chief Executive and is of tailoring to address specific risk concerns.
During the year, it managed by a president who, with his senior management team, reported regularly to the Audit Committee on its assessment of provides day-to-day control over the businessoperations within internal control issues arising in the course of its internal audit the strategic guidelines and delegated authorities determined by reviews of the Groups operations.
Each year a consolidated review the Board.
The internal control system is designed to meet the is provided to assist the Board to undertake its own annual review Groups particular needs and the risks to which it is exposed, but it of internal control.
should be appreciated that, however effective a system of internal control is, it can provide only reasonable and not absolute Historically the internal audit plan has been discharged by a team assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Having regard to the changing nature of the Groups business, the geographic spread of operators and the need The Board has established a structured approach to risk for certain specialist audit resources e. g. IT, the decision was management with the processes to identify and manage key risks taken to outsource the majority of internal audit work to Deloitte facing the Group being an integral part of the control environment.
The transition was largely completed by the end of The Risk Committee reports to the Board through the Audit April 2008.
A small function, reporting to the Head of Business Risk, Committee.
The Risk Committee is responsible for the system has been retained to manage the outsourcing contract and of risk management and for the reporting of key risks and the undertake certain ad hoc assignments.
The Risk Committee includes the Head of Business Risk Chairman of the Risk Whistle-blowing Committee since 6 March 2007, the Chief Financial Officer, The Audit Committee reviews the Groups arrangements under the Chief Executive, the General Counsel and Company Secretary, which staff can, on a confidential basis, raise concerns about the Group Financial Controller, the VP Tax and Treasury, the SVP potential irregularities and arrangements for follow-up actions.
Environmental, Health, Safety and Sustainability and the VP Risk A helpline is operated by Global Compliance Services Inc. an Management and Insurance.
During the year, its activities have independent company, and is publicised to employees via the included reviewing the Groups risk framework and its monitoring Invensys Code of Conduct.
Any investigations are undertaken by processes.
A summary of the principal risks facing the Group is the Company Secretary, or at her direction, and any material presented on pages 42 to 44. investigations are brought to the immediate attention of the Audit Committee which determines an appropriate follow-up action.
In accordance with the Turnbull guidance, the Board confirms that Statistics on the volume and general nature of calls are reported it has undertaken its annual assessment of the Groups system of annually to the Audit Committee and the Board.
In addition, staff internal control.
Inputs into the assessment undertaken by the raise concerns through other means such as email or letter sent Audit Committee included: to the Board or management, which correspondence is investigated in the same manner as concerns raised through the helpline.
consideration of the key risks facing the businesses as part No material issues were reported through these processes during of the review of the Groups strategic planning and annual the year.
operating planning processes: review of the enhancements to the overall control environment: consideration of the key elements of the Groups control processes including organisational structure, the application of governance rules and systems, information management including monthly reporting routines and risk management activities: reports received from both internal and external audit during the course of the year: and the findings from the annual self-assessment questionnaire which requires all senior managers, from reporting unit level upwards, to certify compliance with the Groups financial and operational procedures and controls, including environmental, health and safety matters and the Invensys Code of Conduct.
48 Invensys plc Annual report accounts 2008
