Overview Business review Governance Financial statements 39 Report on corporate governance The Company is committed to the principles of corporate governance contained in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance that was issued in 2006 by the Financial Reporting Council Combined Code for which the Board is accountable to shareholders.
Statement of compliance with the Combined Code During the financial year, the Company complied with all of the provisions set out in section 1 of the Combined Code.
Statement about applying the principles of good governance The Company has applied the principles of good corporate governance as set out in the Combined Code.
The explanation of how the principles have been applied is set out below and in connection with Directors remuneration, in the Report on remuneration.
Board of Directors The Board of Directors meets not less than seven times a year.
The Board considers a range of matters for its approval, including setting Group strategy, acquisition policy, the budgets, major capital expenditure and material contracts.
The Board monitors the performance of the businesses against appropriate forecasts and key performance indicators.
The Board is supplied with financial and operational information on a timely basis to enable it to discharge its duties and carry out its responsibilities.
All Directors have access to the Company Secretary and there is a procedure to enable them to take additional independent professional advice at the expense of the Company.
Neil Netto was appointed Company Secretary on 19 September 2008 in place of Russell Taylor.
The Senior Independent non-executive Director is Michael Hartley.
In addition to the Chairman, the Board comprises three non-executive Directors and two or three executive Directors during the year.
The Board currently has four non-executive Directors including the Chairman and three executive Directors which it considers to be an appropriate balance of executive and non-executive Directors.
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are separate, and each has fide ned roles and responsibilities approved by the Board.
The Nomination Committee considers all appointments made to the Board.
Neil England was appointed as a non-executive Director on 18 March 2008.
Russell Taylor was promoted to Chief Executive O cer on 19 May 2008.
Neil Jones was appointed as Finance Director on 4 November 2008.
The full terms and conditions of the three appointments are available for inspection at the Companys registered o ce and will be available for review before the Annual General Meeting.
Members of the Nomination Committee were actively involved in all three appointments and, taking such advice as appropriate, agreed the speci cations for the three positions.
At separate times, external search companies were appointed to provide a shortlist of candidates.
The candidates for the three positions were all interviewed by the Chairman and other Directors as appropriate.
The shortlist of candidates for all three positions were interviewed by the members of the Nomination Committee.
The Nomination Committee collectively recommended all three appointments to the Board.
The Directors diversity of experience and knowledge of the markets in which ITE operates is key to the development of a robust strategy for the Group and to its execution.
The non-executive Directors contribute an independent and objective view to the management of the Company and play a full and active part in the various Board committees.
The names and biographies of the Directors are on page 33.
The Board considers Michael Hartley, Malcolm Wall and Neil England to be independent, and recognises that Iain Paterson was independent on the date of his appointment.
Any Directors appointed since the last Annual General Meeting are required to o er themselves for re-election at the first available annual general meeting.
In accordance with the Articles of the Company, all Directors are required to stand for re-election at least every three years.
ITE Group plc Annual Report 2008 40 Report on corporate governance continued The non-executive Directors met formally without the executives present twice during the year.
A formal evaluation of the Board and its Committees was carried out.
The Chairman circulated a questionnaire to each Director that sought views on various factors concerning the workings of the Board and its e ectiveness.
The results were collated and debated by the Board.
As a result, improvements have been made particularly to the allocation of time spent at Board meetings discussing the key signi cant business and strategic issues.
The Chairmans performance was evaluated by the Senior Independent Director.
A number of matters were discussed at these meetings which served to enhance further the satisfactory performance of the Board.
The following table sets out the number of meetings of the Board, and of the principal Committees of the Board during the financial year, together with details of attendance.
During the year, the Directors attended all of the Board and Committee meetings that were held.
Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Number of meetings 7 4 7 6 Attendance: Iain Paterson 7 7 6 1 Sir Jeremy Hanley 3 2 3 3 Michael Hartley 7 4 7 6 Edward Strachan 7 Russell Taylor 7 Malcolm Wall 7 4 7 6 2 Bill Dye 2 3 Neil England 4 2 3 3 4 Neil Jones 1 Sir Jeremy Hanley resigned from the Board on 6 March 2008.
2 Bill Dye resigned from the Board on 30 January 2008.
3 Neil England was appointed to the Board on 18 March 2008.
4 Neil Jones was appointed to the Board on 4 November 2008.
Communication with shareholders The Board considers communication with all shareholders to be extremely important.
Shareholders are provided either in hard copy or online, with full-year and interim accounts to help them keep up to date with the performance of the Group and are given the opportunity to ask questions directly of the Board at the Annual General Meeting.
The Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees are available at the Annual General Meeting to answer questions.
The Chairman and the Senior Independent Director are generally available to discuss shareholders concerns as and when required.
com is regularly updated with copies of all Group press releases and presentations given to shareholders.
The Directors seek to build on a mutual understanding of objectives between the Company and its institutional shareholders by making strategic presentations to institutional investors every six months following the publication of the half-year and annual results, by meeting shareholders to discuss long-term issues and obtain their feedback and by communicating regularly throughout the year.
ITE Group plc Annual Report 2008 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements 41 Board Committees The Board has established three Committees all of which have written terms of reference.
The terms of reference for the Committees are available on the Companys website at www.
The Audit Committee The Audit Committee comprises only non-executive Directors.
The Committee was chaired by Sir Jeremy Hanley up to the date of his resignation on 6 March 2008 and Michael Hartley thereafter, whom the Board considers has appropriate financial expertise to ful l this role.
The other members are Malcolm Wall and Neil England.
The meetings are also attended by the Chairman, the Finance Director, the deputy Finance Director and the auditors, together with any other member of sta considered necessary by the Committee to complete its work.
The Committee meets at least four times a year and ensures that at least twice a year it meets with the auditors without executives or other members of sta present to discuss matters relating to its remit and any issues arising.
The Committee is responsible for reviewing accounting procedures and the internal control environment.
The Committee also reviews announcements of the Companys results and monitors compliance with accounting standards and Company law.
In addition, the Committee considers the appointment of the auditors, the scope of the audit and any issues arising, their fees and the nature, extent and costs of any non-audit services provided by them.
The Committee has access to any employee and is able to obtain external advice on any matter as required.
The auditors are able to request additional meetings at any time.
The Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee comprises only non-executive Directors.
The Committee was chaired by Michael Hartley up to 6 March 2008 and thereafter by Malcolm Wall.
It meets at least three times a year.
The other members are Iain Paterson, Michael Hartley and Neil England.
The meetings are attended by the Chief Executive O cer and external advisers as appropriate.
Further information about the Committee is set out in the Report on remuneration on page 43.
The Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee comprises the non-executive Directors Iain Paterson, Malcolm Wall, Michael Hartley, Sir Jeremy Hanley up to the date of his resignation on 6 March 2008 and Neil England from 18 March 2008.
The Committee, which is chaired by Iain Paterson, is responsible, if requested by the Board, for nominating candidates to the whole Board for approval, recommending the re-appointment or continuation in o ce of any Director, and for considering and making recommendations to the Board on its composition and balance.
The Company Secretary is secretary to each of the above Committees.
Independence of external auditors The Audit Committee has established clear guidelines concerning the levels of discretionary non-audit fees it considers are appropriate to safeguard the independence of the auditors.
The Committee has implemented review and approval processes relating to the provision of non-audit services by the auditors, and undertakes an annual assessment of the auditors independence and e ectiveness.
The Audit Committee is satis ed that there are su cient safeguards in place to ensure auditor independence.
Whistle-blowing arrangements The Company has a set policy to enable and encourage sta to report in con dence any possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or otherwise.
The procedure for reporting any such matter has been communicated to all sta.
ITE Group plc Annual Report 2008 42 Report on corporate governance continued Internal audit function The Audit Committee annually considers whether an internal audit function is appropriate and makes an appropriate recommendation to the Board.
The central finance function is responsible for checking, monitoring and reporting on the control environment in the Groups accounting centres.
During the year, the Company appointed an external rm of accountants other than its auditors to perform independent audits on the e ectiveness of its internal controls for all the Companys principal o ces by the end of September 2009.
The Committee considers that at present there is a high level of independence and objective reporting on the control environment in the Group.
The Board has concluded that a formal internal audit function is not currently required.
The Audit Committee will continue to monitor this matter and make appropriate recommendations to the Board.
Review of internal controls and of risk management process The Directors recognise that they have overall responsibility for ensuring that the Group maintains a system of controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management to provide them with reasonable assurance regarding e ective and e cient operations, internal control and compliance with laws and regulations.
A system of internal controls has been established to allow the Board, in conjunction with management, to identify, evaluate and manage the signi cant risks faced by the Company on an on-going and pro-active basis.
The system also seeks to monitor the Companys overall financial, operational and compliance positions and to help safeguard shareholders investments and to protect the Companys assets.
The Board is responsible for this process and for ensuring that it remains e ective and, in order to facilitate it, it has established a single organisational structure with clearly drawn lines of accountability, appropriate delegation of authority and open lines of communication.
The Company has a comprehensive system of financial reporting.
There is a thorough budgeting system for all lines of income and expenditure, with an annual budget approved by the Board.
Historical financial performance and revised forecasts for the full year are reported against budget and considered by the Board at each meeting.
The Board pays particular attention to those matters which, by their nature, expose the Company to signi cant risks and uncertainties, including exchange rates, which can be subject to considerable volatility and can have a material impact on the Companys operating results.
The Company has established procedures to deal with authorisations for expenditure.
The Board is committed to ensuring that the Companys data and infrastructure, and its information technology systems, are as secure as is reasonably practicable.
Security controls and procedures are in place to prevent unauthorised access to the Companys premises.
Hardware and software controls have also been instigated to prevent unauthorised access to the Companys computer system and network.
Regular back-ups of electronic information are taken with copies being stored o site.
This system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
This system of internal control has been in place throughout the year and up to the date of approval of this Annual Report.
It is reviewed regularly by the Board and complies with the Turnbull guidance.
The Board has performed a speci c assessment of internal controls for the purpose of this Annual Report.
The Audit Committee assists the Board in discharging its review responsibilities.
ITE Group plc Annual Report 2008
