Business review Governance Financial statements ITV plc Report and accounts 2008 Corporate 91 governance The Board of ITV plc is committed to business integrity and high The Board ethical values across the Groups operations.
As an essential part of Composition: The Board currently comprises four executive members this commitment, the Board supports high standards of corporate the Executive Chairman, the Chief Operating Officer, the Group Finance governance and has a policy of seeking to comply with the Director, and Managing Director, ITV Brand and Commercial and eight recommendations of the Combined Code and voting guidelines independent non-executive directors.
Biographical details for each of the of our major institutional investors where appropriate.
directors are set out on pages 40 and 41.
The composition of the Board during 2008 is set out in the Directors Compliance report.
As required by the Listing Rules issued by the Financial Services Executive Chairman: Michael Grade is Executive Chairman and is Authority, this report describes how the Company has applied the responsible for leadership of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness and principles set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate setting its agenda.
It also discloses the extent to which the Company has complied with the Codes provisions.
Deputy Chairman: Sir George Russell is Deputy Chairman.
The Board considers that, throughout the year, the Company Chief Operating Officer: John Cresswell is Chief Operating Officer and complied with the provisions of the Combined Code with the exception has responsibility to the Board for leadership and management of the of code provision A.
The Board remains of the view that having day-to-day operations of the Group.
Michael Grade as Executive Chairman provides the Company with a Senior independent director: Sir James Crosby is the senior independent strong and creative leadership which is important at this time of rapid director.
His role is designed to provide an effective level of governance change in the media industry.
The following balancing controls are in control and to ensure there is an appropriate division of responsibilities place to ensure high standards of corporate governance are maintained: to avoid excessive concentration of power while Michael Grade is John Cresswell is Chief Operating Officer and the executive team Executive Chairman.
His responsibilities include the following, report directly to him as shown below.
amongst others: Sir James Crosby is the senior independent director and Chairman of to act as a conduit to the Board for communication of shareholder the Nomination Committee and helps to provide an appropriate level concerns when other channels of communication are inappropriate: of governance control.
to ensure the performance evaluation of the non-executive directors It is planned that Michael Grade will step down from his executive and Executive Chairman is conducted effectively: role in 2010 and remain as non-executive Chairman.
A Chief Executive will be appointed at that time.
to ensure the outcomes of performance evaluations of the Executive Chairman and other non-executive directors are acted upon: and to convene and chair meetings of the non-executive directors.
Details of his professional commitments are included in his biography on page 40.
The Board is satisfied that these do not interfere with the performance of his duties for the Company.
The job descriptions of the Executive Chairman, the Chief Operating Officer and the senior independent director are set out in writing and have been agreed by the Board.
Election and re-election: All directors are required by the Companys Articles of Association to be elected by shareholders at the first Annual General Meeting AGM following their appointment by the Board.
Subsequently, all directors are subject to re-election by shareholders at least every three years.
The directors who will be seeking election and re-election at the AGM on 14 May 2009 are set out in the Directors report.
The reasons why the Board believes they should be re-elected are set out in the explanatory notes to the notice of the AGM.
External directorships: With the specific approval of the Board in each case, executive directors may accept external appointments as nonexecutive directors of other companies but only one FTSE 100 company and retain any related fees paid to them.
Details of fees received during 2008 can be found in the Remuneration report.
Non-executive directors The non-executive directors constructively challenge and help develop proposals on strategy.
They bring strong, independent judgement, knowledge and experience to the Boards deliberations.
The non-executive directors are of sufficient calibre and number that their views carry significant weight in the Boards decision making.
Independence: The Combined Code recommends that at least half of the Board, excluding the Chairman, should comprise independent non-executive directors.
The Board considers each of its current nonexecutive directors to be independent.
Meetings: The non-executive directors meet regularly as a group.
They met formally without the executive directors present in 2008 and plan to do so again regularly in 2009.
ITV plc Report and accounts 2008 Corporate governance 92 Terms of engagement: Subject to the Companys Articles of Association, the Companies Act and satisfactory performance evaluation, non-executive directors are appointed for an initial period of three years from commencement of appointment.
At the third anniversary of appointment the director will discuss with the Board whether it is appropriate for a further term to be served, subject to the Board succession planning framework explained in the Nomination Committee section below which provides that any further term may be adjusted in length should that be in the interests of an orderly succession of non-executive directors to the Board.
The re-appointment of directors who have served for more than nine years will be subject to annual review.
Mike Clasper completed three years as a non-executive director in January 2009.
It was agreed that he should serve a further term subject to the Board succession planning framework.
Time commitment: The time commitment expected of the nonexecutive directors is 18 to 20 days per annum, which has increased Responsibility and delegation: The specific responsibilities are set out following a review by the Nomination Committee in February 2009. in a schedule of matters reserved to the Board.
These include: It includes attendance at Board meetings, Board committee meetings, setting long-term objectives and corporate strategy and approving the AGM, an annual strategy away day and an annual strategy dinner.
an annual budget: The Board is satisfied that each of the non-executive directors commits sufficient time to the business of the Company.
approving major acquisitions: approving major divestments and capital expenditure: Company Secretary The Company Secretary, James Tibbitts, is responsible for advising the approving appointments to the Board: Board on all governance matters.
The directors have access to the advice reviewing systems of internal control and risk management: and and services of the Company Secretary.
The Companys Articles of Association and the schedule of matters reserved to the Board for approving policies relating to directors remuneration.
decision provide that the appointment and removal of the Company The Board has delegated certain responsibilities to board committees, Secretary is a matter for the Board.
The Company Secretary acts as the key committees being the Audit Committee, Nomination secretary to the Board and all its Committees and in addition is Committee, Remuneration Committee and the Management responsible for a number of the head office central services functions.
Further information on these Committees is provided below.
During 2008 the Board also established a Budget Committee to How the Board operates scrutinise the 2009 and 2010 budgets.
The Committee is comprised of Board meetings: The Board is scheduled to meet nine times in 2009 Michael Grade, John Cresswell, Ian Griffiths, Mike Clasper, Heather Killen, including two meetings devoted to discussion of strategic matters and John Ormerod, and Sir George Russell.
may meet at other times as and when required.
The Board approves annually a schedule of matters to be considered at each meeting and at Information flow: Regular reports and papers are circulated to the each meeting of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
directors in a timely manner in preparation for board and committee meetings.
These papers are supplemented by other relevant In 2008, the Board focused on the following areas of strategic information when applicable or if requested.
importance to the Company, amongst others: The non-executive directors receive monthly management accounts delivering the business strategy in the rapidly changing economic and regular management reports including financial and non-financial climate: KPIs which enable them to scrutinise the Groups and managements performance against agreed objectives.
They also receive a weekly the Companys preparations for digital switchover, including the information pack which includes key performance data, information provision of High Definition services, and the launch of the free-toabout the Company and other corporate governance matters.
This view satellite proposition, Freesat, a joint venture with the BBC: information is also made available on a secure website which can be refining and implementing the Enterprise-wide Risk Management accessed by all directors at any time.
process begun in 2007: Independent professional advice: Directors are given access to development of the Online businesses, including reviewing editorial independent professional advice at the Companys expense when the policy and how to leverage their success: directors deem it necessary in order for them to carry out their responsibilities.
the review of the Contract Rights Renewal CRR undertakings by Ofcom and the Office of Fair Trading: and Insurance: The Company maintains liability insurance for its directors and officers with a cover limit of 75 million.
responding to Ofcoms second Public Service Broadcasting review.
Indemnities: The Company has entered into deeds of indemnity with Attendance: Attendance of directors at board and strategy meetings its directors.
and the AGM during 2008 is set out below.
Board members receive all papers tabled at meetings even if they are unable to attend.
Business review Governance Financial statements ITV plc Report and accounts 2008 Corporate governance 93 Conflicts of Interest Induction and continuing professional development: The Company The Companies Act 2006 CA 2006 provisions relating to the duty of a has a policy and programme for induction and continuing professional director to avoid a situation in which they have or can have a direct or development, which is reviewed annually.
indirect interest that conflicts or possibly may conflict with the interests On appointment, each director takes part in a comprehensive induction of the Company came into effect on 1 October 2008.
This duty is in programme where they: addition to the existing duty that a director owes to the Company to disclose to the Board any transaction or arrangement under receive information about the Group in the form of presentations consideration by the Company.
The CA 2006 allows directors of public by executives from all parts of the business and on the regulatory companies to authorise conflicts and potential conflicts where the environment: Articles of Association contain a provision to that effect.
At the AGM meet representatives of the Companys key advisers, such as the held on 15 May 2008 shareholders approved amendments to the Companys auditors, brokers and solicitors: Companys Articles of Association which included provisions giving the receive information about the role of the Board and the matters directors authority to approve such situations and to include other reserved for its decision, the terms of reference and membership of provisions to allow conflicts of interest to be dealt with in a similar way board committees and the powers delegated to those committees: to the position that existed before 1 October 2008.
The Board has delegated the authorisation of conflicts to the receive information about the Companys corporate governance Nomination Committee and adopted a Conflict of Interest policy.
practices and procedures and the latest financial information about The policy outlines how conflicts will be dealt with and the process the Group: and for directors to follow when notifying the Company of an actual or are advised of their legal and other duties and obligations as a potential conflict.
When deciding whether to authorise a conflict or director of a listed company.
potential conflict of interest, only those that have no interest in the matter under consideration will be able to take the relevant decision.
The above is supplemented by visits to key locations, including studios In addition, the Nomination Committee will be able to impose limits and regional sites, and meetings with key senior executives and with or conditions when giving authorisation where appropriate.
The Board has considered in detail the current external During their period in office, the directors are continually updated on the appointments of the directors which may give rise to a situational Groups businesses and the competitive and regulatory environments in conflict and has authorised potential conflicts where appropriate.
They receive regular updates on: This authorisation can be reviewed at any time but will always be subject to annual review.
changes affecting the Group and the markets in which it operates through written briefings and meetings with senior executives across Board effectiveness the Group and from meetings with key advisers: and Performance evaluation: The Board has established a formal process for changes to the legal and governance requirements of the Group and the annual evaluation of the performance of the Board, its committees, in relation to their own position as directors.
and individual directors with particular attention given to those who are due for re-election in accordance with the requirements of the The directors are also expected to take responsibility for identifying Combined Code.
The directors are made aware, on appointment, that their own professional development needs and to ensure that they are their performance will be subject to an annual evaluation.
adequately informed about the Company and their responsibilities as directors.
Some of the actions taken during the year resulting from the 2007 evaluation included: Internal control scheduling meetings to allow more time for the directors to meet The Combined Code requires the Board to review, at least annually, informally, including without the executive directors present: all material internal controls including financial, operational, and compliance controls and risk management systems.
In October 2005 presentations to the Board on the competitive marketplace and the Financial Reporting Council issued revised guidance to directors in developing trends and technologies: respect of compliance with the internal control requirements of the formal performance and development reviews of senior Combined Code.
In the opinion of the Board the Company has complied management presented to the Board on a regular basis: and with this guidance throughout the year, maintaining an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and minimising risk.
implementing an escalation procedure in the Enterprise-wide A section on the Companys approach to internal control is included Risk Management process.
in the Audit Committee report.
The Board has conducted a review of the An internal evaluation of the effectiveness of the Board and its effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal controls for the year committees, individual directors and the Executive Chairman was ended 31 December 2008. carried out in 2008, led by the senior independent director.
The evaluation process included a written questionnaire and an Relations with shareholders interview with each director.
The questions covered a range of issues The Board attaches a high priority to effective communications with such as board processes, board roles and responsibilities, board agendas, shareholders.
In addition to the preliminary and interim results committee processes, individual effectiveness, training and continuing presentations and the AGM, a series of meetings between institutional professional development.
shareholders, the Executive Chairman, the senior independent director, Chief Operating Officer and the Group Finance Director are held Feedback from the evaluation process was provided to the Board in throughout the year.
In fulfilment of the obligations under the the form of a presentation at a board meeting and a written report.
Combined Code, the Executive Chairman gives feedback to the Board The review made the following suggestions, amongst others, for on issues raised with him by major shareholders.
enhanced effectiveness: The Company maintains a corporate website containing a wide to simplify board reporting: range of information of interest to institutional and private investors.
The Company has frequent discussions with institutional shareholders to encourage non-executive directors to input additional items into on a range of issues affecting its performance both following the the Board programme for the year: and Companys announcements and in response to individual ad hoc to offer non-executive directors more opportunities to attend requests.
The Company also makes available for meetings with industry conferences.
institutional shareholders other members of senior management.
The Board and its committees were found to be operating effectively Save in exceptional circumstances, all members of the Board will and the Board has accepted the recommendations made as a result of attend the AGM and shareholders are invited to ask questions during the review process and will make changes to reflect them.
the meeting and to meet with directors prior to and after the formal proceedings.
At the meeting the Executive Chairman reviews the Groups current trading.
Notice of the AGM, together with any related ITV plc Report and accounts 2008 Corporate governance 94 documents, is made available to shareholders on the Companys Terms of reference: The Committees main roles and responsibilities website or mailed to them, if they have elected to receive hard copies, include to: about seven weeks before the meeting.
Separate resolutions are monitor the integrity of the consolidated and parent company proposed on each substantially separate issue.
At the meeting all financial statements: resolutions are taken on a poll.
The level of votes lodged on a resolution is announced to the meeting following voting and is made available on review the effectiveness of the Groups internal control and risk a regulatory information service and on the Company website at management systems: www.
review the Groups arrangements for its employees to raise concerns, An independent Investor Audit was undertaken during 2007 to in confidence, about possible wrongdoing in financial reporting or assess investor and wider market perception of the Company and other matters: therefore it was not deemed necessary to undertake an independent monitor and review the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit audit during 2008.
The Company will consider commissioning another function: and independent Investor Audit during 2009. consider and make recommendations to the Board in relation to the Board committees appointment, re-appointment, replacement and remuneration of The Company Secretary acts as secretary to all of the Board the Companys external auditor.
committees and minutes of meetings are circulated to all Board The full terms of reference for the Committee are available at members.
The terms of reference for each committee are reviewed www.
Activities in 2008: Please see the Audit Committee report.
Current committee membership: Remuneration Committee Composition and attendance: During 2008 the Remuneration Committee comprised: Appointed Resigned Baroness Usha Prashar Chairman Sir James Crosby Andy Haste 1 December 2008 Heather Killen Sir Brian Pitman 15 May 2008 Attendance during 2008: Audit Committee Composition and attendance: During 2008 the Audit Committee comprised: Appointed Resigned Mike Clasper Chairman John McGrath 17 January 2008 Terms of reference: The Committees main roles and responsibilities John Ormerod 18 January 2008 include to: Sir George Russell determine and agree with the Board the framework or broad policy Agns Touraine for the remuneration of the Companys executive directors, the Company Secretary and other senior executives: John McGrath resigned from the Board on 17 January 2008 and Mike Clasper replaced him as Chairman of the Audit Committee.
review the ongoing appropriateness and relevance of the remuneration policy: Attendance during 2008: approve the design of, and determine targets for, any performance related pay schemes operated by the Company and approve the total annual payments made under such schemes: review the design of all share incentive plans for approval by the Board and shareholders: ensure that contractual terms on termination recognise that failure is not rewarded: and The Combined Code requires the Board to be satisfied that at least one member of the Audit Committee has recent and relevant financial oversee any major changes in employee benefits structures experience.
The Board considered this requirement during 2008, and throughout the Company and Group.
concluded that the appointment of John Ormerod had strengthened The full terms of reference for the Committee are available at the Committees ability to meet this requirement, and that the wide www.
range of business and financial experience of the Committee members as a whole, gained at the highest level of UK FTSE 100 companies and Activities in 2008: Please see the Remuneration report.
other blue-chip organisations, was sufficient to enable the Committee to fulfil its terms of reference in a robust and independent manner.
Biographical details of the members of the Committee including their qualifications are set out on pages 40 and 41. Business review Governance Financial statements ITV plc Report and accounts 2008 Corporate governance 95 Nomination Committee Management Committee Composition and attendance: During 2008 the Nomination Committee The Management Committee comprises the executive directors.
comprised: The Committee meets as required to conduct the Companys business within the clearly defined limits delegated by the Board and subject Appointed Resigned to those matters reserved to the Board.
Sir James Crosby Chairman The full terms of reference for the Committee are available at Mike Clasper www.
Andy Haste 11 August 2008 Contacts for corporate governance Heather Killen 4 February 2008 Executive Chairman Michael Grade John Ormerod 4 February 2008 Senior independent director Sir James Crosby Sir Brian Pitman 5 February 2008 15 May 2008 Chief Operating Officer John Cresswell Baroness Usha Prashar Company Secretary James Tibbitts Sir George Russell Agns Touraine 4 February 2008 Telephone: 020 7156 6000 Following a recommendation arising from the 2007 Board Evaluation Governance documents process, membership of the Committee was expanded during the year The following documents are available on the Companys website at to include all non-executive directors.
com: Attendance during 2008: Job descriptions for the Executive Chairman, Chief Operating Officer and senior independent director: Terms of engagement for non-executive directors: Schedule of matters reserved for the Board: Terms of reference for Audit, Remuneration, Nomination and Management Committees: Guidelines for seeking independent advice: Board performance programme: Conflicts of Interest policy: Terms of reference: The Committees main roles and responsibilities Directors indemnity: and include to: Terms of reference for remuneration consultants.
review the structure, size and composition of the Board at least annually: identify and nominate for board approval, candidates to fill board vacancies: evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board at least annually: consider succession planning for directors and other senior executives at least annually: and consider any conflicts of interest that may be reported by directors of the Company.
The full terms of reference for the Committee are available at www.
Activities in 2008: During the year the Committee continued its work on succession planning for the board.
The objectives of the succession planning framework are to ensure: board tenure is appropriate and encourages fresh thinking and new ideas: the Board has the appropriate mix of generalist and specialist skills for the Companys changing requirements: and non-executive directors have the appropriate level of independence, from the executive directors and from each other.
Implementing these objectives involves a continuous process of refreshment of the Board with new appointments and with rotation of membership of board committees.
With these objectives in mind, the Committee led the search for a new non-executive director, Andy Haste, who was appointed to the Board during the year.
The Committee also led the search for a new Group Finance Director, Ian Griffiths, who was appointed to the Board during the year.
The searches were conducted with the help of a professional search firm.
Non-executive directors may normally expect to serve for approximately six years, though a longer term may be appropriate in some instances.
The Committee also reviewed succession planning for key executives throughout the Group to ensure an appropriate framework is in place.
