ITV plc Report and accounts 2008 Audit 96 Committee report Role of the Audit Committee Activities in 2008 The role of the Audit Committee the Committee is to monitor the The Committee met five times and discharged its responsibilities by: integrity of the financial statements of the Company, assist the Board reviewing the Groups draft financial statements including detailed in reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys internal control and risk disclosures prior to board approval: management systems, and review arrangements for its employees to raise concerns, in confidence, about possible wrongdoing in financial reviewing the appropriateness of the Groups accounting policies and reporting or other matters.
The Committee is also responsible for considering related accounting treatments in specific areas such as reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys internal audit function revenue recognition: and making recommendations to the Board in relation to the reviewing and approving the annual external audit plan: appointment, re-appointment, replacement and remuneration of the reviewing the external auditors reports on their work, considering the Companys external auditor.
findings of that work and confirming that all significant matters had The Committee works to a structured programme of activities with been satisfactorily resolved: agenda items focused to coincide with key events of the annual financial reporting cycle, together with standing items that the reviewing the management letter arising from the 2007 year-end Committee is required to consider regularly.
external audit: considering a review of the effectiveness of the external auditors: Composition of the Committee The Committee is comprised entirely of independent non-executive monitoring regularly the non-audit services being provided to the directors.
The current members are: Group by its external auditors.
The Committee has approved a formal policy governing the independence of the Companys Mike Clasper Chairman : external auditors and defining those non-audit services that may John Ormerod: be provided to the Group, including those which require the prior Sir George Russell: approval of the Committee.
This is explained further in the section on Auditors independence and objectivity below: Agns Touraine.
reviewing and approving the internal audit plan and resources for In view of Mike Claspers role as Chairman of HMRC, discussions relating the internal audit function.
The internal audit plan is constructed by to the Companys tax position are chaired by John Ormerod.
taking a risk based approach, encompassing financial, reputational, Full details on membership of the Committee throughout 2008, and broader macro-economic risks, with the review cycle designed and details of attendance at Committee meetings, can be found in the such that financially material operations and areas of significant Corporate Governance section.
change are reviewed in a given year with all activities reviewed at At the invitation of the Chairman of the Committee, the Chief least once every three years: Operating Officer, Group Finance Director, Deputy Group Finance considering internal audit reports, the actions taken to implement Director, the Director of Internal Audit and representatives of senior the recommendations made in those reports and the status of management regularly attend Audit Committee meetings.
The progress against previously agreed actions: Committee as a whole has the opportunity to meet privately with the internal and external auditors prior to each meeting and did so before reviewing the results of the Enterprise-wide Risk Management each meeting held in 2008. process, including consideration of a rolling programme of risk and internal control presentations made by each operating team and central service functions: reviewing an annual report on the effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal control and reporting to the Board on the results of that review: reviewing the effectiveness of procedural changes implemented following the review of premium rate services in 2007: monitoring the implementation of a new integrated finance, procurement and HR system: conducting post-acquisition reviews of businesses acquired in 2007 and 2008: reviewing the analysis supporting the impairment of goodwill before consideration by the Board: reviewing the Groups cash flow forecasts and facilities to support the going concern statement in the annual report before consideration by the Board.
The going concern statement is contained in the Business Review on page 36. regularly reviewing the effectiveness of the whistleblowing process through which the employees may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters: considering regulatory and professional developments in respect of financial accounting and reporting: and receiving reports from the Treasury department on their activities.
Business review Governance Financial statements ITV plc Report and accounts 2008 Corporate governance 97 Auditors independence and objectivity Internal control The Committee regularly monitors the other services being provided to The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups systems of internal the Group by its external auditors, and has developed a formal policy to control and for regularly reviewing the effectiveness of those systems.
ensure this does not impair their independence or objectivity, which is The Committee assists the Board in reviewing the Groups systems of available in full at www.
The policy is based on the five key internal control.
The primary responsibility for the operation of these principles which underpin the provision of other services by external systems is delegated to line management.
Such systems can only auditors: the auditor should not audit its own firms work, make provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material management decisions for the Group, have a mutuality of financial misstatement or loss.
Key control procedures are designed to manage interest with the Group, develop a close personal relationship with the rather than eliminate risk and can be summarised as follows: employees of the Group, or be put in the role of advocate for the Group.
Strategy and financial reporting: The Group performs a The policy sets a maximum 1:1 ratio for the annual split between audit comprehensive annual strategy review and budgeting process.
and other fees charged by the external auditor.
The executive directors review budgets and strategies and the The Committee has pre-approved the categories of other services Board approves the overall Group budget as part of its normal that may be performed by the external auditors and explicitly set out responsibilities.
The results of operating units are reported monthly, the categories of work that they may not perform.
For this purpose compared with their individual budgets and forecast figures and are auditing the accounts of subsidiaries and associates pursuant to reviewed.
legislation and other services provided pursuant to legislation are regarded as audit services.
The Committee believes that these policies Organisational structure and authorisation procedures: The Group accord with governance best practice including the Guidance on Audit has an established organisational structure with clearly stated lines Committees issued by the Financial Reporting Council in October 2008. of responsibility and reporting.
Authorisation procedures in respect Committee approval is required for any engagement of the external of matters such as purchase commitments, capital expenditure, auditors where the fee is likely to be in excess of 0.1 million.
Details of investment limits and treasury transactions are clearly defined.
the related audit and other services are set out in note 4 of the Control environment: Financial controls and procedures are consolidated financial statements.
considered as part of the Groups ongoing risk assessment process The Committee performs a specific evaluation of the performance and are reviewed as part of the Groups internal audit work of the external auditors annually, through assessment of the results of programme.
questionnaires completed by relevant executive management in Risk assessment: Management is responsible for identifying the risks addition to Committee members' own views of auditor performance.
facing the Companys business and for establishing controls and It is the Company's policy to carry out regular market testing either procedures to monitor and mitigate those risks.
As part of those through benchmarking or a form of audit tender.
controls and procedures, the Company has established an EnterpriseDuring the year the Committee considered the tenure, performance wide Risk Management ERM programme providing formal risk and audit fees of the external auditor, and the level of non-audit work assessments.
The ERM programme is co-ordinated through the undertaken, and recommended to the Board that a resolution for the Companys Risk department and the Internal Audit department re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc for a further year as the Company's provides the assurance role reporting to the Executive Committee, auditors be proposed to shareholders at the AGM in May 2008.
The Audit Committee and the Board.
resolution was passed and KPMG Audit Plc were re-appointed for a further year.
The ERM programme is being embedded within operational processes and will help to identify new business opportunities as well as provide risk analysis for all new projects and businesses.
The annual ERM programme cycle passes through a number of phases as it escalates through the business.
The Audit Committee receive presentations from the executive team covering the risks of the operating units.
Following such presentations and review, the executive team carry out a further risk consolidation process and then present the Companys overall major risks to the Board for consideration of the top risks which are then disclosed in summary form within the published Annual Report and Accounts.
Reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness of internal controls: Controls are monitored by management review, Internal Audit, the executive directors and the Committee.
Directors of each business team are required annually to confirm compliance with internal control in their area.
Serious control weaknesses if any are reported to the Board and actions taken as appropriate.
The Committee is authorised by the Board to seek any information that it requires from any employee and to obtain, at the Companys expense, independent legal or professional advice on any matter within its terms of reference and to call any employee to be questioned at a meeting of the Committee as and when required.
The Committee members are subject to the programme of continuing professional development that applies to the full board.
The programme will be supplemented in 2009 with presentations by the external auditors at Committee meetings focusing on governance, legal and accounting developments.
Approval This report was approved by the Board of Directors on 4 March 2009 and signed on its behalf by: Mike Clasper Chairman, Audit Committee
