Statement of corporate governance The following sections explain how the Company applies the The Boards role principles and supporting principles of the Combined Code on The Board is focused on delivering sustainable added value for Corporate Governance 2006 the Code.
It considers strategic issues, key projects and major investments and regularly monitors performance against delivery The Board of the agreed key targets.
It approves the corporate plan and the The Board is chaired by Philip Hampton.
The Board consists annual budget and reviews performance against targets at every of three Executive Directors and six Non-Executive Directors.
These and other key responsibilities are formally reserved Dr John McAdam, is the Senior Independent Director.
Mike Coupe powers of the Board.
was appointed as an Executive Director and Mary Harris was appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 1 August 2007.
The Board considered a number of speci c projects and initiatives during the year, particularly the two potential takeover approaches Biographical details of the Directors are set out on pages 18 and 19. made by the private equity consortium led by CVC and by Delta Two Limited.
The Board also considered and approved joint The Board held 16 meetings during the year, including a twoventures with Land Securities plc which combines the retail day strategy conference and meetings relating to two potential and development expertise of the two companies to develop takeovers of the Company by the private equity consortium led by Sainsburys supermarkets anchored developments and British CVC and by Delta Two Limited.
The Non-Executive Directors met Land plc in order to extend and develop trading stores to improve during the year without the Executive Directors or the Chairman the customer offer and value.
It considered carefully the Groups being present.
capital structure, in particular the ownership structure of the Groups freehold property assets, including the merits of separating Division of responsibilities these from the retail operating business.
It monitored the progress There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman of the investigation by the Competition Commission into grocery and the Chief Executive which is set out in writing and has been retailing in the UK, and reviewed the Companys development, approved by the Board.
Philip Hampton is responsible for leadership leadership and succession planning programmes.
of the Board, setting its agenda and monitoring its effectiveness.
He ensures effective communication with shareholders and The Board delegates certain responsibilities to its principal that the Board is aware of the views of major shareholders.
The Corporate Responsibility CR Committee facilitates both the contribution of the Non-Executive Directors reviews key CR policy, taking into account the Companys CR and constructive relations between the Executive and Nonobjectives and the overall strategic plan.
Through the Audit Executive Directors.
He ensures that the Chief Executive develops Committee, the Directors ensure the integrity of financial a strategy which is supported by the Board as a whole.
Justin King information, the effectiveness of the financial controls and the is responsible for executing the strategy, once agreed by the Board.
internal control and risk management systems.
The Remuneration He creates a framework of values, organisation and objectives to Committee sets the remuneration policy for Executive Directors ensure the successful delivery of key targets, and allocates decision and determines their individual remuneration arrangements.
The making and responsibilities accordingly.
He takes a leading role, Nomination Committee recommends the appointment of Board with the Chairman, in the relationship with all external agencies Directors and has responsibility for evaluating the balance of the and in promoting Sainsburys.
Board and for succession planning at Board level.
Further details are set out below.
Independence Non-Executive Directors The Chairman satis ed the independence criteria of the Code on Attendance his appointment and all the Non-Executive Directors who have During the year the Directors attended the following number of served during the year are considered to be independent according meetings of the Board and its Committees the number of meetings to the principles of the Code.
Bob Stack is a Director of Cadbury held whilst they were Directors is shown in brackets : Schweppes plc which supplies products to Sainsburys, but neither Audit CR Nomination Remuneration the Board, nor Cadbury Schweppes, considers the relationship to Board Committee Committee Committee Committee be material in the context of their overall businesses.
1 Mike Coupe 9 9 Anna Ford 15 16 2 2 2 2 4 4 The Non-Executive Directors bring wide and varied commercial Val Gooding 14 16 - 2 2 3 4 experience to Board and Committee deliberations.
They are Philip Hampton 16 16 2 2 2 2 - appointed for an initial three-year term, subject to election by 1 Mary Harris 9 9 2 2 1 1 1 1 - shareholders at the first AGM after their appointment, after which Gary Hughes 14 16 4 4 - 2 2 - their appointment may be extended for a second term, subject to Justin King 16 16 - 2 2 - - mutual agreement and shareholder approval.
23 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 J Sainsbury plc Statement of corporate governance continued Information and development to the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors.
Operating Board The quality and supply of information provided to the Board is members regularly attend and present at Board meetings as well reviewed as part of the Board evaluation exercise.
The Chairman is as the strategy conference.
responsible for ensuring that all Directors are properly briefed on issues arising at Board meetings and that they have full and timely The Operating Board has delegated certain powers to the Trading access to relevant information.
Board, the Retail Board and the Investment Board and receives regular reports from the Health and Safety Committee, the Product There is an agreed procedure by which members of the Board may Safety Committee and the Corporate Responsibility Steering Group.
take independent professional advice at the Companys expense in the furtherance of their duties.
The Company has a programme for Board Committees meeting Directors training and development requirements.
Newly The Board has delegated certain responsibilities to the Nomination, appointed Directors who do not have previous public company Remuneration, Corporate Responsibility and Audit Committees.
experience at Board level are provided with appropriate training on their role and responsibilities.
New Directors participate in a Nomination Committee comprehensive and tailored induction programme including store The Nomination Committee is chaired by Philip Hampton and and depot visits and meetings with members of the Operating comprises each of the Non-Executive Directors.
Justin King is Board, senior management and external advisors.
Subsequent not a member of the Committee although he is invited to training is available on an ongoing basis to meet particular needs attend meetings.
with the emphasis on governance and accounting developments.
During the year the Company Secretary, Tim Fallow eld, has The Committee has reviewed succession planning and senior provided updates to the Board on relevant governance matters, management development during the year, and the composition new legislation and on Directors duties and obligations, whilst the and balance of the Board, and the Committee recommended to the Audit Committee regularly considers new accounting developments Board that Mike Coupe and Mary Harris be appointed as Directors.
through presentations from management and the external auditors.
The Committee led the recruitment process, which resulted in The Board programme includes presentations from management Mary Harris being appointed.
Search consultants were instructed which, together with site visits, increases the Non-Executive by the Committee in connection with this appointment having Directors understanding of the business and the sector.
considered the skills, knowledge, background and experience required for the role, and a job speci cation was prepared.
The All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Committee also speci ed the time commitment expected of the Secretary.
He has responsibility for ensuring that Board procedures role.
Pro les of a shortlist of preferred candidates were prepared are followed and for governance matters.
The appointment and for the Committee and the potential composition and mix of the removal of the Company Secretary is one of the matters reserved candidates were considered from a team perspective in order for the Board.
to ensure a complementary combination of competencies and experience.
Prior to Mary Harris appointment the Committee Board evaluation considered a full range of references and the Non-Executive The Board agreed that this years evaluation exercise should be Directors took the opportunity to meet her separately.
conducted by the Company Secretary.
Having agreed the key objectives with the Chairman, the Company Secretary prepared The Committees terms of reference are available on the website a detailed questionnaire and then met with each Director www.
co. uk governance and set out the Committees separately to discuss the Boards role and structure, process and responsibilities.
The Committee meets when necessary and in relationships, and any emerging issues.
The performance of the 2007 08 met formally on two occasions and received further Board Committees was also reviewed.
The Company Secretary then regular updates on the recruitment process.
presented the findings to the Board, identifying what was working well and areas which could be improved or approached differently.
Remuneration Committee The Board concluded that it was satis ed with the progress that The Committee is chaired by Bob Stack who was appointed had been made during the year and that it was working effectively.
a Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Committee on An action plan was agreed to address the themes which emerged 1 January 2005.
The Remuneration report is set out on pages 27 from the exercise, with some additional items being added to the to 32.
Boards agenda for the 2008 09 financial year.
Corporate Responsibility Committee The Senior Independent Director reviewed the Chairmans The Committee is chaired by Anna Ford, and Justin King and performance and subsequently met with him to provide feedback Mary Harris are its members.
It met twice during the year.
The Chairman separately reviewed the contribution of each Formal meetings are supported by CR strategic meetings hosted of the Directors with them.
by Anna Ford and Justin King.
Each meeting is based around one of our five CR principles and key external stakeholders are invited Operating Board to attend.
During the year five meetings were held, relating to Day-to-day management of the Company is delegated to the each of the five principles.
Operating Board, which is chaired by Justin King.
The Operating Board held ten formal meetings during the year.
Directors responsibilities are set out on page 20.
It has formal terms of reference setting out its key responsibilities.
Minutes are copied 24 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 Statement of corporate governance continued At operational level, Justin King is the overall CR champion and The Committee has implemented the Companys policy which chairs the CR Steering Group, attended by the five Operating restricts the engagement of PwC in relation to non-audit services.
Board Directors who champion each of our five CR principles.
The policy is designed to ensure that the provision of such services does not have an impact on the external auditors independence A summary of the Companys corporate responsibility priorities and and objectivity.
It identi es certain types of engagement that activities are set on page 7.
This years Corporate Responsibility the external auditors shall not undertake and others such as report will be published in June 2008. tax planning and mergers and acquisitions advice that can only be undertaken with appropriate authority from the Committee The Association of British Insurers recommends that the Board Chairman or the Committee where non-audit fees will exceed considers material risks and control processes relating to pre-set thresholds.
The Committee receives a report at each corporate responsibility.
The Board receives an annual update on meeting on the non-audit services being provided and the health and safety and product safety, and relevant controls and cumulative total of non-audit fees.
In the event that cumulative governance, and any speci c issues are reported to the Board as non-audit fees exceed the audit fee then all subsequent non-audit they occur.
In addition the Audit Committees review of the system expenditure must be approved by the Committee Chairman.
The of internal controls and risk management processes referred majority of the non-audit work undertaken during 2007 08 related to below includes corporate responsibility and the Committee to corporation tax and VAT advice but work was also carried out considers any major corporate responsibility or brand reputation on the takeover proposals and accounting advice on speci c risks identi ed by the process, to the extent any such exist.
The non-audit fees for the year were 0.7 million induction programme for new Board Directors includes a full and the audit fee for the year in respect of the Group, Company review of corporate responsibility.
and its subsidiaries was 0.8 million.
Audit Committee The Committee has regularly reviewed the Internal Audit The Committee is chaired by Gary Hughes with John McAdam and departments resources, budget, work programme, results and Mary Harris from her appointment on 1 August 2007 as its other managements implementation of its recommendations.
During members, all of whom are independent Non-Executive Directors.
the year the Committee approved the appointment of Karen Following Jamie Dundas retirement from the Board on 2 February Whitworth as the new Director of Group Internal Audit.
She has 2007, until Mary Harris was appointed the Committee membership direct access to the Committee Chairman and Philip Hampton.
Gary comprised only two independent Non-Executive Directors, but Hughes has held separate meetings with her and PwC during the Philip Hampton, who has extensive financial experience, attended year.
The Committee regularly met with PwC without management all meetings of the Committee including the two meetings of the being present, and may meet the Director of Group Internal Audit Committee during this period.
The Board has determined that separately if it deems necessary.
Gary Hughes has recent and relevant financial experience.
Philip Hampton, Justin King, Darren Shapland, Karen Whitworth, The Committee has reviewed the Companys whistleblowing Director of Group Internal Audit, other senior members of the procedures during the year and con rmed that arrangements are Finance Division and the external auditors are invited to attend in place to enable colleagues and suppliers to raise concerns about Committee meetings.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary possible improprieties on a con dential basis.
The Company has a fraud policy and has established a Serious During the year the Committee met on four occasions, the Fraud Committee, which convenes in the event of serious incidents agendas being organised around the Companys reporting cycle.
It to oversee case management and ensure preventative measures monitored the integrity of the financial statements and any formal are taken.
The Audit Committee receives an update at each announcements relating to the Companys financial performance meeting of all material frauds and the actions taken.
and reviewed any signi cant financial judgements contained in them.
The Committee has also reviewed the effectiveness of the The Committees terms of reference, which are available on Companys financial controls and the internal control and risk the website www.
co. uk governance, set out the management systems and has monitored progress to ensure that Committees responsibilities.
any required remedial action has been or is being taken on any identi ed weaknesses.
Internal control The Board has overall responsibility for the system of internal The Committee reviewed  LLPs PwC controls, including risk management, and has delegated certain overall work plan and approved their remuneration and terms of of these responsibilities to the Audit Committee.
The Audit engagement and considered in detail the results of the audit, Committee has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of PwCs performance and independence and the effectiveness of internal control and ensured that any required remedial action the overall audit process.
The Committee recommended PwCs has or is being taken on any identi ed weaknesses.
The system re-appointment as auditors to the Board and this resolution will of internal controls is designed to manage rather than eliminate be put to shareholders at the AGM.
the risk of failure to achieve the Companys business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
It includes all controls including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management procedures.
25 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 J Sainsbury plc Statement of corporate governance continued The processes used to assess the effectiveness of the internal The system of internal control and risk management is embedded control systems are ongoing, enabling a cumulative assessment into the operations of the Company, and the actions taken to to be made, and include the following: mitigate any weaknesses are carefully monitored.
discussion and approval by the Board of the Companys strategic Investor relations direction, plans and objectives and the risks to achieving them: The Company is committed to maintaining good communications review and approval by the Board of budgets and forecasts, with investors.
Normal shareholder contact is the responsibility of including both revenue and capital expenditure: the Chief Executive, Chief Financial Of cer and Head of Investor regular operational and financial reviews of performance Relations.
The Chairman, Philip Hampton, is generally available against budgets and forecasts by management and the Board: to shareholders and meets with institutional and other large regular reviews by management of the risks to achieving investors as required.
objectives and actions being taken to mitigate them: regular reviews by the Board and Audit Committee of There is a regular dialogue with institutional and other large identi ed fraudulent activity and any whistleblowing by investors who, along with buyside and sellside analysts, are colleagues or suppliers, and actions being taken to remedy invited to presentations by the Company immediately after the any control weaknesses: announcement of the Companys interim and full year results.
regular reviews by management and the Audit Committee They are also invited to participate in conference calls following the of the scope and results of internal audit work across the announcement of the Companys trading statements.
The content Company and of the implementation of recommendations.
of these presentations and conference calls are webcast and are The scope of the work covers all key activities of the Company posted on the Companys website www.
co. uk investors and concentrates on higher risk areas: so as to be available to all investors.
reviews of the scope of the work of the external auditors by the Audit Committee and any signi cant issues arising: To ensure that the Board understand the views of the major reviews by the Audit Committee of accounting policies and shareholders, Makinson Cowell provide investor relations levels of delegated authority: and consultancy services to the Company and report to the Board consideration by the Board and by the Audit Committee of on the views of institutional investors and sellside analysts.
Nonthe major risks facing the Group and of the procedures in Executive Directors also receive regular market reports and broker place to manage them.
These include health and safety, updates from the Companys Investor Relations department.
product safety, legal compliance, litigation, quality assurance, insurance and security and reputational, social, ethical and Shareholders have the opportunity to meet and question the environmental risks.
Board at the AGM, which will be held on 15 July 2008.
There will be a display of various aspects of the Companys activities There is a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and and Justin King will make a business presentation.
A detailed managing the signi cant risks faced by the Company.
This explanation of each item of special business to be considered at process has been in place throughout the year and up to the the AGM is included with the Notice of Meeting which will be sent date of approval of the Annual Report and Financial Statements to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
All and accords with the Turnbull guidance 2005. resolutions proposed at the AGM will be taken on a poll vote.
This follows best practice guidelines and enables the Company to count The effectiveness of the process is reviewed annually by the all votes, not just those of shareholders who attend the meeting.
Audit Committee which then reports to the Board.
The process consists of: Information on matters of particular interest to investors is set out on page 87 and on the Companys website formal identi cation by management of each division of the key www.
risks to achieving their business objectives and the controls in place to manage them.
The likelihood and potential impact of Compliance statement each risk is evaluated and actions necessary to mitigate them During the year, the Company has complied with the provisions are identi ed.
The risks and progress in mitigating them are of the Code with the exception that, as explained above, the Audit regularly reviewed at divisional leadership team meetings as Committee had only two Independent Directors as members instead part of their normal business activities: of three until Mary Harris was appointed on 1 August 2007. certi cation by management that they are responsible for managing the risks to their business objectives and that the internal controls are such that they provide reasonable but not absolute assurance that the risks in their areas of responsibility are appropriately identi ed, evaluated and managed: reporting and review by the Operating Board of risk management activities and actions to improve their effectiveness: assurance from specialist functions and committees that legal and regulatory, health and safety, product safety, social, ethical and environmental risks are appropriately identi ed and managed: and independent assurance by Internal Audit as to the existence and effectiveness of the risk management activities described by management.
26 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008
