qxd 26 3 09 5:42 pm Page 17 James Fisher and Sons Plc Report & Accounts 2008 Corporate Governance Statement The Company is committed to high standards of corporate governance.
The board considers the non-executive directors combine broad business The board is accountable to the Companys shareholders for good and commercial experience to bring independent and objective judgement governance.
This statement describes how the principles of corporate to bear on issues of strategy, performance, resource and standards of governance are applied to the Company and the Companys compliance conduct.
The balance between non-executive and executive directors with the provisions set out in the revised Combined Code issued by the enables the board to provide clear and effective leadership and maintain Financial Reporting Council in June 2006 the code.
the highest standards of integrity across the Companys business activities.
The names and biographies of all board members are set out on page 13.
Statement of compliance with the code The directors consider that the Company has complied throughout the The code requires the board to determine whether its non-executive year with the provisions of the revised code.
The board considers that all non-executive directors are independent for the purposes of the code.
Board of directors The board is the principal decision making forum for the Company.
In addition to his role as a non-executive director, Mr F. M. Everard continues It has overall responsibility for leading and controlling the Company and to act as Chairman of Cattedown Wharves Limited.
In 2008 Mr F. M. Everard is accountable to shareholders for financial and operational performance.
was paid an annual fee of 61,750 by the Company, which included 34,250 The board approves group strategy and monitors performance.
The board for his services as a non-executive director and 27,500 in respect of his has adopted a formal schedule of matters detailing key aspects of the role as Chairman of Cattedown Wharves Limited.
The board believes that Companys affairs reserved for it to decide, including setting and notwithstanding this factor, Mr F. M. Everard is independent in character monitoring group strategy, reviewing trading performance, ensuring and judgement.
adequate funding, examining potential acquisitions, formulating policy on key issues and reporting to shareholders.
The schedule is The composition of the board is subject to continuing review and the reviewed annually.
provisions of the code will be taken into account in respect of the balance of the board.
The roles of the Executive Chairman and Chief Executive are distinct and separate with a clear division of responsibilities.
The Executive Chairman Mr Anthony R. C. B. Cooke is the senior independent non-executive director.
is responsible for the development of policy and strategy and leads the board ensuring the effective engagement and contribution of all nonRe-election of directors executive and executive directors.
The Chief Executive has responsibility At each Annual General Meeting, in accordance with the Articles of for the operational management of the Groups businesses.
Association, one third of the directors will retire and offer themselves for re-election and each director must stand for re-election at least once All directors participate in discussing strategy, performance and financial every three years.
The proposed re-election of directors is subject to prior and risk management of the Company and meetings of the board are review by the board.
structured to allow open discussion.
The board meets at least on a quarterly basis each year and to ensure that the board is able to discharge The names of the directors standing for re-election at the 2009 Annual its duties, all directors receive appropriate and timely information with General Meeting are contained on page 14. comprehensive papers being issued to the board in advance of the board meetings including financial and business reports covering the Groups Information, induction and professional development principal activities.
The non-executive directors meet with the Executive The Executive Chairman ensures that all directors receive accurate, timely Chairman on a regular basis without the executive directors present.
and clear information on all relevant matters.
The non-executive directors also meet at least once a year without the chairman or executive directors present.
The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the board, through the Executive Chairman, on all governance matters and to ensure that board The board has adopted and applied comprehensive procedures addressing procedures are followed and applicable rules and regulations are complied the management of potential and actual conflicts of interest.
In addition, all directors have access to independent professional advice if necessary.
Board balance and independence The board currently comprises an Executive Chairman, a Chief Executive On appointment, new directors are given a comprehensive induction to Officer, two executive directors, and four independent non-executive the Groups business, including visits to the Groups major activities and directors.
The board functions effectively and efficiently and is considered meetings with senior management.
to be of an appropriate size in view of the scale of the Company and the diversity of its businesses.
The board considers that each director demonstrates a range of experience and is of sufficient calibre, which is vital to the success of the Group.
qxd 26 3 09 5:42 pm Page 18 James Fisher and Sons Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Corporate Governance Statement continued Performance evaluation Remuneration and nomination committees An evaluation of the performance of the board and its committees during Membership of the remuneration and nomination committees comprises 2008 was conducted in January 2009.
The evaluation was conducted the four non-executive directors with attendance by the Executive internally on a confidential basis and included amongst other matters a Chairman.
The remuneration committee is chaired by Mr. A. R. C. B. Cooke, review of the conduct of, and processes for: board and committee the senior independent non-executive director, and is responsible for meetings, information received, corporate governance issues and overall formulating and reviewing the Groups executive remuneration policy performance as well as an assessment of the contribution of individual and making recommendations to the board on the remuneration directors.
The non-executive directors have met to discuss the arrangements for directors.
The Executive Chairman is not present when performance of the Executive Chairman.
The performance evaluation his own terms and conditions are discussed.
The report on directors was designed to assist the board in further improving performance.
remuneration is shown on pages 22 to 28.
A performance review is conducted on an annual basis.
The nomination committee is chaired by Mr A. R. C. B. Cooke, the senior Board committees independent non-executive director and is responsible for assisting the The board has established a number of committees to deal with specific board in the formal selection and appointment of directors and succession aspects of the Groups affairs: planning, having regard to the balance and structure of the board.
It also considers potential candidates and recommends appointments of new Audit committee directors to the board.
The appointments are based on merit having regard The audit committee is responsible for assisting the board in discharging to their achievements and relevant experience.
its responsibilities which role it fulfils by way of reviewing and monitoring the financial affairs of the Group, the arrangements for accounting and The Executive Chairman attends the committees meetings only on financial reporting and regulatory compliance, the standards of internal invitation by the Chairman of the committee.
control and arrangements for internal audit, risk management and external auditors.
The audit committee is formally constituted with written terms of Meetings reference and meets at least twice a year.
All members of the committee The number of meetings of the board, the audit, remuneration and are independent non executive directors and the committee is chaired by nominations committees and individual attendance by members is Mr. A. R. C. B. Cooke, the senior independent non-executive director.
The shown below: board is satisfied that the audit committee have relevant and recent Remuneration financial experience.
and Board Audit nominations Following an audit tender carried out in 2008, KPMG Audit Plc were Total number of meetings 4 3 3 appointed as auditors in place of Ernst & Young LLP, with effect from Number of meetings attended in 2008 Mr. T. C. Harris 4 1 July 2008.
Mr. N. P. Henry 4 Mr. M. J. Shields 4 The Executive Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and the Group Finance Mr. S. A. Harris 4 Director attend meetings of the committee.
In addition, the audit Mr. A. R. C. B. Cooke 4 3 3 committee meets the external auditors privately.
Rice 4 3 3 Mr. F. M. Everard 4 3 3 The audit committee is responsible for monitoring the controls in place and determining any corrective action that it considers is attends by invitation appropriate in respect of internal control issues raised by the internal and external auditors.
In addition to the formal meetings set out above, the executive directors Auditor independence are in frequent ad hoc dialogue with the non-executive directors.
Controls are in place to safeguard the independence of the auditors.
However there are occasions when services can be more efficiently Relations with shareholders undertaken by the external auditor and at no risk of impairment of their The Company communicates with shareholders through the annual independence.
The audit committee review and monitor the external report, interim report, preliminary announcements, interim management auditors independence and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit statements and the Company web site.
The board takes the opportunity process, taking into consideration relevant UK professional and regulatory at the Annual General Meeting to meet and communicate with private and requirements and makes recommendations to the board.
Whilst a formal institutional shareholders and welcomes their involvement.
Furthermore, policy around the provision of non audit services by auditors is not in communication with the Companys largest institutional shareholders is place the audit committee follows the guidelines set out by the Institute undertaken as part of the Companys investor relations programme.
In of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales and has the necessary November 2008 the Company held an investor day at its premises in approval processes in place for non-audit services.
Renfrew, attended by a diverse range of analysts and other stakeholders.
Non attributable feedback on the Institutional Presentations which is given All non-audit services are reported to the audit committee.
A summary of to the Companys stock broker, is circulated to the non-executive directors.
fees paid to the auditor can be found in Note 6 of the accounts.
The non-executive directors have consulted with major shareholders in order to develop a balanced understanding of the issues and concerns of major shareholders.
In addition the outcome of any meeting by the executives with investors in governance and strategy matters is relayed back to the board.
qxd 26 3 09 5:42 pm Page 19 James Fisher and Sons Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Internal control Main control procedures The board of directors is responsible for the Groups excluding joint The board has adopted a schedule of matters which are required to ventures system of internal control that is designed to provide them be brought to it for decision, thus ensuring that it maintains full and with reasonable assurance as to the effective and efficient operation of effective control over appropriate strategic, investment, financial, the Group and to ensure the quality of internal and external reporting organisational and compliance issues.
Controls and procedures have been and compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
However, there are implemented which include defined procedures for seeking and obtaining inherent limitations in any system of internal control and accordingly approval for major transactions or organisational change.
This schedule even the most effective system can provide only reasonable and not is subject to review by the board on an annual basis.
Monitoring The board has established an ongoing process in accordance with The board has delegated to executive management implementation the guidance of the Turnbull Committee on internal control, for the of the system of internal control.
The effectiveness of the Groups identification, evaluation and management of the significant risks facing internal control system is regularly reviewed by the board and the audit the Group, which operated throughout the year.
Executive management of the various business units submit to included as an agenda item at board meetings where there is an the board detailed reports, including significant risks facing their business opportunity to discuss risk management and internal control issues and how they are being controlled.
There is an organisation structure and to determine a control strategy for the significant risks.
which has clear lines of communication and accountability and delegation of authority rules.
Business strategies are prepared at divisional level Furthermore, the risk committee which is chaired by the Chief Executive and approved by the board.
Actual performance is compared to budget Officer meets quarterly.
The risk committees terms of reference include and significant variances are investigated.
All major items of capital the identification and monitoring of risks and ensuring the risks are being expenditure and significant treasury transactions are subject to approval.
The committees findings are reported to the board.
There is also a regular review of the Groups health and safety processes.
This process is under continual review by the board.
Additional assurance that the key controls are operating as intended is provided by internal audit.
A full risk assessment is made to the board before any decision on major projects is made and commercial, legal and financial due diligence are Whistle-blowing policy carried out on any potential acquisition.
The board has approved a whistle-blowing policy whereby employees may express their concerns in confidence to designated officers.
The Groups internal audit function employs a peer group review process, whereby senior financial managers from within the business conduct Going concern audits of non-related areas of the Groups activities.
The programme is After making enquiries, the Directors believe that the Group and the co-ordinated by the Assistant Company Secretary who presents the Company have adequate resources to operate for the foreseeable Group Internal Audit Plan and Reports to the Audit Committee, and is future, as detailed in Note 1 to the financial statements.
For this responsible for ensuring that the Audit Program is met and reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing recommendations are actioned.
The directors have reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control as it operated throughout the year.
The key features of the internal control system that operated throughout the year are as follows: Control environment The board has put in place a documented organisational structure with defined lines of authority from the board to operating units.
Each operating unit is required to operate within this control environment and in accordance with established policies and procedures which includes ethical, treasury, employment, health and safety and environmental issues.
Information systems The Group operates comprehensive annual planning and budgeting systems with a half yearly forecast all of which are approved by the board.
There is a financial reporting system which compares results with budget and the previous year on a monthly basis to identify any significant deviation from approved plans.
A cash flow statement projected for a rolling twelve months is prepared on a quarterly basis and is used in determining that the Group has adequate funding for its future needs.
The actual cash flow is monitored on a monthly basis and compared to forecast.
Financial reviews of the major operating units are undertaken on a monthly basis and a rolling forecast for the year is also updated on a monthly basis.
