Corporate governance Introduction The board of directors Effective governance is at the core of J D Wetherspoons ability The primary responsibility of the board is to ensure that the to operate successfully in 694 pubs in England, Northern strategy for J D Wetherspoons business is appropriate and Ireland, Scotland and Wales.
Those matters reserved for the board governance framework is overseen by the board of directors, and the authorities delegated to management are contained in which is ultimately responsible to J D Wetherspoons the matters reserved for the board schedule, as well as in the shareholders various policies covering such matters as treasury management, capital expenditure approvals, legal matters, internal audit and Statement of compliance risk management.
The company is committed to the highest standards of corporate governance, as set out in Section 1 of the Combined The board comprises the following members: Code 2006 the 2006 Code.
The board believes that the company has been fully compliant throughout the year ended Tim Martin, chairman 27 July 2008, with the following exceptions.
John Hutson, chief executive officer Keith Down, finance director and company secretary John Herring has served more than nine years on the board Paul Harbottle, chief operating officer and so may not be considered independent under the 2006 Su Cacioppo, personnel and legal director Code.
The board considers that his performance as a nonJohn Herring, non-executive deputy chairman and executive director continues to be effective.
He contributes senior non-executive director significantly as a director through his individual skills, his Elizabeth McMeikan, non-executive director considerable knowledge and experience of the company and Debra van Gene, non-executive director relevant financial expertise.
He also continues to demonstrate strong independence in the manner in which he discharges his Biographies of all non-executive and executive directors can be responsibilities as a director.
Consequently, the board has viewed on the companys Web site: www.
co. uk concluded that, despite his length of tenure, there is no association with management which could compromise his On appointment to the board, every director is provided with independence.
John intends to offer himself annually for a comprehensive induction programme, covering all aspects of re-election to the board.
Formal evaluation of the board and individual members, together with appraisals, take place Following the appointment of two new executive directors annually, conducted by the chairman and deputy chairman, Paul Harbottle and Su Cacioppo on 10 March 2008, the with any training and development needs evaluated as part of number of independent non-executive directors did not equal the process.
Site visits are arranged regularly to enable nonthat of the executives in the whole year under review.
The executive directors to see, at first hand, the operations of the board considers that the collective know-how and experience business.
of the independent non-executive directors over this period provided a balanced mix of skills which matched the needs of All directors are provided with comprehensive papers in the business and were sufficient to ensure proper governance advance of all board meetings and attend key meetings regularly of the company, which comprises an organically grown, single in the organisation.
In addition, directors attend impromptu business, producing clear, transparent results.
The board is meetings with senior managers in the business.
however mindful of its composition and will keep this position under review.
There is a clear and documented division of responsibilities between the chairman and the chief executive officer.
The division is set out overleaf.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 27 Corporate governance Chairmans responsibility Chief executives responsibility The chairman is responsible for the smooth running of the The chief executive is responsible for the smooth daily board and ensuring that all directors are fully informed running of the business of matters relevant to their roles Delegated responsibility of authority from the company to Developing and maintaining effective management controls, exchange of contracts within controlled procedures planning and performance measurements Providing support, advice and feedback to the chief executive Maintaining and developing an effective organisational structure Supporting the company strategy, and encouraging the External and internal communications in conjunction with the chief executive with development of the strategy chairman, on any issues facing the company Chairing general meetings, board meetings, operational meetings Implementing and monitoring compliance with board policies and agreeing on board agendas Management of chief executives contract, appraisal and Timely and accurate reporting of the above to the board remuneration by way of making recommendations to the remuneration committee Providing support to executive directors and senior managers Recruiting and managing senior managers in the business of the company Providing the ethos and vision of the company Developing and maintaining effective risk-management and regulatory controls Providing operational presence across the estate Maintaining primary relationships with shareholders and investors Chairing the management board responsible for implementing the company strategy All directors are provided with, and have full and timely access During the year ended 27 July 2008, non-executive directors to, information which enables them to make informed met without the chairman and provided feedback to the decisions on corporate and business issues, including chairman following their meetings.
The overall effectiveness of operational and financial performance.
In particular, the board the board was the primary topic, although succession-planning receives monthly information on the financial trading and the provision of information to the board was also performance of the company and a comprehensive finance discussed.
The directors concluded that the board and its report which includes operational highlights.
All directors committees continue to work effectively.
receive sales and margin information for the company, weekly, by trading unit.
In accordance with the 2006 Code and corporate governance best practice, the board has several established committees as The articles require that one-third of the directors retire by set out below.
The board met eight times during the year rotation, subject to the requirement that each director seek ended 27 July 2008: attendance of the directors and nonre-election every three years.
executives, where appropriate, is shown below.
Board Audit  Number of meetings held in the year 8 3 2 2 Tim Martin 7 N A N A N A John Hutson 6 N A N A N A Jim Clarke 1 1 N A N A John Herring 8 3 2 2 Elizabeth McMeikan 8 3 2 2 Debra van Gene 5 1 2 2 Keith Down 5 2 N A N A Su Cacioppo 3 N A N A N A Paul Harbottle 3 N A N A N A Jim Clarke and Keith Down, in their roles of finance director, attends audit committee meetings by invitation, to provide additional detail on any relevant financial matters.
28 J D WETHERSPOON PLC Corporate governance Matters reserved for the board In respect of the role of the audit committee, it effectively The following matters are reserved for the board: performs the following: Board and management Assumes direct responsibility for the appointment, Structure and senior management responsibilities compensation, resignation, dismissal and the overseeing of the Nomination of directors independent external auditors, including review of the external Appointment of chairman and company secretary audit, its cost and effectiveness Reviews the scope and nature of the work to be performed Strategic matters by the external auditors, before audit commences Strategic, financing or adoption of new business plans, Reviews the half-year and annual financial statements in respect of any material aspect of the company Ensures compliance with accounting standards Ensures compliance with stock exchange, legal and Business control regulatory requirements Agreement of code of ethics and business practice Monitors the integrity of the financial statements and formal Internal audit announcements relating to the financial performance of the Authority limits for heads of department company Considers the findings of the internal audit report and Operating budgets management responses at the half year and year end The entry into finance and operating leases of a certain Reviews the effectiveness of internal control systems capital value Final review of the companys statement on internal control Investments and capital projects exceeding set value systems, before endorsement by the board Changes in major supply contracts Reviews any aspect of the accounts or the companys control and audit procedures, the interim and final audits and Finance any other matters which the auditors may consider Raising new capital and confirmation of major facilities Ensures that all matters, if appropriate, were raised and Specific risk-management policies, including insurance, brought to the attention of the board hedging and borrowing limits Reviews all risk-management systems adopted and Final approval of annual and interim accounts and implemented by the company accounting policies Appointment of external auditors The minutes of all meetings of the committee are circulated by the secretary of the committee to all members of the board.
Legal matters At the annual general meeting of the company, the audit Consideration of regular reports on material issues committees chairman, John Herring, is available to answer relating to any litigation affecting the company questions on financial control and reporting.
Institution of legal proceedings where costs exceed certain values The audit committee is aware of the companys process regarding whistle-blowing and has reviewed its effectiveness.
Secretarial Call of all shareholder meetings The terms of reference of the audit committee are available Delegation of board powers on request.
Disclosure of directors interests Remuneration committee General The companys remuneration committee is chaired by Board framework of executive remuneration and costs John Herring and comprises Debra van Gene and Any other matters not within the terms of reference of Elizabeth McMeikan.
The directors report on remuneration any committee of the board is set out on pages 17 to 23.
Under the terms of the 2006 Any other matter as determined from time to time by Code, one of the members of the committee was not the board independent.
Nomination committee Board committees A formal nomination committee has been established, comprising John Herring chairman, Debra van Gene and Audit committee Elizabeth McMeikan.
The nomination committee meets as The committee is chaired by John Herring and comprises appropriate and considers all possible board appointments and Elizabeth McMeikan and Debra van Gene.
Representatives of also the re-election of directors, both executive and nonthe companys external auditors,  LLP, executive.
No director is involved in any decision about his or attend audit committee meetings at the half year and year end.
Under the terms of the 2006 Code, Under the terms of the 2006 Code, one of the members of one of the members of the committee was not independent.
the committee, John Herring, was not independent, as explained on page 27.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 29 Corporate governance During the year under review, the appointment process was Maintaining a risk register for each area of the business and followed when Keith Down, Paul Harbottle and Su Cacioppo reviewing quarterly.
Reviewing the effectiveness of the companys riskmanagement process.
The process to replace Jim Clarke as Finance Director began Reporting to the board twice yearly, and as necessary, any with an evaluation of the balance of skills, knowledge and identified risk and mitigation plans implemented.
experience required for the role, representing the views of the board and an external search consultant.
A description of the Internal control role and capabilities was prepared and a list of candidates During the year, the company and the board continued to identified.
An exhaustive interviewing process was then support and invest in resource to provide an internal audit and followed involving executive and non-executive directors and risk-management function.
The system of internal control and senior management.
This culminated in the appointment of risk mitigation is deeply embedded in the operations and the Keith Down on 7 January 2008. culture of the company.
The board is responsible for maintaining a sound system of internal control and reviewing The internal promotion of Paul Harbottle and Su Cacioppo its effectiveness.
The function can only manage, rather than reflects the commitment of the company to developing talent entirely eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business and succession-planning within the business.
It can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Ongoing The terms of reference of the nomination committee are reviews and assessments took place throughout the year under available on request.
review and up to the date of the approval of the annual report.
Company secretary The company has an internal audit function which is All directors have access to the advice of the company discharged as follows: secretary, responsible to the board for ensuring that procedures are followed.
The appointment and removal of the company Regular audits of the company stock secretary is reserved for the consideration of the board as a Unannounced visits to the retail units whole.
Procedures are in place for seeking independent Monitoring systems which control the company cash professional advice, at the companys expense.
Health & safety visits, ensuring compliance with the company procedures Relations with shareholders Reviewing and assessing the impact of legislative and The board takes considerable measures to ensure that all board regulatory change members are kept aware of both the views of major shareholders Annually reviewing the companys strategy, including a and changes in the major shareholdings of the company.
Efforts review of risks facing the business made to accomplish effective communication include: Risk-management process, identifying key risks facing the business Company Risk Register Annual general meeting, considered to be an important forum for shareholders to raise questions with the board The company has key controls, as follows: Regular feedback from the companys stockbrokers Interim, full and ongoing announcements circulated to Clearly defined authority limits and controls over cashshareholders handling, purchasing commitments and capital expenditure Any significant changes in shareholder movement being Comprehensive budgeting process in place, with a detailed notified to the board by the company secretary, when necessary operating 12-month plan and a mid-term financial plan, both The company secretary maintaining procedures and approved by the board agreements in place for all announcements to the City Business results are reported weekly for key times, with a A programme of regular meetings between investors and monthly comprehensive report in full and compared with budget directors of the company, including the senior independent Forecasts are prepared regularly throughout the year, for director, as appropriate review by the board Complex treasury instruments are not used: decisions on Risk management treasury matters are reserved by the board The board is responsible for the companys risk-management The directors confirm that they have reviewed the process.
The finance director, Keith Down, chairs the companys effectiveness of the system of internal control risk-management committee, comprising senior management Regular reviews of the amount of external insurance which within the business.
The committee meets at least monthly to it obtains, bearing in mind the availability of such cover, its add new risks which have been identified between meetings costs and the likelihood of the risks involved and to review risks previously identified, on a rolling basis.
It Directors insurance cover is maintained also reports twice yearly to the audit committee.
The key functions of the committee includes: Keith Down Reviewing, on behalf of the company and the board, the Company Secretary key risks which have an impact on the business and systems of 5 September 2008 control necessary to manage such risks.
