Chairmans statement CEOs statement Operational review Financial review CR review Directors reports Financial statements 02-03 04-11 12-23 24-31 32-37 55-99 38-54 43 Directors reports Corporate governance Viscount Asquith is the senior independent Statement by the Directors on compliance with Non-Executive Director and, at the Boards request, the 2006 Combined Code maintains a special interest in the strategic issues The Company is committed to the principles of in PPC, supporting the JKX Executive Directors and Corporate Governance contained in the Combined the PPC senior management as required.
Code of Corporate Governance 2006 that is appended to the Listing Rules of the Financial All Directors have access to the services of the Services Authority and for which the Board is Company Secretary and may, if needed, obtain accountable to shareholders.
independent professional advice, at the Companys expense, in the execution of their duties.
The Board In addition to Board meetings, the Non-Executive The Board, which is responsible to shareholders for Directors meet in private session both as a group leading, developing and protecting the interests of and without the Chairman, at least annually.
the Company, comprises five Non-Executive Directors and four Executive Directors, the details It is confirmed that all the Non-Executive Directors of whom are contained on pages 38 and 39. have sufficient time to fulfill their commitments to the Company and that no Executive Director holds a There is a clear division of responsibilities at the Non-Executive Directorship, nor chairmanship, in a head of the Company through the separation of FTSE 100 company.
positions of the Non-executive Chairman, Lord Fraser and the Chief Executive Officer, Dr Paul Attendance at meetings Davies.
The Non-Executive Directors are of varied The attendance of Directors at Board Meetings and backgrounds and experience and the Board Audit and Remuneration meetings during 2008 was considers them to exercise independent and as over the page.
Matters reserved specifically for the Board are Compliance clearly laid down.
The Board: sets and monitors Throughout the year ended 31st December strategy: reviews business plans, trading 2008, the Company has maintained policies and performance and overhead costs: approves major procedures that ensured compliance with the code capital investment projects: examines acquisition provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined opportunities: divestment possibilities and Code 2006 and the related Financial Services significant financial and operational issues: and Authority Listing Rule disclosure requirements.
The reviews and approves the Companys financial Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority require statements and control and risk management that companies report on the extent to which they systems.
In executing these responsibilities the comply with the Principles of Good Governance Board relies on the receipt of accurate, timely and Code of Best Practice.
The Board believes and clear information, the dissemination of which the Company has been in full compliance with the is the responsibility of the Chairman.
All other provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined authorities are delegated by the Board, supported Code with the following exceptions: by appropriate controls, to the Chief Executive A.
3.2 Excluding the Chairman, independent Officer on behalf of senior management.
Non-Executive Directors did not comprise at Evaluation of the performance of Directors, the least 50% of the Board for the entire reporting Board and its committees is undertaken as follows: period.
Two additional Non-Executive Directors, the Executive Directors are evaluated by the Michel-Marc Delcommune and Dipesh Shah, Non-Executive Directors in informal session: the were appointed on 1st June 2008.
Following their Chairman is evaluated by the other Non-Executive appointment the Board considers that, excluding Directors, lead by the Senior Independent Nonthe Chairman, independent Non-Executive Executive Director, taking into account the views Directors now comprise 50% of the Board, given of the Executive Directors: the Committees are the Board also considers that the four other evaluated by the senior Non-executive along with Non-Executive Directors are wholly independent.
the Chief Executive taking into account the views of The Executive Directors have undertaken a the other Executive Directors: the Non-Executive review of the independence of each of the NonDirectors, excluding the Chairman, are evaluated Executive Directors and Chairman.
The review by the Chairman and Chief Executive, taking into addressed the matters highlighted at Section account the views of the other Executive Directors: A.
3.1 of the Code, which could appear to affect and the Board as a whole evaluates its own a Directors judgment.
One specific matter performance by consolidating and discussing the addressed was Lord Fraser and Viscount Asquith reviews set out above.
having both served on the Board for more than nine years.
Following the review, the Executive
