Chairmans statement CEOs statement Operational review Financial review CR review Directors reports Financial statements 02-03 04-11 12-23 24-31 32-37 55-99 38-54 45 Directors reports to shareholders on request, meets at least Remuneration Committee three times a year.
It reviews the Companys The Remuneration Committee currently comprises accounting policies: monitors the integrity of the Dipesh Shah, Viscount Asquith and Nigel Moore.
financial statements of the Company and any The Committee is chaired by Dipesh Shah.
The Chief announcements relating to the Companys financial Executive Officer attends meetings by invitation.
performance, reviewing significant financial The Remuneration Committee which has terms reporting judgements contained in them: reviews of reference agreed by the Board and available the Companys internal financial controls: reviews to shareholders on request, meets at least twice internal control and risk management systems and a year, to assist the Board in determining the compliance procedures: reports to the Board any remuneration arrangements and contracts of the matters which it considers actions or improvement Directors and senior employees.
are needed with associated recommendations as to steps to be taken: and makes recommendations The Remuneration Committee met twice during to the Board, for it to put to shareholders for their 2008 with each of the members attending all approval in general meeting, in relation to the meetings whilst they were members.
appointment, re-appointment and removal of the The Remuneration Committee employs the services external auditor and to approve the remuneration of Mercer as remuneration consultants on an as and terms of engagement of the external auditor.
Mercer have no other connection During 2008 the Committee met four times with with the Company.
each Committee member attending all meetings held whilst they sat on the Committee.
Meetings No Director is involved in deciding his own are attended, by invitation, by the Chief Executive remuneration.
Officer and the Finance Director.
The report of the Directors remuneration, which The Audit Committee reviews each of the involves details of the Directors interest in options Companys subsidiaries, interests and activities at together with information on service contracts, is least once a year: site visits are also undertaken by set out on pages 48 to 54. the Committee members to significant operations The Remuneration Committee has reviewed the on a frequent basis.
Revised Combined Code, specifically Section B The Audit Committee maintains an objective and that addresses the level, make up and procedural professional relationship with the Companys aspects of remuneration.
The Remuneration auditors and meets in private session with them Committee considers that it complies with all the on a periodic basis.
From time to time, the auditor provisions and practices identified.
is requested to perform non-audit engagements for the Group.
In such instances the continued Nominations Committee objectivity and independence of the auditors in The members of the Nominations Committee are their capacity of auditor is an objective of the Lord Fraser Chairman, Viscount Asquith and Group.
To meet this objective the Audit Committee Mr NSJ Moore.
The Nominations Committee met is delegated the role of vetting the appointment once in 2008 on 13th March to discuss and agree of the auditor on specific engagements including the selection of non-executive candidates to be put considerations of materiality and, where necessary, forward to the Board for approval.
requiring a competitive tender for such work.
Internal control The Company promotes a culture of openness and The Board is responsible for identifying and encourages staff to raise any concerns of possible evaluating the major business risks faced by the improprieties in matters of financial reporting or Company and for determining and monitoring the other matters, if necessary in confidence.
The Audit appropriate course of action to manage these risks.
Committee has reviewed arrangements for such The Audit Committee monitors the integrity of the concerns to be raised, investigated and if necessary financial statements and announcements, reviews followed up.
the Companys internal control processes and risk The Audit Committee has reviewed the Revised management systems and reports its conclusions Combined Code, specifically Section C that to the Board.
addresses audit committee aspects, and considers The Board regularly conducts reviews, and has that it complies with all the provisions identified reviewed, for the year under review and up to the apart from the provision concerning the need to date of approval of the 2008 Annual Report and have a dedicated internal audit function which is Accounts, the effectiveness of the Companys not established for the reasons listed below.
Areas systems of internal control and risk management of non-compliance in addition to Section C are and has concluded that the Companys procedures, listed above.
policies and systems are appropriate and suitable to enable the Board to safeguard shareholders
