Governance At a glance Operational review Financial statements go online at www.
com annualreport2008 45 : Governance Corporate governance Discharge of its responsibilities Statement of Compliance The Board met seven times in 2008.
Four of the meetings were scheduled as two day sessions.
This report has been prepared in accordance with the revised Combined Code on Corporate Governance published in 2006 The Board has a schedule of matters specifically reserved for its the Code which applies for the period covered by this report.
It is responsible for Group strategy, The directors consider that the company has complied with the the annual budget, significant acquisitions and the overall system provisions of the Code throughout the year ended 31 December of internal control.
Executive management is responsible for the 2008. implementation of Board decisions in these areas and all other aspects of managing the business.
The Board has received The Board is committed to maintaining high standards of corporate detailed presentations from senior management within the Groups governance.
businesses during the year in connection with the Boards review of Group strategy, including regular presentations on the Groups The Code requires the Board to state its reasons for considering a current health and safety performance.
The Board gave detailed non-executive director to be independent if he has served for more consideration to reports on the Groups systems of internal control than nine years.
J C Morgan, who has served as a non-executive and presentations were made on specific countries in which the director for more than nine years, will offer himself for re-election Group maintains a significant interest.
The Board also receives at the 2009 AGM and annually thereafter in compliance with the updates on the implementation and enforcement of the Groups Code.
After careful review the Board believes that J C Morgan is Business Ethics Policy.
independent in character and judgement and that there are no relationships or circumstances that are likely to affect, or could The Board receives appropriate and timely information from appear to affect, his judgement.
The company is not J C Morgans management to enable it to perform its duties, including monthly primary source of income and he does not participate in any of reports on financial and operational issues.
its bonus, option or incentive schemes.
J C Morgans experience, knowledge of the energy sector and long term perspective on the Induction and training Groups activities and strategy continue to be valuable to the Group The training needs of directors are periodically discussed at Board and contribute significantly to the Boards deliberations.
meetings and briefings arranged on issues relating to corporate governance.
Newly appointed directors undertake an induction process designed to develop their knowledge and understanding of Board of Directors the Groups business.
This includes briefing sessions during regular Board meetings, visits to Group operating sites and discussion Composition and independence of relevant business issues.
Upon their appointment, directors At 31 December 2008 the Board comprised fourteen directors, are advised of their legal and other duties and their obligations made up of seven executive and seven non-executive directors.
as directors of a listed company.
During the year the Board was The Board has agreed a division of responsibilities between the updated on the new conflicts of interest provisions of the Companies Chairman and the Chief Executive in compliance with the Code: Act 2006.
Sir Ian Wood performs the role of Chairman and A G Langlands operates as Chief Executive Officer.
Dr C Masters is the senior There is a procedure for any director to take independent independent director.
professional advice at the Groups expense and all directors have access to the services of the Company Secretary, who is responsible J B Renfroe was elected to the Board as an executive director on for ensuring that the Boards procedures are followed.
There is a formal and transparent procedure for the appointment of new directors to the Board which involves an Board performance evaluation evaluation of the balance of skills, knowledge and experience of the In 2008 the Board completed a formal evaluation of its own existing Board.
Appointments are made on the recommendation of performance and of its committees, individual directors, and of the the Nominations Committee, following a selection process involving Chairman.
This involved directors completing detailed questionnaires, the interview of a number of candidates and using the services of the results of which were analysed by the Company Secretary.
A independent executive search consultants specialising in board level presentation of the results was made to the full Board.
were discussed both at a full Board meeting and separate meetings between each director and the Chairman.
The non-executive The Board considers all of its non-executive directors to be directors, led by the senior independent director, are responsible for independent in character and judgement and that there are no the performance evaluation of the Chairman, taking into account the relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect, or could views of the executive directors.
appear to affect, their judgement.
Brief biographies of the directors appear on pages 42 and 43.
Other than J C Morgan who is subject Conflicts of interest to annual re-election, all directors, executive and non-executive, The company has procedures in place to deal with conflicts of must submit themselves for election at the AGM following their interest and these procedures have operated effectively throughout appointment and, thereafter, for re-election at least once every three the year.
46 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report 2008 Governance Corporate governance reviewing the terms of engagement and independence of the Committees of the Board external auditors assessing the audit process and the effectiveness of the external The Board has delegated some of its responsibilities to committees auditors to supply non audit services the Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the monitoring the Group policy on the engagement of the external Nominations Committee.
A summary of the work of the Audit auditors to supply non audit services Committee and the Nominations Committee is set out below, whilst reporting to the Board, identifying any matters in respect of which the report of the Remuneration Committee is included in the Directors it considers that action or other improvement is needed and remuneration report on page 49. making recommendations as to the steps to be taken The Committees terms of reference are available on the Groups Discharge of its responsibilities website.
The Committee met three times in 2008.
Attendance at committee meetings is at the invitation of the Chairman of the Committee: however Attendance by directors at the meetings of the Board and its the Group Finance Director, Group Financial Controller, Head of Internal committees is summarised below Audit and the external auditors are generally invited to attend.
The Head of Internal Audit and the external auditors have the right of direct access Board Audit Remuneration Nominations to the Chairman of the Committee at all times and met the Committee Committee Committee Committee without management present during 2008.
Number of meetings 7 3 2 1 held in 2008 During the year the Committee Executive Directors reviewed the Annual Report for 2007 and the Interim Report for Sir Ian Wood 7 1 2008 AG Langlands 7 reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups internal financial controls AG Semple 7 discussed with management and the external auditors significant LJ Thomas 6 issues and areas of financial risk, accounting principles, practices MH Papworth 6 and judgements considered with the external auditors the significant matters arising M Straughen 7 from the annual external audit J B Renfroe 7 reviewed reports prepared by the internal audit function together Non-executive with managements response and the actions taken Directors focused on complex or unusual transactions and judgemental Dr C Masters 7 3 1 areas R Monti 5 1 JC Morgan 7 3 2 1 External auditor independence and non audit services DJ Ogren 7 2 1 The Committee has a key oversight role in respect to the engagement NH Smith 7 2 1 and ongoing relationship with the Groups external auditor, ID Marchant 6 2 1  PwC, and has overall responsibility for ensuring that the external auditors independence and objectivity is not D Woodward 7 3 1 compromised.
On each occasion when a director was unable to attend a Board meeting, they provided the reasons in advance to the Chairman and One of the key risks to external auditor independence is the provision were provided with copies of all Board papers, on which they were of non audit services by the external auditor.
The Committee considers given the opportunity to comment.
and approves fees in respect of non audit services provided by the external auditors in accordance with the Groups policy in this area, which is set out in the Audit Committees terms of reference.
The cost of Audit Committee non audit services provided in 2008 is reported in note 3 to the financial statements.
In the opinion of the Committee, the provision of these non Committee composition and responsibilities audit services did not impair PwCs independence.
The Audit Committee comprises four independent non-executive directors, Dr. C Masters Chairman, J C Morgan, I D Marchant and PwC has established policies and procedures to ensure that those D Woodward.
in a position to influence the conduct of their audit act with integrity, In line with the requirements of the Code, the Board considers that objectivity and independence.
PwC provides an annual confirmation I D Marchant has recent and relevant financial experience.
The of their independence from the Group and, if there are any, details of Committee meets at least three times a year, and has written terms any relationship between them and the Group which could impact their of reference setting out its roles and responsibilities.
No such relationships were noted in 2008.
These responsibilities include reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal financial controls monitoring the integrity of the Groups financial statements and its interim and preliminary announcements monitoring and assessing the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function Energy Supporting Energy Governance At a glance Operational review Financial statements go online at www.
com annualreport2008 47 : Nominations Committee Monitoring of the internal control systems The Board has agreed certain reporting procedures to monitor key risk areas on Committee composition and responsibilities an ongoing basis, including health and safety, legal and financial The Nominations Committee consists of Sir Ian Wood Chairman matters.
The Audit Committee has been delegated the responsibility and all of the independent non-executive directors.
The Committee to review the effectiveness of the internal financial control systems meets at least once a year to review the Board structure, size and implemented by management.
It is assisted by the internal auditors composition, make recommendations to the Board with regard to and, where appropriate, the external auditors.
The Chairman of the any changes, to identify and nominate candidates for the approval Audit Committee regularly reports to the Board on their discussions.
of the Board, to fill Board vacancies and to ensure that succession plans are in place.
Information and communication The Group has a comprehensive system for reporting performance to the Board.
This Discharge of its responsibilities includes monthly and quarterly reports.
The quarterly reports include The Committee met once during 2008. a detailed financial review against budgets, and, twice a year, revised forecasts.
The executive directors also receive detailed monthly financial reports and meet on a monthly basis to discuss financial performance and other operational matters.
In addition, each division Internal Control held Quarterly Review Meetings QRMs involving discussions with senior managers and certain of the executive directors, including the The Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups system of internal Chief Executive.
control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
As a result of these ongoing procedures the Boards assessment The Board has established an ongoing process for identifying, was that the internal control environment was operating effectively.
evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group that has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of this annual report.
The process is regularly reviewed by the Board and is in accordance with the revised guidance on Going concern internal controls published in October 2005 by the Turnbull review group: Internal Control Revised Guidance for Directors on the The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to Combined Code.
The Group, for the purposes of applying the affect its future development, performance and position are set out Turnbull Committee guidance referred to above, comprises John in the Operational Review on pages 6 to 25.
The financial position of Wood Group PLC, its subsidiaries and joint ventures.
the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Financial Review on pages 26 to 29.
In addition, Any system of internal control is designed to manage rather than note 18 to the financial statements includes the Groups objectives, eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can policies and processes for managing its capital, its financial risk only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material management objectives, details of its financial instruments and misstatement or loss.
hedging activities, and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
The key elements of the ongoing procedures which the directors The Group has considerable financial resources together with the have established to review the effectiveness of the system of internal cash inflows generated from its existing activities as set out in note control on an annual basis include the following: 27 to the financial statements.
As a consequence, the directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks Overall control environment The Group has a clear organisational successfully despite the current uncertain economic outlook.
structure for the control and monitoring of its businesses, including Having made the appropriate enquiries including a review of cash defined lines of responsibility and delegation of authority.
The Group flow projections and key sensitivities, the directors consider, in has issued policies which define the standards of business conduct accordance with the Code, that the business is a going concern.
and include Contract Risk Management and Review: Health, Safety Adequate resources exist for the Group to continue in operational and Environment: and Business Ethics.
Consistent with the Business existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to Ethics Policy, advice lines have been established to enable staff to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
raise ethical concerns in confidence.
For further details please refer to the Ethics section of Our business and the community on page 38.
Risk identification and management The Board formally reviews the Groups exposure to key business risks at least once a year including the controls in place and management action plans.
In addition the Board receives regular updates from management on specific risks and actions.
Each divisions management team is responsible for the process of identification and evaluation of significant operational, financial and compliance risks and for the design and operation of effective internal controls.
For further details please refer to Principal risks and uncertainties on pages 30 and 31.
48 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report 2008 Governance Corporate governance Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed on page 42 Statement of directors responsibilities and 43, confirms that, to the best of their knowledge: The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in Directors Remuneration Report and the Group and the parent company accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group: and Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors have prepared the the directors report on page 44 includes a fair review of the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial development and performance of the business and the position Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and the parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable uncertainties that it faces.
law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
The Group and parent So far as the directors are aware, there is no relevant audit information company financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair of which the companys auditors are unaware.
Relevant information is view of the state of affairs of the company and the Group and of the defined as information needed by the companys auditors in connection profit or loss of the Group for that period.
Each director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a director in order to make himself aware of any In preparing those financial statements, the directors are required to: relevant audit information and to establish that the companys auditors are aware of that information.
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state that the Group financial statements comply with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and with regard to the parent company financial statements that applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the company and the Group and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
