AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Role of the Audit Committee At its meeting on 23rd January 2008 the Audit Committee reviewed managements and internal audits reports on the effectiveness of The Audit Committee is a sub-committee of the board whose the companys systems for internal financial control and risk responsibilities include: management.
The Committee reviewed the groups credit control Reviewing the half-yearly and full year accounts and results procedures and risks, controls over precious metals and IT controls.
announcements of the company and any other formal The groups corporate social responsibility reporting arrangements announcements relating to the companys financial performance and whistleblowing procedures were also reviewed.
Changes to the and recommending them to the board for approval.
Group Control Manual were ratified.
Reviewing the groups systems for internal financial control and risk management.
Independence of External Auditors Both the board and the external auditors have for many years had Monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the companys safeguards in place to avoid the possibility that the auditors internal audit function and considering regular reports from objectivity and independence could be compromised.
Our policy in internal audit on internal financial controls and risk management.
respect of services provided by the external auditors is as follows: Considering the appointment of the external auditors: overseeing Audit related services the external auditors are invited to the process for their selection: and making recommendations to provide services which, in their position as auditors, they must or the board in relation to their appointment to be put to are best placed to undertake.
This includes formalities relating to shareholders for approval at a general meeting.
borrowings, shareholders and other circulars, various other Monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness and independence of regulatory reports and work in respect of acquisitions and the external auditors, agreeing the nature and scope of their disposals.
audit, agreeing their remuneration, and considering their reports Tax consulting in cases where they are best suited, we use the on the companys accounts, reports to shareholders and their external auditors.
All other significant tax consulting work is put evaluation of the systems of internal financial control and risk out to tender.
General consulting in recognition of public concern over the The full terms of reference of the Audit Committee are provided on effect of consulting services on auditors independence, our the companys website at www.
policy is that the external auditors are not invited to tender for general consulting work.
Composition of the Audit Committee The split between audit and non-audit fees for the year ended The Audit Committee comprises all the independent non-executive 31st March 2008 and information on the nature of non-audit fees directors.
Biographical details of the independent directors are set appear in note 4 on the accounts.
Their remuneration is set out on page 48.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee is Mr A M Thomson, who was formerly Finance Director of Smiths Group plc and is currently Internal Audit chairman of the Technical Policy Board of the Institute of Chartered During the year the Audit Committee reviewed the performance of Accountants of Scotland ICAS.
The group Chairman, Chief the internal audit function, the findings of the audits completed Executive, Group Finance Director, Head of Internal Audit and during the year and the departments resource requirements and external auditors KPMG Audit Plc attend Audit Committee also approved the internal audit plan for the year ending 31st March meetings by invitation.
The Committee also meets separately with 2009. the Head of Internal Audit and with the external auditors without Internal audit independently reviews the risks and control processes management being present.
The Company Secretary is secretary to operated by management.
It carries out independent audits in the Audit Committee.
accordance with an internal audit plan which is agreed with the Audit Committee before the start of the financial year.
Main Activities of the Audit Committee The plan provides a high degree of financial and geographical The Audit Committee met four times during the financial year ended coverage and devotes significant effort to the review of the risk 31st March 2008.
At its meeting on 31st May 2007 the Committee management framework surrounding the major business risks.
reviewed the companys preliminary announcement of its results for the financial year ended 31st March 2007, and the draft report and Internal audit reports include recommendations to improve internal accounts for that year.
The Committee received reports from the controls together with agreed management action plans to resolve external auditors on the conduct of their audit, their review of the the issues raised.
Internal audit follows up the implementation of accounts, including accounting policies and areas of judgment, and recommendations and reports progress to senior management and their comments on risk management and control matters.
Committee also reviewed shareholder resolutions to be proposed at The Audit Committee receives reports from the Head of Internal the forthcoming AGM.
Audit on the departments work and findings.
The Audit Committee met on 23rd July 2007 to receive reports on The effectiveness of the internal audit function is reviewed and internal controls from both the internal and external auditors.
The discussed on an annual basis with the Head of Internal Audit.
external auditors also presented their proposed fees and scope for the forthcoming years audit.
The Committee also reviewed the performance of both the internal and external auditors.
The groups On behalf of the Committee: Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2006 07 was also reviewed, which is available on the companys website at www.
At its meeting on 26th November 2007 the Audit Committee reviewed the companys half-yearly results, the half-yearly report and the external auditors review.
Alan Thomson Chairman of the Audit Committee 44 Johnson Matthey
