DIRECTORS REPORT Charitable Donations continued Corporate Governance and Remuneration Further details of contributions made by the group worldwide are The boards statement on corporate governance matters is given on given on page 35 and in the Sustainability Report which can be pages 40 to 42 and its report on directors remuneration is set out found on the companys website at www.
Political Donations and Expenditure Auditors and Disclosure of Information to Auditors It is the policy of the group not to make political donations.
During In accordance with section 489 of the Companies Act 2006, a the year to 31st March 2008, no donations were made to EU resolution is to be proposed at the forthcoming AGM for the political organisations 2007 nil, no EU political expenditure was reappointment of KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of the company and incurred 2007 nil and no contributions to political parties outside to authorise the directors to determine their remuneration.
the EU were made within the meaning of Part XA of the Companies So far as each person serving as a director of the company at the Act 1985 or Part 14 of the Companies Act 2006 2007 nil.
date this report is approved is aware, there is no relevant information needed by the companys auditors in connection with preparing its Directors Indemnities report set out on page 53 audit information of which the companys auditors are unaware.
Each director hereby confirms that he or she The company has granted indemnities in favour of directors under has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a Deed Polls.
These provisions were in force during the year ended director in order to make himself or herself aware of any relevant 31st March 2008 and remain in force as at the date of this report.
audit information and to establish that the companys auditors are Copies of the Deed Polls and the companys Articles of Association aware of that information.
are available for inspection during normal business hours at the companys registered office and will be available for inspection at the AGM.
This report was approved by the Board of Directors on 3rd June 2008 and is signed on its behalf by: Going Concern The directors have a reasonable expectation that the group has sufficient resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and have, therefore, adopted the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Simon Farrant Company Secretary CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Statement of Compliance with the Combined Code The board comprises the Chairman, the Chief Executive, four other executive directors and five independent non-executive directors.
The company has applied all of the principles set out in section 1 of Mr N A P Carson is the Chief Executive.
Sir John Banham is the the Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code relating Chairman.
Sir Johns other commitments are disclosed on page 36. to the structure and composition of the board, the remuneration of The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are separate.
The the directors, relations with shareholders and procedures for Chairman leads the board, ensuring that each director, particularly financial reporting, internal control and audit.
This statement each non-executive director, is able to make an effective contribution.
describes how the principles of the Code have been applied.
He monitors, with assistance from the Company Secretary, the The group was in compliance with the provisions of the Code information distributed to the board to ensure that it is sufficient, throughout the year except that the board has taken the view that it accurate, timely and clear.
The Chief Executive maintains day-to-day is not necessarily practical, efficient or desired by shareholders for management responsibility for the companys operations, implementing the Senior Independent Director to attend meetings with major group strategies and policies agreed by the board.
shareholders in order to learn their issues and concerns unless such The role of non-executive directors is to enhance independence and discussions are requested by shareholders.
The methods by which objectivity of the boards deliberations and decisions.
Mr M J Roney major shareholders views are communicated to the board as a and Mrs D C Thompson joined the board as non-executive directors whole are discussed under Relations with Shareholders on pages on 1st June 2007 and 1st September 2007 respectively.
Mackay and Mr M B Dearden both retired from the board on 31st March 2008.
Mr C D Mackay was the Senior Independent Directors and the Board Director until his retirement from the board.
He has been succeeded The board is responsible to the companys shareholders for the in this role by Mr A M Thomson with effect from 1st April 2008.
All groups system of corporate governance, its strategic objectives and non-executive directors are independent of management and free the stewardship of the companys resources and is ultimately from any business or other relationship which could materially responsible for social, environmental and ethical matters.
The board interfere with the exercise of their independent judgment.
The held seven meetings in the year and in addition met separately to executive directors have specific responsibilities, which are detailed review the groups long term strategy.
The board delegates specific on pages 36 and 37, and have direct responsibility for all operations responsibilities to board committees, as described below.
reviews the key activities of the business and receives papers and presentations to enable it to do so effectively.
The Company Secretary is responsible to the board, and is available to individual directors, in respect of board procedures.
40 Johnson Matthey CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Directors and the Board continued Committees of the Board In accordance with the companys Articles of Association, all The Chief Executives Committee is responsible for the directors submit themselves for re-election at least once every three recommendation to the board of strategic and operating plans and years.
The board composition allows for changes to be made with on decisions reserved to the board where appropriate.
It is also minimum disruption.
responsible for the executive management of the groups business.
The Committee is chaired by the Chief Executive and meets The board has undertaken a formal evaluation of its performance monthly.
It comprises the executive directors and five senior and the performance of its committees and the individual directors.
Questionnaires, prepared by the Chairman with the assistance of the Company Secretary, were completed by all directors.
The The Audit Committee is a sub-committee of the board whose questionnaires focused on the operation of the board and its purpose is to assist the board in the effective discharge of its committees and on individual directors contributions.
In addition, responsibilities for financial reporting and corporate control.
The the Chairman and the Senior Independent Director held a series of Committee meets quarterly and is chaired by Mr A M Thomson.
one-to-one discussions with every director, which provided each It comprises all the independent non-executive directors with the director with the opportunity both to expand on their questionnaire group Chairman, the Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director responses and to raise any broader issues relating to the companys and the external and internal auditors attending by invitation.
A summary of the responses was prepared from the Committee on its activities is given on page 44. by the Company Secretary and discussed at a board meeting.
The Nomination Committee is a sub-committee of the board One area covered by the board evaluation related to the training responsible for advising the board and making recommendations on needs of the executive and non-executive directors.
Regular the appointment of new directors.
The Committee is chaired by Sir business presentations from senior managers at board meetings John Banham, the group Chairman, and also comprises all the assist the non-executive directors in familiarising themselves with the independent non-executive directors.
A report from the Committee groups businesses.
The board also usually holds at least one board on its activities is given on page 43. meeting per year at one of the groups operational sites and takes The Management Development and Remuneration Committee the opportunity to tour the site and discuss issues with local senior MDRC is a sub-committee of the board which determines on and middle management.
Individual non-executive directors also behalf of the board the remuneration of the executive directors.
Such presentations, meetings and site visits Committee was chaired by Mr C D Mackay until his retirement from help to give a balanced overview of the company.
They enable the the board on 31st March 2008.
He was succeeded by Mr R J W non-executive directors to build an understanding of the companys Walvis with effect from 1st April 2008.
It comprises all the businesses, the markets in which the company operates and its independent non-executive directors of the company together with main relationships and to build a link with the companys employees.
The Chief Executive and the Director of Human This is important in helping the non-executive directors to continually Resources attend by invitation except when their own performance develop and refresh their knowledge and skills to ensure that their and remuneration are discussed.
Further details are set out in the contribution to the board remains informed and relevant.
Remuneration Report on pages 45 to 51.
Led by the Senior Independent Director, the non-executive directors met without the Chairman present to consider evaluation of the Chairmans performance.
Attendance at the board and board committee meetings in 2007 08 was as follows: Full Board MDRC Nomination Committee Audit Committee Director Eligible to Eligible to Eligible to Eligible to attend Attended attend Attended attend Attended attend Attended 1 Sir John Banham 7 7 4 4 1 1 4 1 1 1 N A P Carson 7 7 4 1 4 M BDearden 7 6421142 P NHawker 7 7 C D Mackay 77441144 D WMorgan 7 7 L CPentz 7 7 M J Roney 6 6 2 2 1133 1 J N Sheldrick 7 7 4 I C Strachan 7 6 4 3 1 1 4 4 D C Thompson 3 3 2 2 1 1 2 2 A MThomson 77441144 R J WWalvis 77441144 1 Includes meetings attended by invitation for all or part of meeting.
The company reports formally to shareholders twice a year, when its Directors Remuneration half year and full year results are announced and a half-yearly report The Remuneration Report on pages 45 to 51 includes details of and a full report are issued to shareholders.
These reports are remuneration policies and of the remuneration of the directors.
posted on Johnson Mattheys website www.
At the same time, executive directors give presentations on the results to Relations with Shareholders institutional investors, analysts and the media in London and other The board considers effective communication with shareholders, international centres.
Copies of major presentations are also posted whether institutional investors, private or employee shareholders, on the companys website.
Annual Report & Accounts 2008 41 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Relations with Shareholders continued The internal audit function is responsible for monitoring the groups systems of internal financial controls and the control of the integrity The companys annual general meeting AGM takes place in of the financial information reported to the board.
The Audit London and formal notification is sent to shareholders at least Committee approves the plans for internal audit reviews and 20 working days in advance of the meeting.
The directors are receives the reports produced by the internal audit function on a available for questions, formally during the AGM and informally regular basis.
Actions are agreed with management in response to afterwards.
Details of the 2008 AGM are set out in the notice the internal audit reports produced.
of the meeting accompanying this Annual Report.
In addition, significant business units provide assurance on the Contact with major shareholders is principally maintained by the maintenance of financial and non-financial controls and compliance Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director, who ensure that with group policies.
These assessments are summarised by the their views are communicated to the board as a whole.
The internal audit function and a report is made annually to the Audit Chairman also discusses governance and other matters directly with Committee.
The board believes that appropriate steps have been taken during the year to ensure that the members of the The directors confirm that the system of internal control for the year board, and in particular the non-executive directors, develop an ended 31st March 2008 and the period up to 3rd June 2008 has understanding of the issues and concerns of major shareholders been established in accordance with the Turnbull Guidance included about the company.
The board is provided with brokers reports and with the Code and that they have reviewed the effectiveness of the feedback from shareholder meetings on a six-monthly basis.
The system of internal control.
canvassing of major shareholders views for the board in a detailed investor survey is usually conducted every two years by external Corporate Social Responsibility consultants.
The board has taken the view that these methods, Measures to ensure responsible business conduct and the taken together, are a practical and efficient way both for the Chairman identification and assessment of risks associated with social, ethical to keep in touch with major shareholder opinion on governance and and environmental matters are managed in conjunction with all other strategy and for the Senior Independent Director to learn the views business risks and reviewed at regular meetings of the board and of major shareholders and to develop a balanced understanding of the Chief Executives Committee.
The Senior Independent Director is available to attend meetings with major shareholders if requested.
A review of the groups policies and targets for corporate social responsibility CSR is set out in the Sustainability section of the Business Review on pages 29 to 35.
A full version of the Accountability, Audit and Control Sustainability Report is available on the companys website.
The statement of the Responsibility of Directors for the preparation The identification, assessment and management of environment, of the Annual Report and the accounts is set out on page 52. health and safety EHS risks are the responsibility of the CSR In its reporting to shareholders, the board aims to present a Compliance Committee, which is a sub-committee of the Chief balanced and understandable assessment of the groups financial Executives Committee.
It comprises the division directors, the position and prospects.
Director of EHS, the Company Secretary and senior representatives The groups organisational structure is focused on its three divisions.
of Group Legal, Internal Audit and Group EHS and has specific These are all separately managed but report to the board through a responsibility for setting and overseeing compliance with the board director.
The executive management team receives monthly standards for group CSR performance through the development, summaries of financial results from each division through a dissemination, adoption and implementation of appropriate group standardised reporting process.
policies and other operational measures.
Performance is monitored using monthly statistics and detailed site audit reports.
EHS The group has in place a comprehensive annual budgeting process performance is reviewed on a regular basis by the Chief Executives including forecasts for the next two years.
Variances from budget Committee and an annual review is undertaken by the board.
Risks from employment and people issues are identified and The board has overall responsibility for the groups systems of internal assessed by the Chief Executives Committee and reported to the control and for reviewing their effectiveness.
systems are designed to meet the groups needs and address the risks to which it is exposed.
Such systems can provide reasonable Employment contracts, handbooks and policies specify acceptable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
business practices and the groups position on ethical issues.
The Group Control Manual and security manuals provide further There is a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and operational guidelines to reinforce these.
managing the significant risks faced by the company, which has been in place during the financial year and up to the date of The Audit Committee reviews risks associated with corporate social approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
The board regularly responsibility on an annual basis and monitors performance through reviews this process.
the annual control self-assessment process conducted by the internal audit function.
The assessment of group and strategic risks is reviewed by the board and updated on an annual basis.
At the business level, the processes to identify and manage the key risks are an integral part of the control environment.
Key risks and internal controls are the subject of regular reporting to the Chief Executives Committee.
The Group Control Manual, which is distributed to all group operations, clearly sets out the composition, responsibilities and authority limits of the various board and executive committees and also specifies what may be decided without central approval.
It is supplemented by other specialist policy and procedures manuals issued by the group, divisions and individual business units or departments.
The high intrinsic value of many of the metals with which the group is associated necessitates stringent physical controls over precious metals held at the groups sites.
