Directors Report: Governance Governance Framework Introduction It is Kazakhmys policy that at least half the Board should be The Board is committed to high standards of corporate independent non-executive Directors and, therefore, it is the governance in its management of the affairs of the Group Boards intention to appoint a further independent non-executive and in its accountability to shareholders.
Director as soon as possible.
Other than Vladimir Ni and Daulet Yergozhin, the Board considers each of its current non-executive This section of the Annual Report has been prepared in Directors to be independent in character and judgement.
In accordance with the Combined Code on Corporate Governance reaching its determination of independence, the Board has issued by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2006 the concluded that there are no relationships or circumstances likely Combined Code.
to affect, or could appear to affect, the judgement of Philip Aiken, The Companys policies on corporate direction and control ensure Simon Heale, Lord Renwick and Peter Hickson.
Vladimir Ni is that the Company applies all of the principles of good governance not considered by the Board to be independent, with effect contained in the Combined Code to the organisational structure from 1 January 2006, following his appointment as chairman of it has adopted to conduct its business, its remuneration policy, Kazakhmys Corporation LLC, the Companys operating company its relations with its shareholders, and the procedures adhered to within the Copper Division in Kazakhstan, and Daulet Yergozhin in its financial reporting, internal control and assurance processes.
is not considered by the Board to be independent from his date of appointment as he is a representative of the Government The rest of this section of the Annual Report explains in more of Kazakhstan, a 15% shareholder in the Company.
detail how the Company applied the principles, and the nature of its compliance and any areas of non-compliance with the The independent non-executive Directors are: provisions, of the Combined Code during the financial year.
Philip Aiken Combined Code compliance Chairman of Robert Walters plc, a non-executive director of During the year, the Company has complied fully with the National Grid PLC and a senior advisor to Macquarie Capital provisions of the Combined Code, save in the following respects: Markets.
He was formerly president, UK of BHP Billiton plc, having previously been group president of BHP Billitons energy business, the Chairman was not independent at the time of his president, BHP Billiton Petroleum, an executive director of BTR plc appointment.
This is due to his significant shareholding in the and held a number of senior positions in BOC Group plc.
Vladimir Kim joined the Group in 1995 and has made a major contribution to its development into an international Simon Heale company.
The Board is unanimously of the opinion that his A non-executive director of The Morgan Crucible Company plc, continued involvement in an executive capacity is vitally Panmure Gordon & Co plc, Marex Group Limited and PZ Cussons important to the success of the Group.
He was formerly chief executive of The London Metal at least half the Board was not independent, for the purposes Exchange, chief operating officer of Jardine Fleming Ltd and of the Combined Code, throughout the period following the deputy managing director of Cathay Pacic Airways.
appointment of Daulet Yergozhin and the death of James Rutland on 19 November 2008 and 5 December 2008, Lord Renwick of Clifton, KCMG respectively.
To redress the balance of independent Directors Serves on the boards of Compagnie Financire Richemont AG, on the Board, the Board has appointed Peter Hickson as an Fluor Limited and GEM Diamonds Limited.
He was formerly British independent non-executive Director with effect from 5 March Ambassador to the United States and to South Africa, and 2009 and intends to appoint a further independent a non-executive director of SABMiller plc, BHP Billiton plc, British non-executive Director to the Board as soon as possible.
Airways plc and Liberty International plc.
He is vice chairman, Investment Banking of JPMorgan Europe and vice chairman the Audit Committee did not have at least three members of JPMorgan Cazenove, who are brokers and financial advisers to for a brief period following the death of James Rutland on the Company: he has no involvement in the provision of broking 5 December 2008.
Following the appointment of Peter Hickson or financial services to the Company.
as an independent non-executive Director and a member of the Audit Committee with effect from 5 March 2009, Peter Hickson the composition of the Committee complied fully with the Chairman of Communisis plc and senior independent director of requirements of the Combined Code.
He was previously chairman of Anglian Water Group Ltd, group finance director of Powergen plc Board structure and a non-executive director of Telent plc, Scottish Power plc and Effective management and good stewardship are led by the RAC plc.
He is also a trustee of the ORBIS Charitable Trust.
Board, which currently consists of nine directors, six of whom served throughout the financial year, with Daulet Yergozhin and The Board has agreed a clear division of responsibilities between Peter Hickson having been appointed on 19 November 2008 and the Chairman and the Chief Executive.
The roles of the Chairman, 5 March 2009, respectively, and James Rutland ceasing to be Chief Executive and other Directors are clearly dened so that no a Director on 5 December 2008.
Including the Chairman, there are single individual has unrestricted powers of decision.
three executive Directors and six non-executive Directors: this balance ensures that no individual or small group of Directors can dominate the decision making process and that the interests of the minority shareholders are protected.
Biographies of all Directors are set out on page 53.
54 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Directors Report: Governance The Chairman is responsible for the strategic direction of the Group, To ensure the Board as a whole remains fully informed of overseeing the responsibilities of management, leadership of the the views of shareholders, the Board receives regular reports Board and the relationships with the Government and business on shareholder sentiment from the Head of Corporate community in Kazakhstan.
As part of the evaluation of the Communications.
Although not part of their induction performance of the Chairman, the Board remains satisfied that the programme, all non-executive Directors have a standing invitation Chairman is able to full all of the commitments required of his role.
to attend shareholder meetings and analyst presentations, and shareholders may meet informally with Directors at the Annual The Chief Executive is responsible for the day-to-day General Meeting.
management of the Group and the implementation of the strategy approved by the Board.
Conicts of interest With effect from 1 October 2008 a director has a duty under the Non-executive Directors and Senior Independent Director Companies Act 2006 to avoid a situation in which he has or can The non-executive Directors provide a strong independent have a direct or indirect interest that conicts or possibly may element on the Board and a solid foundation for good corporate conict with the interests of the Company.
This duty is in addition governance.
Although all Directors are equally accountable to the existing duty that a director owes to the Company to under the law for the proper stewardship of the Companys disclose to the Board any transaction or arrangement under affairs, the non-executive Directors full a vital role in corporate consideration by the Company.
The Companies Act 2006 allows accountability.
They have a particular responsibility to examine directors of public companies to authorise conicts and potential critically the strategies proposed by the executive Directors, conicts where the Articles of Association contain a provision to scrutinise the performance of management in meeting agreed that effect.
Shareholders approved amendments to the Companys goals and objectives, and play a leading role in the functioning Articles of Association at the 2008 Annual General Meeting which of the main Board committees.
Between them, the current included provisions giving the Directors authority to approve such non-executive Directors bring experience, expertise and situations and to include other provisions to allow conicts of independent judgement from a variety of business sectors interest to be dealt with in a similar way to the position that and public life.
Philip Aiken, who succeeded James Rutland, as the Senior The Board has a procedure when deciding whether to authorise Independent Director with effect from 5 December 2008 is, a conict or potential conict of interest.
Firstly, only independent together with the other non-executive Directors, available to Directors i. e. those who have no interest in the matter being discuss matters of concern with shareholders whenever necessary.
considered will be able to take the relevant decision, and secondly, in taking the decision the Directors must act in a way Induction, training and information they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to promote the Following appointment to the Board, all new Directors receive Companys success.
In addition, the Directors will be able to a comprehensive and structured induction tailored to their impose limits or conditions when giving authorisation if they individual requirements.
The induction programme, which is think this is appropriate.
arranged by the Company Secretary, includes visits to the Groups businesses and meetings with senior managers and advisers as Furthermore, with effect from 1 October 2008, shareholders appropriate.
This facilitates their understanding of the Group, approved further amendments to the Companys Articles of the key drivers of business performance, the role of the Board Association which include provisions relating to condential and its committees, the Companys corporate governance information, attendance at Board meetings and availability practices and procedures, and provides them with appropriate of Board papers to protect a Director being in breach of duty training and guidance as to their duties, responsibilities and if a conict of interest arises.
These provisions will only apply liabilities as a director of a public limited company.
where the position giving rise to the potential conict has previously been authorised by the Directors.
To assist Directors in the performance of their duties, there are procedures to provide them with appropriate and timely Performance evaluation information, including information between meetings about A full Board performance evaluation process was undertaken developments in the Groups business and financial performance, in late 2008, facilitated by an external consultant, with fully so that they can discharge their duties on strategic, financial, documented results being presented to the January 2009 Board operational, compliance and governance issues.
The process was carefully structured but pragmatic, have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, tailored to bring about a genuine debate of issues that are and, in appropriate circumstances, may obtain independent relevant and assisted in identifying any potential for improvement professional advice at the Companys expense.
It entailed initial and sign-off Where appropriate, additional training and updates on particular meetings with the Senior Independent Director and the Company issues are arranged.
For example, over the last 12 months, Secretary, individual interviews between each Director excluding members of the Board have made visits to the Groups operations Daulet Yergozhin who was appointed a Director on 19 November in Kazakhstan and have received specic briengs by management 2008 and James Rutland who ceased to be a Director on on the implications of new legislation in the United Kingdom 5 December 2008 and the external consultant on the and Kazakhstan.
performance of the Board, its committees, on individual Directors and the preparation of a composite report.
com 55 Directors Report: Governance Governance Framework continued concluded that the Board and the committees are operating and Company Secretary, Head of Internal Audit and external auditors performing effectively and there remains a high degree of Board are normally invited to attend Committee meetings.
unity, the Board is considering the recommendations contained in At the end of each meeting the Committee normally meets the report to ensure the continued smooth operation of the Board separately with the external auditors and Head of Internal Audit, and its committees, including, for example, succession planning without management present, to facilitate the discussion of any for the executive team and enhanced internal communication of matter relating to its remit and any issues arising from audits.
the Companys aims and strategies.
Furthermore, the Board is also Arrangements have also been adopted to ensure that the Head of satisfied that each of the current non-executive Directors had Internal Audit has direct access to the Committee chairman and is sufficient time and commitment to contribute effectively to the accountable to the Committee.
Furthermore, the chairman of the Board and its committees.
Committee meets from time to time with the external auditors and During the year the Chairman held a number of meetings with senior management to ensure a full understanding of relevant issues.
non-executive Directors without executive Directors being present.
During and in respect of the year, the principal activities of the The Senior Independent Director also led the non-executive Committee included the following: Directors in evaluating the performance of the Chairman.
Financial reporting: Re-election of Directors reviewed interim management statements, half-yearly and New Directors appointed by the Board must submit themselves annual results, including accounting policies, estimates and for re-election by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting judgements applied in preparing them and the transparency following their appointment.
Thereafter, the Companys Articles and clarity of the disclosures within them: and of Association require that all Directors stand for re-election at least every three years.
received reports from management and the external auditors on accounting, tax and legal issues.
Board and Committee responsibilities memberships Internal control: The Board received reports from management on the implementation The Board is responsible for approving Group strategy, reviewing of enhanced financial reporting procedures and controls, trading performance, ensuring adequate funding, examining and IT systems: and major investments, ensuring the appropriate allocation of financial resources and monitoring the performance of the executive team.
reviewed the design and effectiveness of the Groups system It is also responsible for providing leadership and support to the of internal control as set out on page 58. executive management team in creating and sustaining Risk management: shareholder value through the management of the Groups business, together with delivering expected shareholder returns.
reviewed the effectiveness of the Group risk management The Board has a formal schedule of matters specically reserved framework as described on page 58 and reports arising out for its decisions and has four principal committees to deal with of the risk management process: and specic aspects of the Groups affairs.
In addition, the Company monitored the Groups insurance arrangements.
Secretary has a specic responsibility to the Group as a whole Internal audit: for its sound governance and for guidance to the Board in the responsible and effective execution of its tasks.
approved the internal audit plan and reports from the internal audit department: The four principal committees of the Board are the Audit, Group Health, Safety and Environment, Nomination and Remuneration assessed the effectiveness of the Internal Audit department: and Committees.
The terms of reference of each committee are approved the terms of reference for the Internal Audit department.
available on the Companys website www.
com and on request from the Company Secretary at the Companys registered External audit: ofce.
The terms of reference of each committee are reviewed approved the terms of engagement of the external auditors, the annually.
Each committee reports on its activities to the next fees paid to them and the plan of the work carried out by them: Board meeting following its meeting.
reviewed policies on the independence of the external auditor Audit Committee and the provision of non-audit services: The role of the Committee is to review and monitor the integrity assessed the independence and objectivity of the external of financial reporting by the Company, to review the Groups auditors and in this process reviewed a report from the external internal control and risk management systems, to monitor the auditors on all relationships that might reasonably have a effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function and to oversee bearing on their independence and the audit partner and staffs the relationship with the external auditors.
objectivity, and the related safeguards and procedures: The Audit Committee, which met on five occasions during the year, received reports on the findings of the external auditors during currently consists of Simon Heale chairman from 5 December 2008, their half-yearly review and annual audit and reviewed the Philip Aiken and Peter Hickson from 5 March 2009 all of whom recommendations made to management by the external are considered by the Board to be independent non-executive auditors and managements responses: Directors.
James Rutland was chairman until 5 December 2008.
The secretary to the Committee is Stephen Hodges, Deputy assessed the effectiveness of the external auditors: and Company Secretary.
Currently Simon Heale, a chartered accountant, considered its recommendation as to the re-appointment has recent and relevant financial experience: his biography is set of the external auditors.
The Chief Executive, Chief Financial officer, 56 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Directors Report: Governance Attendance at Board and Committee meetings All Directors are expected to attend each Board meeting and each meeting of the committees of which they are members, unless there are exceptional circumstances which prevent them from doing so.
The attendance of Directors at scheduled meetings of the Board and of Board committees of which they were members during 2008 is shown below.
Directors during the year Board Audit Remuneration Nomination GHSE Vladimir Kim 6 6 2 2 Oleg Novachuk 6 6 Philip Aiken 6 6 4 5 2 2 3 3 Simon Heale 6 6 5 5 2 2 2 2 David Munro 6 6 3 3 Vladimir Ni 6 6 Lord Renwick 6 6 2 2 2 2 James Rutland 6 6 5 5 1 3 Daulet Yergozhin 1 1 1 Philip Aiken missed one scheduled Audit Committee meeting owing to a conict in schedules and James Rutland missed two Group Health, Safety and Environment Committee meetings owing to ill health.
2 When Directors have not been able to attend meetings owing to a conict in schedules or other reasons, they receive and read the papers for consideration at that meeting, and have the opportunity to relay their comments in advance, and if necessary follow up with the relevant chairman on the decisions taken at the meeting.
Other matters: Nomination Committee The Committee, which provides a formal and transparent reviewed the Groups whistleblowing arrangements by which procedure for the appointment of new Directors to the Board, staff may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible legal, generally consults external consultants and advisers on regulatory or other improprieties in matters of financial prospective Board appointments.
The Committee keeps under reporting and other matters: review the planned and progressive refreshing of the Board and reviewed the relevant disclosures in this Annual Report: and its committees, assesses the development of Directors including induction, training and succession planning, considering the reviewed the Committees effectiveness and terms of reference.
specic experience and skill needed for an appointment.
The Committee also receives reports on developments in financial It recommends to the Board the appointment of all Directors reporting practices, legislative and regulatory changes and other after having met short-listed candidates and having regard to relevant matters so as to enable it to full its responsibilities.
the balance and structure of the Board.
The Committees policy on the provision of non-audit services by Since the publication of the last Annual Report, the Committee the external auditors and their associates includes the identication recommended the appointment of two further non-executive of certain non-audit services which the external auditors are Directors, Daulet Yergozhin and Peter Hickson.
For Peter Hickson prohibited from providing and a process through which other a job description was agreed by the Committee, having regard non-audit services are approved.
All non-audit services require to the desired balance of skills and experience for the Board the agreement of the Chief Financial officer before they can be as a whole, before external search consultants were engaged to undertaken, with certain engagements over 50,000 only being prepare a short list of candidates.
Only after a rigorous interview awarded to the external auditors after a competitive tender process.
process was he recommended to the Board.
Following the The non-audit services of the external auditors will only be used Government of Kazakhstans acquisition of a 15% shareholding in where the Group benets in a cost-effective manner and the the Company, the Board agreed that the Government should be external auditors maintain the necessary degree of independence entitled to appoint a Director to the Board, for so long as it holds and objectivity.
Details of all non-audit services are reported to the a significant shareholding in the Company.
Pursuant to this right, Committee twice a year.
The policy will be kept under review and the Government proposed Daulet Yergozhin as its representative may be amended from time to time as necessary.
whose appointment was considered by the Committee.
The Committee met twice during the year for formal meetings in Remuneration Committee addition to the interview sessions referred to above.
The members Details of the Committees main functions, and its current policies for Board Directors and senior executives, are given in of the Committee are Vladimir Kim chairman, Lord Renwick and the Directors Remuneration Report commencing on page 60.
In accordance with the requirements of the The Committee met twice during the year.
The members of the Combined Code the majority of the members are independent Committee are Lord Renwick chairman, Philip Aiken and non-executive Directors and the Group Chairman is chairman Simon Heale.
com 57 Directors Report: Governance Governance Framework continued Group Health, Safety and Environment Committee well dened procedures for appraisal, approval, control The principal tasks of the Committee are to evaluate the and review of major capital projects, including acquisitions: effectiveness of the Groups policies and systems for identifying an established methodology for ranking the level of risk in and managing health, safety and environmental risks within the each of its business operations and the significant risk issues Group, to recommend to the Board the Groups policies on associated therewith: health, safety and environmental matters and to ensure that an effective system of health, safety and environmental standards, implementation of appropriate strategies to deal with procedures and practices is in place at each of the Groups significant risks, including measures such as insurance operational sites.
and use of external specialists: The Committee decided that all meetings held in 2008 and a centrally coordinated internal audit programme to support onward would normally be held in Kazakhstan and would involve the Board in its role of ensuring a sound control environment: site visits and meetings with senior management responsible regular reports to the Audit Committee on the adequacy for health and safety, with all visits lasting for two or three days.
and effectiveness of internal control: and The Committee, which met three times during the year in regular reports to the Board and Group Health, Safety Kazakhstan, currently consists of David Munro chairman, Philip and Environment Committee on health, safety and Aiken and Peter Hickson from 5 March 2009.
James Rutland was environmental matters.
Details of the Committees main functions and activities during the year are given in the Corporate The Board, in conjunction with management, has agreed Responsibility Report commencing on page 34. a number of activities to further develop the internal control environment.
Progress on these initiatives, alongside the Internal control development of embedded risk management and assurance The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system processes, is being made.
Details of initiatives in the area of of internal control and risk management and for reviewing the financial risk management can be found in the Financial Review effectiveness of this system.
Such a system is designed to identify, commencing on page 38, and initiatives in the area of health, evaluate and manage the significant risks associated with the safety and the environment can be found in the Corporate Groups achievement of its business objectives with a view to Responsibility Report commencing on page 34. safeguarding shareholders investments and the Groups assets.
All acquired businesses will be brought within the Groups system This system is designed to meet the Companys particular needs of internal control as soon as practicable and in any event within and the risks to which it is exposed, and is designed to manage 12 months of acquisition.
ENRC PLC, in which the Group has a rather than eliminate risk.
Because of the limitations inherent in 26% shareholding, has not been incorporated into the Groups any system of internal control, such a system can provide system of internal control.
reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Internal Audit The Board confirms that, throughout the year ended Internal Audit advises management on the extent to which 31 December 2008 and up to the date of approval of this Annual systems of internal control are adequate and effective to manage Report and Accounts, there have been processes in place for business risk, safeguard the Groups resources, and ensure identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced compliance with legal and regulatory requirements.
It provides by the Group in accordance with the Turnbull Guidance.
objective assurance on risk and controls to senior management, the Audit Committee and the Board.
The Board has adopted a risk-based approach in establishing the Groups system of internal control and in reviewing its Internal Audits work is focused on areas of greatest risk to the effectiveness.
To identify and manage key risks, it has established Group and its programme of work is approved by the Audit a number of Group-wide procedures, policies and standards, Committee.
Based on the approved audit plan, Internal Audit has has set up a framework for reporting matters of signicance, has undertaken a number of audits across operations and functions to authorised the Audit Committee to review the Groups strategy facilitate improvement of the Groups internal controls.
The Head with regard to risk and the effectiveness of the Groups internal of Internal Audit reports regularly to the Audit Committee.
financial reporting, internal controls and risk management systems, has developed a system of regular reports from Management of risk management and has reserved specic key matters for its The Group, in the course of its business activities, is exposed decision.
The process is designed to provide assurance by to strategic, financial, operational and compliance risks.
Overall way of cumulative assessment.
management of these risks is vested in the Board, with the Audit Committee having delegated authority for reviewing the Groups Key elements of the Groups system of internal control which have risk management framework.
The Board has approved a operated throughout the year are: formalised but pragmatic Group risk management framework.
Group financial, treasury, operating and administrative policies and This framework is designed to provide assurance that risks are procedures which incorporate statements of required behaviour: being identied and managed in a manner appropriate to the Groups circumstances.
It comprises risk identication and continuous review of operating and financial performance assessment processes, together with risk response and monitoring of the Groups businesses: activities.
The Group Risk Manager coordinates the risk monitoring by the Board of a comprehensive reporting assessment and identication activities, and facilitates the system, including monthly results, annual budgets and development of appropriate responses to identied risks.
medium-term forecasts: 58 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Directors Report: Governance Shareholder communications The Board recognises the importance of good communications with shareholders.
The Chief Executive and the Chief Financial officer are closely involved in investor relations and the Head of Corporate Communications has day-to-day responsibility for such matters.
In addition to the Annual Report and Accounts which is available to all shareholders either in hard copy or electronically, there is a regular dialogue with institutional shareholders, who also from time to time visit the Groups operations.
The Company has approved a communications policy which has been adopted throughout the Group.
The executive Directors are available, through the Head of Corporate Communications, to discuss the concerns of major shareholders at any time during the year and the Chairman holds regular meetings with major shareholders to discuss governance and strategy.
Non-executive Directors, and in particular the Senior Independent Director, will continue to make themselves available to attend meetings with shareholders in order to develop an understanding of their views.
The Company responds as necessary to requests from individual shareholders on a wide range of issues.
The Company issues quarterly production updates and interim management statements in April and October to the market, and these together with copies of institutional analyst presentations each half year, the Groups preliminary and half-yearly results and all announcements issued to the London Stock Exchange are available on the Companys website www.
Furthermore, the Company has taken full advantage of the provisions within the Companies Act 2006 allowing the website to be used as the primary means of communication with shareholders where they have not requested hard copy documentation.
The Shareholder Information section on pages 146 and 147 contains further details on electronic communications together with more general information of interest to shareholders which is also included on the Companys website.
The Notice of Annual General Meeting is circulated to all shareholders at least 20 business days prior to such meeting and it is Company policy not to combine resolutions to be proposed at such meeting.
All shareholders are invited to attend the Annual General Meeting at which there is an opportunity for individual shareholders to question the Chairman and, through him, the chairmen of the principal Board committees.
After the Annual General Meeting, shareholders can meet informally with the Directors.
All members of the Board attended the 2008 Annual General Meeting.
At the Annual General Meeting, the Chairman provides a brief summary of the Companys activities for the previous year to the shareholders.
All resolutions at the 2008 Annual General Meeting were voted by way of an electronic poll.
This follows best practice and allows the Company to count all votes rather than just those of shareholders attending the meeting.
As recommended by the Combined Code, all resolutions were voted separately and the voting results, which included all votes cast for, against and those withheld, together with all proxies lodged prior to the meeting, were indicated at the meeting and the final results were made available on the Companys website as soon as practicable after the meeting.
As in previous years, the Form of Proxy made it clear that a vote withheld is not a vote in law and will not be counted in the calculation of the proportion of votes for or against a resolution.
