CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Company is committed to maintaining high standards apprising the Board of all matters which materially affect of corporate governance.
The Board recognises that it is the Group and its performance, including any significantly accountable to the Companys shareholders for corporate underperforming business activities: and governance and this statement describes how the Company leadership of executive management to enable the Groups has applied the principles of the Combined Code on Corporate businesses to deliver the requirements of shareholders: Governance the Code as appended to the Listing Rules of ensuring adequate, well-motivated and incentivised the UK Listing Authority.
Throughout the year to 31 December management resources: 2008, save as otherwise explained in the paragraph headed ensuring succession planning: and Compliance with the Code on page 40, the Board believes ensuring appropriate business processes.
that the Company was in compliance with the provisions of the Code.
Directors and Directors independence The Board currently comprises the Chairman, five other NonThe Board executive Directors and four Executive Directors.
The names The Group is controlled through its Board of Directors.
The of the Directors at the date of this report, together with their Boards main roles are to create value for shareholders, to biographical details, are set out on pages 28 and 29.
All these provide entrepreneurial leadership of the Group, to approve the Directors served throughout the year.
In addition, Mr Keith Groups strategic objectives and to ensure that the necessary Payne served on the Board until he retired on 31 January 2008. financial and other resources are made available to enable The Board included at least four Independent Non-executive those objectives to be met.
The Board has a schedule of Directors throughout the year.
matters reserved for its approval which is kept under review.
The Board considers all the Non-executive Directors, with the Specific responsibilities of the Board include: setting Group exceptions of Dr West and Mr Lpez Jimnez, to be strategy and approving the annual budget: reviewing independent of management.
Dr West was Chief Executive operational and financial performance: approving major from 1982 to 1995 and is not, therefore, considered to be acquisitions, divestments and capital expenditure: reviewing independent of management.
Mr Lpez Jimnez is associated the Groups systems of internal controls and risk management: with GTCEISU Construccin, S. A. GTCEISU, which is a 49% ensuring that appropriate management development and shareholder in Keller-Terra S. L. and a 6% shareholder in Keller succession plans are in place: reviewing the health and safety Group plc.
Whilst the Board considers Mr Lpez Jimnez to performance of the Group: approving appointments to the be independent in character and judgement, he is not deemed Board: and approving policies relating to Directors to be independent of management under the Code, in view remuneration and Directors contracts.
of GTCEISUs shareholding in Keller Group plc.
Board papers and other relevant information are circulated to The Non-executive Directors constructively challenge and help the Directors in a timely manner in preparation for Board and to develop proposals on strategy and bring strong independent Committee meetings.
This information is supplemented by judgement, knowledge and experience to the Boards information specifically requested by the Directors from time deliberations.
Mr Brown is the Senior Independent Director.
There is an agreed procedure for individual Directors to obtain independent professional advice and all Directors have The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive unrestricted access to the Company Secretary and Chairman.
There is a clear division of responsibilities between Dr West The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Board, as Non-executive Chairman and Mr Atkinson who, as Chief through the Chairman, on all governance matters.
Executive, is the Director ultimately responsible for the running The Chairman has no other significant professional of the Groups business.
The Chairman is responsible for the following matters The Board had eight scheduled meetings during the year.
pertaining to the leadership of the Board: A table showing attendance at these meetings, and at ensuring appropriate Board composition: meetings of Board Committees, is set out on page 39. ensuring effective Board processes: All Directors receive Board papers well in advance of meetings setting the Boards agenda: and it is usual for Directors who cannot attend a given meeting ensuring that Directors are properly briefed in order to take to discuss the business of the meeting in advance with the a full and constructive part in Board and Board Committee Chairman or the Senior Independent Director, in order to have discussions: input into the Boards deliberations.
ensuring effective communication with shareholders: and One of the Board meetings in 2008 was held in the US, giving the Board an opportunity to visit operational locations, ensuring constructive relations between Executive and to receive presentations and to meet some of the Groups Non-executive Directors.
The Chief Executive is responsible for the following matters: In addition, during the year the Chairman met with the formulating strategy proposals for the Board: Non-executive Directors without the Executive Directors present formulating annual and medium-term plans charting how and there was regular informal contact between the Directors.
this strategy will be delivered: 38 Keller Group plc Corporate Governance Directors conflicts of interests Relations with shareholders Section 175 of the Companies Act 2006, which came into Throughout the year, the Company regularly meets with effect from 1 October 2008, provides that directors have a and makes presentations to institutional investors in the UK, statutory duty to avoid a situation in which they have, or can Continental Europe and the US.
These include meetings have, an interest that conflicts or possibly may conflict with the following the announcement of the annual and interim results interests of the Company.
During the year, the Board reviewed with the Companys largest institutional shareholders on an the interests of the Directors which, with the exception referred individual basis.
The Senior Independent Director is available to below, did not represent conflicts or potential conflicts with on request to meet with shareholders should they have the Company.
concerns which contact through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive or Finance Director have not The Board considered Mr Lpez Jimnezs interest as resolved, or for which such contact is inappropriate.
All major Chairman and a shareholder in GTCEISU Construccin, S. A shareholders have the opportunity on request to meet new GTCEISU.
In 2002, GTCEISU and Keller created Keller-Terra Non-executive Directors on appointment.
On a regular basis, S. L. a joint venture for the development of the business in the Board is apprised of the views of the investment Spain, which is 51% owned by the Group.
community through the circulation of investor perception The Board recognised that the co-operation between Keller surveys, brokers research notes and feedback from analysts.
and GTCEISU and Mr Lpez Jimnezs subsequent The Annual General Meeting is normally attended by all the appointment brought clear benefits to the Company in terms Directors and shareholders are invited to ask questions during of business development, industry knowledge and expertise.
the meeting and to meet with Directors after the formal Mr Lpez Jimnezs other interests in the ground engineering proceedings have ended.
The Notice of the Annual General sector were well known to the Board at the time of his Meeting, detailing all proposed resolutions, is posted to appointment.
Accordingly, the Board concluded that it was shareholders at least 20 working days prior to the meeting.
in the best interests of the Company to retain the services of Mr Lpez Jimnez as a Director of the Company and, in The Group maintains a corporate website, www.
co. uk, accordance with the authority granted by shareholders at containing a wide range of information of interest to investors, the Companys 2007 Annual General Meeting, the Board including presentations to institutional investors and analysts.
authorised the potential conflict presented by his interest The website is updated with all formal communications to the in GTCEISU, subject to certain conditions and to an investment community immediately following their release annual review.
Professional development Board committees On appointment, Directors are provided with information about The number of full Board and Committee meetings attended the Group, the role of the Board and the matters reserved for by each Director during the year was as follows: its decision, the terms of reference and membership of the Scheduled Remuneration Audit Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee Board Committees and the latest financial information about meetings meetings meetings meetings the Group.
This is supplemented by visits to key locations and 8 2 4 1 meetings with certain senior executives to develop the Dr J M West Directors understanding of the business.
Chairman 8 n a n a 1 J R Atkinson Throughout their period of office, Non-executive Directors Chief Executive 8 n a n a 1 are continually updated on the Groups business, its markets, J W G Hind social responsibility matters and other changes affecting the Finance Director 8 n a n a n a Group and the industry in which it operates, including changes R M Rubright to the legal and governance environment and the obligations Executive Director 8 n a n a n a on themselves as Directors.
Dr W Sondermann Executive Director 8 n a n a n a Dr K Bond Performance evaluation and re-election Non-executive Director 7 2 4 1 During the year, the Board undertook a formal evaluation E G F Brown of its performance and that of its Committees.
Independent Non-executive Director 7 2 3 1 consultants, Corporate Partners Ltd, carried out structured R A Franklin one-on-one interviews with individual Directors, based on a Non-executive Director 8241 standard set of topics and questions.
The report of Corporate P J Lpez Jimnez Partners Ltd was discussed collectively by the Board and a Non-executive Director 6 n a n a n a number of follow-up actions were agreed.
The performance R T Scholes Non-executive Director 8 2 4 1 of the Chairman is reviewed separately in a process led by the Senior Independent Director.
Figures in brackets indicate the maximum number of scheduled meetings in All Directors are subject to election by shareholders at the the period.
first Annual General Meeting following their appointment and, subject to satisfactory performance evaluation where appropriate, to re-election thereafter at intervals of no more than three years.
Corporate Governance Keller Group plc 39 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Committee terms of reference reviewing an annual report on the Groups system of internal The terms of reference for the Remuneration, Audit and control and its effectiveness and receiving regular updates Nomination Committees are kept under regular review on key risk areas of financial control: and are available on the Companys website.
reviewing the Groups draft financial statements prior to Board approval and reviewing the Auditors reports thereon: Remuneration Committee reviewing the Groups whistle-blowing policy and monitoring The Remuneration Committee was chaired throughout the the procedures in place for employees to be able to raise year by Mr Brown, an Independent Non-executive Director.
matters of possible impropriety: The other members during the year, all of whom are also reviewing the Groups policy on the employment of former Independent Non-executive Directors, are shown on page 32. employees of the Auditor: This Committee is responsible for agreeing with the Board reviewing the Groups policy on employment of the Auditors the framework and policy for the remuneration of the Groups for non-audit services: executive management and for determining the remuneration reviewing the Committees terms of reference and evaluating packages of the Executive Directors.
The Directors its effectiveness: Remuneration Report is set out on pages 32 to 37. reviewing the need for an internal audit function: and approving a rolling three-year programme of independent Nomination Committee reviews of aspects of the Groups operations and financial The Nomination Committee is chaired by Dr West, except if it controls and receiving reports on all reviews carried out is dealing with succession to the chairmanship of the Board.
The other members during the year were Mr Atkinson, Dr Bond, In considering the need for an internal audit function, the Mr Brown, Mr Franklin, and Mr Scholes.
Mr Payne was a Committee took account of the Groups broad geographic member of the Committee until his retirement on 31 January spread and cultural diversity, recognising that the Groups key 2008.
The Nomination Committees role is to monitor the risks lie in its tendering processes and in the operational composition and balance of the Board and recommend to the controls over the performance of work, which a traditional, Board the appointment of new Directors.
Where appointments finance-focused internal audit function would not be capable to the Board are under consideration, the Committee will of addressing effectively.
The Committee remained of the view normally employ external search consultants, except where that the existing structured programme of independent reviews internal candidates have already been identified.
was the best way of addressing the Groups key risks and that The Committee met once during the year to consider the these should be continued and developed.
composition of the Board and made certain recommendations The Committees annual evaluation of the Auditors focused on: to the Board which are currently under consideration.
the calibre of the audit firm including reputation, presence in the industry, size, resources and geographic spread : its quality Audit Committee control processes: the quality of the team assigned to the The Audit Committee is chaired by Mr Scholes, who is a audit: the audit scope, fee and audit communications: Chartered Accountant.
The other members during the year and the governance and independence of the audit firm.
were Dr Bond, Mr Brown and Mr Franklin.
Mr Payne was a Any work awarded to the external Auditors, other than audit member of the Committee until his retirement on 31 January or tax compliance, with a value in excess of 50,000 requires 2008.
All members of the Committee are Independent Nonthe specific approval of the Committee.
Where the Committee executive Directors.
The Board has satisfied itself that at least perceives that the independence of the Auditors could be one member of the Committee has recent and relevant compromised, the work will not be awarded to them.
of the amounts paid to the external Auditors during the year This Committee usually meets four times a year, with the for audit and other services are set out in the notes to the Companys external Auditors the Auditors in attendance.
At least twice a year, the Committee meets privately with the Auditors.
The Committee assists the Board in observing its Compliance with the Code responsibility for ensuring that the Groups financial systems The Board believes that the Company was compliant with provide accurate and up-to-date information on its financial the Code throughout the year, save in the following respect.
position and that the Groups published financial statements The Company has not, throughout the full year, met the represent a true and fair reflection of this position.
It also requirement of the Code for at least half the board, excluding reviews annually the Groups systems of internal control and the chairman, to comprise independent non-executive the processes for monitoring and evaluating the risks facing directors.
As previously stated, whilst under the Code the Group.
Mr Lpez Jimnez is not deemed to be independent of Since the start of 2008, the Audit Committee has discharged management, the Board considers him to be independent its responsibilities by: in character and judgement.
Were he also deemed to be reviewing the scope and results of the audit, its costindependent under the Code, the Company would have effectiveness and the independence and objectivity complied with the Code in all respects.
of the Auditors: reviewing and approving the Auditors engagement letter and audit fee: 40 Keller Group plc Corporate Governance Internal control d Budgeting and forecasting The Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups system of There is a comprehensive budgeting system with an annual internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
However, budget approved by the Board.
This budget includes monthly such a system is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, profit and loss accounts, balance sheets and cash flows.
the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can In addition, detailed quarterly forecasts are prepared for the provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance against two subsequent years.
Forecasts for the full year are updated material misstatement or loss.
The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced e Financial reporting by the Group, which has been in place for the year under Detailed monthly management accounts are prepared which review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report compare profit and loss accounts, balance sheets, cash flows and Accounts.
This process is regularly reviewed by the Board and other information with budget and prior year, and and accords with the guidance.
The principal elements of the internal control framework are as follows: f Cash control Each business reports its cash position weekly.
Regular cash a Risk identification and evaluation forecasts are prepared to monitor the Groups shortand Managers are responsible for the identification and evaluation medium-term cash positions and to control immediate of significant risks applicable to their areas of business, borrowing requirements.
together with the design and operation of suitable internal controls.
These risks may be associated with a variety g Investments and capital expenditure of internal or external sources including market cycles, All significant investment decisions, including capital acquisitions, people, technical risks such as engineering expenditure, are referred to the appropriate divisional or Group and project management, control breakdowns, disruptions authority level.
in information systems, natural catastrophe and regulatory requirements.
The identified risks, and the controls in place h Independent reviews to manage them, are subject to continual reassessment.
The Group has a structured programme of independent The Audit Committee formally reviews this process once reviews, combining internal peer and outsourced reviews every two years.
covering tendering, operational processes and internal financial The Chief Executive reports to the Board on significant controls.
The intention is to conduct an independent review changes in the business and the external environment that of all material business units at least once every three to four affect significant risks.
The Finance Director provides the years.
This programme is approved and monitored by the Audit Board with monthly financial information which includes Committee, which reviews the findings of each such exercise.
key performance and risk indicators.
i Self-certification b Authorisation procedures Once a year, managers are asked to confirm the adequacy of Documented authorisation procedures provide for an auditable the systems of internal financial and non-financial controls for trail of accountability.
These procedures are relevant across which they are responsible: and their compliance with Group Group operations and provide for successive assurances to be policies, local laws and regulations: and to report any control given at increasingly higher levels of management and, finally, weaknesses identified in the past year.
c Management of project risk Project risk is managed throughout the life of a contract from the bidding stage to completion.
Detailed risk analyses covering technical, operational and financial issues are performed as part of the bidding process.
Authority limits applicable to the approval of bids relate to the risks and total value being bid by Keller, or any joint venture to which Keller is a party.
Any bids involving an unusually high degree of technical or commercial risk, for example those using a new technology or in a territory where we have not previously worked, must be approved at a senior level within the operating company.
The average time on site is around six weeks but larger contracts may extend over several months.
The performance of contracts is monitored by most business units on a weekly basis.
In addition, thorough reviews are carried out by senior managers on any poorly performing jobs and full cost-tocomplete assessments are routinely carried out on extended duration contracts.
Corporate Governance Keller Group plc 41
