CORPORatE GOvERnanCE statEmEnt The Code potential acquisitions: The Board recognises the importance of high standards of corporate the implications of prevailing economic conditions and the conduct and is committed to managing the Groups operations in response to them: accordance with the best principles of corporate governance as contained within Section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate material operational opportunities: Governance issued in June 2006 and has complied with it throughout health & safety strategies and particular issues as they arose: the year except as explained below.
the investigation by the Office of Fair Trading into alleged Independent non-executive directors comprise less than half of the cover pricing by a Group company including the introduction Board.
Consultants have been engaged to conduct a search for an of a competition compliance policy and the audit of the additional non-executive director, a process which remains ongoing.
implementation of the policy by : and Furthermore, Mr R W Side will retire in November 2008 and there are no plans to nominate any additional director to the board on his presentations as to strategic issues from the senior management of retirement.
It is not currently proposed however that the balance of a number of the divisions.
the Board be altered further after these changes, as it is felt vital that The Groups chairman is Mr P M White who leads the Board and the diverse elements of the Group be represented by executives at succeeded Mr P T Warry on 1 January 2008.
He is responsible for Board level and that to match each of these executives with nonits effectiveness and sets its agenda.
He facilitates the effective executives would produce a board which would be unwieldy and not contribution of the non-executive directors and ensures a positive produce any tangible benefit for shareholders.
and constructive relationship between the executive and nonNeither the Remuneration Committee nor the Audit Committee executive directors.
The chairman is also responsible for effective comprised the three independent non-executive directors required by communication with shareholders.
This will be addressed with the appointment of The chief executive is Mr J Dodds who is responsible for the a further non-executive director in due course, as described above.
operational management of the Group and is accountable to the Independent non-executive directors do not comprise a majority Board for the implementation of the Groups strategy.
In order to of the Nomination Committee.
This will be addressed with the facilitate this, the chief executive meets monthly with a management appointment of a further non-executive director in due course, as committee comprising the other executive directors, he also chairs described above.
monthly management meetings with each of the divisions.
As director responsible for human resource matters and health & safety he also Board of directors meets regularly with the human resources director and the director of The Board of Kier Group plc is responsible to its shareholders for the safety, health & environment.
It sets the strategic and financial policies of the Group, monitors and reviews business performance and controls The senior non-executive director is Mr C V Geoghegan who risk.
As part of the Groups organisational structure described on succeeded Mr P M White in that role on 1 January 2008. pages 43 to 44 under Internal control the Board has put in place Biographical details of all the directors are set out on pages 38 and standing orders which are designed to ensure the provision to it of 39.
All the directors served throughout the year.
The Board considers relevant information on a timely basis, which set authorisation limits Mr C V Geoghegan and Mr S W Leathes to be independent.
and which reserve certain matters for the Board or its committees, including: A table of attendance of directors at meetings of the Board and its various committees is set out on page 43.
In addition to these strategy and financial policy: meetings, the full Board attends an annual away-day which focuses the approval of financial statements: on strategy, material issues facing the Group and succession planning.
Outside of the formal schedule of meetings, the non-executive risk management: directors met without the executive directors a number of times major capital expenditure: during the year.
major project approval: All directors have access to the advice and services of the company secretary and the directors are able to seek independent professional acquisitions and disposals: and advice if necessary at the Companys expense.
Training is available certain aspects of human resource policy, including senior for new directors and subsequently as necessary.
All directors are appointments, general salary reviews, employee share plans and subject to election by shareholders at the first annual general meeting pension provision.
following their appointment, and to re-election thereafter at intervals of no more than three years.
Executive directors are required to seek The principal matters considered by the Board during the year included: approval from the Board before accepting any external non-executive the Groups budgets, strategy and financial requirements: positions, although none is currently held.
the full and interim reports and accounts taking into account the The Remuneration Committee and Board encourage directors and views of the Audit Committee : staff at all levels to acquire shares in the Company and to hold them for the longer-term.
This sense of ownership is an important element interim management statements: of Kiers culture and of its focus on long-term performance.
As far as the Groups final salary pension scheme: possible the Group prefers to promote individuals from within.
the implications of and proper approach to the issues with the Castlepoint Shopping Centre car park, Bournemouth: 42 KIER GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 Board evaluation No consultancy related work has been carried out by the auditors The chairman carried out an evaluation of the Board in the summer during the year.
The Committee was satisfied, following its review, of 2008.
This included all the committees of the Board.
The chairman that KPMGs objectivity and independence had not been impaired.
held individual meetings with each director to discuss their views and The Committee agreed and approved the audit fee at the June meeting to canvass suggestions.
The conclusions were discussed collectively following discussions between divisional management and the by the Board and a number of actions agreed.
The performance of divisional KPMG audit teams.
the chairman is reviewed separately in a process led by the senior independent director.
The Committees terms of reference are reviewed annually and were updated in 2004 in line with the guidance and recommendations of The terms and conditions of appointment of the non-executive the revised Combined Code.
The terms of reference are available on directors are available for inspection at the registered office and will request and on the Companys website.
be on display prior to and at the annual general meeting.
Remuneration Committee Audit Committee The Remuneration Committee comprises the Chairman and the two The Audit Committee comprises the two independent non-executive independent non-executive directors, under the chairmanship of directors under the chairmanship of Mr S W Leathes, a chartered Mr C V Geoghegan, who succeeded Mr P M White on 1 January 2008. accountant with recent and relevant financial experience.
The Committee met three times during the year in September, March and Information about the workings of this Committee is contained June prior to the Board meetings.
These Committee meetings were in the directors remuneration report on page 45.
The Committee also attended by the finance director and the head of internal audit.
makes recommendations to the Board on the Companys framework The KPMG audit engagement director attended the September and of executive remuneration and determines, on its behalf, specific February meetings.
The chairman and executive directors were also remuneration packages for each of the executive directors.
In doing invited to attend the meetings.
The Committee also met with KPMG so it takes the advice of independent external consultants.
The terms without management being present.
of reference are available on the Companys website.
The Committee has clearly defined terms of reference which outline Nomination Committee its objectives and responsibilities relating to financial reporting, The Nomination Committee presently comprises the chairman, the internal controls, risk management and the application of appropriate chief executive and the non-executive directors.
It is responsible accounting policies and procedures.
Specific responsibilities include for monitoring the composition and balance of the Board, making reviewing and recommending for approval the annual and interim recommendations to the Board on new Board appointments and financial statements, reviewing the Groups accounting policies, succession planning.
The Committee met twice during the year.
reviewing the effectiveness of internal controls and risk management The Committees terms of reference are available on the Companys and reviewing the scope and results of the external audit.
The Committee also has responsibility for overseeing the Group Board and Committee meetings internal audit function including approval of the annual riskDetails of the number of meetings of, and attendances at, the Board, based audit plan and monitoring the work, recommendations and Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees are set out in the effectiveness of the function.
The head of internal audit reports table below.
directly to the chairman of the Audit Committee.
Name of director Board 12 Audit 3 Remuneration 5 Nomination 2 At each of its meetings the Committee received and reviewed a report P M White 11 2 4 1 from the head of internal audit which highlighted the status of the Group J Dodds 12 1 risk management processes and audit activity against the approved C V Geoghegan 11 3 5 2 plan together with the findings from internal audits.
The chairman of I M Lawson 12 the Audit Committee also met regularly with the head of internal audit D E Mattar 12 1 and the Committee has met with the head of internal audit without M OFarrell 9 management being present.
The Committee carried out a review of the M P Sheffield 12 effectiveness of the internal audit function at the June meeting.
R W Side 12 R W Simkin 12 The Committee is responsible for monitoring the independence and S W Leathes 12 3 5 2 objectivity of KPMG, the external auditor, and agreeing the level 2 P T Warry 6 of remuneration and extent of non-audit services.
The Committee 1 Mr OFarrell ceased to be a director on 6 June 2008 received a presentation from KPMG on its audit strategy and the 2 Mr Warry ceased to be a director on 31 December 2007 scope of work at the February meeting which it agreed.
It also discussed the firms professional ethical standards.
Internal control The Combined Code requires that the directors review the The Committee reviewed the performance of KPMG and the level effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control.
This extends of non-audit fees paid to them during the year, which are set out the directors review to cover all material controls, including in note 3 to the consolidated financial statements.
The provision of operational, compliance and financial controls and risk management non-audit services, other than tax compliance and routine taxation systems.
The directors are satisfied that procedures are in place advice, must be referred to and agreed by the Committee over a pre to ensure that the Group complies with the Turnbull Committee determined cost threshold and any work costed below that threshold guidance published by the Institute of Chartered Accountants in must be pre-approved by the Group finance director.
England and Wales and that the procedures have been applied during the year.
KIER GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 43 CORPORatE GOvERnanCE statEmEnt COntInUED Internal control continued risk registers are in place for each business unit which highlight The Board of directors has overall responsibility for the Groups the key risks facing that business together with an assessment system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
of the effectiveness of controls to mitigate those risks.
The risk The Board considers that the Groups systems and controls are registers are updated regularly and at 31 March: appropriately designed to ensure that the Groups exposure to an annual process of risk and control self assessment is used significant risks is properly managed.
However, such a system is in the Group whereby all operating companies are required to designed to manage rather than eliminate the risks of failure to review and confirm that appropriate internal controls are in place achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not and operating effectively across the key risk areas identified in absolute assurance against material misstatement.
In reviewing the individual company risk registers.
This assessment was carried effectiveness of internal controls, which have been developed and out on 31 March 2008 and the findings reviewed by the Audit refined over many years, the directors have considered the key risks Committee: and exposures within the Group.
regular monitoring, review and reporting of safety, health and The key features of the Groups system of internal controls and environmental matters: and principal controls are: the provision of a confidential method of reporting any suspected an established management structure operating throughout the fraud or other misfeasance to the head of internal audit.
Group with clearly defined levels of responsibility and delegation of authorities: The Board receives regular reports from all operating units to monitor their performance and all directors are properly briefed on issues clearly defined operating guidelines and procedures with arising at Board meetings.
authorisation limits set at appropriate levels.
These are set out in the Group and divisional standing orders: During the course of the year members of the Board visit all companies and monitor the control framework of each business.
a comprehensive budgeting and forecasting system in place which The Audit Committee reviews the appropriateness and effectiveness is regularly reviewed and updated: of internal controls.
a formal quarterly review of each divisions year-end forecast, Relations with shareholders business performance, risk and internal control matters is carried The Board uses the annual general meeting to communicate with out by the directors of each division with the chief executive and shareholders and encourages their attendance and participation.
The finance director in attendance: chairmen of the Audit Committee and the Remuneration Committee monthly management reporting including regular comparison of are available to answer questions from shareholders.
The Group also actual results against latest forecasts: maintains a regular dialogue with institutional investors to assist in the understanding of the Groups objectives and the Company has established policies and procedures governing the Groups a programme of regular communication with investors, analysts and investment in land, property and other significant assets, including brokers.
Presentations are made to investors, analysts and press at the acquisitions and disposals.
These include detailed appraisals, time of the announcement of the final and half-year results and there appropriate authorisation levels and Board approval depending on are regular meetings with analysts and investors which are arranged value or perceived exposure: through the Companys brokers so that the investment community can investment decisions, including Private Finance Initiative PFI be kept informed.
The Board is provided with independent feedback projects and tenders for contracts are subject to approval by the from analysts and institutional shareholders periodically.
Board, the chief executive and finance director or divisional The Kier website is also maintained to aid communication with directors depending on the value and nature of the investment or investors, employees, customers, suppliers and the general public.
Individual tender and project review procedures are in place prior to bidding and before contract award: internal audits are carried out to assess the adequacy and effectiveness of internal controls.
The scope of the internal audit work is planned to cover the key risks faced by the business and supplemented by cyclical reviews of the core financial process.
Internal audit findings are reported to the Audit Committee and the executive directors on a regular basis: 44 KIER GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008
