Audit Committee report 53 King sher Annual Report and Accounts 2007 08 The Audit Committee consists of four independent non-executive During the year, the Committee reviewed the effectiveness of the directors.
It is chaired by Phil Bentley, who is a quali ed accountant external audit and  role in performing it.
and was, until his promotion to Managing Director of British Gas, The results of this process were discussed and it was agreed that the Group Finance Director of Centrica plc and as such is considered the performance of the auditors was acceptable.
to be suitably quali ed to be the Audit Committee Chairman.
He, In 2007 08 there were four Committee meetings, with four planned Daniel Bernard, John Nelson and Michael Hepher served for the for 2008 09.
Should the need arise, additional ad-hoc meetings are whole year.
A standing forward agenda covering the whole year was used to At the invitation of the Committee, the Chairman of the Board and ensure that the Committees terms of reference were fully addressed.
the Group Chief Executive regularly attended meetings, as did the As part of the Board effectiveness evaluation, the Audit Committees Group Finance Director, the Head of Internal Audit and the external work was assessed and no signi cant issues or concerns were auditors.
Private meetings were also held with the external and highlighted.
The actions required as a result of the findings from the internal auditors at which management were not present.
assessment process were discussed at one of the four scheduled The Committee provides an independent overview of the effectiveness Committee meetings across the year.
of the Groups internal control systems and financial reporting During the year and as part of its normal programme, the processes.
Its terms of reference are available at www.
Committee has considered and reviewed a number of matters, The principal responsibilities include monitoring the integrity of the some of which were: financial statements, including a review of the signi cant financial Progress on Audit Plans across the businesses: reporting judgements contained in them, and overseeing the work Risks and controls in certain overseas subsidiaries: and of both the internal and the external auditors.
Group minimum control standards, including IT.
During the year, the internal audit function was independently reviewed by an external consultant.
Whilst there were no signi cant concerns raised, all actions required as a result of the findings were Phil Bentley discussed and agreed at a scheduled Committee meeting.
Chairman, Audit Committee 26 March 2008 Nomination Committee report The Nomination Committee comprises the Chairman, all the involving a number of directors, a short-list of candidates was non-executive directors and the Group Chief Executive.
It is presented to the Nomination Committee and a final recommendation chaired by Peter Jackson.
Its terms of reference are available made by it to the Board for approval.
The Committee keeps the composition of the Board under review The Committee reviews annually the succession plans for the to monitor the continuing independence of the non-executive Board and the senior executives and monitors agreed actions.
directors, to identify any gaps in skills or experience so that The succession plan for executive directors is considered by the appropriate training can be arranged, and to inform the succession full Board so that the necessary input of the serving executive plan for future Board appointments.
Suitably quali ed external search consultants As a result of this work, the Committee agrees, for recommendation assist in the search process for all new Board appointees.
to the Board, plans and processes for ensuring continuity of The Nominations Committee conducted a formal, rigorous and experience as well as compliance with the requirement that at least transparent process to identify a new Group Chief Executive during half the Board excluding the Chairman is comprised of the year under review.
This process involved the appointment of a independent non-executive directors.
quali ed external search consultant to assist in providing a thorough, The Committee met six times during the year.
independent and objective assessment of a comprehensive range of internal and external candidates.
Prior to initiating this search, the consultant was provided with a comprehensive brie ng as to the Peter Jackson skills, knowledge and experience required and, from this, a list of Chairman, Nomination Committee potential candidates was identi ed.
Following a series of interviews 26 March 2008 KF6712 p33-53 v6b.
