Corporate Governance report 37 King sher Annual Report and Accounts 2007 08 Combined Code statement directors to be independent, including Michael Hepher, King sher is committed to maintaining the highest standards notwithstanding the fact that he has served for more than of corporate governance.
The Board endorses the principles set 10 years as a director.
Michael Hepher has offered himself for out in the Combined Code 2006, and throughout the year ended re-election at the AGM this year to provide continuity of Board 2 February 2008 the Company has complied in full with the membership as King shers new Group Chief Executive takes requirements of the Code.
The Board sets out its reasons for determining his continued independence on page 33.
Board of Directors The role of the Board is to determine the Groups strategy and provide There is a clear and documented division of responsibilities appropriate leadership.
It oversees managements implementation between the Chairman and the Group Chief Executive, which of the strategy and acts as a sounding board for senior executives.
It also provides a critical overview of strategic risks and monitors the The non-executive directors share responsibility for the adequacy of the Groups control environment.
execution of the Boards duties and are actively involved in The matters which are reserved to the Board and the authorities the development of the Companys strategy.
They are also delegated to management are contained within Matters Reserved required to provide advice to the Group Chief Executive to for the Board available at www.
com as well as within ensure that individual business decisions conform to agreed various policies covering such matters as treasury management, strategies and policies, and where they sit on a relevant capital expenditure approvals, legal matters and internal audit.
committee, to scrutinise performance and assess risks and the integrity of financial information and controls, and to The policies referred to above and the system of internal controls ensure appropriate remuneration and succession planning are also supported by King shers Code of Conduct.
The Code for executive directors.
of Conduct is available to all employees in their own language and, to the extent possible, forms part of the employees contract All directors are provided with, and have full and timely access of employment.
to, information that enables them to make informed decisions on corporate and business issues, including operational and King shers Board currently comprises the Chairman, Deputy financial performance, risk management and business plans.
Chairman, five other independent non-executive directors, the In particular, the Board receives monthly information on the Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director.
John performance and results of the Group and the individual Nelson stepped down from his role as Deputy Chairman at operating businesses.
the AGM in 2007 but remained as Senior Independent Director.
Gerry Murphy stepped down from his role as Group Chief In addition to the schedule of matters reserved for itself, the Executive on 2 February 2008.
Ian Cheshire was appointed Board has delegated certain matters to a number of standing as Group Chief Executive on 28 January 2008. committees with fide ned terms of reference, which are published on the Companys website at www.
The Board Having regard to the Combined Code, and the output from the members length of service and their committee membership Board evaluation process, the Board believes all the non-executive is shown in the following table: Name Length of service Age Board Committee membership 1 Peter Jackson 2 years and 3 months 61 Nomination Chairman, Remuneration Phil Bentley 5 years and 6 months 49 Audit Chairman, Nomination Daniel Bernard 1 year and 10 months 62 Audit, Nomination Ian Cheshire 7 years and 10 months 48 Executive Michael Hepher 10 years and 7 months 64 Audit, Nomination, Remuneration Janis Kong 1 year and 4 months 57 Nomination, Remuneration Hartmut Krmer 5 years and 5 months 61 Nomination 2 Gerry Murphy 5 years and 2 months 52 Nomination, Executive, Disclosure John Nelson 6 years and 3 months 60 Remuneration Chairman, Audit, Nomination Duncan Tatton-Brown 4 years and 2 months 43 Executive, Disclosure 1 Joined the Remuneration Committee on 20 March 2008.
indd 37 18 4 08 16:14:24 18 4 08 16:14:24 38 Corporate Governance report King sher Annual Report and Accounts 2007 08 The directors biographies, which can be found on page 32, alleged breach of duty, breach of trust, neglect, error, misleading illustrate the directors range of experience, which is intended statement, omission, breach of warranty or authority or other act.
to provide an effective Board to lead and control King sher.
The Board regards independent performance evaluation as an Non-executive directors are appointed for an initial term of important part of monitoring and improving its effectiveness.
year a further evaluation of the Board and its Committees was On appointment, each director receives a tailored induction undertaken using bespoke board evaluation software from Evalu8 programme which includes: Limited, a board evaluation and corporate governance compliance Individual time with the Chairman, the Group Chief Executive, the consultant, and the output and implications for improvement were Group Finance Director and other senior corporate executives: considered by the whole Board.
As a result, a speci c programme Visits to Group and competitors stores: of actions has been agreed to enhance Board agenda planning Meetings with management of the operating businesses: and and to deliver more focused summary information to directors in External training courses at the Companys expense, if required.
addition to that already provided.
External training at the Companys expense is available on an Each year the results of the Board evaluation are used by the ongoing basis and the Board visits and meets with a number of Chairman for assessing the individual performance of directors operating companies and their management teams each year.
In and inform the Nomination Committees assessment of the skills addition, ad-hoc update training is provided on appropriate matters.
required by any new non-executive directors.
Comprehensive Directors & Of cers liability insurance is provided The attendance record of individual directors at Board and by a reputable insurer covering all past, present and future director Committee meetings is detailed below.
In addition the non-executive and of cer appointments.
Cover is in respect of any actual or directors meet separately, once each year, without the Chairman.
Board meetings Committee meetings Audit Remuneration Nomination Executive Disclosure Number of meetings in year 10 4 6 6 11 3 Peter Jackson 10 6 Gerry Murphy 9 2 8 3 John Nelson 10 4 6 6 Phil Bentley 10 4 6 Daniel Bernard 9 4 6 Ian Cheshire 10 10 Michael Hepher 10 4 5 5 Janis Kong 10 5 6 Hartmut Krmer 10 5 Duncan Tatton-Brown 10 11 3 KF6712 p33-53 v6b.
indd 38 21 4 08 17:19:39 21 4 08 17:19:39 39 King sher Annual Report and Accounts 2007 08 Non-attendance at Board and Committee meetings is rare, The Board believes that there are suf cient opportunities for usually when either an unexpected commitment arises, or, for the necessary dialogue with shareholders and the Board.
newly appointed directors, there is a prior clash with a meeting Apart from the consultation noted above, these include regular which had been timetabled and could not be rearranged.
meetings between investors and management, the availability Directors are generally provided with the papers for Board and of all the non-executive directors for meetings if so requested by Committee meetings a week in advance and directors who are the shareholders and a standing invitation for the non-executive unable to attend provide comments and feedback to either the directors to attend any of the major presentations by management Chairman, the Chairman of the relevant Committee or the to shareholders.
The Senior Independent Director, John Nelson, Company Secretary, who ensure those comments and views is available to shareholders if there are concerns that cannot are raised at the meeting.
Additional Board meetings are also be resolved through normal channels of communication.
held to approve quarterly financial reports and preliminary The Board receives regular reports concerning institutional statements at the half and year end.
shareholder meetings and their issues and concerns.
This process Details of the Audit and Nomination Committees are provided and reporting allows the directors to develop the necessary in the individual reports of those Committees on page 53. understanding of the views of the shareholders and also enables The details of the Remuneration Committee are in the the Board to judge whether the investors have a suf cient Remuneration report on pages 42 to 52. understanding of the Companys objectives.
The Executive Committee formally comprises the executive Both institutional and private shareholders are welcome at the directors of the Company.
In addition, members of the senior AGM, which includes a presentation on the Groups business by management team attend the meetings.
The Committees the Group Chief Executive.
The AGM also provides an opportunity terms of reference can be found at www.
for shareholders to discuss with executive and non-executive The Committee provides an effective method of ensuring directors any issues concerning the Company and its activities.
the active participation of senior operational management in Auditor independence understanding the key issues facing King sher, as a UK listed King shers rules and authorisation processes for the instruction company.
The Committees responsibilities in relation to risk of the auditors for non-audit work were reviewed and updated in management and internal control, and corporate responsibility, 2005 and details can be found at www.
The auditors are set out below and on pages 40 and 41. are precluded from engaging in non-audit services that would Company Secretary compromise their independence or violate any laws or regulations On 27 July 2007 Nick Folland was appointed as Company affecting their appointment as auditors.
Approval of the Chairman Secretary and Director of Governance and Corporate Services of the Audit Committee is required prior to awarding contracts for and Helen Jones resigned.
All directors have access to, and non-audit services to the external auditors in excess of a speci ed the services of, the Company Secretary and may also take amount.
The external auditors report to the Audit Committee independent professional advice at King shers expense.
annually on their independence from the Company.
Periodic rotation of key partners is also required.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to all of the Board Committees.
Each of the Groups businesses are consulted on the effectiveness and independence of the Auditors annually.
In addition, the Auditors The Company Secretary is also responsible for facilitating the provide the Audit Committee with a schedule of each matter on induction and professional development of Board members which there was an initial difference between them and management as well as ensuring good information ows within the Board, in relation to the accounting treatment, with the advice if needed of its committees and between the non-executive directors and the rms technical committee, and with the final decisions on these senior management.
The Audit Committee considers whether the audit should Relations with shareholders go out to tender but has taken the view that partner rotation at both King sher is committed to an active dialogue with its shareholders the Group and operating business level has been suf cient to through a planned programme of investor relations.
This activity maintain the necessary independence.
is a key component of its corporate communications programme Accountability, risk management and internal control and is headed by the Group Communications Director, Ian Harding.
The Board considers risk assessment, identi cation of mitigating Shareholders also receive Annual and Interim Reports and the investors actions and internal control to be fundamental to achieving King shers section of King shers website www.
com investors includes strategic corporate objectives.
copies of all these, all trading updates, press announcements and This system of internal control is: presentations to shareholders.
The Boards overall responsibility: This years investor relations programme included formal Regularly, and at least annually, reviewed for its effectiveness presentations of full year and interim results, conference calls by both the Board and the Audit Committee: to discuss quarterly trading statements on three other occasions In compliance with the Turnbull guidance 2005: and during the year, and regular meetings between institutional Supported by King shers policies in such areas as code investors and senior management.
of conduct, legal and secretarial, finance and treasury.
indd 39 21 4 08 17:21:01 21 4 08 17:21:01 40 Corporate Governance report King sher Annual Report and Accounts 2007 08 However, such a system is designed to manage rather than Oversees the work of the Treasury Committee and reviews eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and and approves on behalf of the Board any signi cant or unusual can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against treasury transactions within the limits set out in the Treasury material misstatement or loss.
Policy and exercises all powers of execution and delivery of the Board in relation to the approval and authorisation for signature The key elements of the internal control process are summarised of nancing documents within the Committees terms of below: reference and authority limits: and The Board, which: Allots new shares in the Company to employees following the Has approved a set of policies, procedures and frameworks exercise of share options in schemes approved by the Board for effective internal control, including, the provision of quality and shareholders.
internal and external reporting and compliance with applicable The business head of each operating company business area who: laws and regulations, which are periodically reviewed and updated: Maintains systems that continually identify and evaluate Regularly reviews and updates the Groups strategy and those signi cant risks affecting their strategies and that apply to their of its operating companies: areas of the business: Reviews and assesses King shers key risks at least annually: Has responsibility for identi cation and evaluation of signi cant Reviews performance through a comprehensive system risks to their business area, together with the design of of reporting, based on an annual budget with monthly business mitigating controls: reviews against actual results, analysis of variances, key Reviews and monitors the effectiveness of internal control performance indicators and regular forecasting: systems through an operating company audit committee Has well fide ned policies governing appraisal and approval and reports from internal and external audit functions: of capital expenditure and treasury operations: Has responsibility for and ensures the effective functioning Seeks assurance that effective control is being maintained of their operating company audit committee: through regular reports from the Audit Committee and various Self-certi es that internal control processes are in place and independent monitoring functions.
that they comply with Group policies: and The Audit Committee which, in respect of the Group: Supported by their operating company audit committee, reports Monitors the integrity of the financial statements and any formal on any control weaknesses or breakdowns that could be announcements relating to financial performance: material to the Group.
Reviews and evaluates the internal financial risk, and other internal The Internal Audit and Risk Management function which: controls and their associated systems: Works with the operating companies to develop, improve Monitors and reviews the effectiveness of the internal audit function: and embed risk management tools and processes into their Considers and reviews the reports from the external auditors business operations: on the principal reporting issues faced by the Group.
Oversees the operation of the individual operating businesses The Executive Committee which, in respect of the Group: audit committees: Reviews and makes recommendations to the Board, where Ensures that business risks are identi ed, managed and appropriate, regarding: regularly reviewed at all levels of the Group and that directors The strategic and business plans of individual businesses are periodically appraised of the key risks in accordance with and the strategic choices of the Group: the Turnbull guidance: The annual budget and capital expenditure proposals Provides the Board with objective assurance on the control for the Group: environment across the Group: Management development and senior executive Monitors adherence to the Groups key policies and principles: and succession plans.
Provides the Group Audit Committee with necessary Oversees and reviews the Groups corporate responsibility assurances on the control environment.
programme and operating companies individual progress: Whilst management at each operating business has responsibility with the Group Chief Executive reporting to the Board at least for the identi cation and evaluation of signi cant risks applicable annually on issues, progress and recommendations for change.
to their business and any mitigating actions to be taken through Approves or, where appropriate, recommends to the Board the Executive Committee, Group executive management reviews, any acquisitions or disposals of companies, businesses or identi es and evaluates the risks which are signi cant at a Group signi cant assets: level as well as the mitigating actions against those risks.
These are Reviews periodically as necessary the communications then considered by the Board after review by the Audit Committee.
messages to the investor community for effectiveness and The type of risks identi ed include strategic risk, external factors relevance.
It also ensures any issues regarding strategy and such as competition, environment and regulation, change performance that the investor community are expressing are fully management programmes, health and safety, retention of key understood, that these are communicated appropriately to the management and macro market risks.
The Internal Audit plans are Board and actions are taken to address any legitimate concerns: designed to address the controls and actions in relation to each businesss signi cant identi ed risks.
indd 40 21 4 08 17:21:37 21 4 08 17:21:37 41 King sher Annual Report and Accounts 2007 08 The directors con rm they have reviewed the effectiveness of Directors responsibility for preparing financial statements this system of internal control, that any necessary action has been The following statement is made with a view to distinguishing or is being taken to remedy any signi cant failings or weaknesses for shareholders the respective responsibilities of the directors identi ed from the review and that it accords with the guidance and the auditors in relation to the financial statements.
of the Turnbull Committee on internal control.
The directors are required by company law to prepare financial Environmental, social and governance ESG statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view The Executive Committee oversees corporate responsibility of the state of affairs of the Company and Group as at the end of including environment, social and governance matters and its the financial year and of the pro t for the year to that date.
Under terms of reference can be found on the website www.
that law the directors have prepared the Group financial statements The Board recognises the importance of ESG matters and in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards receives information concerning any risks that may be posed IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and the parent regarding such matters from the Group Chief Executive and the company financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Executive Committee.
The Board formally reviews corporate Report in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom responsibility progress on an annual basis.
Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
In preparing the financial statements the King sher has developed a Corporate Responsibility Risk Register, directors are required to: to deliver a common approach to the way risks are identi ed Ensure that the Company keeps accounting records which and managed across the Group.
An initial set of risks has been disclose with reasonable accuracy the financial position of the identi ed and is being nalised following a trial of the register Company and which enable them to ensure that the Group with Kotas i n January 2008.
The register is designed to be used financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985 and by King shers operating companies to help them identify their own Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: and that the parent company speci c risks, including the magnitude and probability of occurrence financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report and the range of mitigating controls in place to minimise the potential comply with the Companies Act 1985: impacts of the risks.
Following evaluation and review, further Take such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard guidance is being developed for use by all King shers subsidiaries.
the assets of the Company and Group and to prevent and Key ESG matters are managed through King shers Corporate detect fraud and other irregularities: Responsibility Policy and Steps to Responsible Growth programme Apply suitable accounting policies in a consistent manner and see page 24.
In addition, King sher has a Code of Conduct for supported by reasonable and prudent judgements and Ethical Business practice which provides guidance on governance estimates where necessary: issues.
Non-compliance with the Code can result in disciplinary Comply with applicable accounting standards except where action for employees or termination of contract for vendors any departures from this requirement are explained in the notes and contractors.
to the financial statements : and Ensure the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website.
King sher is working to identify sustainability opportunities and Information published on the internet is accessible in many challenges for the business over the next ten years.
In order to countries with different legal requirements.
Legislation in the prepare for these changes, the Company has set the ambitious United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of objective to fully integrate sustainability into its business thinking financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
and has also developed a set of sustainability goals see page 25.
King sher is working to achieve these goals through its Steps to Responsible Growth programme.
By Order of the Board An overview of progress on corporate responsibility can be Nick Folland found on page 24.
A more detailed Corporate Responsibility Company Secretary Report is available on the website www.
