CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Board schedules eight meetings each year, Appointment and replacement but arranges to meet at other times, as appropriate.
of directors There was a full attendance at the eight meetings A person may be appointed as a director of the held in 2008.
In addition, the Chairman met Company by the shareholders in general meeting during the year with the non-executive directors by ordinary resolution requiring a simple majority without the executive directors present.
of the persons voting on the relevant resolution Compliance statement or by the directors: no person, other than The Board has a formal schedule of matters In 2008 the Company was subject a director retiring by rotation or otherwise, specifically reserved for its decision and shall be appointed or re-appointed a director to and complied with the provisions approval.
These include the approval of the at any general meeting unless he or she set out in section 1 of the Combined strategic and annual profit plans, key public is recommended by the directors or not less than information releases e. g. financial statements, Code on Corporate Governance that seven nor more than 35 clear days before the dividends, major acquisitions and disposals, was published in June 2006 by the date appointed for the meeting, notice is given material contracts, treasury and other Group Financial Reporting Council.
to the Company of the intention to propose that policies.
The section Internal control on page person for appointment or re-appointment in 33 contains further information on how the the form and manner set out in the Companys Board operates.
The Company seeks to ensure that the Board Each director who is appointed by the directors is supplied with appropriate and timely information The Board continues to be committed to high and who has not been elected as a director to enable it to discharge its duties.
The Board standards of corporate governance.
The Board of the Company by the members at a general requests additional information or variations strives to provide the right leadership, strategic meeting held in the interval since his or her to regular reporting as it requires.
A procedure oversight and control environment to produce appointment as a director of the Company is exists for directors to seek independent and sustain delivery of value to all of the subject to election as a director of the Company professional advice in the furtherance of their Companys shareholders.
The Board applies by the members at the first Annual General duties, if necessary.
All directors have access to integrity, principles of good corporate Meeting following his or her appointment.
Each the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
governance and accountability throughout its director is subject to re-election by the members activities and each director brings independence All directors receive an induction on joining the at the third Annual General Meeting following his of character and judgement to the role.
A combination of tailored Board and or her election or last re-election by the members the members of the Board are individually and committee agenda items and other Board in general meeting or at such earlier Annual collectively aware of their responsibilities to the activities, including briefing sessions, assist the General Meeting as the directors may decide.
directors in continually updating their skills and The independent non-executive directors the knowledge and familiarity with the Company understand that the Board will not automatically The following describes the Boards approach required to fulfil their role both on the Board and recommend their re-election by shareholders.
to corporate governance and how the Combined on Board committees.
In addition, external The Chairman and the independent non-executive Code on Corporate Governance has been applied.
seminars, workshops and presentations are directors are appointed for a specified term of Compliance statement made available to directors.
The Company approximately three years, subject to re-election.
In 2008 the Company was subject to and provides the necessary resources for developing The Companies Act allows shareholders in complied with the provisions set out in section and updating directors knowledge and capabilities.
general meeting by ordinary resolution requiring 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate The Chairman conducts an appraisal with each a simple majority of the persons voting on the Governance that was published in June 2006 director.
The Senior Independent Director, having relevant resolution to remove any director before by the Financial Reporting Council and which is consulted with the other directors, conducts the expiration of his or her period of office, but available via a link on its website www.
an appraisal interview with the Chairman.
without prejudice to any claim for damages which Board Each director completes a questionnaire on the the director may have for breach of any contract The Board currently comprises the noneffectiveness and processes of the Board and of service between him or her and the Company.
executive Chairman, five executive directors its committees.
The results are considered by A person also ceases to be a director if he or and six independent non-executive directors.
the Board and the individual committees.
she resigns in writing, ceases to be a director The Chairman has a primary responsibility Whilst all directors are expected to bring an by virtue of any provision of the Companies Act, for the running of the Board and for ensuring independent judgement to bear on issues of becomes prohibited by law from being a director, effective communication with shareholders.
strategy, performance, resources including key becomes bankrupt or is the subject of a relevant The Chief Executive is responsible for the appointments and standards of conduct, the insolvency procedure, or is requested to resign operations and for the development of strategic independent non-executive directors were by notice signed by all the other directors, plans and initiatives for consideration by the selected and appointed for this purpose.
or if the Board so decides following at least six Board.
The division of responsibilities between months absence without leave or he or she the Chairman and the Chief Executive has been The Company Secretary is responsible for advising becomes subject to relevant procedures under clearly established, set out in writing and agreed the Board through the Chairman on all the mental health laws.
Mr N M H Jones acts as Senior governance matters.
Independent Director, the principal roles and responsibilities of which are described elsewhere.
The other significant commitments of the Chairman during 2008 are detailed in his biography on page 28.
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 31 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Powers of the Companys directors The main role and responsibilities of the committee Finance committee The Companys articles of association specify in 2008 were to: This committee meets as required to deal with that, subject to the provisions of the Companies monitor the integrity of the financial statements all routine business that excludes matters that Act, the memorandum and articles of association of the Company: are specifically reserved to the Board or to of the Company and to any directions given review the Companys internal financial control another committee and specific matters by shareholders by special resolution, the and risk management systems: delegated to it by the Board requiring attention business of the Company is to be managed by monitor and review the effectiveness of the between scheduled Board meetings.
Any two the directors, who may exercise all the powers Companys internal audit function: and directors can conduct the business of this of the Company, whether relating to the oversee the Companys relationship with the committee.
management of the business or not.
external auditor including the recommendation Nomination committee to the Board of its appointment and remuneration.
Board committees The members of the committee are the The Board has four standing committees, all Should the committees monitoring and review Chairman of the Board and two or more of which have written terms of reference clearly activities reveal any material cause for concern independent non-executive directors.
setting out their authority and duties.
The terms or scope for improvement, it will make The current members of the committee are: of reference of the audit, nomination and recommendations to the Board on action needed Appointment Committee remuneration committees, which are reviewed to address the issue or make improvements.
date Role annually, can be viewed on the Companys The main activities of the committee in 2008 website www.
Sir Ian Robinson 1 October 2001 Chairman were as follows: Mr N M H Jones 16 May 2003 Member Audit committee with the assistance of reports received from Mr C J Rodrigues 18 May 2007 Member The members of the committee are: management and the external auditor, the Mr P Erskine 18 February 2009 Member critical review of the significant financial reporting Appointment Committee issues in connection with the preparation date Role During 2008 Sir Ian Robinson indicated an of the Companys financial and related intention to retire as Chairman of the Board formal statements: Mr N M H Jones 16 May 2003 Chairman and as a director at the conclusion of the Annual assessing the scope and effectiveness of the Ms C P Wicks 1 June 2004 Member General Meeting to be held on 15 May 2009. systems established to identify, assess, manage Mr H E Staunton 1 September 2006 Member Further to a number of internal candidates being and monitor financial and non-financial risks: considered for the position, Mr J F Jarvis and Ms monitoring the integrity of the Companys All members of the committee are independent C P Wicks were appointed temporary additional internal financial controls.
Appointments to the members of the committee solely for the purpose The committee does so by reference to: committee are made by the Board at the of making a recommendation to the Board a summaries of business risks and mitigating recommendation of the nomination committee, concerning a successor Chairman of the Board controls: which consults with the Chairman of the and together with the Chairman of the Board b regular reports and presentations from the audit committee.
constituted for this purpose the entire head of key risk functions, internal audit The Board has satisfied itself that the members membership of the committee.
and external audit: and of the committee have recent and relevant c the results of the system of annual selfAppointments to the committee are made financial experience.
certification of compliance with key controls by the Board.
and procedures: The committee is provided with sufficient The committee is provided with sufficient monitoring and reviewing the plans, work resources to undertake its duties.
It has access resources to undertake its duties.
It has access and effectiveness of the internal audit function, to the services of the Company Secretary who to the services of the Company Secretary who including any actions taken following any acts as secretary to the committee and all other acts as secretary to the committee and all other significant failures in internal controls: employees.
The committee is able to take employees.
The committee is able to take reviewing, with the external auditor, its terms independent legal or professional advice when independent legal and professional advice of engagement, the findings of its work, and it believes it necessary to do so.
when it believes it necessary to do so.
at the end of the audit process reviewing its The committee meets as required, but not less effectiveness: and The committee meets as required but not than three times a year.
Of the four meetings of reviewing the independence and objectivity less than twice a year.
Five meetings of the the audit committee held in 2008, Ms C P Wicks of the external auditor.
committee were held in 2008 and all the was unable to attend one due to other business members of the committee constituting the The external auditor reports to the committee commitments.
Although other directors, membership of the committee at the time on the actions taken to comply with professional including the Group Finance Director, attend of each meeting were in attendance.
and regulatory requirements and with best audit committee meetings, the committee also practice designed to ensure its independence.
meets for private discussions with the external The committee has agreed a policy on the auditor, who attends all of its meetings, and can engagement of the external auditor to supply do so with the internal auditor.
non-audit services, the application of which it monitors.
The policy, which can be viewed on the Companys website www.
com, specifies services that may not be provided and contains a level of cost at which committee approval is required enabling the committee to satisfy itself that auditor objectivity and independence are safeguarded.
32 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The main role and responsibilities of the The Company has had procedures in place there was a Group-wide policy governing committee are to: throughout the year and up to 19 February 2009, appraisal and approval of investment review the structure, size and composition the date of approval of this Annual Report, which expenditure and asset disposals.
Major projects of the Board which includes an objective and accord with the Internal Control Guidance for were reported on at each regular Board meeting.
comprehensive evaluation of the balance of Directors on the Combined Code published Post investment audits were undertaken on skills, knowledge and experience of the Board in September 1999. a systematic basis and were formally reviewed and make recommendations to the Board with by the Board twice yearly: The Board has delegated the detailed design regard to any changes: key policies and control procedures including of the system of internal control to the consider succession planning for the directors treasury, compliance and information system executive directors.
and other senior executives and make controls are documented in manuals having The control framework and key procedures recommendations to the Board: Group-wide application.
Operating companies during 2008 were as follows: identify and nominate for the approval of the also used procedure manuals that integrated the Group operates through two principal Board candidates to fill Board vacancies as and with Group controls: divisions, Retail and Remote Betting and when they arise: a system of annual self-certification of Gaming.
Responsibilities for managing business review the leadership of the Company to compliance with key controls and procedures risks arising were defined by the Board: ensure the continued ability of the Company was operated throughout the Group: the executive directors met regularly together to compete effectively in the marketplace: the Group had an internal audit function, and with other senior executives the executive recommend candidates for the role of Senior outsourced to Deloitte LLP, which reported to committee to consider Group financial Independent Director and for membership management on the Groups operations: and performance, business development and Group of the audit and remuneration committees, to underpin the effectiveness of controls, management issues.
Divisional management in consultation with the Chairmen of those it was the Groups policy to recruit and develop comprised executives with appropriate functional committees: and management and staff of high calibre, integrity responsibilities.
Divisional management met make recommendations to the Board and with appropriate disciplines.
High standards regularly to manage their respective businesses: concerning the re-appointment of non-executive of business ethics and compliance with laws, the Board established corporate strategy directors at the end of their specified term of regulations and internal policies were demanded and Group business objectives.
Divisional office and the re-election by shareholders of any from staff at all levels.
management integrated such objectives into director under the retirement by rotation provisions.
The role of the audit committee in reviewing the business strategies for presentation to the The committee performed the above activities effectiveness of the system of internal control Board with supporting financial objectives: as necessary in 2008. is explained in the section Audit committee there was an ongoing process for identifying, on page 32.
During 2008 an executive director, Mr R J Ames, evaluating and managing the significant risks and a non-executive director, Mr P Erskine, faced by the Group.
Major business risks and The Board also conducts an assessment of were appointed both with effect from 1 January their financial implications were appraised the effectiveness of the internal control system.
Mr Ames appointment was a planned by the responsible executives and endorsed The assessment takes account of all significant succession see his biography on page 29 by the divisional management.
This was an aspects of internal control including: risk and accordingly external advice or external integral part of the strategic planning process.
assessment: the control environment and control advertising had not been used in making The appropriateness of controls was considered activities: information and communication: his appointment.
Mr Erskine was appointed by executives, having regard to cost benefit, and monitoring.
a non-executive director and as Chairman materiality and the likelihood of risks crystallising.
Relations with shareholders of the Board designate to succeed the current Key risks and actions to mitigate those risks were There is a regular programme of meetings with Chairman of the Board see above.
A description considered at each regular Board meeting and major institutional shareholders to consider the of the role and capabilities required were were formally reviewed and approved by the Groups performance and prospects.
In addition, prepared and suitable candidates were identified Board twice yearly: presentations are made twice yearly after the using external advisers.
divisional budgets, containing financial and announcement of results, the details of which, operating targets, capital expenditure proposals Remuneration committee together with the Groups financial reports and and performance indicators, were reviewed by Details of the remuneration committee, including announcements, can be accessed via the the executive directors and supported divisional membership, are set out in the Directors Groups internet site.
The Chairman met in 2008 business strategies.
The Group profit plan was Remuneration Report on pages 37 to 46, which with several institutional investors and their approved by the Board: should be read in conjunction with this section representative bodies in addition to results reports on Group and divisional performances of this report.
presentations and the Annual General Meeting.
were regularly provided to directors and Other directors are available to meet the Internal control discussed at Board meetings.
Performance Companys major shareholders if requested.
The Board has ultimate responsibility for the against both budgets and objectives together system of internal control operating throughout The Senior Independent Director is available with management of business risks, were the Group and for reviewing its effectiveness.
to shareholders if they have concerns, which reviewed with divisional management, as were No system of internal control can provide contact through the usual channels of Chairman, forecasts and material sensitivities.
The Board absolute assurance against material Chief Executive and Finance Director has failed regularly received reports from key executives misstatement or loss.
The Groups system is to solve or for which such contact is inappropriate.
and functional heads covering areas such as designed to manage rather than eliminate the operations, forecasts, business development, risk of failure to achieve business objectives and strategic planning, human resources, legal and to provide the Board with reasonable assurance corporate matters, compliance, health and that potential problems will normally be safety and corporate responsibility: prevented or will be detected in a timely manner for appropriate action.
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 33 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Board receives a monthly market report from These rights can be suspended.
If the member, not be exercised so as to prevent dealings taking the Companys brokers who also present to the or any other person appearing to be interested in place on an open and proper basis, or if in the Board annually.
A twice-yearly presentation is shares held by that member, has failed to comply opinion of the directors and with the concurrence made to the Board reporting on the programme with a notice pursuant to section 793 of the of the UK Listing Authority exceptional of meetings with major institutional shareholders Companies Act 2006 notice by company circumstances so warrant provided that the and a report on investor relations is given at requiring information about interests in its shares exercise of such power will not disturb the each Board meeting.
Principles of ownership, the Company can suspend until one week after market in those shares.
Whilst there are no corporate governance and voting guidelines the default ceases the right to attend and speak squeeze-out and sell out rules relating to the issued by the Companys major institutional and vote at a general meeting and if the shares shares in the Companys articles of association, shareholders, their representative bodies represent at least 0.25% of their class the shareholders are subject to the compulsory and advisory organisations are circulated Company can withhold any dividend or other acquisition provisions in sections 974 to 991 of to, and considered by, the Board.
money payable in respect of the shares and the Companies Act 2006 and can be required by refuse to accept certain transfers of the relevant the Company to transfer their shares following The Company corresponds regularly on a range shares.
In addition following certain action by a certain action by a gambling industry regulator of subjects with its individual shareholders who gambling industry regulator as more specifically as more specifically set out in the Companys have an opportunity to question the Board at the set out in the Companys articles of association articles of association.
For further information the Company may suspend all or some of the on our relations with shareholders please refer to Significant agreements that take effect, rights attaching to all or some of the shares held Shareholder Information on pages 113 and 114. alter or terminate upon a change by any relevant shareholder to attend and to of control following a takeover bid Rights attaching to the shares and speak at meetings and to vote, to receive any The agreements between Ladbrokes Group restrictions on voting and transfer dividend or other money payable in respect Finance plc, a wholly owned subsidiary of the The Companys share capital is 253.0 million of the shares, and to the issue of further shares Company, and 14 separate banks for the 1 divided into 892,941,175 ordinary shares of 28 3p or other securities in respect of the shares.
provision by the banks of revolving credit facilities each.
Subject to any suspension or abrogation of The Trustee of the Ladbrokes Share Ownership of up to 910 million on a committed basis rights pursuant to relevant law or the Companys Trust, which is used in connection with certain provide that the banks may give notice of articles of association, the ordinary shares confer of the Companys employee share ownership cancellation if a change of control occurs.
on their holders other than the Company in plans, held 894,491 ordinary shares in the On cancellation the amounts drawn would respect of its treasury shares : Company at 31 December 2008 which are be immediately repayable.
In the context of a the right to receive out of profits available not voted by plan members and which it can a takeover bid, the acquirer would normally for distribution such dividends as may be vote in its absolute discretion.
agreed to be paid in the case of a final A member may choose whether his or her dividend in an amount not exceeding the The agreement between Ladbrokes International shares are evidenced by share certificates amount recommended by the Board as Limited LI, a wholly owned subsidiary of the certificated shares or held in electronic approved by shareholders in general meeting Company, and Prima Poker Limited PP, uncertificated form in CREST the UK electronic or in the case of an interim dividend in an pursuant to which PP granted to the operator settlement system.
Any member may transfer amount determined by the Board all a non-exclusive licence to use an interactive all or any of his or her shares subject in the case dividends unclaimed for a period of 12 years gaming system and provide various poker related of certificated shares to the rules set out in the after having become due for payment are services to the Company, provides that PP may Companys articles of association or in the case forfeited automatically and cease to remain give notice of cancellation if a change of control of uncertificated shares the regulations governing owing by the Company: occurs.
On cancellation LI must pay a turnover the operation of CREST which allow the b the right, on a return of assets on a liquidation, related fee on a notional maximum 24 months directors to refuse to register a transfer as therein reduction of capital or otherwise, to share in use of the licence.
set out : the transferor remains the holder of the the surplus assets of the Company remaining Amendment of the Companys articles shares until the name of the transferee is entered after payment of its liabilities pari passu with of association in the register of members.
The directors may the other holders of ordinary shares: and The Companys articles of association may refuse to register a transfer of certificated shares c the right to receive notice of and to attend be amended by the members of the Company in favour of more than four persons jointly and speak and vote in person or by proxy by special resolution requiring a majority or where there is no adequate evidence of at any general meeting of the Company of at least 75% of the persons voting on the ownership or the transfer is not duly stamped on a show of hands every member present relevant resolution.
The directors may also refuse or represented and voting has one vote to register a share transfer if it is in respect of and on a poll every member present or a certificated share which is not fully paid up or represented and voting has one vote for every on which the Company has a lien provided that, share of which that member is the holder: the where the share transfer is in respect of any appointment of a proxy must be received not share admitted to the Official List maintained by less than 48 hours before the time of the the UK Listing Authority, any such discretion may holding of the relevant meeting or adjourned meeting or in the case of a poll taken otherwise than at or on the same day as the relevant meeting or adjourned meeting be received after the poll has been demanded and not less than 24 hours before the time appointed for the taking of the poll.
