Governance Corporate governance report The Board held seven scheduled meetings Board composition The Board endorses and in 2008 and was available to hold additional At the date of this report the Board is supports the best practice meetings when circumstances required.
comprised of the Chairman, three Executive guidelines contained in the During the year, 10 additional Board Directors and six Non-Executive Directors.
Financial Reporting Councils Committee meetings were held to deal with As part of our ongoing succession planning a variety of matters including the operation programme a number of changes were made Combined Code the Combined of the Groups share plans, the approval of to the Board during 2008 and the early part of Code through its commitment documentation for re nancing in November 2009.
Details of the changes made to the to the highest standards of 2008 and the approval of the Groups Board during the year can be found on corporate governance.
The number of page 41. routine meetings, together with the Boards The Board has a Nominations Committee Apart from the limited exceptions described ability to hold additional Committee meetings to evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge below, the Board believes that the Group has at short notice, is judged to be suf cient to and experience of individual Board fully complied with the Combined Code discharge the Boards duties effectively.
In members and to make, where appropriate, throughout 2008: where it has not, an order to re ect the geographical spread of the recommendations for appointments to the explanation has been provided.
The Company Group, and to provide the Board with a higher Board.
The Board appointed Andy Green has complied with the listing requirements level of visibility of the Groups operations, at as Chief Executive Of cer of the Group on of the UK Listing Authority and those of the least two of these meetings are normally held 1 January 2008.
This followed a Authority for the Financial Markets AFM outside the UK.
In 2008, in addition to the UK, comprehensive recruitment exercise led by in the Netherlands.
Until it delisted from the meetings were also held in France and India.
David Tyler on behalf of the Committee, which Nordic exchange OMX on 30 June 2008, In 2009, the Board is planning to hold two of also utilised the services of independent the Company also complied with the relevant its meetings in Germany and Sweden.
Both David Tylers and Andy rules and regulations of the Swedish financial Proposed actions are recorded in the Greens appointments as directors were supervisory authority, Finansinspektionen.
Board minutes or, where appropriate, in rati ed by the shareholders at the 2008 AGM.
relevant Committee minutes, together with During 2008 the Committee undertook The Board any concerns that members of the Board may exercises to nd two new Non-Executive The Board utilises a framework of prudent have regarding the running of the Company.
Following and effective controls in order to determine recommendations made by the Committee, and manage the Groups goals, together with Sergio Giacoletto was appointed to the Board logica.
com governance the necessary strategies and policies to on 24 February 2009 and Frdric Rose will The Terms of Reference for the Board are available on achieve these goals.
The Companys values be appointed to the Board on 30 April 2009. the Companys website or can be obtained from the and the standards set by the Board are In accordance with the Companys Articles Company Secretary upheld throughout the Group with the of Association both Sergio Giacoletto and assistance of the Executive Management, Frdric Rose will be proposed for election Internal Audit, Quality Assurance and Risk at the 2009 AGM.
During 2008 the The Nominations Committee, in Board has considered reports from the Chief accordance with its terms of reference and Executive Of cer and the Chief Financial the Companys Articles, has proposed Nol Of cer, together with reports from heads of Harwerth, Wolfhart Hauser and Seamus business and specialist functions.
Keating for re-election at the 2009 AGM.
Governance structure at 6 March 2009 Board of Directors Executive Committee Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nominations Committee see pages 3839 Roger Payne Chairman Nol Harwerth Chairman David Tyler Chairman Wim Dik Wolfhart Hauser Wim Dik Sergio Giacoletto David Tyler Andy Green Wolfhart Hauser Nol Harwerth Roger Payne 44 Logica Annual report and accounts 2008 Governance ` Corporate governance report Directors submitting themselves for Con icts of interests Communication with shareholders re-election at the AGM have been subject to Under the Companies Act 2006, a Director The Board gives a high priority to a rigorous, formal performance evaluation has a statutory duty to avoid a situation where communication with shareholders and takes and were found to have performed effectively he or she has, or can have, a direct or indirect the opportunities afforded by the AGM and during the year.
Copies of the Directors terms interest that con icts, or possibly may con ict, meetings with institutional investors to ensure and conditions of appointment are available with the Companys interests.
The 2006 Act a mutual understanding of the Companys on request from the Company Secretary.
allows Directors of public companies to objectives and performance.
In 2008, the authorise con icts or potential con icts where Companys Chairman and the Chairman of The names and biographical details of the Articles of Association contain a provision the Remuneration Committee held meetings P36 the Directors, including those seeking allowing this authorisation.
Shareholders with a number of existing and prospective election and re-election at the 2009 AGM, approved such an amendment to the shareholders in order to understand their can be found on pages 36 to 37 Companys Articles at the AGM held on views more fully.
In addition, the Chief Non-Executive Directors Independence 14 May 2008.
Executive Of cer, Chief Financial Of cer and The Board recognises the valuable The Board has put in place a procedure for the Head of Investor Relations held meetings contribution independent Directors can make.
ensuring that its powers of authorisation of with shareholders regarding the Groups During 2008 the Board considered the con icts of interests operate effectively.
In total, during independence of the Non-Executive Directors Under this procedure, the Directors have the year, members of the Board and Investor and concluded that each of the Nonnoti ed the Company in writing of any Relations met with over 300 shareholders Executive Directors was independent in potential con icts of which they are aware.
or their representatives at these meetings character and judgement.
However, under These noti cations have been recorded by the and conferences.
the Combined Code, Grard Philippot was Company Secretary and have been submitted All shareholders are welcomed to the AGM not considered independent according to to the Board for review and authorisation, as where developments in the business are provision A.
3.1 due to his previous executive appropriate.
In addition, the Companys explained and shareholders have the position in Unilog S. A.
Following Grards procedure requires Board members to opportunity to ask questions of any of forthcoming retirement as a Director at the provide noti cation of any subsequent the Directors.
Companys 2009 AGM, the Board will be potential con icts of interest that may arise The Companys website www.
com fully compliant with this aspect of the Code.
and noti cation when a con ict no longer provides access for all shareholders to The Company believes that all Non-Executive exists.
Any changes to existing interests are information about the Company, including Directors bring relevant experience to the recorded by the Company and reviewed at results presentations and all press releases.
Board and make valuable contributions to the next following Board meeting.
A copy of Financial reporting is presented in such a way achieving its objectives.
They do not act with the procedure document is provided to all as to provide a balanced and understandable self-interest and their primary aims are to new Directors and an explanation forms part assessment of the Companys position and maximise shareholder wealth and develop of the Companys induction programme for prospects.
the Company in line with its strategic goals.
The Board is made aware of shareholders During the year, the Company believes that The Board con rms that the procedure views through direct feedback from face-tonone of the Non-Executive Directors held referred to above has operated effectively face meetings and presentations with signi cant commitments outside the Company since its implementation.
If shareholders which would interfere with their ability to or investors do not wish to follow the usual execute their responsibilities effectively.
methods of communication through the Chairman, Chief Executive Of cer or Chief Financial Of cer, the Boards Senior Independent Director is available to meet with shareholders or investors.
Directors are regularly updated on shareholder and market matters through internal brie ngs and the provision of external analysts reports.
The Companys Investor Relations department is dedicated to facilitating communication with investors, both institutional and retail.
com investors Further information on Investor Relations can be found on the Companys website: www.
com investors 45 Governance ` Corporate governance report Chairman and Chief Executive Of cer Board Performance 2008 Audit Committee There is a clear division of responsibility The Board is subject to an annual performance The composition of the Companys Audit between the running of the Board by the review which covers the effectiveness of the Committee and its terms of reference re ect Chairman, and the Chief Executive Of cers Board, its Committees and individual the Combined Code and the Smith Guidance.
responsibility for running the business.
members and takes into account factors The Committee is authorised by the Board The Chairman is responsible for ensuring the such as composition, expertise, information to investigate any activity within its terms of effectiveness of the Board and is Chairman ows, roles, responsibilities and procedures.
reference and to seek any information that it of the Nominations Committee.
He also liaises A full review has been conducted in line with requires from any employee of the Company with the Chief Executive Of cer on strategic this process.
Each Director completed a and its subsidiaries.
The Chief Executive Of cer is comprehensive questionnaire, following directed to cooperate with any request made responsible for the overall management of which one-to one interviews were conducted by the Committee.
The Committee has the the Company and for leading the Executive by the Chairman with each Director.
The right to consult the Companys professional Directors and the Executive Committee.
information from the questionnaires and advisers or, if it is not satis ed with the advice interviews were compiled into a report which received, seek further independent Details of the Executive Committee was presented to the Board by the Chairman professional advice at the Companys P38 can be found on pages 38 to 39 early in 2009. expense in the furtherance of its duties.
As part of this process, any director who The Committee believes that the skills, Induction and Training has served on the Board for a period in quali cations and commercial experience Upon appointment, all Directors undergo excess of six years is subject to a particularly of its members are appropriate for them to a comprehensive induction programme, rigorous review.
perform their duties in accordance with the tailored to their individual requirements.
The The performance of the Chairman was terms of reference laid down by the Board.
induction programme includes training on assessed by the Non-Executive Directors.
The Audit Committee, which comprises Directors duties and responsibilities, Board The process for this was led by the Senior only independent Non-Executive Directors, procedures and various governance-related Independent Director with all Directors is chaired by Roger Payne and, during 2008, issues, including con icts of interests and providing feedback on the Chairmans included Angela Knight, until her retirement procedures for dealing in Logica plc shares.
The results were discussed from the Board on 14 May 2008, Wim Dik and In addition, they meet with the heads of all the with the Chairman by the Senior Independent Wolfhart Hauser.
On 24 February 2009, Sergio major business units and receive appropriate Director.
Giacoletto was also appointed as a member ongoing training and updates to improve their During 2008, Andy Green, Chief Executive of the Committee.
The Board considers Roger knowledge and skills to enable them to Of cer, held one-to-one meetings with each Payne to have recent and relevant financial discharge their duties effectively.
The Directors of the Executive Directors to discuss their experience following his previous role as the training requirements are subject to regular performance and to set targets for the year financial director of a former FTSE 100 listed review.
As part of the induction programme ahead.
Each Executive Director received a company.
In 2008, he met the required Directors also make a number of site visits.
set of objectives for the coming year which commitment for continuing professional Members of individual Committees receive included objectives linked to delivery of the development CPD of the Association of speci c training in connection with their duties, Groups Programme for Growth.
The which includes attendance at seminars and There are regular meetings between the Committee meets at least four times a year brie ngs by external advisers where applicable.
Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors and any two members constitute a quorum.
Board members are also invited to attend an to discuss the performance of the Company, The Chairman of the Audit Committee and annual leadership conference.
together with any matters of relevance the Committee itself meet with the external or concern at that time.
Where appropriate, auditors in private at least four times a year.
Board Support action is taken to address any concerns of The Chairman, Chief Executive Of cer, Chief The Company Secretary, through the the Directors.
Financial Of cer, Deputy Chief Financial Company Secretariat function, is responsible Of cer, Head of Internal Audit and other for providing administrative and logistical Follow up from 2007 Board Evaluation appropriate specialist functional managers support to the Board.
Advice and support Following the results of the 2007 Board attend the scheduled meetings at the request on governance, compliance and regulatory evaluation process, the actions implemented of the Committee.
The Chairman of the Audit matters is also provided.
All Directors have in 2008 included: Committee meets with the Head of Internal access to the advice and services of the Audit in private at least four times a year.
z the appointment of two new NonCompany Secretary and a procedure is in In order to ful l its terms of reference, the Executive Directors from Continental place to enable Directors to seek independent Committee reviews, challenges and approves, Europe with experience of the IT services professional advice at the Companys expense.
as the case may be, presentations or reports industry No such advice was sought by any Director from senior management, consulting as z holding two Board meetings outside the during the year.
necessary with the external auditors.
During UK to allow more interaction between the year, the Committee had a satisfactory Directors and management level of dialogue with the Companys auditors.
z increasing the opportunities for informal In 2008, the Committee speci cally considered, communication between Board members.
amongst other things, the following matters: 46 Logica Annual report and accounts 2008 Governance ` Corporate governance report z the performance of the Companys z the reports from the Companys Risk Internal Control independent auditor, Management Committee RMC regarding The Board has overall responsibility for the  LLP PwC the Companys risk management policy Groups system of internal control and for including quali cations, expertise and and programme of work.
The Committee reviewing its effectiveness.
The Board resource, effectiveness, objectivity and and the Board also received reports delegates the responsibility for designing, independence, and recommended concerning speci c key risks identi ed operating and monitoring the systems of to the Board their re-election as the by the RMC.
In addition, the impact of internal control to executive management Companys independent auditors for 2008 changing legislation and regulation, in each of the business units of the Group.
z the review of PwCs report, which were considered and where necessary, These systems are designed to manage summarised the conclusions from their appropriate actions were taken and not eliminate risk of failure to achieve 2007 audit.
This report included feedback z the review of the financial position business objectives and can only provide from PwC on the status of the Companys of the Companys fide ned bene t reasonable and not absolute assurance control environment and managements pension schemes against material errors, losses, fraud or responsiveness to audit results z the annual review of the Companys tax breaches of laws or regulations.
z the appropriateness and approval of and treasury policies in accordance with The Groups systems of internal control the Companys accounting policies its terms of reference cover all material controls including financial, z the review and approval of the Companys z an extensive goodwill evaluation covering operational and compliance as well as risk ongoing policy for using PwC for non-audit the Groups activities which supported the management systems and are in accordance work.
This policy is designed to ensure carrying value thereof with no impairment with the Turnbull guidance and the Combined PwCs independence and that the deemed necessary Code.
Company complies with best practice z at each Audit Committee meeting, the The key elements of the system of internal z the review of the 2007 full-year preliminary Committee reviews any matters, as control in operation are: and 2008 interim announcements required, relating to a number of standing z business units operate under mandatory, z the review of the Companys 2007 annual items including major acquisitions written policies and procedures, as set report and accounts, in particular the divestments: progress concerning actions out in the Groups business management financial overview, report of the Directors, taken in response to the Committees system, Cortex see also page 66.
Policies financial statements including notes to representations: relevant legal, reporting and procedures are kept under review by the accounts and relevant sections of practice and compliance developments: experienced representatives from across the Corporate Governance report, all of any reports led under the Companys the Group.
Key Group policies are then which were recommended for approval con dential disclosure policy and fraud reviewed and approved by the Board to the Board policy: compliance with the Companys z the Groups mandatory policies include z the review of the approval of PwCs 2008 code of ethical conduct, including a Group Ethics policy and a Con dential proposed fee and audit programme whistleblowing, and any other special Disclosure policy, the latter of which incorporating the speci c challenges of the investigations falling under the terms of describes the whistleblowing credit crunch in the context of going reference of the Committee.
arrangements in operation for the Group concern and asset carrying values in the z the Groups mandatory policies include light of guidance from the FRC FRRP logica.
com governance an Authority Matrix, setting out the levels z the choice of appointment by the Company of authority delegated to individual Board The full Terms of Reference for the Audit Committee are of a new Head of Internal Audit available on the Companys website www.
com members and Group senior executives on z the reports and updates from the or can be obtained from the Company Secretary a wide range of matters including those Companys internal audit and quality relating to capital expenditure, property assurance functions.
The internal audit leases and freeholds, bids and commercial and quality assurance plans for 2008 were contracts, publicity, treasury issues, reviewed and approved.
These reports and employment matters and legal disputes updates additionally covered the Companys z key strategic and operational risks are management of its internal controls considered as part of the annual planning z the implementation of recommendations and budgeting process.
Throughout the to improve the effectiveness of the Internal year, the Chief Executive Of cer and Chief Audit function following a review during Finance Of cer of each business unit the previous year by Ernst & Young LLP produce written monthly reports for Group analysis and review.
These comprise detailed financial results, forecasts, cash ows and commentary on major contracts, covering opportunities and threats within the business 47 Governance ` Corporate governance report he Group Chief Financial Of cer and Chief The Board con rms that it has continued Regular internal control reviews are presented z t Executive Of cer conduct monthly to review the effectiveness of the Groups to the Audit Committee.
Audit Committee business reviews of the major business internal controls and risk management papers, including internal control reviews, are units within the Group processes during 2008 and up to the date circulated to all Board members.
z the Chief Executive Of cer, Chief Financial of this Report and that during the period, Of cer and the Board carry out formal these reviews have covered all material The key risks and measures to mitigate P66 risks identi ed by the Board are listed reviews of major bids, where opportunities controls, including financial, operational and on pages 66 to 67 exceed speci ed monetary values or compliance controls and risk management risk pro les systems.
Where weaknesses have been The conclusions arising out of the Groups z research and development and capital identi ed or reported through the various risk management activities are closely investment programmes are subject to mechanisms outlined above, appropriate interlinked with the evaluation and formal review, quali cation and approval corrective action is agreed and closely management of the Companys Key z as part of the Executive Committees monitored.
Performance Indicators KPIs, which are set regular review of the top 10 business risks, out on pages 144 to 145. proposals to improve mitigations are Risk Management presented and discussed.
For example, The Board recognises the need to understand External auditors as part of the review of internal controls to and control the variety of risks to which the The external auditors provide a mitigate signi cant contract risk, proposals Company is exposed.
In order to address supplementary, independent perspective have been developed and approved to these challenges on behalf of the Board on the overall integrity of those areas of the standardise and strengthen the system for during the year, the Audit Committee oversaw internal control system which they assess documenting, reviewing and approving a Risk Management Committee RMC, in the course of their work.
Their findings are client bids.
This was piloted during the last chaired by the Chief Financial Of cer, which reported regularly to the Audit Committee.
quarter of 2008 and is in the process of exercised a framework for managing risk The Audit Committee assesses the evidence being rolled out to all business units as a within the Group.
Five practice panels provided to them and seeks to ensure that mandatory requirement from April 2009 responsible respectively for the areas of the risk management process adequately z quality assurance teams are in place delivery, operations, finance, human addresses all of the major risks to the in all business units, supporting local resources, and sales and marketing, Group.
To ensure auditor objectivity and management in assuring and improving supported the RMC.
In conjunction with independence there is a stringent process in the quality of operational delivery.
These these panels, the RMC took responsibility place to approve non-audit work.
Proposed teams are key to the operation and for the regular evaluation of generic and work must be approved by the Chief Financial maintenance of the ISO and other industry speci c risks within the business and the Of cer before being passed to the Audit standard quality accreditations in place implementation of mitigation plans to Committee for approval.
Copies of all internal throughout the Group address them.
audit reports are automatically copied to z the Groups systems of internal control The risk process identi es, evaluates and external auditors to ensure communication and its internal control procedures are manages signi cant risks faced by the Group.
is both comprehensive and transparent.
reviewed and tested on a sample basis Risks are assessed with reference to the by Group Internal Audit.
Following the achievement of the Groups business Details regarding the remuneration of P91 the external auditors for both audit and appointment of a new Head of Internal objectives and according to current market non-audit work can be found on page 91 Audit in 2008 a number of initiatives are and economic issues.
The continuous in progress to strengthen and widen the monitoring of strategic and operational risks coverage of internal audit activity.
The is the responsibility of the Board and line results of Group Internal Audit work are management respectively.
The risk process routinely reported to Group executive has been in place for the year under review management and the Audit Committee.
and up to the date of this annual report.
As referred to in the Internal Control section above, clearly fide ned delegation of responsibilities and authorisation levels contribute to a comprehensive system which exists for controlling these risks and ensuring they are adequately addressed.
Core operating procedures common to all areas of the Group are clearly documented in the Cortex business management system also referred to in the Internal Control section.
48 Logica Annual report and accounts 2008 Governance ` Corporate governance report Going concern Remuneration Committee The Committees key role is to determine the The Directors, having made enquiries, The Companys Remuneration Committee Companys senior executive remuneration consider that the Company and the Group is comprised of three independent policy and levels of remuneration for the have adequate resources to continue in Non-Executive Directors and meets the Companys Chairman, Executive Directors, operational existence for the foreseeable recommendations of the Combined Code.
Executive Committee, certain other members future, and therefore it is appropriate to Nol Harwerth has been the Chairman of senior management, the Company maintain the going concern basis in preparing of the Remuneration Committee since Secretary and the Head of Internal Audit.
Angela Knight, the previous Committee takes into consideration the pay Chairman, remained as a member of the and conditions of employment for employees Nominations Committee Committee until her retirement at the when considering Executives remuneration.
The Nominations Committee, which Companys AGM in 2008.
The Committees The Chief Executive Of cer and the Group comprises a majority of independent other members are Wolfhart Hauser and HR Director non-board member attend Non-Executive Directors, is chaired by David David Tyler.
It is intended that Frdric Rose Committee meetings at the invitation of Tyler.
Its members also include Wim Dik, will become a member of the Committee the Committee.
Nol Harwerth, Andy Green and Roger Payne.
on 30 April 2009 and that Wolfhart Hauser The Committee routinely meets at least Other Directors are entitled to attend at the will stand down from the Committee from four times a year and any two Committee invitation of the Nominations Committee.
Committee reviews the balance of skills, The Committee is authorised by the Board knowledge and experience represented on to investigate any activity within its terms of logica.
com governance the Board and its Committees and makes reference.
The Committee has the right to The full Terms of Reference of the Remuneration recommendations to the Board concerning appoint independent advisers and, if it is Committee are available on the Companys website any adjustments deemed to be appropriate.
not satis ed with the advice received, seek www.
com or can be obtained from the Under its terms of reference the further independent professional advice at Company Secretary Committee oversees the search and selection the Companys expense in the furtherance process for new Directors and aims to do of its duties.
For the year reported, Kepler so as recommended by the Combined Associates were the principal independent Code.
The Committee can engage external advisers to the Committee.
independent professional advisers to assist The Committee believes that the skills, when seeking potential Board members.
quali cations and commercial experience A shortlist of candidates will normally be of its members are appropriate for them to established and selected candidates will perform their duties in accordance with the be interviewed and recommended for terms of reference laid down by the Board.
Other meetings are convened on an ad Details of the Committees main functions P52 and its remuneration policies for Directors hoc basis as required.
and senior management are set out on The Nominations Committee is also pages 52 to 53 responsible for overseeing the Board appraisal process.
The Committee was convened on two scheduled occasions during 2008.
Two Committee members, both of whom must be independent Non-Executive Directors, constitute a quorum.
com governance The full Terms of Reference of the Nominations Committee are available on the Companys website or can be obtained from the Company Secretary 49 Governance ` Corporate governance report Board attendance at scheduled meetings during 2008 Member Board Meetings Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nominations Committee Attended Possible Attended Possible Attended Possible Attended Possible David Tyler 7 C 7 6 6 2 C 2 Andy Green 7 7 2 2 Seamus Keating 7 7 Jim McKenna 5 5 Crister Stjernfelt 7 7 Wim Dik 6 7 5 6 2 2 Angela Knight 3 3 2 3 3 3 Roger Payne 7 7 6 C 6 2 2 Grard Philippot 6 7 Wolfhart Hauser 7 7 6 6 6 6 Nol Harwerth 7 7 6 C 6 1 1 C Denotes Chairman of the Board or Committee.
Board Changes Wim Dik will resign from the Board at the forthcoming AGM on 30 April 2009.
Jim McKenna resigned from the Board on 30 September 2008.
Angela Knight resigned from the Board on 14 May 2008.
Grard Philippot will resign from the Board at the forthcoming AGM on 30 April 2009.
Sergio Giacoletto was appointed to the Board on 24 February 2009 and became a member of the Audit Committee from that date.
Frdric Rose will be appointed to the Board on 30 April 2009 and will become a member of the Remuneration Committee from that date.
Wolfhart Hauser will stand down from the Remuneration Committee on 30 April 2009.
External Appointments Board Attendance Executive Directors are normally permitted The table above shows the attendance of by the Company to accept and maintain one Directors at scheduled meetings of the Board non-executive appointment at any one time.
and Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Fees earned by Executive Directors are Committees during 2008. retained by the relevant Director, which Directors are normally provided with the re ects the personal risk assumed in such agenda and papers for Board and Committee appointments.
This remuneration is fully meetings one week prior to the meetings.
disclosed in the relevant companys annual Directors who are unable to attend a meeting report and accounts.
provide feedback to the Chairman, Chairman of the Committee or the Company Secretary and their comments are then communicated at the meeting.
50 Logica Annual report and accounts 2008 Governance ` Corporate governance report Statement of Directors Responsibilities The Directors con rm that they have complied Annual General Meeting in respect of the Annual Report, the with the above requirements in preparing the All Directors are expected to attend the Directors Remuneration Report and financial statements.
AGM to answer shareholders questions, the financial statements The Directors are responsible for keeping with the Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration The Directors are responsible for preparing proper accounting records that disclose with and Nominations Committees present to the Annual Report, the Directors reasonable accuracy at any time the financial answer any questions on the responsibilities Remuneration Report and the Group position of the Company and the Group and and activities of their Committees.
All and the Parent Company Financial to enable them to ensure that the Financial Directors attended the 2008 AGM.
To ensure Statements in accordance with applicable Statements and the Directors Remuneration that the views of all shareholders are re ected law and regulations.
Report comply with the Companies Act 1985 proportionately, it is the Companys policy for Company law requires the Directors to and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
all resolutions to be voted on a poll.
prepare financial statements for each financial They are also responsible for safeguarding year.
Under that law the Directors have the assets of the Company and the Group By order of the Board prepared the Group Financial Statements and hence for taking reasonable steps for in accordance with International Financial the prevention and detection of fraud and Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by other irregularities.
the European Union, and the Parent Company The Directors are responsible for the Financial Statements in accordance with maintenance and integrity of the corporate applicable law and United Kingdom and financial information included on the Alice Rivers Accounting Standards United Kingdom Companys website.
Legislation in the United Company Secretary Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Kingdom governing the preparation and 6 March 2009 In preparing the Group Financial dissemination of financial statements may Statements, the Directors have also elected differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
to comply with the IFRSs, issued by the Each of the Directors, whose names and International Accounting Standards Board functions are referred to on pages 36 to 37 IASB.
The Group and Parent Company con rm that, to the best of their knowledge: Financial Statements are required by law to z the Group financial statements, which have give a true and fair view of the state of affairs been prepared in accordance with IFRSs, of the Company and the Group and of the as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair pro t or loss of the Group for that period.
view of the assets, liabilities, financial In preparing those financial statements, position and pro t of the Group: and the Directors are required to: z the Business Review and Risk Factors on z select suitable accounting policies and pages 4 to 33 and pages 66 to 67 then apply them consistently respectively includes a fair review of the z make judgements and estimates that are development and performance of the reasonable and prudent business and the position of the Group, z state that the Group Financial Statements together with a description of the principal comply with IFRSs as adopted by the risks and uncertainties that it faces.
European Union and IFRSs issued by the IASB and, with regard to the Parent Companys Financial Statements, that applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
