Overview Review of Operations Financial Review Sustainable Development Review Governance Accounts Operating Statistics 2008 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc Corporate Governance 29 The Combined Code The Board is fully committed to the highest standards of corporate governance which, it believes, creates the basis of business integrity needed to deliver robust and sustainable business results.
This report, together with the Directors Report and the reports of the Audit and Risk Committee, Nomination Committee, Remuneration Committee and the Safety and Sustainability Committee, has been prepared by reference to The Combined Code on Corporate Governance published by the Financial Reporting Council FRC in June 2006 and the revised version of the Turnbull Guidance published in October 2005 available from the FRC website, www.
During the year to 30 September 2008 and to the date of this report, the Company has in all respects complied with the provisions of section 1 of the Combined Code.
The purpose of this report is to explain how the Company has applied the principles of good governance so far as these relate to listed companies.
These cover four subject areas: Directors: Directors remuneration: Accountability and audit: and Relations with shareholders.
Directors The Board The Company is led and controlled by the Board of Directors.
The Board currently has ten members, comprising an independent nonexecutive Chairman, seven Non-executive Directors, all of whom the Board judges to be independent, and two executive Directors.
Details of the individuals skills and experience are contained in the Directors biographies on pages 22 and 23.
The Board meets regularly, normally on six occasions during the year and more frequently as required, including two meetings in South Africa.
The Board provides the entrepreneurial leadership, direction and control of the Company: is the custodian of the Companys strategic aims, vision and values: and assesses whether the necessary financial and human resources are, and will continue to be, in place to enable the Company to meet its objectives.
It has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its decision, the most material of which fall into the key areas listed below: Strategy and management: Financial reporting and control: Social, environmental and ethical matters: Contracts and financial commitments: External communications: Corporate governance: Remuneration: and Board composition and membership.
Whilst all Directors have equal responsibility in law for managing the Companys affairs, it is the role of executive management to run the business within the parameters laid down by the Board and to produce clear, accurate and timely reports to enable the Board to monitor and assess managements performance.
The executives make full use of the expertise and experience that the Non-executive Directors bring from their business careers.
The Chairman routinely holds discussions with Non-executive Directors without the executive Directors being present.
All Directors are free to express their views and may ask that these be recorded in the minutes where appropriate.
The Company maintains, at its expense, a directors and officers liability insurance policy to afford an indemnity in certain circumstances for the benefit of Directors and other Group personnel.
The insurance policy does not provide cover where the Director or officer has acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association and to the extent permitted by law, indemnities were put in place in 2007 to protect all past, present and future Directors and officers of the Company from all costs and expenses incurred in the defence of any civil or criminal proceedings in which judgement is given in their favour or the proceedings are otherwise disposed of without a finding of fault or the successful application to court for relief from liability.
Under the terms of the indemnities, the Company is permitted to advance funds to meet a Directors defence costs which, should the Director not be exonerated, would be repayable to the Company.
The indemnities are expressed to operate only to the extent that the directors and officers liability insurance policy fails to respond to a claim.
At the Companys Annual General Meeting on 29 January 2009 shareholders will be asked to approve changes to the Articles of Association including, inter alia, the implementation of those provisions of the Companies Act 2006 dealing with Directors conflicts of interest.
Chairman and Chief Executive The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are clearly separated and set out in writing.
The Chairman, who is an independent Director, is responsible for leadership of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness and setting its agenda, and for ensuring that there is effective communication with all shareholders.
The Chairman also facilitates the effective contribution of all Directors and ensures that there is a constructive relationship between the executive and Non-executive Directors.
The role of the Chief Executive is to provide leadership to the executive team in running the business, to develop proposals for the Board to consider in all areas reserved for its judgement and oversee the efficient and effective implementation of Board-approved actions.
com 30 Corporate Governance Directors continued Board balance and independence The Board believes that it has sufficient members to contain a balance of experience and skills and to manage succession issues but without being so large as to be unwieldy.
The quality of the individual Directors and the Boards composition is a key contributor to the Boards effectiveness, with no one individual or group of individuals being able to dominate the decision-taking.
The Board keeps the membership of its Committees under review, to ensure gradual refreshing of skills and experience.
It is satisfied that all Directors have sufficient time to devote to their roles and that it is not placing undue reliance on key individuals.
All of the Non-executive Directors are regarded as independent by the Board.
Sir John Craven and Roger Phillimore have each served on the Board for a period of more than nine years.
The Combined Code suggests but does not explicitly state that tenure beyond nine years may be a relevant factor in the consideration of the independence of those individuals.
The Board believes that independence is a state of mind and is fully satisfied that both individuals demonstrate complete independence in character, judgement and action in fulfilling their duties.
The Senior Independent Director, Michael Hartnall is available to shareholders if they have concerns which contact through the normal channels has failed to resolve or for which such contact would be inappropriate.
The Company has previously implemented a Board performance evaluation process which is designed to identify whether the Board possesses the relevant skills, knowledge and experience to fulfil its mandate, so enabling it to manage succession issues.
Appointments to the Board To ensure a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of new Directors to the Board, a Nomination Committee has been empowered.
Its work is more fully described in its report on page 58.
Appointments are made on merit and against objective criteria.
In the case of candidates for Non-executive directorships, care is taken to ascertain whether they have sufficient time available to meet their Board and, where relevant, Committee responsibilities.
As part of this process, candidates disclose all other time commitments and, on appointment, undertake to inform the Board of any changes.
The terms and conditions of appointment of Non-executive Directors are available for public inspection and a sample letter of appointment is provided on the Companys website.
Board Committees The Board has established four Committees and provides sufficient resources to enable them to undertake their duties.
Membership of these Committees during the year to 30 September 2008 and to the date of this report except where stated otherwise is shown below.
Safety and 1 Audit and Risk Nomination Remuneration Sustainability Non-executive directors Sir John Craven Member Karen fide Segundo Member Member Peter Godsoe Member Member Sivi Gounden Chairman 2 Michael Hartnall Chairman Member Member Member David Munro Member Member Roger Phillimore Member Chairman Chairman Jim Sutcliffe Member Executive director 3 Brad Mills Member 1 The Committee comprises a number of senior executives in addition to those noted above.
2 Ceased 2 May 2008 3 Resigned 9 October 2008 Information and professional development The Board is supplied with regular and timely information in a form and of a quality that enables it to discharge its duties.
All Directors are encouraged to make further enquiries as they feel appropriate of the executive Directors or management.
The Chairman advocates that all Directors continually update their skills and knowledge, and develop the familiarity with the Companys operations needed to fulfil their role.
The Company provides the necessary resources for developing and updating all Directors knowledge and capabilities, both on appointment and subsequently as necessary.
This includes a full, formal and tailored induction programme, briefings on the legal, regulatory, financial and competitive environments in which the Company operates and, when appropriate, the opportunity to meet a range of major shareholders and external advisors.
There is a procedure in place for Directors to take independent professional advice, if they judge this to be necessary, at the Companys expense.
In addition, Board Committees are provided with sufficient resources, plus the power to co-opt such additional support as they may require from time to time, to undertake their duties.
All Directors have access to the services of the Company Secretary who is responsible for information flows to the Board, facilitating induction and assisting with professional development as required, ensuring compliance with Board procedure and applicable laws and regulation and advising the Board on corporate governance matters.
The appointment or removal of the Company Secretary is a Board decision.
Overview Review of Operations Financial Review Sustainable Development Review Governance Accounts Operating Statistics 2008 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc Corporate Governance 31 Directors continued Performance evaluation A comprehensive and formal evaluation of the effectiveness of the Board, the Board committees and of individual Directors was carried out in May 2008.
The review comprised a tailor made questionnaire which facilitated debate around a number of key issues including strategy, Board process, Board composition, remit of the various committees and interaction with executives and senior managers within the business.
Whilst the evaluation did not identify any significant issues, the feedback indicated a strong desire for a greater degree of interaction between Board members and key executives and senior managers, and also the need for additional opportunities for informal discussions of key business issues between Board members.
Under the chairmanship of the Senior Independent Director and without the Chairman being present, the Board also assessed the effectiveness of the Chairman.
The unanimous conclusion was that the Chairman was fully committed to Lonmin and was effective in the role.
Succession planning The Board formally reviews succession plans for all key management roles including executive directorships, on an annual basis.
The purpose of this is twofold firstly, to mitigate the risk of key roles not having one or more identified successors and secondly, to review potential development opportunities and career plans for talented individuals.
Attendance at Board meetings The Non-executive Directors make themselves available to management whenever required and there are numerous regular contacts outside the Board meeting schedule.
The Board met formally on nine occasions during the year.
Attendance at these meetings was as follows: Number of meetings held Number of during time meetings Director in office attended Sir John Craven 99 Karen fide Segundo 99 Ian Farmer 99 Peter Godsoe 99 Michael Hartnall 99 Brad Mills 99 Roger Phillimore 99 Sivi Gounden 97 Alan Ferguson 99 David Munro 98 Jim Sutcliffe 98 Sivi Gounden did not attend two Board meetings due to a conflict of interest.
In addition, a further ten ad hoc meetings of a committee of the Board were held to issue formal approvals or deal with other matters.
Re-election of Directors All Directors are required by the Companys Articles of Association to submit themselves to shareholders for re-election after first appointment and thereafter by rotation at least once every three years.
Where a Non-executive Director save for the Chairman has served more than three three-year terms, they are obliged to submit themselves for re-election on an annual basis.
Sufficient biographical and other information including, in the case of a Non-executive Director seeking re-election, a statement as to their continued effectiveness and commitment is provided to enable shareholders to make an informed decision.
Directors remuneration While the Board is ultimately responsible for Directors remuneration, the Remuneration Committee, consisting solely of independent Non-executive Directors, is responsible for determining the remuneration and conditions of employment of executive Directors and senior executives.
A report on Directors remuneration, including a more detailed description of the role and activities of the Remuneration Committee is set out on pages 37 to 54. www.
com 32 Corporate Governance Accountability and audit Directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report including a Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement and the Group and parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and parent company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law, they are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law and they have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in accordance with the UK Accounting Standards and applicable law forming UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
The Group financial statements are required by law and IFRSs as adopted by the EU to present fairly the financial position and the performance of the Group: the Companies Act 1985 provides in relation to such financial statements that references in the relevant part of that Act to financial statements giving a true and fair view are references to their achieving a fair presentation.
The parent Company financial statements are required to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the parent Company.
In preparing each of the Group and parent Company financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: for the parent Company financial statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent company financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the parent Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent Company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The Directors Responsibility Statement can be found on page 62.
Disclosure of information to auditors As required under Section 234ZA of the Companies Act 1985, so far as each current Director is aware, there is no information relevant to the audit of which the Companys auditors are unaware, and each Director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a Director to make himself or herself aware of any such information and to ensure that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Directors approach The Boards objective is to present a balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys position and prospects, particularly in the Annual Report, Interim Report and other published documents and reports to regulators.
The Board has established an Audit and Risk Committee to assist with this obligation.
A report from the Audit and Risk Committee describing its work fully is set out on pages 55 to 57.
Going concern The Directors consider that the Group has adequate financial resources to continue operating for the foreseeable future and that it is, therefore, appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The Directors have satisfied themselves that the Group is in a sound financial position and that it has access to sufficient borrowing facilities and can reasonably expect those facilities to be available to meet the Groups foreseeable cash requirements.
Overview Review of Operations Financial Review Sustainable Development Review Governance Accounts Operating Statistics 2008 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc Corporate Governance 33 Accountability and audit continued Internal control and risk management The Company has complied and continues to comply with the provisions of the Combined Code on internal controls and the relevant parts of the Turnbull and Smith guidance.
There is an ongoing process in place for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks facing the Group that has been in place throughout the year under review and to the date of approval of the accounts.
This process has been reviewed regularly by the Audit and Risk Committee and the Board, and accords with the guidance appended to the Code.
The Company uses a standard risk management framework across the operation to assess risks.
Each principal business unit across the Group identifies risks that could impede the achievement of their business objectives and these are recorded in a business unit risk register.
This takes place at least once a year.
For each risk, management identifies the risk, its causes and consequences.
They then assess the maximum exposure of the risk and look at the effectiveness of controls in place to mitigate the risk.
A numerical scoring matrix is used to derive a risk score and priority.
Action plans are devised for the significant risks and progress against these plans is monitored frequently.
Each business unit is supported by an Operational Risk Champion who co-ordinates all of the risk management activity in the business unit, ensuring that actions are tracked and closed out appropriately.
This structure is supported by a small central risk management team, which provides expertise to the business units and provides consolidated reports, including a consolidated Group risk register, to management and to the Audit and Risk Committee.
For the avoidance of doubt, while the Board has overall responsibility for the Companys system of internal control, management is responsible for implementing agreed Board policies.
Systems of internal control can only be designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve the business objectives and cannot provide absolute assurance against material mis-statement or loss.
Historically, the Company has outsourced its internal audit function, but has recently appointed a Head of Internal Audit, based in South Africa and intends to develop its own capabilities in this area.
To ensure the Audit and Risk Committee has full oversight of the work of the internal audit function and discharges its responsibilities effectively in this area, the Head of Internal Audit reports to the Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee, with a joint reporting line to the VP, Treasury and Risk.
The Board is responsible for reviewing the effectiveness of the system of internal control, including financial, operational and compliance controls and systems for the identification and management of risk, and has with the assistance of the Audit and Risk Committee undertaken such a review as part of the process of compiling this report.
Whilst the Audit and Risk Committee routinely meets with both the internal and external auditors and discusses matters of internal control, it also performed on behalf of the Board a specific review of the internal control environment following the year end.
This included reviewing management confirmation letters completed by senior executives within the business and also reviewing the work of the numerous external assurance providers responsible for assessing the business and its control environment and considering progress made by management in mitigating the key risks facing the Group.
These processes supplement all the other management reporting and discussion of risk and reports provided to the Audit and Risk Committee by the external auditors and other specialist advisors by way of combined assurance on the Groups risk and control environments.
Action has been, or is being, taken where necessary to remedy any significant failings and weaknesses identified in the review of effectiveness of the internal control system.
Relations with shareholders The Combined Code encourages dialogue with institutional shareholders based on the mutual understanding of objectives.
The Directors have regular discussions with institutional shareholders where they believe this to be in the interests of shareholders generally.
Detailed feedback from these visits is shared with the Board and a summary of the views expressed is presented to the next Board meeting.
In addition, the Chairman routinely offers key shareholders the opportunity of meetings with either himself, the Deputy Chairman or the Senior Independent Director to discuss governance, strategy or any other matters shareholders wish to raise.
Copies of analysts notes on the Company are circulated to all Directors and senior executives, as are summaries of analysts opinions collected anonymously by the Companys financial PR advisors.
The Combined Code urges boards to use the Annual General Meeting to communicate with private investors and to encourage their participation, as well as offering some detailed guidance on procedure in connection with Annual General Meetings.
The Board has followed these particular principles for many years.
We give shareholders the opportunity to vote on every substantially different issue by proposing separate resolutions and use electronic poll voting on all resolutions, with the results of those votes being announced to the markets and displayed on our website.
This enables the votes of all shareholders to be taken into account, whether they are able to attend the meeting or not, as well as providing a more discreet and democratic method of voting at the meeting.
In recognition of the needs of private shareholders, the Companys website contains a range of investor relations materials, including up-to-date information on the Groups activities, copies of all presentation materials given to institutional investors and further explanation of the matters contained in the annual reporting documents.
This report was approved by the Board on 17 November 2008. www.
