Overview Review of Operations Financial Review Sustainable Development Review Governance Accounts Operating Statistics 2008 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc Audit and Risk Committee Report 55 Role of the Audit and Risk Committee The Audit and Risk Committee is a formal Committee of the Board and has powers delegated to it under the Articles of Association.
Its terms of reference were reviewed by the Board in January 2007 and are compliant with the provisions of the Combined Code.
A copy of the terms of reference is available on the Companys website under Our business Executive Management and sets out the primary purposes of the Audit and Risk Committee, which are: To monitor the integrity of the Companys financial statements and announcements relating to its financial performance and reviewing significant financial reporting judgements: To keep under review the effectiveness of the Companys internal controls and risk management systems: To monitor the effectiveness of the internal audit function and review its material findings: and To oversee the relationship with the external auditors, including agreeing their remuneration and terms of engagement, monitoring their independence, objectivity and effectiveness and ensuring that policy surrounding their engagement to provide non-audit services is appropriately applied.
The Committee is authorised to investigate any matters within its terms of reference, access all Group documents and information, seek information from any Director or employee of the Group and co-opt any resources including external professional assistance it sees fit in order to fulfil its duties.
However, the Committee has no executive function and its primary objective is to review and challenge rather than assume responsibility for any matters within its remit.
Minutes of all meetings of the Committee save those recording private discussions with either the internal or external auditors are circulated to all Directors and supplemented by a written or verbal update from the Committee Chairman at the next Board meeting, identifying any matters in respect of which action or improvement is required and making recommendations where appropriate.
The Committee presents a summary of its activities to shareholders and other interested parties by means of this report and the Committee Chairman attends all general meetings of the Companys shareholders to answer any questions on the Committees activities.
The Committee assessed its effectiveness at a meeting in September 2008.
To do so, a tailor-made questionnaire was circulated to members of the Committee, the internal and external auditors and members of the management team who assist the Audit and Risk Committee in their work, which then formed the basis of a discussion.
The questionnaire focused on the effectiveness of the Committee, the flow of information, relationships with management and advisors, appropriateness of the terms of reference and the composition of the Committee.
All of these views were summarised into a formal report to the Board by the Chairman.
The Committee separately discussed the effectiveness of the Chairman of the Committee in his absence which also formed part of the report to the Board.
Composition of the Audit and Risk Committee All independent Directors, with the exception of the Chairman of the Board, are eligible to become members of the Committee.
The Committee comprised the following members during the year and, to the date of this report, any two of whom form a quorum.
All members of the Committee must be financially literate.
Michael Hartnall: an independent Director and a chartered accountant, Mr Hartnall was for 16 years until 2003 the finance director of Rexam plc, a multinational manufacturer of consumer packaging where his responsibilities included finance, internal control, risk management and corporate governance.
He was also a member of the Hampel Committee which produced the first version of the Combined Code in 1998.
The Board has judged that he has the significant, recent and relevant financial experience necessary to chair the Committee.
Roger Phillimore: an independent Director and a member of the Audit and Risk Committee since May 1998.
Karen fide Segundo: an independent Director and a member of the Audit and Risk Committee since April 2005.
Jim Sutcliffe: an independent Director who joined the Board in August 2007 and was appointed to the Audit and Risk Committee in September 2007.
Biographical details of each Director are set out on pages 22 and 23 of this document.
Each member receives an annual fee of 10,000 for serving as a member of the Committee and the Chairman of the Committee receives an annual fee of 17,500.
These fees are included in the table of Directors remuneration on page 41.
All members of the Committee are provided with appropriate induction into the role of the Committee and the operation of its terms of reference on appointment.
Access to training is provided on an ongoing basis to ensure that members are able to discharge their duties.
Meetings of the Committee are attended by the Chief Executive, the Chief Financial Officer, the VP Finance, the VP Treasury and Risk, the Head of Internal Audit and the Assistant Company Secretary who acts as secretary to the Committee, none of whom do so as of right.
The external auditors attend all Committee meetings and a private meeting is routinely held with them to afford the opportunity of discussions without the presence of management.
The internal auditors attend two of the four scheduled Committee meetings each year, usually in South Africa and are similarly afforded private meetings with the Committee.
com 56 Audit and Risk Committee Report Internal audit In July 2008, a Head of Internal Audit, based in South Africa, was appointed to manage the outsourced internal audit function provided by Ernst & Young and to develop the Groups own capabilities in this area.
This post reports to the Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee, with a joint reporting line to the VP, Treasury and Risk.
A total of 42 assignments were undertaken during the year across a broad cross-section of activities identified by both management and the Committee.
Internal audit reports are reviewed with operational management and then delivered to the executive management team, including the Chief Financial Officer, with material findings and recommendations then summarised to the Committee, who receive regular updates on progress in addressing the matters raised by internal audits.
A comprehensive review of the internal audit function was carried out during the year by the recently appointed Head of Internal Audit which supplemented the Committees annual review of the effectiveness of the internal auditors.
External audit KPMG Audit plc acted as the external auditors to the Lonmin Group throughout the year.
The lead audit partner is based in London and supported by a second audit partner based in Johannesburg.
The external auditors may not be engaged on any material non-audit work without the prior approval of the Audit and Risk Committee who are responsible for the annual work plan and fee budget for the auditors.
As policy, the Committee would not allow the external auditors to perform any work that they may subsequently need to audit or which might otherwise either create a conflict of interests or affect the auditors objectivity and independence.
The Committee also monitors the balance between audit and non-audit related spend to ensure that auditor independence can be shown to be maintained.
The Chief Financial Officer is permitted to engage the external auditors on matters that do not create such conflicts or otherwise compromise the audit firm subject to an annual fee ceiling of $100,000 per assignment.
Non-audit fees incurred during the year amounted to $1.5 million 2007 $1.6 million and relate primarily to the provision of taxation advisory services, IT assurance services, sustainability assurance, advice on accounting practice, and work carried out in relation to the pre-conditional offer from Xstrata plc.
The Committee is satisfied that the overall level of non-audit fees is not material relative to the income of the audit offices and firm as a whole, and that the nature of the services provided are appropriate and in line with the Companys policies in this area.
The Audit and Risk Committee appraised the independence and objectivity of KPMG and also reviewed their effectiveness as external auditors before reaching the recommendation to the Board that their re-election should be proposed to shareholders.
In arriving at its decision, consideration was also given to the expertise, resources and the professional standing of KPMG within the market.
Activities of the Audit and Risk Committee The Committee normally meets four times annually and reports its material findings to the Board.
The principal business of these meetings was: November: consideration of the letter of representation from management to the external auditors relating to the accounts: receipt of a report from the external auditors following their review of the full year accounts: assessment of any material exercises of judgement by management: consideration of the going concern statement: review of the annual reporting documents including the accounts and consideration of whether to recommend the same to the Board: review of the independence, objectivity and effectiveness of the external auditors and formulation of a recommendation to the Board as to whether or not their reappointment should be proposed to shareholders: review of the effectiveness of internal controls and risk management systems during the year prepared by management including a review of outstanding external and internal audit actions: review of a report on the internal controls environment prepared by the external auditors: review of non audit services provided by the external auditors during the year and approval of the fees for the year: private meeting with the external auditors.
March in South Africa : review of matters arising from the prior year audit: approval of scope of the external auditors proposed review of the interim accounts and the fees to be charged: approval of the plan for the external audit of the full year accounts: review of non-audit services to be provided by the external auditors: approval of the terms of the external auditors engagement letter: review of the work of the internal auditors in the year to date and their principal findings: private meeting with the internal auditors: review of risk management report: review of progress report of annual bottom up risk review: review of outstanding internal and external audit points.
May: consideration of the letter of representation from management to the external auditors relating to the interim accounts: receipt of a report from the external auditors following their review of the interim accounts: assessment of any material exercises of judgement by management: review of the interim report including the accounts and consideration of whether to recommend the same to the Board: private meeting with the external auditors: review of risk management report: review of outstanding internal and external audit points: review of non audit services provided by the external auditors year to date,.
September usually in South Africa but in UK this year : review of the effectiveness of the internal auditors: review of the work of the internal auditors and their principal findings: approval of the scope and focus of the internal audit programme and internal audit fees for the forthcoming financial year: further review and final confirmation of the external auditors plan for the year end audit: review of outstanding internal and external audit points: review of risk management report including key risks facing the Group following top down and bottom up risk reviews: review of the renewal terms and scope of cover of the Groups insurance programme: review of investigations report: review of treasury update.. Overview Review of Operations Financial Review Sustainable Development Review Governance Accounts Operating Statistics 2008 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc Audit and Risk Committee Report 57 Activities of the Audit and Risk Committee continued A further two scheduled meetings were held to approve the quarterly and half year production reports and interim management statements.
In addition to the routine business described above, the Committee also undertook the following activities during the year and in the period to the date of this report in discharging its responsibilities: Review of relevant changes to the legal and regulatory regimes in the United Kingdom and South Africa: Review of provisions under the Companies Act 2006 in connection with auditor liability agreements: Review progress of post-investment appraisals in relation to various capital projects and acquisitions: Review of matters reported to the external whistle-blowing hotline: Review of the internal audit structure: and Review of the process by which confirmations and assurance is provided by line management at the year end.
The Committee met six times during the year.
Attendance at these meetings was as follows: Number of meetings Number of Director held during time in office meetings attended Karen fide Segundo 64 Michael Hartnall 66 Roger Phillimore 66 Jim Sutcliffe 66 This report was approved by the Board on 17 November 2008.
Michael Hartnall Committee Chairman www.
