58 Nomination Committee Report Role of the Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee is a formal Committee of the Board and has powers delegated to it under the Articles of Association.
Its remit is set out in terms of reference that were formally adopted by the Board in November 2006.
These are available from the Company and are displayed on its website under Our business Executive Management.
The primary purposes of the Committee are: To ensure a regular, rigorous and objective evaluation of the structure, size, composition, balance of skills, knowledge and experience of the Board is undertaken: In consultation with the Chairman, recommend any proposed changes to the composition of the Board and to instigate and manage the recruitment process: To ensure the Companys adherence to applicable legal and regulatory requirements in relation to the above: and To oversee compliance with the Combined Code and other applicable corporate governance regulation.
Composition of the Nomination Committee The Committee comprises Roger Phillimore Chairman, Sir John Craven, Peter Godsoe and Michael Hartnall.
The quorum for a meeting of the Committee is two members.
All four members are Non-executive Directors whom the Board considers to be wholly independent.
Given their diverse backgrounds and experience, the Board believes that the Committee members are able to offer a balanced view on the Committees business.
Each member receives an annual fee of 7,500 and the Chairman of the Committee receives a fee of 12,500.
These fees are included in the table of Directors remuneration on page 41 and a detailed breakdown is also provided on page 42.
Biographical details of each Director are set out on page 22 and 23 of this document.
The Committee is supported by the services of the Company Secretary who acts as secretary to the Committee and it has full access to the Chief Executive.
It is also empowered to appoint search consultants, legal, tax and other professional advisors as it sees fit to assist with its work and to co-opt such resources as it requires to fulfil its duties.
Appointments to the Board All recommendations for Board appointments are made on merit and against objective criteria.
A job specification is drawn up which includes, in the case of non-executive appointments, an estimate of the time commitment required.
Generally, the Committee will engage executive search consultants to assist in ensuring a comprehensive listing of potential candidates for the Committees consideration.
Activities of the Nomination Committee The Companys Articles of Association require directors appointed during the year to seek re-election at the next Annual General Meeting and thereafter by rotation at least once every three years.
At a meeting in November 2007, the Committee reviewed the effectiveness of David Munro and Jim Sutcliffe and an executive Director, Alan Ferguson, all of whom had been appointed during the year.
The effectiveness of Sivi Gounden and Karen fide Segundo, both of whom were seeking re-appointment following retirement by rotation, was also considered.
All of the Directors were found to be able, committed and effective in their roles.
None of the Directors played any part in the discussions concerning themselves.
The effectiveness of Roger Phillimore, having served three three-year terms, was also carefully and rigorously considered by the Committee at the November 2007 meeting.
The Committee concluded that Mr Phillimore was fully effective, demonstrated commitment to his role and retained independent judgement in all respects.
Mr Phillimore did not participate in the discussions concerning his evaluation.
The Committee also reviewed its report to be contained in the 2007 Report & Accounts, which it agreed to recommend to the Board and it assessed its effectiveness and, in his absence, that of the Chairman of the Committee.
The views expressed were summarised to the Board and there were no matters arising which the Committee or the Board felt necessitated change.
During the year, Mr Godsoes second term of office expired and, after due and careful consideration at the January 2008 meeting, the Committee invited Mr Godsoe to serve a third term of office expiring at the conclusion of the 2010 Annual General Meeting.
In arriving at this decision, the Committee took into account that Mr Godsoe was independent in character and judgement and his experience, skills and knowledge contributed positively to the overall balance of the Board.
At the July 2008 meeting, the Committee undertook a detailed evaluation of the composition of the Board in light of the skills, experience and diversity of the Directors, and while no actions were felt necessary, the Committee agreed to keep this matter under review.
The terms and conditions of appointment of the non executive directors are available for inspection at the Companys registered office and will be available for inspection at the Annual General Meeting.
The Committee met three times during the year.
Attendance at these meetings was as follows: Number of meetings held Number of Director during time in office meetings attended Sir John Craven 33 Peter Godsoe 33 Michael Hartnall 33 Roger Phillimore 33 This report was approved by the Board on 17 November 2008.
