A N N U A L F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S for the year ended 31 December REMUNERATION REPORT Approval This remuneration report has been approved by the Board of directors of Anglo Platinum.
Signed on behalf of the Board of directors.
Tom Wixley Deputy Chairman and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Johannesburg 5 February 2009 AUDIT COMMIT TEE REPORT BACKGROUND The Audit Committees operation is guided by a detailed charter that is informed by the Act and is approved by the Board as and when it is amended.
The revised charter includes the specific requirements as set out in the Companies Act, as amended pertaining to auditors and audit committees a copy of the audit committee charter is available on the Companys website.
PURPOSE The purpose of the committee is: to assist the Board in discharging its duties relating to safeguarding of assets, the operation of adequate systems, control and reporting processes, and the preparation of accurate reporting and financial statements in compliance with the applicable legal requirements and accounting standards: to provide the chief financial officer, external auditors and head of internal audit access to the chairman of the committee or any other member of the committee as is required in relation to any matter falling within the remit of the committee: as a committee comprising only of the independent non-executive directors, to meet with the external auditors at least on an annual basis: to provide a forum for discussing business risk and control issues for developing recommendations for consideration by the Board: to conduct annual reviews of the Committees work and terms of reference and make recommendations to the Board to ensure that the committee operates at maximum effectiveness and monitors enterprise-wide, operational and market, regulatory, safety and other risks, as well as to ensure adequate mitigation thereof by way of monitoring internal controls that have been implemented to curtail and minimise risk: to review the holding and Group company financial statements and reports and assume responsibility for subsidiary company and managed jointventure audit committees and financial matters: to consider the scope and conclusion of the independent assurance providers in respect of the Safety & Sustainable Development report: to oversee the activities of and ensure coordination between the activities of internal and external audit: and to perform duties that are assigned to it by the Companies Act, as amended and as governed by other legislative requirements.
ANGLO PLATINUM LIMITED 2 0 0 8 162 MEMBERSHIP The committee is appointed by the Board of directors for each financial year.
The committee comprises solely of independent non-executive directors.
The composition of the Audit Committee was expanded and Sonja Sebotsa was appointed a member of the committee on 21 July 2008.
The members are: Richard Dunne Chairman Tom Wixley Sonja Sebotsa EXTERNAL AUDIT The committee had nominated the auditor and designated partner, who is a registered independent auditor for appointment for 2008 audit.
This appointment was approved by shareholders at the annual general meeting on 31 March 2008.
The committee has satisfied itself through enquiry that the auditor of Anglo Platinum Limited is independent as defined by the Companies Act, as amended, and as per the standards stipulated by the auditing profession.
Requisite assurance was sought and provided by the auditor that internal governance processes within the audit firm support and demonstrate the claim to independence.
The committee, in consultation with executive management, agreed to the engagement letter, terms, nature and scope of the audit function and audit plan for the 2008 financial year.
The fee is considered appropriate for the work that could reasonably have been foreseen at that time.
The final adjusted fee will be agreed on completion of the audit.
Audit fees are disclosed in note 8 to the financial statements.
There is a formal procedure that governs the process whereby the auditor is considered for non-audit services, and each engagement letter for such work is reviewed and approved by the committee.
Meetings are held with the auditor where management is not present, and no matters of concern were raised.
The committee has again nominated, for approval at the annual general meeting, Deloitte & Touche as the external auditor and Graeme Berry as the designated auditor, for the 2009 financial year.
ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS In view of the Audit Committee having achieved its objectives, the committee has recommended the financial statements for approval to the Board.
The Board has subsequently approved the financial statements which will be open for discussion at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
Richard Dunne Chairman of the Audit Committee Johannesburg 5 February 2009 ANGLO PLATINUM LIMITED 2 0 0 8 163
