Key performance Shareholder About us indicators Business review Governance information Financial review Financial statements marksandspencer.
com annualreport08 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC 39 Corporate governance statement The Board is committed to achieving success for the Company procedures.
It also sets out guidelines on the environment, by building a sustainable business for the long term, generating fraud and financial reporting, the management of conflicts shareholder value through consistent profitable growth whilst of interest and how to raise concerns about possible making sure that our customers can always trust us to do the improprieties in financial reporting or other matters.
This statement explains our governance policies managers sign their acceptance of the Code of Ethics each and practices and provides insight into how the Board and year and ensure it is applied in their areas of responsibility.
management run the business for the benefit of shareholders.
New Board structure The governance rules which apply to all UK companies listed On 10 March 2008 we announced Board and senior on the London Stock Exchange are found in the Combined management changes.
We stated that Lord Burns would stand Code on Corporate Governance which was updated by the down as Chairman from 1 June 2008, when Sir Stuart Rose Financial Reporting Council in June 2006 the Code.
would be appointed Executive Chairman.
A detailed account of how the Company has applied the Codes principles and how we comply with its provisions On 3 April 2008 Lord Burns wrote to shareholders setting can be found on our website at out the detailed reasons behind the Boards decisions.
com thecompany of this letter is available on our website.
The Board has taken this decision, cognisant of its prime objective to ensure the The Board Companys ongoing commercial success, and has put in place balancing controls to mitigate the governance concerns: The Boards role is to: limited period of appointment of combined Chairman provide entrepreneurial leadership of the Company and Chief Executive until July 2011: within a framework of prudent and effective controls which enables risk to be assessed and managed:appointment of Sir David Michels as Deputy Chairman: set the Companys strategic aims, ensuring that theclear specification of duties of Executive Chairman necessary financial and human resources are in place and Deputy Chairman to ensure proper division of for the Company to meet its objectives and review responsibilities and balance of power: management performance: and appointment of two new executive directors and set the Companys values and standards and ensure increased responsibility for the Group Finance and that its obligations to its shareholders and others are Operations Director: understood and met.
recruitment of an additional non-executive director to All directors are individually briefed on appointment, on the ensure a majority of independent directors on the Board.
duties they owe as directors to the Company.
During the year, Following that appointment, the Board will consider the the directors have been briefed on their new statutory duties appointment of a further non-executive: and as set out in the Companies Act 2006, which came into effect annual voting by shareholders for Sir Stuart Roses on 1 October 2007.
The central duty is the duty to act in good reappointment as a director starting at the 2008 AGM.
faith and in a way most likely to promote the success of the Company for the benefit of its members as a whole.
In fulfilling The Board unanimously believes that the overall arrangements this duty, directors should have regard amongst other matters represent a sensible way forward and provide a sound to the likely consequences of any decision in the long term: transitional governance structure leading to the appointment the interests of employees: the need to foster business of a new Chairman and separate Chief Executive by summer relationships with suppliers, customers and others: the impact 2011.
The new structure will ensure continuity of leadership, of operations on the community and the environment: the strengthen the Board and streamline the organisation.
This desirability of maintaining a reputation for high standards will focus everyone on business performance during a period of business conduct: and the need to act fairly between of significant trading uncertainty and it addresses investor members of the Company.
The non-executive directors play a key governance role Consultation with shareholders in protecting shareholders interests.
They are independent The Code states that: If exceptionally a Board decides that and bring an external dimension to the Board, whilst a Chief Executive should become Chairman, the Board should complementing the skills and experience of the executive consult major shareholders in advance and should set out its directors through their range of knowledge, experience and reasons to shareholders at the time of the appointment and insight from other sectors.
in the next annual report.
In January 2007 we announced Plan A, our business wide In the period leading up to the announcement on 10 March eco plan setting out our ambitions to change the way we 2008 of the Board and senior management changes, the operate over the next five years.
We are committed to our Board considered how best to communicate with shareholders.
principles of Quality, Value, Service, Innovation and Trust.
The changes proposed as part of the new governance and Trust is earned from others as a result of our commitment to management structure were wide-ranging and not only included long-held values and the way we behave.
Our Code of Ethics the appointment of the Executive Chairman and Deputy is available on our website.
It outlines the behaviours that Chairman but two new Board appointments, the extension M&S expects from its employees, whether they are dealing of the Finance Directors role and a large number of senior with our customers, suppliers, shareholders or colleagues.
management appointments, as well as news of the departures This includes acting in a professional manner with honesty of several members of the senior management team.
and integrity at all times and following Company policies and 40 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC Corporate governance statement continued In light of these proposed changes and their sensitivities leadership for the non-executive directors, be responsible the Board was concerned about the risk of leaks and did for monitoring Board effectiveness and lead on corporate not consult major shareholders in advance.
The Board was governance issues.
Sir David Michels has committed to spend unanimous and clear that the proposed changes, taken as sufficient and significant time in his role as Deputy Chairman.
a whole, were in the interests of shareholders, customers He is resigning from the Board of The British Land Company and employees.
The Board was also clear that whatever PLC and resigned from RAB Capital PLC on 18 April 2008 in consultation was undertaken in advance of an announcement, order to ensure that he can fulfil his commitments.
its deliberations would nonetheless be subject to comment In addition, the non-executive directors will meet independently and scrutiny.
The Board also knew that it would, rightly, be at least twice a year to keep the governance structure under obliged under the Code to explain why it was proposing to review to ensure appropriate safeguards are in place to protect combine the Chairman and Chief Executive roles and to shareholder interests.
answer questions from any shareholders with concerns.
Board balance and independence Since the announcement, Lord Burns has consulted with a On 29 March 2008 the Board comprised 11 directors: number of principal investors and shareholder representative the Chairman, Chief Executive, four executive directors and bodies and he and Sir David Michels have met with those five non-executive directors.
On 1 June 2008 the Board will who had requested a meeting.
A letter was also sent to all comprise 10 directors: the Executive Chairman, non-executive shareholders on 3 April 2008 setting out the detailed reasons Deputy Chairman, four executive directors and four further behind the Boards decisions.
A full list of the directors, with details Division of responsibilities of their biographies and committee membership, is given on The Board has reviewed and agreed a clear specification page 32. of duties under the new Board structure to ensure a proper The Board concludes that each non-executive director is division of responsibilities and balance of power.
The Deputy independent in character and judgement and will keep under Chairman will have joint responsibility with the Executive review whether there are relationships or circumstances which Chairman, for the agenda and the overall Board structure and are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, independence.
He will chair the Nomination Committee, provide The principal roles of the Executive Chairman, Deputy Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director Chairman and non-executive directors are set out below: to lead on all governance issues including conducting Executive Chairman the annual review of Board effectiveness and ensuring that the performance of individual directors is kept under to ensure the Board achieves its full potential to build review: and a sustainable business for the long term, generating shareholder value through consistent, profitable growthto provide a communication channel between the whilst making sure that our customers always trust us Chairman and non-executive directors and, when required, to do the right thing: and principal shareholders including representative bodies.
to act within delegated authority from the Board for During the period of combined Chairman and Chief Executive: all aspects of the management of the Group, which to monitor the effectiveness of the role of Executive includes developing appropriate business strategies Chairman: independently to lead the succession process for Board approval and achieving timely and effective for the appointment of a Chief Executive by 2011: and to implementation.
maintain contact with principal investors and representative bodies on a regular basis, keeping the Board informed.
During the period of combined Chairman and Chief Executive: to keep the Deputy Chairman regularly informed Non-Executive Directors on all matters that may be of importance to the Group, to bring an independent and external dimension to the including its current performance and progress: and to Boards activities and play their part in relation to strategy, monitor performance of the executive directors in their performance, risk and people: and increased responsibilities, whilst focusing on the strategic growth areas of the business.
within the spirit of partnership and mutual respect on the unitary board, to support, constructively challenge and monitor the executive team.
During the period of combined Chairman and Chief Executive: to keep the governance structure under review to ensure appropriate safeguards are in place to protect shareholder interests.
com annualreport08 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC 41 Information and professional development Some of the outcomes achieved in 2007 08 following the The Chairman ensures that the directors receive accurate, 2006 07 review: timely and clear information.
They receive regular updates a greater focus on the long-term growth prospects of the on business performance against the annual operating plan business leading to the announcement in November 2007 and investment decisions, together with business reports and of our priorities for the next five years.
Whilst continuing to presentations from senior management at Board meetings.
invest in our core business we have ambitious plans for Directors are encouraged to update their skills, knowledge our UK property portfolio, M&S Direct and International and familiarity with the Group through their initial induction, businesses and Plan A: ongoing participation at Board and Committee meetings, meeting employees at store locations and elsewhere and areregular reviews of the bench strength of senior kept up-to-date on the views of customers and shareholders.
management and future skills and composition of the The Board is regularly updated on governance and Board, leading to the new governance and management regulatory matters.
Succession planning will continue to be a priority and from 1 June Graham Oakley as Group Secretary acts as a sounding 2008 Sir David Michels, Deputy Chairman, will chair the board to the Chairman and individual directors.
He supports Nomination Committee: and the Chairman in ensuring the Board functions effectively and fulfils its role.
He is secretary of the Audit,  of an online Board portal to provide a more and Nomination Committees and also heads the Corporate secure, efficient and flexible method of delivering Board Governance Group, which supports the Board and its papers and easy access to information for induction committees, as well as providing advice on a range of issues and ongoing development.
From 1 June 2008 the Group From 1 June 2008 Sir David Michels as Deputy Chairman Secretary will have an additional reporting line to the Deputy will lead the Boards review of its performance.
He will also Chairman to assist him in fulfilling his governance duties.
hold meetings with the non-executive directors, without There is an established procedure whereby the Board or the executive directors present, to monitor and reflect on any of its Committees may take independent professional the effectiveness of the new governance structure and to advice when appropriate.
Any individual director, wishing appraise the performance of the Executive Chairman.
to do so in the furtherance of their duties, may also take Individual performance independent professional advice through the secretary at The performance of the executive directors was reviewed the Companys expense.
Directors are granted an indemnity individually by the Chief Executive against set objectives.
from the Company in respect of liabilities incurred as a result Remuneration is directly linked to these reviews and of their office.
In respect of those matters for which they determined by the Remuneration Committee.
Similarly, cannot be indemnified, the Company maintains appropriate the Chief Executives performance was reviewed by the liability insurance for the benefit of directors.
The Senior Independent Director reviewed the Board performance Chairmans performance against a set of previously agreed The performance of the Board is a vital component of the objectives.
The performance of the non-executive directors Groups success and the Board is keen to ensure that the was reviewed individually by the Chairman.
This years annual review of its performance builds on the previous years questionnaire also invited each director to comment on results to ensure a continuous process.
In September 2007 the individual performances of themselves, other directors the Board approved an action plan based on the key themes and the Chairman.
from the 2006 07 review of process, people, strategy and Under the new Board structure from 1 June 2008 the Deputy performance measures.
The action plan also referred to Chairman will review the performance of the Executive Chairman, the new statutory directors duties, to address these as taking into account the views of the non-executive directors.
an integral part of Board performance.
The Board agreed to conduct the 2007 08 review in house and that it be led Committee performance by Lord Burns.
In January 2008 each director completed a The process for reviewing the effectiveness of the Committees questionnaire to rate collective performance over some 20 in 2007 08 has been to combine ongoing reviews with a questions with free text boxes for comments.
The Chairman simple questionnaire led by each of the respective chairmen.
then reviewed an unattributed executive summary, highlighting The Audit and Remuneration Committees undertook a review key outcomes which he has subsequently discussed with looking at their methods of operation and processes and individual directors.
combined this with the use of questionnaires which were conducted in March 2008.
An executive summary was produced for the Chairman of each Committee which they discussed with their respective Committee members.
Succession planning and senior leadership development During the year successional planning reviews were held by the Board and the Nomination Committee resulting in key appointments to the Board and senior management.
We made important organisational changes, promoting existing talent and bringing in new people, to ensure we have the right skills in key areas of focus over the next three years.
Senior leadership development remains a priority.
42 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC Corporate governance statement continued 2008 09.
As authorised by shareholders at the AGM on 10 July Board committees 2007, the Audit Committee determines the level of remuneration The principal Board committees are the Audit, for the external auditors on behalf of the Board.
Details of this Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
The written years fees are given in note 4 to the financial statements.
terms of reference of each committee can be found on Remuneration Committee our website.
The Remuneration Committee comprises four independent Audit Committee non-executive directors: Louise Patten Chairman, The Audit Committee comprises four independent, Martha Lane Fox, Steven Holliday, and Sir David Michels.
non-executive directors: Jeremy Darroch Chairman, Martha joined the Board and became a member of the Martha Lane Fox, Steven Holliday and Sir David Michels.
Committee on 1 June 2007 to replace Jack Keenan who Martha joined the Board and became a member of the retired on 10 July 2007.
It met five times during the year.
Committee on 1 June 2007 to replace Jack Keenan who The Remuneration Committees primary role is to retired on 10 July 2007. recommend to the Board the remuneration strategy The Audit Committee assists the Board in fulfilling and framework, giving due regard to the financial and its oversight responsibilities and its primary role is to commercial health of the Company and to ensure that monitor the integrity of the financial statements and executive directors and senior management are fairly other information to shareholders: to review the systems rewarded for their individual contributions to the of internal control and risk management: to maintain Companys overall performance.
an appropriate relationship with the Companys external The remuneration of the non-executive directors is determined auditors: and to review the effectiveness and objectivity by the Chairman and the executive directors.
The Remuneration of the audit process.
report is set out on pages 48 to 55 as required by the Directors It met four times during the year reviewing a number of Remuneration Report Regulations 2002. internal audits relating to key business processes and the Nomination Committee principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group.
The The Nomination Committee comprises Lord Burns Chairman, Committee received updates on the governance process Sir Stuart Rose and all five independent non-executive around business change initiatives and reviewed the Code of directors: Jeremy Darroch, Martha Lane Fox, Steven Holliday, Ethics and whistleblowing returns.
Private meetings have been Sir David Michels and Louise Patten.
Martha joined the Board held separately with the external auditors and internal audit.
and became a member of the Committee on 1 June 2007 The Board has satisfied itself that at least one member to replace Jack Keenan who retired on 10 July 2007.
From of the Audit Committee has recent and relevant financial 1 June 2008 Sir David Michels, Deputy Chairman, will chair the experience and is confident that the collective experience Committee to replace Lord Burns who will retire on that date.
of the members enables them to act as an effective Audit The Nomination Committees primary role is to ensure that Committee.
The Committee also has access to the financial appropriate procedures are in place for the nomination, expertise of the Group and its auditors and can seek further selection, training and evaluation of directors and for professional advice at the Companys expense, if required.
It reviews the Companys Board The Board has appointed a new Head of Internal Audit and structure, size, composition and successional needs, Risk, Claire Combes, who joined the Company on 6 May thereby keeping under consideration the balance of 2008.
Following the departure on 31 July 2007 of the previous membership and the required blend of skills, knowledge Head of Internal Audit, John Federer, the function has been and experience of the Board.
Appointments are made led by the two Audit Managers who have had direct access on merit and against objective criteria to ensure that to the Audit Committee Chairman.
the Board maintains a balance of skills and experience.
The Committee keeps under review the independence and It met twice formally during the year and succession objectivity of the external auditors,  planning sessions were held by the Board and the LLP PwC, including the review of any audit fee proposals Nomination Committee to consider Board and senior and non-audit fees.
An engagement and fee approvals process management changes.
Under the Companys Articles of is in place which requires prior approval from the Committee Association, all directors seek election at their first Annual for certain engagements.
On occasions, the nature of nonGeneral Meeting following appointment and all directors audit advice may make it more timely and cost-effective to are required to offer themselves for re-election at least every select PwC, who already have a good understanding of the three years.
Under the new Board structure from 1 June 2008 Group.
PwC may also be appointed for consultancy work, we have announced that Sir Stuart Rose will retire and seek but only after rigorous checks, including competitive tender, re-election by shareholders on an annual basis, commencing to confirm they are the best provider.
PwC is also subject in 2008, rather than on the usual three-year cycle.
to professional standards which safeguard the integrity On 10 March 2008 we announced the appointment of the auditing role performed on behalf of shareholders.
with immediate effect of two new executive directors, Arrangements have been made, in conjunction with PwC, for Kate Bostock and Steven Esom, as well as changes to audit partner rotation in accordance with the recommendations the senior management team.
The Board was keen to of the Auditing Practices Board.
The lead audit engagement ensure a proper mix of top talent, combining new recruits partner, Ranjan Sriskandan, has been in place since 2003 04 and existing employees.
and is being succeeded by Stuart Watson with effect from Key performance Shareholder About us indicators Business review Governance information Financial review Financial statements marksandspencer.
com annualreport08 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC 43 Consideration was given when recruiting below Board level as to whether further progression on the Board was possible, as demonstrated by the promotion of two new executive directors and the increased responsibility given to Ian Dyson as Group Finance and Operations Director.
On 22 May 2007 we announced the appointment of a new non-executive director, Martha Lane Fox, with effect from 1 June 2007.
This followed a search by an external search consultancy commissioned by the Nomination Committee.
The candidates were shortlisted by the Chairman and the Chief Executive and the preferred candidate then seen by a wider group of directors.
A search led by Sir David Michels on behalf of the Committee is currently under way for a new non-executive director which is being conducted through an external search consultancy.
Attendance The following table sets out the number of meetings of the Board and its governance committees during the year and individual attendance by Board and committee members at those meetings.
Directors who were unable to attend Board or committee meetings reviewed the relevant papers and provided comments prior to the meeting to the Chairman, or Committee Chairman, as appropriate.
Group Audit Remuneration Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee Name of Director A B A B A B A B Lord Burns, Chairman 9 9 2 2 Sir Stuart Rose, Chief Executive 9 9 2 2 Executive Directors Kate Bostock appointed 10 March 2008 1 1 Ian Dyson 9 9 Steven Esom appointed 10 March 2008 1 1 Steven Sharp 9 9 Non-Executive Directors Jeremy Darroch 9 9 4 4 2 2 1 Martha Lane Fox appointed 1 June 2007 76 32 32 1 2 Steven Holliday 98 43 54 22 Jack Keenan retired 11 July 2007 3 3 1 1 2 2 1 1 3 Sir David Michels 96 42 53 22 Louise Patten 9 9 5 5 2 2 A Maximum number of meetings the director could have attended.
B Number of meetings the director actually attended.
1 Martha Lane Fox was unable to attend meetings of the Board on 8 February 2008, the Audit and Remuneration Committees on 27 February 2008 and the Nomination Committee on 29 February 2008 as she was in hospital.
2 Steven Holliday was unable to attend meetings of the Audit and Remuneration Committees on 15 May 2007 and the Board on 5 November 2007 due to overseas commitments with National Grid plc.
3 Sir David Michels was unable to attend meetings of the Board on 9 and 21 May and 5 November 2007: the Audit Committee on 15 May and 31 October 2007: and the Remuneration Committee on 15 and 21 May 2007 due to overseas business commitments already planned prior to his appointment to the M&S Board.
Accountability and audit The Groups overriding corporate objective is to maximise long-term shareholder value whilst exceeding the expectations of our customers, employees and partners.
In doing so, the directors recognise that creating value is the reward for taking and accepting risk.
The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups approach to assessing risk and systems of internal control, and for monitoring their effectiveness in providing shareholders with a return that is consistent with a responsible assessment and mitigation of risks.
This includes reviewing financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management procedures.
The role of executive management is to implement the Boards policies on risk and control, and to provide assurance on compliance with these policies.
Independent assurance is provided by internal audit, which operates across the Group, and the external auditors.
All employees are accountable for operating within these policies.
Because of the limitations that are inherent in any system of internal control, this system is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve corporate objectives.
Accordingly, it can only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
44 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC Corporate governance statement continued Risk assessment Every six months the Board reviews the Group Risk Profile the tool that drives risk assessment and action planning.
This is supported by an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
As an integral part of planning and review, managers from each business area and major projects: identify the risks to their plans: evaluate the risks using likelihood and impact: and document the actions being taken to manage those risks.
This process has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual report and accounts.
It has been regularly reviewed by the Board and accords with the Internal Control Guidance for directors on the Code produced by the Financial Reporting Council.
Principal risks and uncertainties There are risks and uncertainties which could impact the Groups long-term performance.
The risk assessment process is designed to identify, manage and mitigate business risk.
The table below gives examples of activities across Group functions to mitigate against risks and uncertainties identified.
The Board considers that these are the most significant risks to achieving business goals.
The risks listed do not comprise all those associated with Marks & Spencer and are not set out in any order of priority.
Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to management, or currently deemed to be less material, may also have an adverse effect on the business.
Risk Impact Examples of mitigating activities PRODUCT: We aim to provide a wide choice of great value, high quality clothing, food and home products, which are all sourced and made responsibly.
Clothing We fail to maintain clothing Adverse effect on New and better product, exploiting areas of opportunity market share through financial resultsTracking of customer perceptions of product growth of space and focus A supply base that enables future growth with emphasis on product in the face of Lost market share on best value and speed to market increased competition in and customer loyaltyNew and better space offering to make clothing more tougher trading conditions accessible to our customers Store specific cataloguing and effective stock management See pages 11 to 15 to put the right stock in the right stores for our customers Plan A initiatives, eg ethical sourcing Food We fail to deliver profitable Adverse effect on Continual product and technical innovation to maintain sales growth while financial results competitive advantage maintaining an innovation Continued emphasis on fresh food credentials gap over competitors Lost market share Independent quality assessment of key food lines and customer loyaltyTracking of customer perceptions of product See pages 17 to 19A supply base that enables future growth and further strengthens our food credentials Food more accessible to our customers through new owned and franchised stores Plan A initiatives, eg differentiated raw materials Key performance Shareholder About us indicators Business review Governance information Financial review Financial statements marksandspencer.
com annualreport08 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC 45 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Risk Impact Examples of mitigating activities PEOPLE: As we continue to grow our business and invest for the future, its important we keep strengthening our team at every level from shop floor through to management.
We fail to attract, develop Inability to develop andNew senior management structure in place and retain talent with the execute business plansA focus on senior leadership development and succession correct skills and capability Competitive reward packages for succession Competitive Buying Academies in head office and coaches in stores disadvantageGraduate recruitment and development See pages 6 and 20 and 21Employee communication Tracking of employee satisfaction surveys Tracking of customer perceptions of service M&S DIRECT: We are further developing our M&S Direct business as an important part of our commitment to becoming a multi-channel retailer.
We fail to deliver sales Adverse effect on Capability to grow sales via new products and new customers growth by failing to meet financial resultsA focus on improved order fulfilment and customer service customer expectations Lost market share See pages 26 and 27 and customer loyalty INTERNATIONAL: We have ambitious plans to grow our International business through expanding our franchise operation, entering into partnerships and developing wholly-owned businesses in emerging economies.
We fail to grow our Adverse effect on A focus on appropriate resource required to integrate International business financial results new ventures successfully through franchiseNew operational and financial processes in place to operations, partnerships or Damage to brand support growth of International businesses wholly-owned businessesStrong relationships forged with key stakeholders See pages 28 and 29 PLAN A: We launched our five-year eco plan in January 2007 to address challenges across five areas: climate change, waste, sustainable raw materials, fair partner and health.
We fail to deliver, measure Lost stakeholder trust Governance in place to achieve our commitments, or communicate and confidence including a new Director of Plan A performance against our Performance reporting further developed Plan A commitments Damage to brandPlan A integrated into day-to-day operation including Plan A Champions throughout head office and stores See pages 30 and 31Open dialogue with stakeholders developing our mutual understanding of the challenges we face 46 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC Corporate governance statement continued Internal control The Audit Committee has completed its review of the effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal control The Board maintains full control and direction over appropriate during the year, which are in compliance with the Turnbull strategic, financial, organisational and compliance issues.
It confirms the necessary action plans It has delegated to executive management the to remedy identified weaknesses in internal control are implementation of the systems of internal control within in place and have been throughout the year.
Internal audits work is focused on areas of priority as identified The Board has put in place an organisational structure by the Group Risk Profile and in accordance with an annual with formally defined lines of responsibility and delegation audit plan approved each year by the Audit Committee and by of authority.
There are also established procedures for the Board.
The Board receives a full report from internal audit planning, capital expenditure, information and reporting each year on the departments work and findings and regular systems, and for monitoring the Groups businesses and interim updates on specific issues.
The Audit Committee their performance.
monitors and assesses the role and effectiveness of the These include: internal audit function on behalf of the Board.
Plans and policies The external auditors are engaged to express an opinion on communication of the Groups strategy, objectives the financial statements.
They review and test the systems of and targets: internal financial control and the data contained in the financial statements to the extent necessary to express their audit annual operating and capital plans and future projections: opinion.
They discuss with management the reporting of operating policies and procedures: operational results and the financial position of the Group and present their findings to the Audit Committee.
clearly defined capital investment control guidelines: Relations with shareholdersreview of treasury policies by the Board: and Communicationreview of social, environmental and ethical matters by We are committed to ongoing engagement with the How we do business Committee.
shareholders and have a well-established cycle of Competent people communication based on the Groups financial reporting appointment of employees of the necessary calibre to calendar.
This includes our preliminary results in May, fulfil their allotted responsibilities: and Annual report in June, half year results in November and Interim management statements in January and July.
clear roles and accountabilities with regular performance Our website provides up-to-date information including reviews.
simultaneous webcasts of our financial results and Monitor and control AGM presentations: regulatory announcements: Annual review by operating divisions of their plans with the relevant reports: corporate governance and share price information executive directors prior to submission to the Board for and answers to frequently asked questions.
Following approval, including identification and assessment of risks: shareholder approval in July 2007, the website is now our principal means of communicating with investors.
monthly comparison of operating divisions actual financial performance against budget: and Institutional investors Our investor relations department is the focal point for regular consideration by the Board of year-end forecasts.
contact with our institutional investors and is in regular Regulatory update contact with them as well as with analysts and brokers reporting of accounting and legal developments: and during the year.
Our Chairman, Chief Executive and Group Finance and Operations Director play key roles in ourregular briefings on latest best practice corporate relationship with major shareholders and the presentations governance to the Board.
of full and half year results are attended by all the executive Assurance directors.
The Senior Independent Director is also available On behalf of the Board, the Audit Committee examines for shareholders as required.
An investor relations summary the effectiveness of the Groups: is produced for each Board meeting and each year the Board receives feedback from independent advisers on  of risk by reviewing evidence of risk investor views of management and Company performance, assessment activity and a report from internal audit based on the results of their extensive survey.
From 1 June on the process undertaken: 2008 the Deputy Chairman will maintain contact with principal systems of internal control, primarily through approving investors and representative bodies on a regular basis, keeping the internal audit plan and reviewing its findings, reviews the Board informed.
of the Annual and Interim financial statements and a review of the nature, scope and reports of the external audit: action plans taken, or to be taken, to remedy any significant failings or weaknesses identified: and action plans in place to manage significant risks.
com annualreport08 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC 47 Private investors Since 2004 voting at the meeting has been conducted by Private investors own a high percentage of our shares poll, using the electronic Votenow system, rather than on compared to most other large UK companies.
The Board is a show of hands.
This gives a more democratic result as all also interested to know their views and we make a special shares represented at the meeting and those lodged before effort to ensure communications and policies are appropriate the meeting are included on a one share, one vote basis.
They can contact us in writing, by email at Our registrars record all proxy votes received up to 48 hours chairman@marks-and-spencer.
com, or by telephone on prior to our AGM and report the votes For, Against or 0845 609 0810 for shareholder queries and 0845 302 1234 Vote withheld to the Chairman prior to the meeting.
votes are included in the indicative poll result screened at the meeting.
The final results are announced via the London In January 2008 we consulted with shareholders on electronic Stock Exchange.
In 2007 votes cast represented 53.5% of communication nearly 40,000 shareholders confirmed that the ordinary share capital.
All resolutions were passed with they wished to continue to receive hard copy documents, votes For resolutions ranging from 94.7% to 99.9%.
such as the Annual report.
The remainder will be notified when the Annual report is available on our website.
However, The next AGM will be held on Wednesday 9 July 2008 at the all shareholders will continue to receive an AGM Notice of Royal Festival Hall in London.
In addition to routine resolutions, Meeting, together with key financial and governance shareholders will be asked to vote on the adoption of new information to enable them to vote.
Articles of Association enabling us to benefit from the recent changes brought about by the Companies Act 2006.
Postage-paid topics cards are sent with the AGM Notice of Meeting giving shareholders further opportunity to make their Compliance with the Combined Code views known to us.
The three most frequently raised topics The Company complies with all the provisions of the Code are addressed at the meeting and a summary of all comments with the following exceptions: is given to the Board and directors of each business unit.
throughout the year ended 29 March 2008: the Board Our registrars, Equiniti, continue to enhance their services for did not fully consult major shareholders in advance of shareholders through their website at shareview.
This our announcement on 10 March that our Chief Executive offers a number of capabilities ranging from electing to receive would become Chairman from 1 June 2008 A.
2.2 : and communications electronically to checking shareholdings and from 1 June 2008: the role of Chairman and Chief dividend information online.
Executive will be exercised by the same individual A.
2.1 Many shareholders are also customers and each year we and our Chief Executive will become Chairman A.
2.2. send them Spend and Save vouchers to use in our stores.
Our reasons for departure from the Code are set out on These are very popular, and in spring 2008 the offer was page 39. extended to technology products and online shopping.
Governance of the Groups pension schemes Annual General Meeting The Group operates a defined benefit scheme for all The AGM is an important event in our corporate calendar employees with an appointment date prior to 1 April 2002 and is well attended by shareholders.
Prior to the meeting and a defined contribution scheme open to those joining the an exhibition is hosted by our senior retail and business Company on or after 1 April 2002.
More information is given managers.
The meeting commences with a business in note 11 on pages 70 to 72. presentation and then the Chairman, Chief Executive The Board of the Pension Trust Trustee Board manages and other members of the Board answer questions raised the assets of the pension scheme which are held under trust by shareholders.
All directors are present, including the separately from those of the Group.
The Board comprises Chairman of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Tony Watson as independent Chairman and Law Debenture Committees.
Shareholders are then invited to vote on the Trust as independent Trustee, together with five company resolutions contained in the Notice of Meeting, which is representatives and five member representatives.
sent to them at least 20 working days beforehand.
The business presentation, voting results and a summary of The Trustee Board has reviewed the external auditor the questions raised and answers given at the meeting appointment and appointed KPMG LLP in place of are made available on our website.
 LLP with effect from February 2008.
In 2007, 89.6% of the proxy votes received were lodged The Trustee Board has also carried out a review of its own through the CREST system.
We encourage private investors performance through questionnaire responses, one-to-one to register their vote before the meeting on the website at discussions and collective agreement of areas of focus for sharevote.
