15494WOLVERHA:Layout 2 10 12 08 14:59 Page 28 28 MARSTONS PLC Annual Report 2008 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT The Board of Directors of Marstons PLC recognises that strong Directors independence corporate governance procedures and adherence to best practice are The Chairman and the other Non-executive Directors contribute external integral factors in improving Group performance and maintaining expertise and experience in areas of importance to the Group such as investor confidence.
The Board is committed to the highest standards of corporate finance, general finance, corporate strategy, environmental corporate governance.
matters, general management and corporate governance.
They also provide independent challenge and rigour to the Boards deliberations.
Compliance statement Lord Hodgson served as the Senior Independent Director during the This report describes how Marstons PLC has applied the principles of period.
He chairs the Remuneration Committee and is a member of the good corporate governance as set out in the Combined Code on Audit and Nomination Committees.
The Non-executive Directors, led by Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Council in the Senior Independent Director, meet at least once a year, without the 2006 Combined Code.
Throughout the financial period ended Chairman present, where there is an opportunity for them to appraise 4 October 2008, the Company has complied with the provisions set out the Chairmans performance.
in section 1 of the Combined Code apart from the matter detailed below.
Directors interests and remuneration The Company did not comply with provision A.
3.2 which states that at The Directors Remuneration Report, which includes a statement on the least half of the Board, excluding the Chairman, should comprise Companys policy on Directors and senior managers remuneration, is independent Non-executive Directors.
The Remuneration Report also provides details of the Directors service agreements, emoluments, and their Board membership interests in the shares of the Company and in awards or options over such During the period, the Board comprised five Non-executive Directors, shares granted under the Companys employee share schemes.
one of whom was the Chairman, and five Executive Directors.
The Nonexecutive Directors all possess a wide range of skills and experience.
All No Director had a material interest at any time during the period in any exercise independent judgement although David Thompson, the contract of significance, other than their service contract as shown in the Chairman, cannot be considered independent under the requirements of Directors Remuneration Report on page 33, with the Company or any of the Code because of his past experience as a long-serving Executive its subsidiary undertakings.
The Board considers that the current balance of Executives and Non-executives is such that no one individual or small group can During the period the Chairman, David Thompson, continued his dominate the Boards decision making by virtue of the strength of appointment as Executive Director of Ragleth Limited Ragleth, the character and experience possessed by the independent Non-executive controlling shareholder of Anglia Maltings Holdings Limited.
This is further strengthened by the process by which matters controlling interest in Ragleth and consequently the transactions are disclosed to, and decisions are taken by, the Board.
between the Group and Ragleth are not Related Party Transactions as defined by International Financial Reporting Standards.
David Thompson All Directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first has continued his appointment on the basis of Ragleth allowing him opportunity following appointment and to re-election at intervals not sufficient time to devote to the chairmanship of the Company and the exceeding three years.
Non-executive Directors are appointed for terms Board considers this arrangement to be satisfactory.
In addition, Miles Emley, who has served on the Board for more than nine years, is subject to annual re-election.
Lord Hodgson, Following the amendment of the Companys Articles of Association by Derek Andrew, Rosalind Cushieri and Miles Emley are standing for rea special resolution passed at the Companys 2008 AGM, the Company election at the forthcoming Meeting AGM.
Neil Goulden, who was adopted a new procedure for authorising Directors conflicts of interest appointed since the last AGM, is standing for election.
and potential conflicts of interest in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 with effect from 1 October 2008.
The new Directors biographical details are set out on pages 24 and 25. procedure, and how it differs from the procedure in place up to 1 October 2008, was summarised in the explanatory notes to the Notice Division of responsibilities of the Companys 2008 AGM.
The new procedure is included in the In accordance with the Combined Code, separate individuals, David Companys Articles of Association and has been adhered to by the Thompson and Ralph Findlay, are appointed to the positions of Chairman Board since 1 October 2008. and Chief Executive respectively.
The Chief Executive is responsible for implementing strategy and running the business in accordance with the Directors insurance and indemnities objectives agreed by the Board.
The Executive Committee, comprising The Group maintains Directors and officers liability and indemnity the five Executive Directors, meets weekly to discuss operational insurance to cover its Directors and officers against the costs of matters.
The Board is briefed on the decisions reached by the defending themselves in civil proceedings brought against them in that Committee including those involving risk management, health and capacity, and in respect of damages resulting from any unsuccessful safety issues and property transactions below a specified financial defence of any proceedings.
15494 10 12 2008 Proof 11 15494 15494WOLVERHA:Layout 2 10 12 08 14:59 Page 29 29 MARSTONS PLC Annual Report 2008 Directors terms and conditions of appointment business plans, information on corporate governance and Group policies.
The terms and conditions of appointment of the Directors are available Visits to sites across the Group are also arranged for new Directors for inspection by any person at the Companys registered office during joining the Board.
normal business hours and will be available at the AGM.
Continuing professional development Board meetings and attendance There is an agreed procedure in place which allows Directors to take The Board has regular scheduled meetings throughout the year and all independent professional advice in the course of their duties and all Directors receive notice of such meetings and have the opportunity to Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company comment on the matters under discussion.
The Board had eleven Secretary and to independent legal advice.
Formal training sessions are scheduled meetings and four additional meetings of principal arranged on a regular basis to update the Board on best practice and Committees of the Board during the year.
Details of the Board and changes in legislation such as the Companies Act 2006. principal Committees meetings attended by each Director during the year are set out in the table below.
Performance and effectiveness reviews In line with previous years, the Chairman conducted a review of the Name Board Rem.
Audit Board, its Directors and Committees through consultation with each David Thompson 11 11 4 4 Director and discussion with the Senior Independent Director.
The NonLord Hodgson 10 11 4 4 3 4 3 4 executive Directors also met, without the Chairman being present.
This Miles Emley 11 11 4 4 4 4 4 4 was to consider the governance of the Board and the Group, including Rosalind Cuschieri 11 11 4 4 4 4 4 4 the performance of the Chairman.
All of these matters were considered Ralph Findlay 11 11 4 4 and the Directors concluded that the Board continues to operate Derek Andrew 11 11 effectively.
Where relevant, and not in respect of their own performance, Alistair Darby 11 11 the Chairman and the Chief Executive were involved in evaluating the Stephen Oliver 11 11 composition of the Board and Committees, the meeting process, Paul Inglett 11 11 information and training, leadership, effectiveness and compliance with Neil Goulden 6 6 the Combined Code.
The results of the review were reported back to the Peter Lipscomb 4 4 2 2 2 2 1 1 Board and the action points that arose have been incorporated into the administration of future meetings.
The Board is satisfied with its own Neil Goulden was appointed on 31 March 2008. composition, meeting process and minute recording, and that of its Peter Lipscomb resigned on 25 January 2008.
Collectively, the Board is satisfied it has all of the necessary skills, experience and qualities to lead the Company.
Board procedures The Board has ultimate responsibility for ensuring that the Company is Board committees properly managed and achieves the strategic objectives it sets.
It has an The Board has established an effective Committee structure to assist in agreed schedule of matters reserved to it, which includes setting longthe discharge of its responsibilities.
The terms of reference of the Audit, term strategic and business objectives, overseeing the Companys Remuneration and Nomination Committees comply with the provisions internal control systems and ensuring that appropriate resources are in of the Combined Code and are available for inspection on the place to enable the Company to meet its objectives.
Alternatively, they may be obtained on written request from the Company Secretary at the address The Chairman has prime responsibility for the effective workings of the given on the back cover of the Annual Report.
Board and agrees the agenda in consultation with the Chief Executive and Company Secretary.
The membership of all Board Committees is set out on pages 24 to 25.
Board papers, including reports from each of the Executive Directors Audit Committee responsible for the Groups operating businesses or key central The Audit Committee comprises Miles Emley Chairman, Lord Hodgson, functions, are circulated in advance of each meeting.
In addition to the Rosalind Cuschieri and Neil Goulden with effect from 31 October 2008.
Board meetings, the Chairman meets informally with the Non-executive The Board considers that both Miles Emley and Lord Hodgson have recent Directors without the Executive Directors present.
and relevant financial experience in accordance with the requirements of the Combined Code and that the appointment of Neil Goulden brings Board effectiveness further experience to the Committee.
By invitation of the Committee, other Induction individuals such as the Chief Executive, Finance Director and Corporate On joining the Board, Directors are provided with a full induction Risk Manager will normally be in attendance for all or part of those programme tailored to their individual requirements covering meetings meetings.
Annually, the external auditors meet with the Committee without and briefings with divisional Directors and senior management, including any Executive Directors being present.
notes on the Group structure, trading divisions, financial reports and www.
co. uk Stock Exchange Code: MARS 15494 10 12 2008 Proof 11 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE PERFORMANCE DIRECTION CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 15494WOLVERHA:Layout 2 10 12 08 14:59 Page 30 30 MARSTONS PLC Annual Report 2008 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED The Committee met four times during the period to review the results of Nomination Committee the full year audit, approve the interim results, consider the risks to the The Nomination Committee is chaired by David Thompson and its Group and the effectiveness of the Companys internal controls and risk members are Miles Emley, Ralph Findlay, Lord Hodgson, Rosalind management systems, review the performance of the external auditors Cuschieri and Neil Goulden with effect from 31 October 2008.
Other and provide guidance on the internal audit strategy.
The Committee also Executive Directors, senior management and external advisers may be monitors the relationship with the external auditors, agrees their scope invited to attend meetings as considered appropriate.
The Nomination of work and approves their audit fees.
Annually it assesses the costCommittee has responsibility for considering the size, structure and effectiveness, objectivity and independence of the external auditors.
The composition of the Board, retirements and appointments of additional Committee also has responsibility for the Groups whistleblowing policy and replacement Directors, succession planning and making and annually reviews its arrangements under this policy.
recommendations so as to maintain an appropriate balance of skills and experience on the Board.
When appointing advisers for non-audit work the Group considers the The Committee meets at least twice a year.
No Director is involved in value for money, experience and objectivity required and in this respect it any decision regarding his or her own reappointment.
has used other accounting firms for a range of non-audit work.
The Group also uses the external auditors for non-audit services such as During the period the Committee met to discuss and recommend the taxation advice and planning.
Where non-audit work is expected to be in appointment of Neil Goulden as a Non-executive Director.
The excess of an agreed monetary amount, the chairman of the Audit appointment was made from a shortlist of candidates drawn from names Committee must approve the use of the external auditors.
The level of provided by advisers to the Company.
The Chairman, Chief Executive non-audit services provided by the auditors and the associated fees are and the other Non-executive Directors were then each given the considered annually by the Committee, in the context of the auditors opportunity to meet with the shortlisted candidates and, having regard to independence, as part of the Committees review of the adequacy and his experience, background and other commitments, the Committee objectivity of the audit process.
In reaching this conclusion the then recommended the appointment of Neil Goulden to the Board.
Committee considered a report prepared by  LLP prior to the period end, reviewing the potential threats to their Shareholders objectivity and independence in the light of the ethical standards issued Relations with shareholders by the Auditing Practices Board.
Where a potential risk was identified The Board recognises the importance of representing and promoting the the Committee was satisfied that the safeguards that the external interests of its shareholders and that it is accountable to shareholders auditors had put in place were sufficient to prevent a threat to their for the performance and activities of the Company.
The Annual Report is the principal means of communicating with The Audit Committee has reviewed the risk management process and shareholders.
To coincide with the e-communications mailing to the procedures by which the Board reviews effectiveness of the system shareholders in June 2008, which allowed shareholders to decide of internal control during the period ended 4 October 2008 and has whether they wished to receive information from the Company via the reported to the Board on the outcome of this review.
website or by post, the Companys website www.
co. uk was updated to contain an archive of Annual Reports together with other Remuneration Committee information relevant to investors.
This includes comprehensive share The Remuneration Committee comprises Lord Hodgson Chairman, price information, financial results and financial calendars.
Further Miles Emley, Rosalind Cuschieri and Neil Goulden with effect from shareholder information can be found on page 88.
31 October 2008 with Ralph Findlay in attendance if required.
It met four times in the period.
The Remuneration Committee determines, on The Board encourages shareholders to attend the Companys AGM and behalf of the Board, service contract terms, remuneration and benefits, exercise their right to vote.
The notice of meeting and related papers are including bonuses, for Executive Directors and senior managers.
It is sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
also responsible for the granting of LTIP awards and share options.
Previous AGMs have been well attended and, as part of the Boards Further information on the activities of the Remuneration Committee is ongoing commitment to the provisions of the Combined Code, given in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 33 to 40.
The shareholders are given the opportunity to meet with the Board both Directors Remuneration Report also describes how the principles of the before and after the AGM.
Combined Code are applied in respect of remuneration matters and includes a statement on the Companys policy on Directors and senior Presentations are made on the Groups activities and performance prior managers remuneration, benefits, share scheme entitlements and to the formal business of the AGM.
Shareholders have the opportunity to pension arrangements.
ask questions of the Board and present their views.
The chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees, together with all other A resolution to approve the Remuneration Report will be proposed at Directors, will normally attend the AGM.
Details of the results of proxy the AGM.
voting are announced after each resolution has been dealt with on a show of hands and are reported on the Companys website following the meeting.
15494 10 12 2008 Proof 11 15494 15494WOLVERHA:Layout 2 10 12 08 14:59 Page 31 31 MARSTONS PLC Annual Report 2008 The Company announces its results formally on a half-yearly basis and risks.
Ownership of the controls by the managers within the business is complies with its requirement to make interim management statements.
well defined and there are no significant weaknesses that require Presentations are made to analysts and shareholders following the remedial actions to take place.
release of the interim and year end results.
The Chief Executive and Finance Director also meet shareholders throughout the year.
The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal The Chairman and the Senior Independent Director are also available to controls and reviews the effectiveness of the system, including financial, meet shareholders if required.
The Board receives written feedback operational, compliance and risk management, at least annually in following results presentation meetings with analysts and institutional accordance with the requirements of the Combined Code and the shareholders.
Major shareholders are also able to meet with new Nonguidance set out within it.
Risk management and principal risks Internal control There is a weekly review by the Chief Executive, and annually by the The Group has complied with the Combined Code provisions on internal Board, of the risks faced by the Group.
These reviews cover strategic, control.
The Executive Directors examine, and report to the Board as operational and compliance risks.
Day-to-day control is implemented by necessary, the procedures required to implement in full the guidance on the divisional management teams which report to the divisional internal control produced by the Turnbull Committee.
In addition, the Managing Directors.
Board has taken account of the Association of British Insurers The Group operates a risk management programme whereby key guidelines on socially responsible investment and in this respect the business risks are formally defined, reviewed, and assessed at regular Managing Director of Marstons Beer Company chairs a quarterly intervals by the managers.
This process is performed in conjunction with meeting of the Groups Corporate and Social Responsibility Committee.
An essential part of the process involves ensuring that all the key risks have clear ownership.
Managers are The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal controls and required to identify the key internal controls for each of the risks they for ensuring that information supplied to shareholders presents a are responsible for and to identify the control owners.
The risks balanced assessment of the Groups position.
It has carried out these identified are classified and recorded in a Group risk register.
The results responsibilities throughout the period.
The internal control system can are reported to the respective divisional Managing Directors who in turn only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material prioritise the key risks for their management teams.
The risks identified misstatement or loss, as it is designed to manage rather than eliminate cascade through to an assessment of the significant corporate risks which are in turn reported to every Audit Committee meeting who in turn the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
provide an update to the Board.
The principal elements of the system of internal control, which is The internal audit strategy takes into account the key business risks of designed to ensure there is an ongoing process to identify, evaluate and the Group and provides assurance to the Audit Committee on the manage the risks to which the Group is exposed, include: effectiveness of the internal control environment in mitigating the risks to an acceptable level.
The risk management programme provides vital a management structure which clearly defines authority levels, information to ensure that the internal audit strategy provides sufficient responsibility and accountability: coverage of the critical areas of internal control.
a detailed formal budgeting process for all Group activities with the annual Group budget being formally approved by the Board: and The following is a list of the principal risks and uncertainties faced by the a process to ensure Board approval is given to all major investment, Group.
This list is not a comprehensive list of all significant risks and divestment and strategic plans including capital expenditure, uncertainties faced by the Group.
By their nature, the key risks disposals and development programmes.
associated with our strategic objectives can change over time.
Risk of not adapting to meet changes in consumer Significant treasury, cash management and investment matters are behaviour, social demographics and or legislation reviewed and approved by the Board.
The Group manages this risk by reviewing current trends in consumer tastes and anticipating future trends, to ensure that its The internal audit function has co-ordinated, on behalf of the Board, brands and customer experience continue to meet expectations.
an annual review of the effectiveness of all the key controls of the The Groups network of area managers have a sound understanding business.
This includes a Group-wide certification that internal controls of sales trends at a macro level, as well as for individual managed or are in place and are operating effectively.
The internal audit function has tenanted pubs and individual free trade accounts, information which carried out additional work on selective controls as well as aligning is escalated to management.
internal audit projects to verify the certification of effectiveness.
Where The Group operates within a framework of licensing legislation weaknesses have been identified by the managers, information has also which in the main is conducive to business.
Legislative changes, been provided on the plans to improve such controls.
The results of the particularly those to do with alcohol, can have a significant effect exercise are summarised and an overall assessment reported to the upon how our business operates and how we interface with Audit Committee.
The review confirmed that there is a clear link between our customers.
the key risks of the business and the controls used to manage those www.
co. uk Stock Exchange Code: MARS 15494 10 12 2008 Proof 11 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE PERFORMANCE DIRECTION CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 15494WOLVERHA:Layout 2 10 12 08 14:59 Page 32 32 MARSTONS PLC Annual Report 2008 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED 2.
Information technology risk The leisure sector in which the Group operates is sensitive to The integrity and smooth operation of the Groups IT systems is economic conditions: a significant downturn in consumer critical to the overall efficient management of our business.
There is discretionary spending could present a risk so the Group focuses a risk that serious disruption could result if the system failed for an upon providing value for money for the consumer.
extended period of time or if backed up information was lost, or could not be recovered swiftly.
As property prices are affected by the economic downturn, there is a risk that individual pub sale proceeds or valuations could fall.
In order to protect against these risks, comprehensive controls are in Properties are therefore revalued on a regular basis using open place to protect our servers from physical disturbance and to protect market values, so that the carrying value does not alter significantly data from outside interference.
The controls ensure that data is from its fair value at the balance sheet date.
routinely backed up and that a recovery can be achieved within an acceptable timescale.
A prolonged economic downturn would also affect the many small businesses that we deal with through our tenanted and leased 7.
Pension fund risk estate and our free trade accounts.
Trade debt and creditworthiness There is a risk that the deficit could increase in the future within the are therefore actively monitored.
Marstons PLC Pension and Life Assurance Scheme.
A deficit could occur as a result of the equity market underperforming, an 3.
Risks due to seasonal factors, including adverse weather inappropriate mix of equity and debt, or an increase in expected life Trade is generally higher during traditional holiday periods and in longevity.
A triennial review is carried out by the pension trustees in particular during Christmas and New Year, Easter and Bank order to identify any additional funding requirement from the Group.
Trade is also higher over the summer months than at other times of the year.
In summer, prolonged periods of good weather 8.
Funding risk generally have a positive impact on trade and in particular the use of The Company manages its funding risk through long-term debt pub gardens, whereas unseasonably wet or cold weather will have a arrangements, which are supplemented by committed bank facilities.
The Group is principally funded through securitised debt and bank 4.
The Group has 1,097 million of gross securitised debt The Group has an objective to develop the business both organically at the period end with a legal capital repayment profile from 2008 to and by acquisition.
There is a careful balance to be struck between 2035.
In addition, the Group has a 400 million committed bank taking advantage of opportunities in the market as they appear and facility.
of which 234 million was drawn down, and 166 million ensuring that such opportunities are an appropriate fit within the was unutilised, at the period end.
The bank facility is due for renewal existing business.
To mitigate these risks all significant purchases of property require 9.
Opportunities are considered in terms of their The key area of counterparty risk relates to cash and borrowings.
contribution to strategic objectives and against agreed financial The risk on cash is mitigated by using three UK banking institutions criteria.
The Group has a rigorous due diligence process to gather for deposits and the risk on borrowings is mitigated through the information on potential opportunities and to identify any bank facility being syndicated across a number of banks.
There is no significant concentration of counterparty risk in respect 5.
Risk to brand reputation of the Groups pension scheme assets as these are held with a Reputation is central to our business and essential to long-term range of institutions.
The Company has a wide customer and success and the Group consistently strives for stronger controls to supplier base and hence there is limited counterparty exposure in reduce the impact of potential threats.
A strong control environment is operated to protect and enhance reputation and build on brand values.
This requires a consistent focus on the quality of our brewing, the training of our staff and the level of support provided to our managed, tenanted and leased pubs.
