Smart engineering for extreme environments Meggitts precision-engineered components and systems are highly diverse but have one thing in common.
Without them, an entire system could fail.
Because they can endure extremesof temperature, impact, vibration and contamination, for examplethey are repeatedly specified by engineers in the aerospace, defence, space, nuclear, power generation, transportation, medical and test engineering industries.
At one end of the spectrum, our sensors detect impendingand potentially  failure.
At the other, they provide vital data for life-sustaining heart pacemakers.
Our fire barriers and seals provide critical safety margins in nuclear power plants and aircraft engine nacelles.
Meggitt cockpit displays endure aerodynamic and gunfire vibration, gravitational forces and roll rates that test the limit of human endurance.
Our crash recorders retain data after catastrophic impact and high temperature fires.
Our latest aircraft braking system can absorb enough energy to stop the equivalent of 45 double-decker buses travelling together at 200 miles per hour in under 25 seconds.
Electronics are also integral to our engineering solutions.
Meggitt products are smart, combining essential functionality with intelligence.
This includes networked fire detection: predictive tools for active management of systems maintenance: cabling to transmit information and power in severe conditions: intelligent cockpit displays: threat simulation and real-time scoring: digital systems at the heart of the hydraulic interface: and smart sensors for aircraft testing.
Robust, mechanically ingenious and rich with electronic content, our engineering solutions make good business sense too.
By making our components and systems lighter, smaller, longer lasting and more efficient, we help customers meet the challenges inherent in modern aerospace: economics and environment, performance and safety.
These provide the keys to much of our technology development.
Meggitt PLC Report and Accounts 2004 1
