Focus on Dunlop Aerospace Buying Dunlop Aerospace in 2004 expanded the scope and scale of Meggitts operations and boosted its position as a major supplier of products and systems to leading aerospace groups in the United States and Europe.
Like Meggitt, Dunlop specialises in smart engineering for extreme environments.
Like Meggitt, Dunlops products and systems are specified on major aircraft programmes.
By integrating our highly complementary technologies, we will advance our products and systems substantially, reinforced by superior service arising from the combined power of two substantial aftermarket organisations.
18 18 Meggitt PL Meggitt PLC Report and Ac C Report and Acc counts 2004 ounts 2004 More customers More products and systems More value Dunlop Aerospace, headquartered in Coventry, Dunlops heat exchangers and control valves will Meggitts sales have leapt 19 per cent to United Kingdom, precision-engineers wheels, boost Meggitts growing capability in thermal 479 million and the workforce from 3,664 brakes and braking systems, heat exchangers, management and fluid control, enabling us to to 5,632 across 39 locations worldwide.
Our oil separators, valves and high performance work with a wider group of customers who revenue and profit base has been spread polymer seals.
Around 1,200 customers want more products from fewer suppliers.
more widely through Dunlops UK earnings.
worldwide encompass a mix of engine makers, But there is more to this acquisition than The polymers and composites businesses, regional, business and commercial aircraft immediate growth.
which involve precision-engineered seals for manufacturers, airline operators and engines and airframes, are merging with a Meggitts acquisition of Dunlop Aerospace government organisations.
They include similar Meggitt operation in the UK, creating is an ideal match because it is consistent Airbus, ATR, BAE Systems, Boeing, EADS, significant economies of scale and streamlining with Meggitts overall strategy.
It brings new Gulfstream, Raytheon, Rolls-Royce, procurement for common customers.
proprietary technology: expands niche General Electric, Snecma, Pratt & Whitney specialities: provides multi-product offerings and the UK and US defence ministries.
Dunlops braking systems constitute a new to simplify procurement for customers: and capability for Meggitt.
This type of extreme Recurring product sales and repair work is renews our focus on civil aerospace: the environment technology characterises the substantial.
Dunlop braking products alone are acquisition has significantly rebalanced the majority of Meggitts established businesses.
specified on around 19,000 wheel and brake groups military and civil business at a time assemblies on over 30 different aircraft types.
Dunlop has an excellent track record in high when the civil aerospace market is showing Meggitt already has a substantial repair, performance brakes, anti-skid brake control signs of recovery.
Dunlop Aerospace is also overhaul and aftermarket organisation which, systems and wheels on business jets such as delivering aftermarket sales from a solid OEM combined with Dunlops supply and logistics the Gulfstream G550, advanced large jets like platform, another trademark of Meggitts operations in Europe and Asia, will bring new the Airbus A380 and modern military jets tried-and-tested business model.
reach and power to our services for airlines.
including the Joint Strike Fighter.
Braking system If you are a pilot entering V1 Rotatethe last point at which you can abandon takeoffit takes real confidence to know that, if needed, you can stop quickly, safely and without damaging landing gear.
After all, your plane will be travelling at full speed, be full of fuel and passengers and there wont be much runway to go.
The Gulfstream G550 pilot can have that confidence.
From a starting speed of 217 nautical miles per hour, the advanced carbon heat sink material from which the luxury business jets brakes are made will stop the aircraft safely within just 25 secondseven when loaded to the maximum at around 50 tonnes.
We know this because we regularly test our braking systems to extremes on our dynamometera test facility that can simulate the heaviest aircraft braking, like the 560-tonne A380.
Temperature tolerance: -62C to 121C 6 Maximum energy absorption per brake: 35.27 x 10 ft lbs Heat sink tolerance: 1,700C Load capacity: 91,000 lbs Extreme braking with confidence.
