Strategy Our objective is to increase total shareholder return across the business cycle at above average rates.
We achieve this by operating in markets Naturally, we ensure our organisational Balancing our portfolio with high barriers to entry requiring the structure keeps pace with business growth.
Consistent shareholder returns also come highly-engineered, highly specialised We continue to strengthen our relationships from the way we balance our portfolio over products that characterise Meggitts with customers at the highest levels so they the business cycle, offsetting variation in design and manufacturing capabilities.
can draw widely on what the group as a whole demand from the markets within which we has to offerfrom convenient procurement to operate.
We aim to achieve around 60 per cent Consistent aftermarket revenues engineering solutions.
of sales to original equipment manufacturers We achieve this by operating in markets and 40 per cent to the aftermarket: an even which deliver consistent aftermarket revenues All this has been and will continue to be split between civil and military sales at around over the long term.
The majority of our underpinned by tight financial control.
40 per cent each: and the remainder dedicated products are certified by regulatory authorities These strategy fundamentals, which address to non-aerospace sales.
for complex, critical systems and require the needs of the customers who matter now sophisticated test and calibration procedures.
Continual investment in capital projects and in future, remain the keys to sustaining This, combined with ownership of the delivers state-of-the-art facilities: and an the returns which we have delivered over intellectual property in these designs, means annual spend of around 8 per cent of sales many years.
we are uniquely positioned to support these delivers products representing intellectual products over their service life.
property that keeps us at the forefront of technology in our chosen markets.
That is why our primary markets are in aerospace and defence.
We also leverage Organic growth and selective acquisitions the value of key capabilities such as mission Organic growth is complemented by selective critical measurement, fluid control and Terry Twigger acquisitions, which reinforce and extend our machinery condition diagnostics in the nuclear, Chief Executive core competencies and market positions.
The medical, land-based power generation, acquisition of Dunlop Aerospace, our biggest automotive and transportation sectors.
to date, boosted the groups capacity and product range dramatically.
Group strategy To increase shareholder value by providing technically superior products in aerospace and defence, and specialist sensors across the high technology spectrum.
Strategic objectives Develop significant Compete by Grow by selective Maintain a Strengthen Become a more niche positions in developing acquisition culture of strong customer  markets and acquiring performance relationships managed, intellectual interrelated group property Business unit implementation Identify and Define market Exploit existing Select and Evolve Drive performance Promote Seek out bolt-on leverage core and technology intellectual quantify strategic organisation to and rectify synergies across acquisitions and competencies opportunities property in R&D investments support change deficiencies the group alliances to related markets and continuous complement or improvement extend niche market positions Meggitt PLC Report and Accounts 2004 7
