Focus on China Opportunities abound in China.
Thats why, when establishing our first plant there, our approach was cautious, yet decisive: measured yet progressive.
This led to the transformation of a greenfield site from December 2003 to a factory yielding high quality production nine months later.
To date, around USD 4 million of capital expenditure has been invested in establishing this centre of manufacturing excellence for Meggitts commercial sensor and control technologies.
It is competitive on cost, strategically located, has sound organisation, experienced leadership and flexible manufacturing capability, and the technical resources to drive growth and innovation.
While we are benefiting from the advantages of low cost manufacturing in China, our plans focus on regional growth opportunities.
This covers support for key customer programmes from a local manufacturing base: and access to Chinas rapidly expanding economy where a broad range of growing industrial sectors can benefit from our specialist technologies, manufacturing experience and market knowledge.
Digital vibration monitoring system Over ninety per cent of the worlds commercial aircraft carry our vibration monitoring systems.
The latest convert to this engine maintenance tool is the project team for the ARJ21, Chinas latest home-produced civil jet.
The system specified delivers answers from sensorsthe vibration data needed to balance an engine until it runs smoothly.
This means a smooth ride for passengers and less wear and tear on valuable components.
What really sets the system apart is that data doesnt have to be gathered by running the engine on the groundan expensive business.
Instead, it can be collected and downloaded during a commercial flight, ready for maintenance crews to fine-tune the engine when the aircraft lands.
Mean time between failure: typically, at least 40,000 hours Vibration balance capability: to around 0.5 mm per second Responding with intelligence to aircraft economics.
20 Meggitt PLC Report and Accounts 2004 MXM will take advantage of the distribution High quality recruits Minimising risk and logistics capabilities of Meggitts South Xiamen, off the coast of Fujian province facing From feasibility study to product qualification, East Asian aftermarket operations, which Taiwan, is home to Meggitt Xiamen Sensors Meggitt employed a Stage Gate methodology service the regions primary aviation market.
& Controls Co Ltdknown as MXMand other to minimise risk while maximising project MXMs customer services will focus on international aerospace businesses.
Projects are divided into timedeveloping markets for our industrial test sequenced stages of increasing commitment With a population of 1.3 million, Xiamen is a and measurement technology.
and expenditure, separated by management centre for high quality manufacturing and, decision gates passed through only when a thanks to its environmentally sensitive industrial Doors open prescribed set of related cross-functional development plan, one of Chinas cleanest and MXMs facilitative role for the group will tasks have been completed.
It has attracted a pool of continue.
In 2004, it supported sales of highly educated, internationally experienced Commercial production of Meggitt technologies European product for programmes such as managers, engineers and skilled electronic piezo-electric and piezo-resistive sensors Chinas civil jet, the ARJ21, which will carry assemblers from which Meggitt has recruited for vibration and shock measurement in jet Meggitts engine diagnostic equipment.
It is led by a senior engines, industrial gas turbines, and in crash has also played a role in establishing the groups executive with extensive operational experience and laboratory testinghas reached full international purchasing office, which will in Asia, reporting to Meggitts Electronics capacity, supported by around 100 staff.
This develop relationships between key suppliers division.
Local consultants, who have worked figure could double to meet demand from in Asia and Meggitt businesses worldwide.
for major international businesses in the Meggitt businesses and external customers.
region, helped with recruitment, logistics, Strategic product transfer regulation and cultural issues.
In 2005, MXM will develop its operations with Operational excellence continuous improvement initiatives and embark The venture, wholly owned by Meggitt, has been on a second phase of product transfers.
designed and constructed to reflect the core Manufacturing will be extended to include values of entrepreneurship, international product enhancement and customisation for business standards and corporate citizenship.
Asian markets, and the transfer of production From day one, MXM applied established tools from other Meggitt businesses where the cost such as Six Sigma, Lean, 5S and Kanban to drive structure, capability or location of facilities does operational excellence through all its activities.
not support strategic business opportunities.
Meggitt PLC Report and Accounts 2004 21
