Michael Page International plc Directors Report Principal activity and review Biographical details for all the Share capital Substantial shareholdings of the business and future current Directors are shown on The authorised and issued share As at 22 February 2005, the developments pages 12 and 13. capital of the Company are Company has been noti ed of The Group is one of the worlds The bene cial interests of Directors shown in note 17 to the financial the interests held in more than leading specialist recruitment in of ce at 31 December 2004 statements.
3% of the issued share capital consultancies.
The Groups trading in the shares of the Company at of the Company as shown in At the Annual General Meeting results are set out in the financial 31 December 2004 and at 22 Fig.
held on 27 May 2004 the statements on pages 34 to 56.
February 2005 are set out in the Company renewed its authority to Corporate social Details of the Groups strategy, Remuneration Report on page 26. make market purchases of its own responsibility CSR outlook and review of operations All of the Executive Directors are ordinary shares up to a maximum are described in the Chairmans The Board recognises its deemed to have an interest in of 10% of the issued share capital.
Statement, Chief Executives responsibilities in respect of the ordinary shares held in the During the year the Company Review and Finance Directors social, environmental and Employee Bene t Trust and its purchased 6,460,000 shares for Review on pages 4 to 11. ethical SEE matters, with the subsidiaries.
cancellation with a nominal value UK Managing Director having Directors and interests of 64,600, representing 1.8% Results and dividends Board responsibility for Group of the issued share capital for a The following were Directors Environmental Management.
The pro t for the year after taxation consideration of 10,998,686 during the year and held of ce The Directors continually monitor amounted to 35.1m 2003: including expenses.
all risks to its businesses, 13.7m.
Following the authority granted by including SEE risks, which may A A Montague CBE Chairman An interim dividend of 1.25 pence shareholders at the Companys impact the Groups short and T W Benson Chief Executive per ordinary share was paid on Annual General Meeting on 27 long term value.
The Directors May 2004, the Company also no signi cant SEE risks were recommend the payment of a final S P Burke purchased 7,765,000 shares identi ed.
The Company is also dividend for the year ended 31 during the year which are held a member of the FTSE4Good C-H Dumon December 2004 of 2.75 pence in treasury.
The nominal value Index Series designed to measure S J Ingham per ordinary share on 3 June 2005 of these shares is 77,600 and the performance of, and facilitate R Lourey to shareholders on the register on represents 2.2% of the issued investment in, those companies S R Puckett 6 May 2005 which, if approved at share capital.
The shares were meeting globally recognised the Annual General Meeting, will purchased for a consideration of standards of corporate H V Reid result in a total dividend for the 13,121,790 including expenses.
Non-Executive Directors year of 4.0 pence per ordinary Senior Independent Director The Groups policies on CSR share 2003: 3.4 pence.
matters are described in the In accordance with the Fig.
Companys Articles of Number of % of issued Association, A A Montague, T W Holder ordinary shares share capital Benson and S J Ingham will retire Harris Associates 50,006,800 14.31 by rotation.
All retiring Directors Barclays plc 42,227,497 12.08 being eligible will offer themselves AXA Investment Managers UK Limited 34,582,879 9.90 Silchester International Investors 34,569,705 9.89 for re-election at the forthcoming Fidelity Investment Management Limited 19,391,433 5.55 Annual General Meeting.
Legal & General 12,780,166 3.66 Capital International Limited 10,656,792 3.05 14 Directors Report a Environmental policy This review is carried out annually Energy c Employee involvement in accordance with the guidance The Group does not operate 3,522,389 kWh of electricity Communication with employees as laid down by the Department in a business sector which was consumed in the UK, which is effected through the Companys for Environment, Food and causes signi cant pollution but converts to 1,514,630 kgCO Intranet, information bulletins, 2 Rural Affairs DEFRA, and the the Board recognises that the brie ng meetings conducted by 1,289,390 kWh of gas was Global Reporting Initiative GRI, business does have an impact senior management and formal consumed in the UK, which an independent, international on the environment.
The Board and informal discussions.
Interim converts to 244,980 kgCO 2 institution established to create is committed to managing and and Annual Reports are available a common framework for Water improving the way in which our to all staff.
Informal communication sustainability reporting worldwide.
activities affect the environment by: is further facilitated by the Groups In the UK, Michael Page The current environmental report, 3 divisional organisation structure.
optimising the use of energy: which covers our UK businesses ensuring the ef cient use of Transport d Equal opportunity and only, can be found on the Michael materials: diversity Page website.
A summary of its In total, UK employees travelling encouraging re-use and findings during 2004 are shown in The Group endorses and to and from work converts to recycling: and Fig.
supports the principles of equal 814,392 kgCO.
It is the incorporating the principle of Waste b Charitable donations policy of the Group to provide sustainable development.
240 tonnes of waste was The Group made charitable equal employment opportunity During the year, the Group generated by UK of ces.
Our donations of 44,037 during the to all quali ed individuals which has continued to allocate a current national recycling rate is year 2003: 25,567 principally ensures that all employment signi cant amount of time and 41% from recycling con dential to local charities serving the decisions are made, subject resource to further identify paper and toner cartridges.
communities in which the Group to its legal obligations, on a where its activities have an operates.
Subject to certain non-discriminatory basis.
Due Through recycling, Michael Page impact on the environment.
An restrictions, the Group matches consideration is given to the in the UK has saved 1,371 trees environmental review was again charitable donations made by 3 recruitment, promotion, training and saved a total of 407m undertaken jointly by Michael Page employees.
It is the Groups policy and working environment of all staff land ll space.
International plc, and Green-Works not to make political donations including those with disabilities.
Consulting, an external rm of either in the UK or overseas.
It is the Groups policy to environmental consultants.
encourage the training and further development of all its employees where this is of bene t to the individual and to the Group.
UK Waste Generation Annual weight generated tonnes % of total waste Con dential waste 80 33% Toners 21% Mixed of ce paper 98 41% Food waste and packaging 31 13% Aluminium cans 31% Glass bottles 21% Plastic bottles & plastic cups 73% Cardboard 17 7% Total 240 100% 15 Directors Report Throughout 2004, the Group The Group is currently working individually negotiated contracts The Directors are responsible monitored the diversity of its with RfO on a benchmarking and that payment should be for keeping proper accounting UK employees, 73% of whom exercise, the results of which made in accordance with those records which disclose with to date have completed the will be reviewed by the Diversity terms and conditions, provided reasonable accuracy at any time voluntary request for information.
Steering Group, which is chaired that the supplier has also the financial position of the Group The analysis indicates a split of by an Executive Director, and its complied with them.
and the Company and to enable 57% female, 42% male, with 1% recommendations presented to them to ensure that the financial The Company acts as a holding declining to answer and regarding the Board for consideration in all statements comply with the company for the Group.
Creditor origin, 89% white, 10% ethnic territories.
They are days for the Company were nil origin and 1% declining to answer.
also responsible for safeguarding 2003: nil as the Company does e Health and safety The UK 2001 Census showed a the assets of the Group and not undertake any transactions It is the policy of the Group total ethnic population of 7.9%.
the Company and hence for with suppliers.
The Groups to take all reasonable and Similar monitoring will be carried taking reasonable steps for the creditor days for the year ended practicable steps to safeguard out during 2005. prevention and detection of fraud 31 December 2004 were 38 the health, safety and welfare of and other irregularities.
The Group recognises the its employees, visitors and other importance of diversity in the Auditors Statement of Directors persons who may be affected by workplace for both our own and responsibilities its activities.
In order to meet these Deloitte & Touche LLP are our clients businesses.
We are responsibilities the Group will: willing to continue in of ce and United Kingdom Company law committed to increasing the accordingly resolutions to requires the Directors to prepare assess the risks to health and recognition of our brand amongst re-appoint them as auditors financial statements for each safety: a more diverse audience, and to and authorising the Directors financial period which give a true implement safe systems at work: encourage development of an to set their remuneration will be and fair view of the state of affairs increasingly diverse candidate provide information, instruction proposed at the forthcoming of the Group and the Company as database.
Our monitoring of our and training: Annual General Meeting.
at the end of the financial period candidate databases con rms that establish and maintain and of the pro t or loss of the Annual General Meeting the brand attracts candidates from emergency procedures: and Group for that period.
In preparing a wide range of backgrounds.
regularly review health and safety The resolutions to be proposed those financial statements, the policies and procedures.
at the Annual General Meeting to We strive to ensure that we offer Directors are required to: be held on 27 May 2005, together our clients the most quali ed The Group is being proactive in select suitable accounting with explanatory notes, appear in candidates on the basis of their our approach to health and safety policies and then apply them the Notice of Meeting set out on relevant aptitudes, skills and abilities by monitoring proposed changes consistently: pages 59 to 62. and that such candidates are in legislation and implementing make judgements and drawn from diverse backgrounds.
policies accordingly, and as such By order of the Board estimates that are reasonable we comply with all statutory and During 2004, the Group joined and prudent: regulatory requirements.
Race for Opportunity RfO, part of state whether applicable Business in the Community, a UK f Supplier payment policy accounting standards have movement of over 700 member R A McBride been followed: and It is the policy of the Group to companies whose purpose is to Company Secretary prepare the financial statements agree appropriate terms and inspire, challenge and support 22 February 2005 on the going concern basis conditions for transactions with business in improving its impact unless it is inappropriate to suppliers by means ranging on society.
presume that the Group will from standard written terms to continue in business.
