Michael Page International plc Board of Directors Adrian Montague CBE 56 Stephen Box 54 Stephen Burke 45 Stephen Ingham 42 Non-Executive Chairman Independent Non-Executive Managing Director UK Executive Director UK Director, Senior Independent Operations Adrian Montague is Non-Executive Stephen Burke joined Michael Director Chairman of British Energy plc, Page in 1981 and was appointed Stephen Ingham joined Michael Cross-London Rail Links Limited Stephen Box quali ed as as a Director of Michael Page Page in 1987 as a consultant and Infrastructure Investors a Chartered Accountant at International in 1988 with with Michael Page Marketing and Limited and a Non-Executive Coopers & Lybrand where he responsibility for development Sales.
He was responsible for Director of Friends Provident spent more than 25 years, 15 of of overseas businesses in the setting up the London marketing plc.
From 1997 to 2001 he these as a partner.
From August Netherlands and Germany.
He and sales businesses and was held senior posts concerned 1997 to November 2002 he returned to the UK in 1996 as promoted to Operating Director with the implementation of the was Finance Director of National Managing Director of Accountancy in 1990.
He was appointed Governments policies for the Grid.
He is a member of the Additions Ltd and was appointed Managing Director of Michael involvement of the private sector in Financial Reporting Review Panel Managing Director of Michael Page Marketing and Sales in the delivery of public services, first and a Non-Executive Director Page Finance in 1999.
Subsequently he has taken as Chief Executive of the Treasury of South East Water Limited.
appointed to his current position additional responsibility for Michael Taskforce and then as Deputy Stephen has experience of in January 2001.
Pages Retail, Technology, Human Chairman of Partnerships UK Audit Committees as a partner Resources and Engineering Charles-Henri Dumon 46 plc.
He was Deputy Chairman of at Coopers & Lybrand, as an businesses.
He was promoted Managing Director Continental Network Rail from 2001 to 2004.
Executive Director of National to Executive Director of UK Europe and South America He spent his early career as a Grid attending Audit Committees, Operations in January 2001. solicitor with Linklaters & Paines and as a Non-Executive Director Charles-Henri Dumon joined before joining Kleinwort Benson chairing the Audit Committee of Michael Page in 1985 and was in 1994.
Adrian is also a NonSouth East Water plc.
Executive Director of CellMark was appointed a Non-Executive Since then he has had full AB, the pulp and paper marketing Director and Chairman of the responsibility for the Groups company based in Gothenburg.
Audit Committee of MGN Gas operations in France and has He was appointed Chairman of Networks Limited on 13 October managed the Groups entry into Michael Page International plc on 2004.
He was appointed a NonSouthern Europe and South 22 May 2002.
Executive Director of Michael America.
He was appointed as Page International plc on 27 Managing Director for all Michael Terry Benson 53 February 2001.
Pages Continental European and Chief Executive South American businesses in Terry Benson joined Michael Page January 2001. in 1979 and was appointed to the Board in 1983.
In 1986 he was promoted to Managing Director of the Groups marketing recruitment businesses and in January 1988 to Managing Director of the Group.
In 1993 he was appointed Chief Executive of the Group.
12 Board of Directors Rob Lourey 47 Stephen Puckett 43 Hubert Reid 64 Independent Non-Executive Group Finance Director Independent Non-Executive Director Director Stephen Puckett quali ed as a Rob Lourey is Group Human Chartered Accountant with BDO Hubert Reid is Chairman of Resources Director of BOC Group Binder Hamlyn.
He joined Wace Enterprise Inns plc, the Royal plc.
He joined BOC in Australia in Group plc in 1988 as Director of London Group and of the 1996 and was appointed to the Corporate Finance, subsequently Taverners Trust PLC and Deputy Executive Management Board in being promoted to Group Chairman of Majedie Investments June 2000.
He has a Bachelor Finance Director in 1991.
He was previously Managing of Business degree in personnel appointed Group Finance Director Director and then Chairman management.
He was appointed of Stat Plus Group plc in 2000. of the Boddington Group plc a Non-Executive Director of He was appointed Group Finance and Chairman of Ibstock Plc Michael Page International plc Director of Michael Page in and Bryant Group plc.
He was appointed appointed a Non-Executive experience as a member of the a Non-Executive Director of SHL Director of Michael Page Executive Management Board Group plc on 3 March 2004, International plc on 25 February of BOC Group plc, including and chairs its companys Audit 2003.
Hubert has been a member participation in its management, Committee.
of various Audit Committees since investments, capital allocation, 1993 including Bryant Group plc, and governance.
Rob also has Ibstock Plc, Greenalls Group plc, experience as a Non-Executive Royal London Group, Taverners Director of two publicly listed Trust PLC, Enterprise Inns plc and companies in the Republic of Majedie Investments PLC.
