Directors report The Directors of Misys plc submit their report and the audited financial statements for the year With the exception of service contracts, during the year under review and up to the date of this ended 31 May 2004. report, no Director has had any interest in any material contract with the Company.
PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES AND REVIEW OF BUSINESS RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT The Groups principal activities are the development and licensing of a variety of software In the markets in which the Group operates, effective R&D is vital to maintaining competitive products to customers, primarily in the international banking and securities, US healthcare, advantage and securing future income streams.
The extent of the Groups commitment to R&D and UK retail financial services sectors.
It also conducts transaction and claims processing is detailed in the Chairmans statement on page 4.
Effective use of products generated through for US physicians and UK financial advisers.
Through a wholly owned subsidiary, Sesame, R&D is also vital.
The Group has devoted considerable additional effort to plan and manage its it also provides business process outsourcing services to independent financial advisers in products through their life cycles.
EMPLOYMENT POLICIES The Chairmans statement, the Operating review, and the Financial review on pages 4 to 23 The Group regularly holds formal and informal briefings as well as management and sales provide a review of the activities of the Group, its financial performance and its likely future conferences, to update and obtain feedback from employees on all aspects of the business.
Company information is also sent by e-mail and posted on Intranet sites.
Employees are also Acquisitions and disposals during the period are disclosed in notes 17 and 18 on pages 61 to 63. frequently provided with information about their key wealth creation benefits, such as pension and sharesave schemes, and presentations at various locations have enabled employees to gain DIVIDENDS a better understanding of their benefits.
The Directors recommend a final dividend of 4.08p per ordinary share.
This, together with the The Groups policies on equal opportunities and health and safety are covered under Corporate interim dividend of 2.44p per share paid on 6 April 2004, makes a total dividend of 6.52p per responsibility on page 24. share for the year 2003: 5.67p, an increase of 15%.
The proposed final dividend, if approved at the Annual General Meeting AGM, will be paid ALL-EMPLOYEE SHARE OWNERSHIP ARRANGEMENTS on 4 October 2004 to shareholders appearing on the register at the close of business on The Company is committed to encouraging employee share ownership by operating tax authority 30 July 2004. approved share plans open to all eligible employees.
Looking forward, the Board intends to continue to increase the dividend each year, but will do In the United Kingdom the Company has operated a sharesave plan since 1992 in which a total of so in such a way as to raise the dividend cover to a level more appropriate to the needs of the 904 employees participate.
business over the medium term.
Since 1996 the Company has extended the opportunity to participate in savings-related share plans to its overseas employees.
Tax efficient plans are in place in the United States, Ireland and DIRECTORS France.
An international savings-related plan is offered to all other overseas qualifying employees Details of the Directors of the Company at the end of the financial year are given on pages in jurisdictions where this is practicable.
All these savings-related plans operate on broadly the 26 and 27.
Ian Dyson was appointed a non-executive Director on 1 October 2003.
Ross Graham same terms as the UK plan and over 1,000 overseas employees participate.
retired from the Board on 31 December 2003 and John Sussens retired from the Board on 31 May 2004.
A phantom share option plan is offered in those jurisdictions where local regulations mean that a share-based plan is not appropriate.
This is cash rather than share-based, but in all other respects In accordance with the Articles of Association, Tony Alexander and Howard Evans retire from operates as other savings-related schemes.
the Board and, upon the recommendation of the Nomination Committee, offer themselves for re-election.
It being the first AGM since his appointment, Ian Dyson will retire and offer himself Details of the options outstanding under the all-employee share ownership arrangements are for election.
Biographical details of all Directors, including those being proposed for election given in note 4 on page 55. and re-election, are given on pages 26 and 27.
For reasons set out in the Corporate governance CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY report on page 31, Tony Alexander, if re-elected, will be appointed for one year, facing annual reThe Corporate responsibility section on pages 24 and 25 reviews the Companys position on social election thereafter.
Howard Evans, if re-elected, and Ian Dyson, if elected, will serve the customary and environmental matters and its involvement in the community, including charitable donations.
The Group made no political donations in the year under review 2003: nil.
Howard Evans has a service contract requiring one years notice of termination.
As non-executive Directors, Tony Alexander and Ian Dyson each have a letter of appointment rather than a service CREDITOR PAYMENT POLICY contract.
It is the Companys policy to agree terms and conditions for its business transactions with its Details of executive Directors service agreements, non-executive Directors letters of appointment, suppliers.
The Company seeks to abide by the payment terms agreed with suppliers whenever it is satisfied that the supplier has abided by its contractual obligations.
The trade creditors of emoluments and share interests can be found in the Remuneration report on pages 34 to 45.
28 the Company at 31 May 2004 represent 24 days 2003: 18 days as a proportion of the total GOING CONCERN amount invoiced by suppliers during the year.
After making due enquiry, embracing the normal forecasting process, the Directors consider that the Group has adequate resources and committed borrowing facilities to continue in operational SHARE CAPITAL existence for the foreseeable future.
Consequently, they have continued to adopt the going The authorised and issued share capital of the Company, together with details of the movements concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
in the Companys issued share capital during the year, are shown in note 34 on page 76.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING During the year the Directors recommenced the share buyback programme started in October The 2004 AGM will take place at 12 noon on Tuesday, 28 September 2004, at 76 Portland Place, 2002 as they believed that, at the prevailing share price, it was in the best interests of London W1B 1NT.
shareholders and an appropriate use of cash resources.
Under the authority given at the 2002 AGM they purchased, at an aggregate consideration of 4,519,198 before expenses, an A separate circular sent to shareholders with this Report contains the Notice of AGM and explains additional 1,708,995 ordinary shares of 1p each 0.29%, making an aggregate of 4.06% the business to be considered at the meeting.
purchased under that authority, all of which have been cancelled.
AUDITORS At the 2003 AGM shareholders authorised the Directors to make market purchases of the  LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in office as auditors and Companys ordinary shares up to a maximum nominal value of 0.56m, which represented a resolution to re-appoint them and authorise the Directors to fix their remuneration will be 10% of issued share capital.
On 1 December 2003 legislation came into effect permitting shares proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
purchased by the Company out of distributable profits to be held as Treasury shares, which may then be cancelled, sold for cash or transferred for the purposes of the Companys employees By Order of the Board shares schemes.
The Company has chosen to hold its shares purchased since that date as Treasury shares.
Dan Fitz As at 22 July 2004, under the 2003 AGM authority, the Company has purchased 26,430,000 General Counsel and Company Secretary ordinary shares of 1p each 4.72%, all of which are held as Treasury shares, at an aggregate consideration of 52,597,487 before expenses.
In total during the year 57,116,685 was spent 22 July 2004 on the purchase of 28,138,995 shares.
It is proposed that the authority be renewed at the forthcoming AGM.
At close of business on 22 July 2004, Misys plc had 558,680,862 ordinary shares in issue, of which 26,430,000 are held in Treasury.
Also included in the business of the 2004 AGM are proposals to renew the Directors authorities to allot shares for cash up to prescribed limits.
Further details are given in the Notice of AGM.
SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDINGS As at 22 July 2004, the following substantial shareholdings were recorded in the register maintained by the Company in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: FMR Corp. and its direct and indirect subsidiaries and Fidelity International Limited and its direct and indirect subsidiaries 8.88% Aviva plc and its subsidiary Morley Fund Management Limited 5.03% Legal & General Group plc and or its subsidiaries 5.00% Barclays Bank through various legal entities 3.89% 29
