Directors report The Directors present their report for the financial year ended It is committed to providing equality of opportunity to all 25 September 2004. employees without discrimination and is supportive of the employment and advancement of disabled persons.
Principal activities The Group is the leading operator of managed pubs and pub Considerable emphasis is placed on employee communication, restaurants, with an estate of 2,006 sites at 25 September 2004, particularly on matters relating to the Companys business and principally located in the UK, but with 42 outlets in Germany.
Communication channels include regular team meetings, communication forums, informal briengs, in-house Business review and future developments publications and intranets.
Regular feedback is obtained The Directors Report should be read in conjunction with through employee focus groups and employee opinion surveys, the Operating and Financial Review on pages 2 to 6 and the results of which are used in developing management the Chairmans Statement, the Chief Executives Review, policies and best practice.
the Finance Directors Report and the business reviews in the Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement, which The Company has established a Business Forum to bring together include information about the Groups business, the together senior managers and employee representatives to financial performance during the year and likely developments.
Formation of the Company and demerger from Health and safety Six Continents The Group strives to provide and maintain a safe environment The Company was incorporated on 2 October 2002. for all employees, customers and other visitors to its premises Following demerger from the hotels and soft drinks interests and to comply with relevant health and safety legislation.
of Six Continents PLC, it became an independent listed In addition, all Group companies: company on 15 April 2003. aim to protect the health of employees with suitable, Securitisation and return of shareholder funds specic work-based strategies: Following demerger, the Company renanced its operations through a securitisation of the majority of its UK pubs and pub seek to minimise the risk of injury from company activity: restaurants business.
The sum of 1.9bn was successfully raised by means of a bonds issue and the Companys existing ensure that through senior management participation, 1.2bn of borrowings were repaid on 13 November 2003. sufficient resources and information are made available and suitable management systems are in place to address Having been approved by shareholders, the ordinary share health and safety matters: and capital was consolidated on 2 December 2003 on the basis of 12 new ordinary shares for every 17 existing ordinary shares encourage the involvement of employees and aim for and, on 8 December 2003, 501m was returned to shareholders continual improvement in health and safety matters through by means of a special dividend of 68p per share.
a formal structure with a reporting and review process.
Final dividend Compliance with Group policy is monitored and audited The Board recommends a final dividend for the year ended centrally and a comprehensive annual health and safety 25 September 2004 of 6.65p per share to be paid on report is produced for the Board.
31 January 2005 to shareholders on the register at close of business on 10 December 2004.
Environmental and social responsibility Mitchells & Butlers recognises that it is part of a wider Employees community of employees, shareholders, customers, suppliers The Group employed an average of 37,207 people in 2004. and other stakeholders and recognises that it has a Mitchells & Butlers 7 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004 Directors report continued responsibility to act in a way that respects the social, economic Headroom limits and environmental wellbeing of the wider world.
A summary During the year, the Company has remained within its of the Companys approach to these issues is set out on pages headroom limits for the issue of new shares for share plans 20 and 21 of the Annual Review and Summary Financial as set out in the rules of the plans.
At 25 September 2004, Statement and on the Companys website.
Its business conduct the position under the 5% in 10 years limit for discretionary guidelines and Code of Ethics set out the standards of behaviour plans was that shares equivalent to 1.8% of the ordinary expected from those working for the Company.
The Groups share capital had been allocated, whilst under the 10% corporate and social responsibility policies are available on the in 10 years limit for all share plans the equivalent amount Companys website.
Share capital Policy on payment of suppliers On 2 December 2003, the Companys ordinary share capital The Company is a holding company and has no trade was consolidated on the basis of 12 new ordinary shares creditors.
The policy of its principal operating subsidiaries is for 17 existing ordinary shares.
During the year, 4,105,170 to agree particular payment terms with major suppliers and shares as adjusted for the consolidation were issued under abide by those terms, subject to satisfactory performance share schemes and at 25 September 2004, 523,792,544 by the supplier.
Amounts owed to other suppliers are settled shares were in issue.
in or before the end of the month following that in which the subsidiary receives a valid invoice.
Substantial shareholdings As at 30 November 2004, the Company had been notied Charitable donations of the following substantial beneficial interests 3% or more The Company supports community initiatives and charitable in its shares: causes and in 2004 donated 103,300 2003 71,000.
In addition to these cash contributions, employees are AXA S. A.
4.30% encouraged to give their time and skills to a variety of causes Legal & General Investment Management Ltd 3.48% and the Company makes donations in kind, such as making Aviva plc 3.20% its facilities available for use or by giving free meals in Company Standard Life Group 3.01% premises.
It is estimated that those contributions raised the total value of the Companys donations to approximately Employee share plans 708,500 2003 620,000.
Mitchells & Butlers is keen to encourage employee participation in the Groups success through share ownership and operates Political donations the following plans: The Company made no political donations during the year and intends to maintain its policy of not making such Sharesave plan payments.
It will, however, as a precautionary measure In May 2004, options were granted to 1,398 employees over to avoid inadvertent breach of the law, seek shareholder 1,569,048 shares at 209p per share, a 20% discount to the authority at its Annual General Meeting in 2005 to make market price.
limited donations or incur limited political expenditure, although it has no intention of using the authority.
Share incentive plan During the year 378,535 shares were allocated by the Going concern Share Incentive Plan Trustee as free shares to 8,098 eligible The financial statements which appear on pages 26 to 54 employees subject to the plan rules.
have been prepared on a going concern basis as, after making appropriate enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable Executive share option plan expectation that the Group has adequate resources to In May 2004, options were granted to 60 employees over continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Options under this plan are only exercisable if a performance condition is met and, for Annual General Meeting options granted in 2004, the condition is set out on page 16.
The Notice convening the Annual General Meeting to be held at 11am on Wednesday, 26 January 2005 is contained Performance restricted share plan in a circular sent to shareholders with this report.
At the In 2004, 20 employees were invited to participate subject meeting, resolutions will be proposed to renew the authority to the achievement of performance conditions as set to issue shares without applying statutory pre-emption rights out on page 16.
No shares vested under this plan during and to authorise the Company to make market purchases the year.
Short term deferred incentive plan Auditors This plan enables the Company to award Executive Directors Ernst & Young LLP have expressed their willingness to all or part of their annual performance bonuses in shares, together continue in office as auditors of the Company and their with a related award of shares by the Company, which is deferred.
reappointment will be put to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
No shares were released during the year and Executive Directors maximum accrued entitlements for the year and By order of the Board, Bronagh Kennedy for future release are set out on page 19.
Company Secretary, 30 November 2004 Mitchells & Butlers 8 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004
