com 41 Board of directors 2, 4 David Varney 58 Chairman NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS 4, 5 David Varney was appointed to the Board in 2001 as full-time Chairman.
Andrew Sukawaty 48 In April 2003, he became part-time Chairman as envisaged at the time of Andrew Sukawaty was appointed to the Board in 2001.
Mr Sukawaty the demerger from BT.
He has extensive experience both in the UK and is the non-executive Deputy Chairman of the Company and senior overseas markets gained during his four years as Chief Executive officer independent Director.
He is Chairman and Chief Executive officer of of BG Group formerly British Gas from 1996 to 2000.
Prior to joining Inmarsat Group.
He is President of Cable Partners Europe LLC, which BG Group, he held a variety of senior roles in Shell including the position invests in and operates cable television services in Europe.
He is also of Managing Director of AB Svenska Shell in Sweden and Director of Chairman of Telenet and Deputy Chairman of Xyratex Group Limited.
Shell International with responsibility for Shells Oil Products business in He has considerable experience in the mobile telephone industry and Europe.
He is also Chairman of Business in the Community and President telecommunications industries in the United States and Europe having of the Council for the Institute of Employment Studies.
He will be retiring at different times in those periods held the ofces of Chief Executive from the Board at the conclusion of the Companys Annual General and President of Sprint PCS, Chief Executive officer of NTL and Chief Meeting being held on 28 July 2004.
Operating officer of Mercury One2One, where he launched the worlds first digital Personal Communications Services company.
He has also EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS been a former Chairman of the Cellular Telephone and Internet 2, 3 Peter Erskine 52 Chief Executive officer Association CTIA in the United States.
Peter Erskine was appointed to the Board in 2001 as the Companys 1, 4 Chief Executive officer.
He joined the Company from BT where, since David Arculus 57 March 1993, he held a number of senior positions including Director of David Arculus was appointed to the Board on 1 April 2003.
Mr Arculus BT Mobile, President and Chief Executive of Concert, and, from 1998, is Chairman of Severn Trent, a position which he will relinquish by the Managing Director of BT Cellnet.
Prior to joining BT he was European end of 2004, and the Better Regulation Task Force and a non-executive Vice President of Sales and Customer Service for Mars and Senior Vice Director of Barclays.
Mr Arculus was previously Chairman of IPC Group President Sales and Marketing for UNITEL.
Mr Erskine was appointed Limited and, before that, Group Managing Director of EMAP.
Mr Arculus to the Advisory Board of the University of Reading Business School in will become Chairman on 28 July 2004 at the conclusion of the July 2003.
2, 3 1, 4 David Finch 48 Chief Financial officer David Chance 47 David Finch was appointed to the Board in 2001.
Mr Finch is the David Chance was appointed to the Board in 2003.
Mr Chance was Companys Chief Financial officer and has extensive experience in Deputy Managing Director of BSkyB until June 1998 and is Chairman of financial management having previously held senior finance positions at Modern Times Group and Top Up TV Limited, and is a non-executive Exel, Novar formerly Caradon and Grand Metropolitan.
In addition to Director of ITV and Sunderland AFC.
He previously held senior marketing Group Finance, he has direct responsibility for the Group Treasury and and business development roles at US telecoms companies, scientific Investor Relations functions.
Atlanta and Grass Valley Group, and European satellite broadcaster, SES.
3 1, 5 Rudolf Grger 49 CEO O Germany Stephen Hodge 62 2 Rudolf Grger was appointed to the Board on 1 April 2003.
He joined Stephen Hodge was appointed to the Board in 2001.
Mr Hodge was the Company in October 2001 as Chief Executive officer of O Germany.
Director of Finance of the Royal Dutch Shell Group, prior to his 2 Prior to this, he was Managing Director of T-Systems International GmbH, retirement in September 2001, where he had responsibility for all a subsidiary of Deutsche Telekom, from 1999 to 2001.
He played a key financial and investor relations issues for the Shell Group and its parent role in the acquisition of Debis Systemhaus GmbH and its integration into companies.
He has extensive knowledge of the financial management of Deutsche Telekom.
He has also worked for Siemens and was head of its international companies, having worked throughout the world including German information and communication product operations.
Australia, the Netherlands, Venezuela and Argentina in a variety of financial positions.
He is Chairman of Shell Pensions Trust Limited and 3 David McGlade 43 CEO O UK a member of the Franchise Board of Lloyds of London.
2 David McGlade was appointed to the Board on 1 April 2003.
1, 5 Mr McGlade joined O UK previously called BT Cellnet in October 2000.
Neelie Kroes 62 2 Before being appointed as Managing Director of BT Cellnet, he was Neelie Kroes was appointed to the Board in 2001.
Ms Kroes is a member Chairman and Chief Executive officer of PureMatrix, a mobile webnet of the Supervisory Boards of a number of Dutch enterprises including software company based in Colorado, and remains a non-executive Crio, Lucent Technologies, Nederlandse Spoorwagen, New Skies Director of this company.
He was also President and Chief Executive Satellites and Royal P&O Nedlloyd.
She is also a member of the officer of Catch TV, President West Region of Sprint PCS where he Supervisory Boards of Volvo Group, Thales Group and Prologis.
She is a launched the first CDMA network outside Asia and a Vice President of former President of Nijenrode University in the Netherlands.
Mr McGlade is also a board member of the GSM Association and she served as Adviser to the European Transport Commissioner and also Tesco Mobile.
served two periods, in the Netherlands, as Cabinet Minister of Transport, Public Works and Telecommunications and Secretary of State for Transport, Public Works and Telecommunications.
She was also a member of the Dutch Parliament and a member of the Rotterdam Municipal Council.
