com 43 Report of the directors The Directors of mmO plc have pleasure in presenting to Share capital 2 shareholders their report and the audited financial statements for Details of the authorised and issued share capital of the Company at the year ended 31 March 2004.
31 March 2004 and details of share allotments made during the year are given in note 17 of the financial statements on page 82.
Principal activity mmO plc is a leading provider of mobile communications services in The authority given at last years Annual General Meeting for the 2 Europe.
The Group traded through its wholly-owned subsidiaries in Company to purchase in the market 867,000,000 ordinary shares, the UK, Germany, Ireland and the Isle of Man throughout the year, representing approximately 10 per cent of the share capital in issue and in the Netherlands until 3 June 2003.
The Group also provides at 31 March 2003, expires at the conclusion of the 2004 Annual a nationwide mobile radio service designed to serve the needs of General Meeting.
The authority was not used during the year and the police and other public safety organisations in England, Wales shareholders will be asked to give a similar authority at the and Scotland through O Airwave.
On 3 June 2003, mmO plc forthcoming Annual General Meeting, based on approximately 2 2 completed the sale of O Netherlands B. V. to Greeneld Capital 10 per cent of the Companys issued share capital as at 31 March 2 Partners, an independent private equity and corporate finance 2004.
The Company has no current intention to utilise the authority.
group, for 25 million in cash.
On 4 June 2003, mmO plc 2 announced the creation of a new 50:50 joint venture, Tesco Mobile, Substantial shareholdings to sell exclusively Tesco branded mobile services in Tesco stores across At 10 May 2004, the following notications had been received by the UK, using O s technology and network.
the Company in respect of holdings of three per cent or more of the 2 Companys issued share capital: The business review on pages 6 to 18 and the operating and Number of mmO plc Percentage of issued 2 financial review and prospects on pages 21 to 38 contain a review Shareholder ordinary shares ordinary share capital of the business during the year and an indication of future FMR Corp. and Fidelity developments and form part of this report.
International Limited 507,619,175 5.85 Legal & General Investment Results Management Limited 304,856,559 3.51 The audited financial statements are presented on pages 64 to 96.
The Directors do not recommend the payment of a dividend for the Interest of management in certain transactions year ended 31 March 2004.
During and at the end of the 2004 financial year, none of the Companys Directors had a significant interest in any material Directors transaction in relation to the Groups business.
The names and biographical details of the Directors are given on pages 41 and 42.
All Directors served throughout the financial year, Employees except for Kent Thexton who resigned from the Board on 4 February The Company operates a number of employee share schemes, 2004 but remained a member of the Executive Committee until he including savings-related option schemes, which encourage regular left the Company on 31 March 2004. saving and enable employees to acquire options over shares in the Company, and an all employee share ownership plan in the UK As previously announced, David Varney will be retiring from the allowing employees to buy shares in the Company.
Board at the conclusion of the 2004 Annual General Meeting, in accordance with his letter of appointment, and David Arculus will The Company has a wide range of communication channels with become Chairman of the Company from that time.
employees including face-to-face meetings, team briengs, audio conferences and a comprehensive Company intranet that includes The Companys Articles of Association provide that Directors are a regular newsletter.
The aim of all these channels is to ensure required to retire by rotation every three years.
It is the Boards employees fully understand the Groups objectives and its intention that shareholders will be given the opportunity to re-elect operational and financial performance.
In addition, the Company Directors within that timescale.
David Finch, Stephen Hodge and conducts annual attitude surveys and maintains a constructive Andrew Sukawaty will retire by rotation this year and are proposed dialogue with unions, employee representative bodies and for re-election at the 2004 Annual General Meeting.
David Varney will be retiring as Chairman and a Director of the Company at the conclusion of the 2004 Annual General Meeting The Company continues to be committed to the development of all and is not seeking re-election.
people in the organisation and actively promotes this through many training and development initiatives.
People are encouraged and Details of the Directors service contracts, emoluments and share supported in maintaining personal development plans.
The Company interests as at the year-end can be found in the report on directors has invested in e-learning technology to give people better access to remuneration on pages 51 to 62. a wide range of learning opportunities.
