com Board of directors 1, 5 Ian Meakins 47 COMPANY SECRETARY AND GENERAL COUNSEL Ian Meakins was appointed to the Board in 2001.
Mr Meakins is Philip Bramwell 47 currently President, European Major Markets and Global Supply of Philip Bramwell joined the Company from BT, where he was employed Diageo.
He has held a number of senior marketing and operational since 1998, initially as Legal Manager, Group Strategy and Development directorships since joining United Distillers in 1992 from strategic and then as Chief Counsel, Corporate Development.
Before joining BT, management consultants, The Kalchas Group, where he was a he was a partner in DDV, a European specialist telecommunications founding partner.
Prior to this, he worked at Bain & Company and consultancy rm.
Prior to this, he held the position of Vice President and Procter & Gamble.
General Counsel at BellSouth Europe and Secretary and Legal Advisor at SmithKline Beecham Pharmaceuticals international division.
He was 4, 5 Paul Myners 56 called to the Bar in 1983.
Paul Myners was appointed to the Board in 2001.
Mr Myners is Chairman of Guardian Media Group, Aspen Insurance Holdings and Key to membership of Board Committees: 1 2 3 Tate Trustees and a non-executive Director of The Bank of New York Audit Committee Chairmans Committee Executive Committee 4 and Marks & Spencer.
He was Chairman of Gartmore Investment Nomination and Governance Committee 5 Management until November 2001 and has previously held directorships Remuneration Committee at National Westminster Bank, Coutts & Co. the Investment All of the non-executive Directors are considered independent of the Management Regulatory Organisation, the Lloyds Market Board, Celltech management of the Company.
Group, the Scottish National Trust, Powergen and Orange.
Executive management team mmO s Executive Committee comprises Messrs. Erskine Chairman, 2 Finch, Grger, and McGlade and the following senior executives Sohail Qadri 43 Group Director Strategy including Kent Thexton up to 31 March 2004 : & Performance Management Sohail Qadri joined the Company from BT where he had worked since Danuta Gray 45 CEO O Ireland 1993 initially as Director of Operations and Strategy for BT Cellnet, 2 Danuta Gray joined the Company from BT, where she was employed from 1997 as Director of Mobility, Group Strategy and Development, since 1984.
Before transferring to her present role in July 2001, Ms Gray and from 2000, as President, Strategy & Business Development of BT was Senior Vice President of BT Wirelesss businesses in Europe.
Before joining BT, he was a Principal Consultant at Coopers this, she was a General Manager of BT Mobile, Leeds from 1994 to & Lybrand, now .
1999, Sales Manager and Deputy General Manager of BT Global Communications from 1992 to 1994 and Account Director for BT Global Kent Thexton 41 Chief Data and Marketing officer Communications, Commercial Sector from 1990 to 1992.
She also Kent Thexton joined the Company from BT where he had worked since worked in various departments as a manager and consultant for BT.
1998 as Marketing Director of BT Cellnet before becoming Managing She is a board member of Business in the Community in Ireland.
Director of O Online previously called Genie in 2000.
He was 2 appointed Chief Data and Marketing officer for the Company in July Andrew Harley 43 Group HR Director 2001.
Before joining BT Cellnet, he spent eight years in the Canadian Andrew Harley joined the Company from BT, where he had worked since mobile industry, holding the position of Chief Operating officer and 1980.
Before being appointed as Senior Vice President, HR, BT Wireless Executive Vice President of Rogers Cantel now Rogers Wireless.
Prior in February 2001, Mr Harley was Senior Vice President, Human to this he held management positions at Northern Telecom and Bell Resources, BTopenworld, BTs xed internet service provider, and before Canada.
He is also a non-executive Director of two private Canadian that he was Human Resources Director for BT Cellnet.
Mr Harley was companies, Audience View and Casero.
Mr Thexton, who was appointed also Human Resources Director for Telenordia in Sweden.
to the Board on 1 April 2003, resigned as a Director of the Company on 4 February 2004 but remained on the Executive Committee until Richard Poston 44 Director Corporate Affairs 31 March 2004, when he left the Company.
Richard Poston joined the Company in 2001.
Previously Mr Poston was the Director of Communications for TI Group from 1999 to 2001 and, David Williams 46 Chief Technology officer prior to this, Director of Corporate Communications for Racal Electronics David Williams joined the Company in 2003 from Cingular Wireless, from 1994 to 1999.
He held a number of corporate communications and where he was Vice President for Strategic Planning.
Prior to the merger public affairs roles in Racal Electronics.
During this time, he was closely of SBC Wireless and BellSouth Cellular in the US to form Cingular, he ran involved with the early growth of Vodafone leading to its demerger from all technological operations for SBC Wireless west region.
He joined SBC Racal and the formation of Camelot Group, operator of the National Wireless following the acquisition of Pacic Bell Mobile Services by that Lottery, in which Racal was a major shareholder.
He started his career in company and was instrumental in integrating the two networks.
After the Royal Navy where he served from 1978 to 1986. working for both Orange and Vodafone in the UK, he relocated to the US in 1996 to direct the build-out of one of the USs first digital mobile networks for Pacic Bell.
