Report of the Directors The Directors present their Annual Report, together with the audited financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2004.
Group Activities The principal activities of the Group are copper mining, the transport of freight by rail and road and the distribution of water.
These activities are mainly based in Chile.
Results and Dividends The consolidated profit before tax has increased from US$357.2 million in 2003 to US$1,162.7 million in 2004.
Having paid an interim dividend of 15 cents 2003 11 cents, the Directors recommend a final dividend of 64 cents 2003 24 cents per ordinary share payable on 15 June 2005 to shareholders on the Register at the close of business on 13 May 2005.
The final dividend comprises an ordinary dividend of 24 cents and a special dividend of 40 cents.
This makes a total dividend for the year of 79 cents per ordinary share 2003 35 cents.
In 2003, a dividend in specie of shares in Andsberg Limited the demerger dividend was also made at the rate of one Andsberg share for each ordinary share held in Antofagasta.
The Andsberg shares carried a redemption right of US$1.11 per share until 30 October 2003.
No comparable dividend was made in 2004.
The total ordinary and preference dividends in the year amounted to US$156.0 million 2003 total ordinary and preference dividends were US$250.7 million, including US$181.5 million relating to the demerger dividend.
After providing for these dividends, the amount transferred to reserves is US$402.3 million 2003 transferred from reserves US$70.0 million.
Dividends are declared in US dollars but may be paid in either US dollars or sterling.
Shareholders on the Register of Members with an address in the United Kingdom receive dividend payments in sterling, unless they elect to be paid in US dollars.
All other shareholders are paid by cheque in US dollars, unless they have previously instructed the Companys registrar to pay dividends by bank transfer to a sterling bank account, or they elect for payment by cheque in sterling.
The Companys Registrar must receive any such election for the proposed final dividend by the record date of 13 May 2005.
The exchange rate to be applied for the conversion of the final dividend will be 1 US$1.9183 giving those shareholders who will be paid in sterling a dividend of 33.3629 pence per ordinary share.
The exchange rate applied for the conversion of the interim dividend was 1 US$1.8151, giving those shareholders who were paid in sterling a dividend of 8.2640 pence per ordinary share.
Review of Business and Future Developments The Chairmans Review and the Financial Review outline the performance of the Groups activities during the year and developments after the year-end.
46 ANTOFAGASTA PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004 Directors The Directors who served during the year are shown on page 2.
No Director has a service contract with the Company which cannot be terminated within 12 months.
Biographical details of those Directors seeking re-election are set out below.
The reason the Board considers these Directors should be re-elected are set out in the Corporate Governance statement on pages 51 to 60 and in particular in the sections headed Performance Evaluation and Re-election.
Mr. J-P Luksic retires by rotation in accordance with the Articles of Association and, being eligible offers himself for re-election.
Mr. Luksic became the Chairman of Antofagasta plc on 5 November 2004.
He was appointed a Director of Antofagasta plc in 1990 and Deputy Chairman in 2000.
He was also Chief Executive Officer of Antofagasta Minerals S. A. until his appointment as Chairman of the Group.
He is a non-executive director of Quienco S. A. and Madeco S. A. Mr. Luksic is aged 40.
Mr. C H Bailey retires in accordance with the Articles of Association at age 71 and, being eligible offers himself for re-election.
Special notice for this resolution at the Annual General Meeting has been given pursuant to sections 293 and 379 of the Companies Act 1985.
Mr. Bailey was appointed a Director of Antofagasta plc in 1987 and is the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
He is a Chartered Accountant, and a director of General Oriental Investment Limited, RIT Capital Partners plc, St James Place Capital plc and Atrium Underwriting plc.
Mr. P J Adeane retires in accordance with the Articles of Association at age 72 and, being eligible offers himself for re-election.
Mr. Adeane was appointed as a Director of Antofagasta plc on its formation in 1982 and was the Managing Director until 31 March 2005.
He has been a Non-Executive Director since 31 March 2005.
Mr. G S Menendez was appointed a Non-Executive Director of Antofagasta plc in 1985 and as explained below under items of Special Business at the Annual General Meeting, he offers himself for re-election under the Articles of Association.
He is a director of Quienco S. A. and Banco fide Chile and chairman of Banco Latinoamericano fide Exportaciones BLADEX.
Mr. G A Luksic was appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 6 April 2005 and as explained below under items of Special Business at the Annual General Meeting, he offers himself for re-election under the Articles of Association.
Mr. Luksic is a Director of Banco fide Chile and Chairman of several public companies, including Quienco S. A. a Chilean industrial and financial conglomerate, Compaia Cerverceras Unidas S. A. the countrys principal brewing company and Madeco S. A. a manufacturer of copper and aluminium products.
Mr. J W Ambrus was appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 3 May 2005 and as explained below under items of Special Business at the Annual General Meeting, he offers himself for re-election under the Articles of Association.
Mr. Ambrus is a geologist of considerable experience in Chile and internationally.
He has been a board member or consultant to several companies.
He obtained a PhD in geological sciences at Salamanca 47 University in Spain.
ANTOFAGASTA PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004 Report of the Directors Mr. J G Claro was appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 3 May 2005 and as explained below under items of Special Business at the Annual General Meeting, he offers himself for re-election under the Articles of Association.
Mr. Claro is a civil engineer.
He has held several board positions in Chilean companies, and is currently a director of Telefonica-CTC, the leading Spanish-owned Chilean telecommunications company.
Biographical details of the other Directors are given below: Mr. D E Yarur was appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Director on 31 March 2004.
Mr. Yarur is a director of several Chilean companies including Banco fide Crdito e Inversiones S. A. Sociedad Qumica y Minera S. A. a Chilean mining company and AES Gener S. A. a power generating company.
He is also a qualified accountant.
Mr. R F Jara is a Non-Executive Director of Antofagasta plc.
He is a lawyer and a director of several industrial companies.
Until February 2004, he was a partner in Jara del Favero y Cia, a Chilean law firm based in Santiago.
The interests of the persons including the interests of their families who were Directors at the end of the year, in the preference and ordinary share capital of the Company are shown on page 63.
Donations The Group made UK charitable donations of US$63,643 during the year ended 31 December 2004 2003 US$36,354.
Branches The Antofagasta Railway Company plc is a subsidiary of Antofagasta plc and has a branch in Chile known as the FCAB providing rail freight services.
All other operations in Chile and Bolivia are carried out through subsidiary companies.
Creditor Days The Company does not trade in the United Kingdom.
Creditor days for the Group have been calculated at 29 days 2003 23 days.
Operating companies are responsible for agreeing terms of payment with each of their suppliers.
It is Group policy that payments to suppliers are made in accordance with terms agreed.
Environment The Group seeks to ensure that its operations and products cause minimum harmful effect to the environment.
Care is taken to limit discharges of environmentally harmful substances and to dispose of waste material in a safe manner.
Contingency arrangements and plans exist to reduce the risk of and limit the effect of any accidental spillage.
The Groups policy is that all its operations should comply fully with applicable Chilean regulations.
Further information regarding the Groups environmental performance and activities is given in the Corporate Social Responsibility report on pages 35 to 43.
48 ANTOFAGASTA PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004 Substantial Shareholdings The Company has been made aware of the following substantial interests in the issued share capital of the Company: Ordinary Preference share capital share capital %% Metalinvest Establishment 50.72 94.12 Sandypoint Establishment 14.19 Merrill Lynch Investment Managers 4.19 Barclays Global Investors 3.82 As explained on page 63, Metalinvest Establishment and Sandypoint Establishment are both controlled by the E. Abaroa Foundation, which is controlled by Mr. A A Luksic, the former Chairman of the Company, and his family.
The total interest, including shares held directly, of Mr. Luksic and his family, in the ordinary share capital is 65.08% and in the preference share capital is 94.12%.
Special Business at the Annual General Meeting Resolution 8 Mr. G S Menendez was appointed as a Non-Executive Director of Antofagasta plc in 1985.
In accordance with the nine-year service principle under the Combined Code, he is standing for re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
Resolution 9 Mr. G A Luksic was appointed as a Non-Executive Director of Antofagasta plc on 6 April 2005.
In accordance with Article 96 of the Companys Articles of Association, he is standing for re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
Resolution 10 Mr. J W Ambrus was appointed as a Non-Executive Director of Antofagasta plc on 3 May 2005.
Resolution 11 Mr. J G Claro was appointed as a Non-Executive Director of Antofagasta plc on 3 May 2005.
Resolution 12 A special resolution must be obtained to empower the Directors to issue equity securities of the Company for cash other than pro rata to ordinary shareholders.
Resolution 12 on the agenda of the Annual General Meeting will extend the existing power until the next Annual General Meeting or, if earlier, 15 months from the passing of the resolution.
The extension will permit the Directors to make issues of equity securities for cash either by a rights offer to ordinary shareholders or, up to a maximum of 492,928 5% of the issued ordinary share capital, in any other way.
The proposal is consistent with the guidelines approved by the Investment Committees of the Association of British Insurers and the National Association of Pension Funds.
49 ANTOFAGASTA PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004 Report of the Directors The guidelines also indicate that issues of equity securities for cash other than by ways of rights should not, in any rolling three-year period, exceed 7.5% of the issued share capital.
Auditors A resolution to re-appoint Deloitte & Touche LLP as the Companys auditor will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
By Order of the Board For and on behalf of Petershill Secretaries Limited Company Secretary 3 May 2005 50 ANTOFAGASTA PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004
