Magnetics Continuing turnover for the The main products of our Notable market segments Trading review year was 181.2 million Materials & Parts division that have experienced Materials & Parts 2003: 172.1 million with include crystalline soft strong growth are electronic This division has product an operating profit before magnetic and semi hard article surveillance and lines that include softgoodwill amortisation and and amorphous and automotive applications magnetic and semi hard operating exceptionals nanocrystalline materials.
such as keyless entry and materials in the form of of 9.8 million 2003: In our Cores & Components go systems.
strips, rods, wires and 3.0 million.
division we produce toroidal physical alloys.
These are In addition to the profit tape wound cores, inductive processed to make yokes improvement projects that Introduction components and component and anchors for relays in commenced in 2003 Magnetics is a leading assemblies.
In our Ground Fault Current including the refocusing, global supplier of advanced Permanent Magnets division Interrupters GFCIs that can disposal and closure of magnetic materials and we produce rare earth save human lives, and in under performing businesses: systems for industries from permanent magnets, stamped parts for magnetic and the transfer of labourwatch manufacturing to integrated systems and valves in diesel and gasoline intensive manufacturing aerospace.
processes to lower cost supplier, we provide our Magnetic shieldings in the locations, e. g. the Performance 2004 customers with a global, form of parts and shielded manufacture of watt hour single-point sourcing The performance of the rooms are used for meters, Magnetics is capability and customized Magnetics business automotive and medical working to reorganise its solutions to meet their improved significantly from applications.
sales team with the goal of specific needs.
Organic sales developing new market growth in the continuing Magnetics comprises three segments and gaining further business was 8.4% on a divisions: Materials & Parts, market share in existing constant currency basis.
A wide range of As a result of focusing on and Permanent Magnets.
Six Sigma productivity new market segments, We have over 3,300 people improving projects also increasing share of existing with production sites in contributed to the profit sectors and our extensive Europe and the Far East.
restructuring programme, Magnetics achieved a strong Products and margin improvement from applications 1.7% to 5.4%.
This is despite Magnetics offers a wide the negative impact of portfolio of materials and exchange rates as well as parts used in electronics increased raw material and and electrical engineering.
Our main markets include telecoms, security, and medical.
08 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Overall, this business area Cores & Components Permanent Magnets In summer 2004, we performed consistently Cores are made of nickelThe main application of announced that a Joint and achieved good iron, nanocrystalline and Neodymium Iron Boron rare Venture with our Chinese turnover growth.
The earth magnets is within Partner, San Huan, is to be main applications include electric motors, such as formed.
This will allow The major application for GFCIs, Switched Mode Power compact elevator drives Magnetics to widen its amorphous strips is in Supplies SMPS in PCs as and servo motors in machine portfolio of permanent electronic article well as our own components tool drives.
There are also a magnets and enter new surveillance.
Compared variety of opportunities for market segments.
We expect alloy in combination with our to 2003, turnover showed rare earth magnets due to this venture to generate semi hard material is built good growth.
the increasing number of sales from the second half into anti-theft devices in retail sensors in automobiles, e. g. of 2005 onwards.
Accelerating Inductive components and ESP-Sensors electronic demand for this application assemblies are based on Outlook stability programme.
led to a significant overall toroidal magnetic cores, These ensure that a car In 2005 Magnetics will be growth rate for this business.
mainly from our own remains stable in introducing new products production.
Components Rapid solidified strips are challenging conditions, and for the energy, automotive are used in a broad range also essential for our feature a magnet system and industrial markets.
of applications including toroidal core production.
Neodymium Iron The renewal of long-term current transformers for Nanocrystalline materials Boron magnets are also contracts and a wider energy meters that offer offer new possibilities with used in Magnetic Resonance product portfolio of superior performance their superior magnetic Imaging MRI systems for permanent magnets from and xDSL DSL Digital properties and complement hospitals.
These systems our new JV in China will Subscriber Loop splitters this broad range of provide perfect images of help drive growth in 2005 that enable high-speed applications.
A new bones and soft body parts and beyond.
In the generation of brazing alloys without the use of X-rays.
automotive industry we As a result of the sales team creates new market Samarium Cobalt magnets supply a wide range of reorganisation, the division opportunities.
are used in chemical components from current will be working to further pumps to safely move sensors, used to monitor penetrate existing markets hazardous liquids.
battery power status in and to develop new market premium vehicles, to keyless The Rare Earth Magnets opportunities.
Combined entry and go systems.
business has seen a with further reductions good growth rate.
of our cost position we will The turnover of this business be working to achieve has grown significantly another significant compared to 2003. profit improvement.
09 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Magnetics
