Technical Ceramics generation devices such Electro Ceramics operating margins increased as travelling wave tubes Our advanced RF capacitors from 0.3% to 4.9% with constructed with our are used in applications specific productivity ceramic and ceramic metal such as Magnetic improvements, overhead components.
Leading edge Resonance Imaging MRI reduction and restructuring applications in fibre optic in the medical sector, high initiatives underway at communications require power oscillator circuits in every site combined with diamond heat spreaders, radio transmitters, lasers, the shifting of production signal generation and semiconductor processing to lower cost, high growth amplification devices and and electrostatic spraying regions.
The business was components for high equipment.
Our microwave further simplified with the quality connections.
dialectric components are completion of the sale of used in cellular phone In healthcare, surgically the remaining elements of base stations.
implanted devices such as the Soft Coatings business heart pacemakers, Outlook and a small production defibrillators and cochlear facility in France.
In 2005, Technical Ceramics implants require materials will focus on profitable top that are hermetic and Trading review line growth in markets biocompatible.
We provide Advanced Ceramics which require technically the ceramic materials for 2004 saw an improvement demanding applications these applications as well in our end markets.
engineering and through as hermetic feed-through Of particular note was the the launch of new products assemblies, braze alloys and strengthening of medical and processes.
Examples highly engineered coatings and aerospace markets and include hard disc drive for radio frequency shielding.
good demand from the applications and ceramic Increasing numbers of communications market for injection moulding surgically implanted hip power tubes.
A major joints are made from our project is in the initial stages In communications, the ceramics.
Blood analysis of production and is growth in applications for and separation equipment expected to make a good wireless technologies and used valves made from contribution in 2005. fibre optics has created advanced ceramics.
opportunities for unique We will continue to reduce material solutions.
Satellite costs and to simplify our uplinks require powerful structure, with the shift microwave signal of production to lower cost regions, primarily from Europe to China, and the consolidation of two facilities in North America.
11 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Technical Ceramics Insulating Ceramics Continuing turnover for the Products and Performance 2004 Trading review year was 249.8 million applications With organic sales growth in Thermal Ceramics 2003: 258.3 million with Insulating Ceramics of 1.9% In fibres, 2004 saw the As specialists in high an operating profit before on a constant currency continuing market growth temperature applications, goodwill amortisation and basis, and with operating of Morgans patented Insulating Ceramics is a operating exceptionals margins up from 6.5% to low bio-persistence fibre, leader in the production of of 17.9 million 2003: 7.2%, the business traded Superwool, where it is ceramic and bio-soluble 16.7 million.
now the leading market fibres, high temperature Market demand and sales producer in Europe.
We have insulating refractory bricks Introduction in the Americas improved, also now successfully including castables and Insulating Ceramics provides but the European business established the product in crucibles, refractory heat management products suffered with the weakness of North America, and interest consumables, and furnaces.
for high temperature the industrial sector and the is rapidly growing in Japan applications in a variety It also provides products strength of the euro against and elsewhere in Asia.
It also such as energy efficient the dollar.
Sales in Asia grew In 2004 the division made provides crucibles and furnaces and heated strongly, with market share significant progress on its related products for the transport ladles gains and strong demand key priorities of cost and non-ferrous and precious complemented by across the region, overhead reduction, exiting metals foundry market.
an extensive range of particularly in China.
unattractive market other foundry products Insulating Ceramics The increase in profitability segments and positioning employed in metal handling, comprises two business reflected the increasing for growth.
During the year purification, flow control and units: Thermal Ceramics share of our Superwool sites were consolidated and temperature measurement.
This, combined closed in Germany: USA: 3,200 employees, there with the effect of and Canada.
This will are operations in over restructuring and overhead continue in 2005 with the 40 countries with reduction, more than offset closure of a facility in Italy.
manufacturing sites the downward pressure of In addition R&D capabilities in 24 of these.
raw material prices and have been restructured to be energy costs plus adverse more responsive and closer currency effects.
12 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Thermal Ceramics Crucibles prospects for Outlook experienced severe cost growth in the Americas Insulating Ceramics is well pressure particularly in and in Asia in the coming positioned for 2005.
There Ceramics competitive Some sales price increases are opportunities in North position is strong with the have been achieved to America to further increase fibre products benefiting counter this, albeit markets penetration of the furnace from focused research over remain highly competitive.
equipment market, using the last few years.
A new recently developed high temperature bio-soluble Crucibles innovative solutions.
blanket Superwool 607HT is North American sales of the In Asia, there is continuing shortly to be launched.
Crucibles division recovered opportunity for sales growth, Geographically, there is an strongly in 2004.
The market in particular China, and we expectation of further strong in Europe was at best flat are dedicating additional growth in Asia, particularly in whilst in Africa and the resource to this key market in India and China, supported Middle East the markets 2005.
Cost control will by our new joint venture were mixed, with some local remain a major focus for the with the Chinese ceramics instability interrupting business, given the recent manufacturer Hubei Kailong, previous sales growth.
background of rising raw and relative stability in In Asia our sales to China material and energy costs.
increased by nearly 80% Further development of our Markets should remain in 2004 from a low base.
low cost manufacturing sites broadly as in 2004 although This was driven by the rapid is anticipated.
We will we expect growth in the expansion of the automotive continue to explore chemical and petroleum production sector.
In Japan, opportunities to add industry as well as we restructured our core adjacent products through improvement in automotive, products distribution the development of effective aerospace and white goods.
channel by the formation supply partnerships with low Attractive longer term of a joint venture company cost producers.
growth prospects, driven with a strong local partner.
by environmental and regulatory safety concerns include energy conservation, pollution control, waste management applications and demand for technically advanced solutions in automotive and domestic appliances.
13 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Insulating Ceramics
