NBrown AR04 B-END 1 AW 7 6 04 10:32 am Page 18 N Brown Group plc 18 Report and Accounts 2004 Directors report The directors present their report and accounts for the 52 weeks ended 28 February 2004.
Activities and results The principal activities of the group are retailing through direct home shopping, fulfilment and financial services.
The activities are more fully explained in the chief executives review on pages 10 to 13.
Group profit before taxation for the 52 weeks ended 28 February 2004 amounted to 31.0m 2003, 54.1m.
No geographical segmentation is provided as, apart from a small operation in the Republic of Ireland, all activities take place in the United Kingdom.
Dividends and reserves An interim dividend of 1.74p per share 2003, 1.74p was paid on the ordinary shares of the company on 6 January 2004.
The net cost of this dividend was 5.1m 2003, 5.1m.
The directors recommend a final dividend of 4.10p per share 2003, 4.10p for the 52 weeks ended 28 February 2004, the net cost of which will be 12.0m 2003, 12.0m.
Movements in reserves are shown in note 25 on page 52.
Acquisitions and disposals In October 2003 the group increased its holding in Eunite Limited, an e-convergence company and a provider of multi-channel ecommerce solutions from 91% to 100% see note 15 on page 47.
Share capital The companys authorised share capital is 39.0m 2003, 39.0m.
During the year, 284,974 ordinary shares were issued in connection with the groups qualifying employee share ownership trust and employee share ownership trust.
Details of outstanding share options are shown in note 24 on page 51.
Annual general meeting The annual general meeting is to be held on 7 July 2004.
The notice convening the annual general meeting is being sent to members by way of separate circular.
Directors Dean Moore was appointed on 24 November 2003 as a replacement for Tim Kowalski who left the company on 2 December 2003.
Robert Youngjohns resigned on 2 July 2003.
Mike Bullas was appointed to the board on 7 July 2003 and resigned on 12 March 2004.
John McGuire was appointed to the board on 23 March 2004.
The biographies of the directors, all of whom served throughout the year except as noted above, are shown on page 16.
In accordance with the Combined Code issued in July 2003, Sir David Alliance CBE, Ivan Fallon and Nigel Alliance OBE will retire at the next annual general meeting and, being eligible, offer themselves for reappointment at that meeting.
Dean Moore and John McGuire offer themselves for reappointment in accordance with article 71 of the articles of association.
Directors interests are separately disclosed in the remuneration report on page 32.
Directors and officers liabilities The group maintains insurance for directors and officers of the group, indemnifying them against certain liabilities incurred by them whilst acting on behalf of the group.
Major shareholders In addition to the directors shareholdings shown in the remuneration report on page 32, the directors are aware of the following shareholdings of 3 per cent or more of the issued share capital at 30 April 2004: Holding % of issued share capital Fidelity Investment Management Ltd 36,134,203 12.23 Invesco Asset Management 23,894,103 8.09 NBrown AR04 B-END 1 AW 7 6 04 10:32 am Page 19 N Brown Group plc 19 Report and Accounts 2004 Directors report Ethical and social issues Ethics The group board regards achievement of the highest ethical standards as an essential feature in the way in which the group does business.
A code of ethical conduct dealing with issues of commercial standards, conflicts of interest, gifts and hospitality has been circulated to all staff.
All directors and employees of the group are required to comply with both the letter and the spirit of the code of ethical conduct in all their dealings on behalf of the group.
In their dealings with each other, other group companies and their shareholders, customers, suppliers, competitors with regulatory authorities and the wider community, employees are required to: - conduct all dealings with honesty, integrity and fairness: - comply with all relevant laws, regulations and internal company policy: - encourage and support a business culture which exhibits and promotes ethical conduct at all levels within the organisation: and - avoid any situation or action which could cause damage to the groups reputation.
Directors of all group companies will be required to disclose details of related party transactions for review by the audit committee.
A register of gifts and benefits offered by, and to, suppliers and other parties whether accepted or declined is maintained under the control of the head of internal audit.
Summary information will be presented to the groups audit committee.
All employees, managers and directors are required to declare any offer of gifts or hospitality with a value of 25 or more.
The group has drawn up and issued a whistleblowing policy providing employees with an appropriate means of communication in case of ethical concerns regarding the way the group operates in its day-to-day activities.
Environment The group recognises its environmental responsibilities and is committed to minimising any damage which its activities may cause to the environment.
It has delegated specific responsibility for environmental matters to a nominated director on each of its principal subsidiary boards.
In addition, it actively pursues a number of environmental policies, including those designed to contain energy costs, the recycling of paper and packaging materials wherever practical and the use of information technology systems to reduce the level of consumption of paper by its employees.
The group firmly believes that continuing success can only be achieved by an enthusiastic, motivated and welltrained workforce.
Consequently, considerable resources are devoted to staff training.
Departmental team briefings are held and a staff attitude survey is conducted regularly.
Over 1,300 group employees either hold shares in the company or have options awards to acquire them through the groups various share option and long-term incentive schemes.
Constructive relationships with the trade unions which represent its employees principally USDAW and SATA are encouraged.
Elements of the group are covered by a collective bargaining arrangement with USDAW.
The group supports the principle of equal opportunities in employment and is opposed to all forms of discrimination, including those on the grounds of colour, race, nationality, ethnic or national origin, religion, gender, age, sexual orientation, marital status or disability.
Our selection processes for recruitment, promotion, training and development are non-discriminatory.
We believe it is in the best interests of employees and the group to provide these opportunities to the most suitable candidates.
Applications for employment by disabled persons are always fully considered, bearing in mind the aptitudes of the applicant concerned.
In the event of any employee becoming disabled, every effort is made to ensure that their employment with the group continues and that appropriate training is arranged.
It is the policy of the group that the training, career development and promotion of disabled persons should, as far as possible, be identical to that of other employees.
The groups policy is to adhere to all relevant legislation to ensure, as far as is reasonably practicable, the health, safety and welfare at work of all employees and of other people working on our premises but not employed by the group.
We endeavour to ensure that products and services used in the workplace or sold by us are designed so that they are safe and without risk when properly used.
NBrown AR04 B-END 1 AW 7 6 04 10:32 am Page 20 N Brown Group plc 20 Report and Accounts 2004 Directors report Customers One of the key factors of the groups success is the quality of its relationship with its customers.
Regular customer satisfaction surveys are conducted, both directly and through third parties, to ensure that the group closely monitors the opinions and requirements of its customers.
In addition, telephone enquiry and complaint calls received from customers are analysed and appropriate action taken to improve the levels of service offered to them.
Suppliers The group sources products and services from across the world.
A significant proportion of this expenditure is with suppliers with whom the group has a long-term relationship, which helps to provide a continually improving quality of product and service to customers, whilst reducing costs.
It is the groups policy to comply with the terms of payment agreed with its suppliers.
Trade creditors of the group at 28 February 2004 represented 26 days 2003, 27 days of purchases.
The group is aware of the potential social impact of its business dealings, particularly in developing countries.
Our standard terms and conditions for the purchase of all goods for resale require that, in relation to the manufacture of merchandise, the supplier warrants that all labour, safety and other relevant laws in the country of manufacture will be strictly observed with respect to all workers at all stages of production.
Community The group believes that it has a responsibility to invest in the communities in which it operates.
The family, health and wellbeing programme launched last year providing additional benefits for all our employees is actively supported and continues.
Charitable and political donations During the year, the group made charitable donations of 35,426 2003, 39,145.
No political donations have been made.
Pension fund The group continues to ensure that the N Brown Group Pension Fund is managed in accordance with best practice and current legislation, including the Pensions Act 1995.
The funds assets are administered by a trustee company which is controlled by a board of directors, all of whom have a vested interest in the performance of the fund, representing the interests of pension fund members, pensioners and the group.
The funds investments are managed by Deutsche Asset Management Limited and the actuarial and administration services are provided by William M Mercer Limited.
The last actuarial valuation of the fund was completed in 2000 and its results are disclosed in note 33 on page 53.
The next actuarial valuation as at 30 June 2003 is in the process of being completed.
The N Brown Group Pension Fund is now closed to new entrants.
New employees are entitled to join a stakeholder pension scheme providing a defined contribution pension arrangement, administered by Prudential Stakeholder Pensions.
Tax status The company is not a close company within the meaning of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988.
Auditors On 1 August 2003 Deloitte & Touche transferred their business to Deloitte & Touche LLP, a limited liability partnership incorporated under the Limited Liability Parnerships Act 2000.
The companys consent has been given to treat the appointment of Deloitte & Touche as extending to Deloitte & Touche LLP with effect from 1 August 2003 under the provisions of Section 26 5 of the Companies Act 1989.
A resolution to reappoint Deloitte & Touche LLP as auditors to the company and to authorise the directors to fix their remuneration will be proposed at the annual general meeting on 7 July 2004.
By order of the board Philip F Harland LL.
