WE PROVIDE THE UKS ONLY NATIONAL SCHEDULED COACH NETWORK.
Coaches New dynamic state-of-the-ar 12 OUR 1 FUNFARES HAVE AIR CONDITIONING AND NEARLY 20% OF SALES DRIVEN AN INCREASE IN ON-BOARD ARE THROUGH THE PASSENGER NUMBERS ENTERTAINMENT ARE INTERNET MAKING IT CHANGING THE FACE OF EASIER FOR OUR EXPRESS COACH CUSTOMERS TO BUY SERVICES TICKETS fares across the network and t coaches continue to drive growth.
13 SAFETY AND PUNCTUALITY ARE THE CORNERSTONES OF SUCCESS IN THIS MARKET.
North America 14 ATC PROVIDES OUR YELLOW SCHOOL NORTH AMERICAN INTEGRATED BUS BUSES ARE A VITAL PART ACCIDENT FREQUENCY SERVICES IN MAJOR OF THE LOCAL LEVELS HAVE FALLEN CITIES SUCH AS COMMUNITY AND THE THIS YEAR LAS VEGAS AND SEATTLE NORTH AMERICAN CULTURE This year we experienced our best bidding season.
15 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT David Ross Chairman NORMALISED GROUP OPERATING PROFIT INCREASED BY 17.9% TO 152.0 MILLION 2003: 128.9 MILLION RESTATED ON TURNOVER OF 2.6 BILLION 2003: 2.6 BILLION RESTATED In my first year as Chairman, I am delighted Given the Boards confidence in the Groups to report that 2004 has been an excellent future prospects, as well as its financial year for the National Express Group.
strength, we are recommending a final We have achieved substantial growth in our dividend of 20.65p per ordinary share earnings, good cash generation and a 2003: 17.5p an increase of 18%, to be paid significant reduction in our debt.
We have on 6 May 2005 to shareholders on the seen a strong performance across all our register at 8 April 2005.
Including the interim divisions in both the UK and North America.
dividend, the proposed total dividend for the We have also exited a number of businesses year is 30.0p 2003: 26.0p.
which were non core to the Groups long term strategy.
In view of the quality of these TRAINS DIVISION results and the strengthening of our balance The year was outstanding for our trains sheet, the Board is recommending an 18% division.
In February, we won the new increase in our final dividend and we will Greater Anglia franchise which we rebranded seek to return value to shareholders through one.
This is the first time that a single a share buyback programme of up to 100 operator has been given sole use of a major million over the next twelve months, subject London rail terminal.
The integration of three to market conditions.
major railways was completed on time, our franchise commitments over the first nine RESULTS AND DIVIDEND months were delivered and we improved Normalised profit before tax was 130.5 overall operational performance.
I am also million 2003: 99.8 million restated, after pleased to report that further stability was interest and the Groups share of losses from brought to our trains division through the associated undertakings.
Normalised diluted two-year extensions awarded for the Great earnings per share were 71.8p 2003: 53.0p Northern, Wessex Trains and Silverlink restated.
franchises, following the Central Trains extension during 2003.
The Group experienced a strong operating cash flow of 187.5 million 2003: 139.7 We have been playing a leading role in the million.
We are particularly pleased with the working groups set up by the Department reduction in our effective net debt position for Transport DfT to develop its plans for to 136.6 million at the year end as defined the railways following the publication of the on page 26.
White Paper, The Future of Rail.
16 who have provided valuable information to BUS DIVISION CURRENT TRADING AND OUTLOOK help us develop our businesses.
This During the year the focus within the bus These results are ahead of market research will enable us to measure division was to stimulate growth and expectations following a very strong financial customer satisfaction on a regular basis.
We and operational performance in 2004.
Our commitment to improve service continue to press for greater bus priority quality for our customers has again been schemes and to encourage local councils to I am pleased to report our business has reflected in the opening of our second work with us on transport plans which started the year well and is on target to Customer Service Academy in Birmingham.
meet the needs of the local communities achieve further growth in 2005.
We are planning to open a third training we serve.
In February 2004, we entered the facility in Stratford, East London in 2005.
London bus market through the acquisition We remain committed to enhancing of Connexs bus operations in the capital shareholder value.
This will be achieved SAFETY The safety and security of our and this business is trading in line with our through using our strong balance sheet to customers and employees is of paramount expectations.
fund both organic and acquisitive growth, importance to us.
At National Express our progressive dividend policy and a share Group, we place great importance on our COACH DIVISION buyback programme.
safety culture and we strive continuously to National Express Coaches goes from ensure that our systems and processes strength to strength.
Both revenue and The Board looks forward with confidence meet the highest standards.
profit growth have continued reflecting the to the year ahead.
high quality, value for money offering which EMPLOYEES I would like to take this we provide to our customers.
Following on opportunity to thank all our employees for from last years rebranding, the business their efforts during the year, including those continued to modernise its image, ScotRail and Australian bus employees who increasing its appeal to a broader market.
We wish them well for the future.
I would also like to welcome all NORTH AMERICAN DIVISION those people who joined us this year, in In North America, we saw further particular our new teams at Travel London, expansion of our school bus operations one and our new employees in Canada.
through the award of new contracts and the implementation of new routes.
The initiatives THE BOARD Following the retirement of undertaken to improve the performance of Michael Davies, I was delighted to be our public transit business have resulted in a appointed Chairman of the Group in significant increase in profits.
The Board has since appointed two reported results have been impacted by the new non-executives.
Sir Andrew Foster joined the Board on In October, we sold three Australian bus 1 August.
Sir Andrew has had an extensive businesses for 26.4 million and in January career in the public sector serving as Chief 2005 our involvement in Australian public Executive of the Audit Commission for transport came to an end.
England and Wales between 1992 and 2003 and prior to that Deputy Chief At Eurostar, settlement was reached with Executive of the NHS.
Tim Score, Chief Network Rail over the historic application Financial Officer of ARM Holdings PLC, of performance regimes over the period joined the Board on 21 February 2005.
This resulted in a one-off Tim is a chartered accountant and has credit of 5 million reducing our associate previously held senior financial roles at BTR losses this year.
plc, LucasVarity plc, William Baird plc and Rebus Group Limited.
We know there is a strong correlation between the morale of our employees and I believe the professionalism and the quality of customer service.
We experience of Sir Andrew and Tim will regularly seek the views of our employees further strengthen the Board and I and develop action plans based on their welcome them to the Group.
We have undertaken extensive research amongst 10,000 UK customers We remain committed to enhancing shareholder value.
The Board looks forward with confidence to the year ahead.
17 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REPORT Phil White Chief Executive WE BELIEVE THAT THROUGH EFFECTIVE PARTNERSHIPS BETWEEN THE PUBLIC AND PRIVATE SECTOR, WE CAN ACHIEVE SIGNIFICANT IMPROVEMENTS IN THE QUALITY OF SERVICE TO OUR CUSTOMERS.
2004 was a year of real progress for the FOCUSING ON OUR EMPLOYEES WE WERE Group.
I am pleased that on the back of Through our customer and employee AWARDED ONE, excellent operational performance within research we know that there is a direct A NEW RAIL FRANCHISE each of our divisions we delivered strong correlation between the morale of our financial results.
employees and the quality of service we WE ENTERED provide.
Therefore, key customer service and THE LONDON People commute, shop and go to school with employee morale performance indicators BUS MARKET us, travelling both long and short distances.
We have been built into our operational targets.
WE REPOSITIONED join up people and places, making journeys OUR COACH easy and enjoyable by taking the stress out of In Autumn 2003, we undertook an employee BUSINESS travelling.
We aim to do this by making travel survey across our UK businesses.
This WE EXPERIENCED easy and simple for them, being open and highlighted that areas for improvement OUR BEST BID honest about our performance, working related to communication, safety and security SEASON EVER IN together with our various stakeholders and and training and development.
On the back NORTH AMERICA taking the lead in bringing new ideas and of this, a range of initiatives was introduced technology to both our business and the such as improved two-way communication industry for the benefit of our customers.
channels, greater access to senior management, suggestion forums and 2004 saw a number of important improved training and development for developments in our business.
We have introduced a new awarded one, a new rail franchise which is induction process focusing on the vision and one of the largest rail businesses in the values to be applied across all of our country.
We also successfully entered the businesses and a reward and recognition London bus market.
Our coach business scheme which recognises outstanding continued to develop its product offering.
A further In North America, we increased our market employee survey will take place in March share, experienced our best bid season ever 2005 amongst all our employees worldwide.
and improved the profitability of our public transit business.
We invest in our people to help them gain a clear understanding of our business objectives Change is an ever constant feature of the whilst also giving them an opportunity to public transport world, whether it be develop their careers.
All our UK businesses technology, economic, social, regulatory, political are focused on gaining the Investors in People or company driven.
We continue to adapt our accreditation.
We continue to focus on business to reflect these developments with providing skills training to our frontline the support of our people.
employees through our Customer Service 18 Academies.
During the year we opened a quantitative, qualitative and mystery underway to tackle crime.
We have seen a new facility in Birmingham for Central Trains shopping research.
From this we will be significant reduction in crime on our buses employees, delivering operational, vocational, able to develop our business to reflect the during 2004.
In addition this year a similar developmental and key skills training.
We will needs of our customers.
partnership was developed between Travel be opening a further facility in London for Dundee and Tayside Police.
Within our bus FOCUSING ON STAKEHOLDERS division over 57% of drivers now have All of our businesses work closely with our Over the past two years we have worked achieved NVQ II accreditation with 75% of stakeholders including central Government, closely with Transport for London on the engineering employees also holding NVQs passenger transport authorities and city redevelopment of the Walworth bus depot or an equivalent qualification.
In our coach councils to provide quality services to the which was opened in February 2005 by division our DASHboard initiative, launched communities we serve.
Ken Livingstone, Mayor of London.
during the year, is helping drivers to develop their skills.
In North America the Durham During this year we were pleased to sign a In rail we are working closely with both and ATC Universities continue to provide a Concordat with Dundee City Council.
This national, regional and local stakeholders, formalised programme of training for Concordat followed on the back of the including the rail passenger councils and employees.
signing in December 2003 of the Coventry user groups.
We are active participants in Concordat with Coventry City Council.
the Community Railways initiative to We are pleased with the quality of These agreements ensure that all parties create local rail services which reflect candidates that have joined the Groups are committed to working together to regional characteristics.
graduate training scheme, now in its fourth deliver better services.
Furthermore through our leadership In North America our key stakeholders are development programme we have At Travel West Midlands, we work closely school boards as well as national, federal and identified over 100 managers from across with Centro, the West Midlands passenger state bodies.
Programmes to ensure contact our businesses who we are looking to transport executive, and the seven local with these key parties are undertaken develop for the future.
Through our West Midlands authorities.
We continue to regularly across both our student transport succession planning forum we are able to introduce new low-floor easy-access buses and public transit divisions.
ensure that we develop our managers for and improved customer information.
continue to lobby for further buses priority We believe that our commitment to all measures.
these areas is key if our business is to We believe our investment in our people develop for the future.
We will continue to today will help secure the Groups long Although there is much that bus operators invest in all aspects of the business ensuring term success.
can deliver on their own, ultimate success that public transport can become the depends on good working relationships preferred mode of transport for the FOCUSING ON OUR CUSTOMERS between the private sector and its customer.
We constantly seek to improve the quality stakeholders in our case both central of our services.
In the first half of 2004, we government and local authorities.
Our I would like to take this opportunity to undertook customer feedback relating to passengers are constantly seeking improved thank all our people for contributing to a our UK bus and train operations.
This service reliability which in some cases we successful 2004. independent quantitative and qualitative have already achieved through Quality research was undertaken amongst 10,000 Partnerships.
It is important that these early bus and rail customers over a period of successes are developed further and that three months.
The results of this research local authorities have the courage and confirmed that punctuality, reliability and commitment to deliver more car restraint frequency of services is key.
Moving forward and more road space for public transport, as we have a solid foundation to develop a has been the case in London.
customer service model for our businesses, providing a consistent standard to which we Our award winning partnership between should perform.
We believe customer Travel West Midlands and the West satisfaction will be a major contributor to Midlands Police has continued to move the success of our business.
This will involve forward with a greater number of initiatives We believe our investment in our people and our services will secure the Groups long term success.
19 OPERATING REVIEW David Franks Chief Executive, NX Trains Division Trains WE OPERATE C2C, CENTRAL TRAINS, GATWICK EXPRESS, MIDLAND MAINLINE, ONE INCLUDING THE STANSTED EXPRESS, SILVERLINK, GREAT NORTHERN AND WESSEX TRAINS FRANCHISES.
THE DIVISION CURRENTLY EMPLOYS 11,500 PEOPLE.
Turnover for the period was 1,705.2 Following the launch of the new Greater STRONG million 2003: 1,702.2 million restated Anglia franchise, one, our immediate PASSENGER GROWTH OF 5% with normalised operating profit of 58.5 priority was to achieve a seamless million 2003: 33.2 million restated.
These transition for our customers and to results were achieved through improved restructure the operation into one STRONG trading across the trains division, the business.
This franchise is one of the largest IMPROVEMENT commencement of the new one franchise and most complex in the country and IN OPERATIONAL and two-year extensions granted on four therefore we were particularly pleased that PERFORMANCE of our franchises.
this reorganisation was achieved on time, alongside improved operational 10% YEAR-ON-YEAR We achieved passenger growth of 5% on a performance.
In December, we introduced IMPROVEMENT IN like-for-like basis on the back of strong our revised Anglia Railway and Greater SPAD RECORD operational performance.
We are pleased Eastern timetables which provide a greater that in the Strategic Rail Authoritys number of direct connections to London SRA last National Rail Trends survey, from the Greater Anglia region.
We have which covered the period from July upgraded the fleet on the Norwich to September 2004, one and Midland London route and we have introduced a Mainline MML were the top long new Passengers Charter offering a simpler distance operators and c2c, Wagn and compensation regime.
one came in the top four London and South East train operating companies.
MML performance was good despite the Currently the majority of our trains Channel Tunnel Rail Link blockade which portfolio is performing above pre-Hatfield took effect in September.
On the back of levels with c2c and MML operating at their the Route Utilisation Strategy RUS We have focused on best levels ever.
issued in March 2004, the SRA has concluded that the proposed London to improving performance On the back of our improvement in Leeds services will not be required over which has resulted in performance, in the summer we launched the long term.
We are in discussion with significant improvements, a free rail ticket promotion, the Getaway the SRA concerning the impact of this on Giveaway, to encourage more people to the franchise.
In December, the Secretary of particularly at Midland travel on rail.
We gave away seven million State for Transport gave his approval for Mainline.
free tickets, delivering both increased the new East Midlands Parkway station, awareness of the benefits of rail travel and located between Derby and Loughborough.
generating additional demand on the network during the off peak.
20 In February, we signed a two-year extension We signed a two-year franchise extension We regularly review the incidence and for the Great Northern franchise.
This for Wessex Trains in February 2004. severity of SPADs signals passed at franchise achieved third place in the latest Wessex experienced encouraging revenue danger, a key performance indicator within SRA London and South East performance growth, partly attributable to an increase in our train operations.
We were pleased to complete revenue protection and the introduction of year-on-year improvement in our SPAD negotiations for a two-year extension to our ticket vending machines around key record over the period.
Silverlink franchise in September and we commuter routes.
continue to work closely with Transport for We are working with the SRA and DfT on London TfL on the future of Silverlink Central Trains has improved its performance the rail remapping process following the Metro.
During the year c2c achieved in terms of both employee and fleet Government Rail Review and believe that excellent operational performance, moving availability but we continue to work with rail refranchising provides further to the top of the London and south east Network Rail to increase the overall quality opportunities for growth.
We have recently performance league table.
In July, a new 1 million submitted to the SRA our Accreditation Customer Service Academy was opened in Questionnaires for both the Greater The performance of Gatwick Express the West Midlands.
As part of the Rail Western and Thameslink GN franchises.
improved on the back of increased growth Review, the SRA plans to disaggregate the at the airport and new ticket arrangements Central Trains franchise and consolidate its with low cost airlines.
Gatwick Express services into other franchises.
We have continues to be a loss making franchise.
In submitted proposals to the Department for September 2004, the SRA published its Transport and the SRA setting out how we RUS for the Brighton Main Line and we are could assist in this exercise.
currently in discussions with them over the future of this franchise.
Our trains business is well placed to benefit from the remapping and refranchising process.
21 OPERATING REVIEW Brian Jackson Chief Executive, NX Bus Division Buses THE BUS DIVISION OPERATES OVER 2,100 BUSES AND EMPLOYS 6,300 PEOPLE IN THE WEST MIDLANDS, DUNDEE AND LONDON.
WE ALSO OPERATE THE MIDLAND METRO, THE LIGHT RAIL SERVICE IN THE WEST MIDLANDS.
Turnover for the period was 239.0 million We introduced 170 new low-floor easyWe have also invested further in the safety 2003: 211.9 million and normalised access buses into the Travel West Midlands of our employees and passengers through operating profit was 44.2 million 2003: TWM fleet.
TWM now has the largest the roll-out of CCTV and expansion of the 47.5 million restated.
These results are in low-floor fleet outside London with over Operation Safer Travel initiative.
line with expectations following the 70% of the fleet offering easy-access.
revisions to the passenger transport During the coming year we will stimulate authoritys concessionary fare scheme in We have improved the selection and growth in the market whilst developing West Midlands which changed the recruitment of staff, tapping into new closer working relationships with local provisions for new entrants to the scheme.
opportunities arising from the opening up of authorities to improve the quality of our the European Union.
This has resulted in bus services through the roll-out of bus In the West Midlands, we continue to seek over 100 new drivers being recruited from priority schemes.
ways to stimulate the market.
57% of our TWM drivers are now initiative, which offers competitive one-price accredited with a NVQ level II and a further fares on one of Birminghams key inner city 17% are working towards the qualification.
routes, has proved very popular, and latest trends show double digit growth in passenger We were pleased to sign a Concordat with OUR SAVER BUS numbers.
This service aims to promote Dundee City Council for the continued ACHIEVED greater social inclusion through increased investment in bus services.
By November, the DOUBLE DIGIT travel opportunities in one of Birminghams whole of the Travel Dundee fleet was lowGROWTH most deprived areas.
At the beginning of this floor easy-access buses with 100% CCTV.
year we launched the Premier 997 service 100% OF THE between Walsall and Birmingham which In February, we entered the London bus TRAVEL DUNDEE provides a limited stop service targeted at market.
Since then we have renewed existing FLEET IS LOW-FLOOR EASY-ACCESS attracting commuters.
This new service contracts on improved terms and won includes features such as multi-media CCTV additional new contracts.
It has been well received.
from three bus depots, including Walworth 57% OF OUR TWM which was developed during 2003 4 in DRIVERS ARE NOW We have also simplified our fares structure, partnership with TfL.
This depot still has NVQ LEVEL II ACCREDITED making it easier for our customers to use capacity for an extra 60 buses, allowing us to our services.
bid for further contracts in the coming year.
We continue to stimulate growth in the market whilst developing closer working relationships with local authorities.
22 Denis Wormwell Chief Executive, NX Coach Division Coaches THE COACH DIVISION PROVIDES BRITAINS ONLY SCHEDULED NATIONAL COACH NETWORK AND SERVES MORE THAN 1,000 DESTINATIONS.
THE DIVISION EMPLOYS 1,900 PEOPLE Turnover for the year was 192.4 million Birmingham service.
This showcase route has We continue to work with the DfT and 2003: 186.4 million restated with a seen the introduction of a number of coach manufacturers on vehicles which are normalised operating profit of 18.8 million additional features including state-of-the-art more accessible for the less able, in 2003: 15.9 million restated.
Coach coaches, incorporating leather seating, extra accordance with European DDA legislation.
passenger numbers during the year was up leg room, air conditioning and on-board We will be introducing a wheelchair 6% through the continued use of yield entertainment.
A revised 24 hr timetable for accessible vehicle into the network in 2005. management pricing, fare innovations and the service has been introduced, offering a changes in our service offering.
half hourly operation throughout the day To support our airport services we are and hourly during the night.
Coach passenger working closely with BAA on the We are rolling-out dynamic pricing across numbers on this route have grown by over redevelopment of our Heathrow airport the network.
Funfares have now been 15% following the relaunch.
We have now coach facility.
extended to 28 towns and cities, enabling extended this concept onto routes customers to travel for as little as 1 each connecting London to the South West.
On 22 February 2005 we sold our airports way.
Our Go anywhere fares allow long contract business at Heathrow.
distance travel anywhere in the UK for a flat We have recently launched our own on- 9 fare.
In our first full year of offering board TV coach entertainment channel, PASSENGER routesixty concessionary fares to the over called nxtv, which is to be further rolled out NUMBERS 60s, we have carried over 3 million on 100 vehicles.
It provides news, sports and UP 6% customers.
In addition, a new youth entertainment, all of which are regularly coachcard, the NX2 card, was launched, updated via wireless communication FUNFARES giving all customers aged 16 26 the technology throughout the day.
EXTENDED TO 28 TOWNS AND opportunity to obtain up to a 30% discount CITIES on coach travel.
We continue to improve the efficiency of the operation through investing in better Our focus on moving towards more direct management systems.
In the next six COACH PASSENGER NUMBERS HAVE sales continues.
Nearly 20% of all sales are months we will launch Coachcom, a GROWN BY 15% ON now on-line.
Early in November we portable data terminal, which provides OUR NEW LONDON launched a new improved website which is better management information as well as TO BIRMINGHAM SERVICE easier and faster to access and also enabling the driver to receive valuable provides better travel information including traffic updates and customer information maps, tourist guides and weather reports.
New m-tickets have also been introduced enabling the texting of During the year we carried out a detailed confirmed coach bookings to customer route analysis to develop further the key mobile phones.
In September we launched a new half hourly London to 23
