Directors and Officers CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS David Jones CBE Alistair Mitchell-Innes, Deputy Chairman and Aged 61 Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Joined the Group and was appointed to the Board in 1986.
Aged 70 Appointed Chief Executive in 1988 and became Deputy Chairman Became a member of the Board in 1989.
He is also Chairman of in 2001 and Chairman in 2002.
Previous experience includes NEXT Pension Trustees Limited and Anglo & Overseas Trust plc.
twenty years in a large home shopping and consumer services Formerly Chief Executive of Nabisco UK, he has held senior nongroup and five years as Chief Executive of a UK listed home executive appointments in other UK plc's and is also a Trustee of shopping plc.
He is also a non-executive director of Aggregate the British Heart Foundation.
Industries plc and Leicester Football Club plc.
John Barton EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Aged 59 Became a member of the Board in 2002.
He is also Chairman of Simon Wolfson, Chief Executive Wellington Underwriting Plc and a non-executive director of Aged 36 Hammerson Plc, General Insurance Standards Council Ltd and Joined the Group in 1991.
Appointed Retail Sales Director in WH Smith PLC.
Formerly Chief Executive of JIB Group plc for 1993, became responsible for NEXT Directory in 1995 and was thirteen years and Chairman of Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc appointed to the Board in 1997 with additional responsibilities for for five years.
Appointed Managing Director of the NEXT Brand in 1999 and Chief Executive in 2001.
Nick Brookes Aged 53 Christos Angelides, Group Product Director Became a member of the Board in June 2003.
He has held a Aged 40 number of directorships within the British American Tobacco plc Joined the Group in 1986 and was appointed General Manager of group, was Company Secretary and most recently Regional the Companys sourcing office in Hong Kong in 1989, Menswear Director, America Pacific.
Previous experience includes a career in Product Director in 1994 and Womenswear Product Director in the legal profession and operational roles in Africa and the USA.
Appointed to the Board in 2000.
Ann Burdus CBE David Keens, Group Finance Director Aged 70 Aged 50 Became a member of the Board in 1993.
She was a non-executive Joined the Group in 1986 and was appointed to the Board in director of Prudential Corporation PLC until December 2003 and 1991.
Previous experience includes seven years in the accountancy is a special trustee of the St. Bartholomew's and The Royal London profession and nine years in the UK and overseas operations of Charitable Foundation.
Previous experience includes a career in multi-national manufacturers of consumer goods.
advertising, marketing and market research.
Andrew Varley, Group Property Director Derek Netherton Aged 53 Aged 59 Joined the Group in 1985 and was appointed to the Board in Became a member of the Board in 1996.
Previous experience includes twelve years in retail and Greggs plc and a non-executive director of Hiscox plc, St. James's commercial property.
Place Capital plc and Plantation & General Investments plc.
Formerly a director of J. Henry Schroder Co. Limited.
BOARD COMMITTEES Company Secretary Audit Committee A J R McKinlay D N D Netherton Committee Chairman R J O Barton N G Brookes Registered Office J A Burdus Desford Road, Enderby, A C Mitchell-Innes Leicester, LE19 4AT This committee reviews the Group's internal control, accounting policies and financial reporting.
4412362 Remuneration Committee Registrars R J O Barton Committee Chairman Lloyds TSB Registrars, N G Brookes J A Burdus The Causeway, A C Mitchell-Innes Worthing, West Sussex, BN99 6DA D N D Netherton This committee sets the remuneration of the Group's executive Auditors directors.
Ernst & Young LLP Nomination Committee A C Mitchell-Innes Committee Chairman Merchant Bankers R J O Barton Lazard & Co. Limited N G Brookes J A Burdus D N D Netherton Stockbrokers This committee considers the appointment of the Group's UBS Limited directors.
