Directors Report The directors have pleasure in presenting their annual report and audited accounts for the period ended 31 January 2004.
Principal activities The principal activities of the Group are retailing, home shopping and customer services management.
Review of operations Group results are summarised in the consolidated profit and loss account on page 24.
The amount of profit transferred to reserves for the year was 155.9m.
Turnover and operating profit of the Group are shown in greater detail in the analysis on page 30.
The Chief Executives Review on pages 3 to 8 gives details of the Groups operations.
Dividends The directors recommend that a final dividend of 24p per share be paid on 1 July 2004 to shareholders on the register of members on 28 May 2004.
The Trustee of the NEXT Employee Share Ownership Plan Trust ESOP has waived dividends paid in the year on shares held by the ESOP, see Note 12 to the accounts.
Share Capital The Company was authorised by its shareholders to purchase the Companys own shares for cancellation.
During the year the Company purchased a total of 21,740,939 ordinary shares of 10p each for cancellation at a cost of 209.0m, representing 7.6% of its issued share capital.
The authority to purchase shares is renewable annually and approval will be sought from shareholders at the Annual General Meeting in 2004 to renew the authority.
On 31 January 2004 the Company had 265,070,503 shares in issue.
As at 22 March 2004 there had been no subsequent changes to the Companys issued share capital.
Supplier payment policy The Groups policy for the payment of suppliers is either to agree terms of payment at the start of business or to ensure that the supplier is aware of the Groups payment terms.
Payment is made in accordance with contractual and other legal obligations.
Trade creditor days of the Group at 31 January 2004 were 26 days 2003: 27 days based on the ratio of trade creditors at the end of the year to the amounts paid during the year to trade creditors.
The Company had no trade creditors at 31 January 2004 or 1 February 2003.
Treasury operations and financial instruments NEXT operates a centralised treasury function, which is responsible for managing the liquidity, interest rate and foreign currency requirements of the Group.
Its activities are governed by policies approved by the Board.
Liquidity management The Group manages its cash and borrowing requirements centrally to maximise interest income and minimise interest expense, whilst ensuring that the Group has sufficient liquid resources to meet the operating needs of its businesses.
Investments of cash surpluses are made through banks and companies which must fulfil credit rating and investment criteria approved by the Board.
Borrowing requirements are supported by committed bank facilities of 350m as at 31 January 2004 2003: 250m.
At the year end, the Group had net borrowings of 306.9m 2003: 188.8m.
On 6 June 2003, the group issued a 300m 5.25% bond repayable in 2013, see Note 17.
Interest rate management The Board has approved the use of interest rate swaps, options, forward rate agreements and other similar instruments to manage interest rate exposures on its cash and borrowing position.
The Group increased its borrowings during the year and entered into transactions to fix interest rates on 250m.
Foreign currency management The Groups principal foreign currency exposures arise from the purchase of overseas sourced products.
Group policy allows for but does not demand that these exposures may be hedged for up to 24 months ahead in order to fix the cost in sterling.
This hedging activity involves the use of spot, forward and option contracts.
No recognition is made of accrued but unrealised gains or losses on currency instruments until the relevant contract is concluded.
All premiums or costs paid in respect of currency instruments are charged to the profit and loss account when incurred and receipts are not recognised until maturity and settlement has occurred.
10 Directors Report The Group does not have a material exposure to currency movements in relation to translation of overseas assets or liabilities and, consequently, does not hedge any such exposure.
Employees The Group has continued its policy of providing employees with information about the Group and ensures that the suggestions and views of employees are taken into account.
A Sharesave share option scheme is available to all United Kingdom and Eire employees.
Every possible consideration is given to applications for employment from disabled persons, having regard to their particular aptitudes and abilities.
The Group continues the employment wherever possible of any person who becomes disabled during their employment.
Opportunities for training, career development and promotion do not operate to the detriment of disabled employees.
Donations During the year the Group made charitable donations of 393,000 2003: 403,000.
No donations were made for political purposes.
International Financial Reporting Standards The Group will be required to prepare its financial statements in line with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS for accounting periods commencing after 1 January 2005.
This will require an opening balance sheet to be prepared under IFRS as at 1 February 2004 together with a full profit and loss account, balance sheet and cash flow statement for the year ended January 2005 for comparative purposes.
A review of the impact of the change to IFRS is underway within the Group.
Substantial shareholders As at 22 March 2004 the following notifications had been received from holders of material interests in 3% or more of the Companys issued share capital as shown: No.
of 10p ordinary shares % Fidelity Investments 17,049,770 6.43 Legal & General 11,287,071 4.26 Credit Suisse First Boston 11,211,355 4.23 Scottish Widows Investment Partnership Ltd 10,917,594 4.12 Barclays plc 10,617,174 4.01 Directors The current Board is shown on page 9 of this Report.
Nick Brookes was appointed to the Board on 25 June 2003 and retires in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association.
David Keens will retire by rotation.
Both are eligible and willing to be reappointed.
Alistair Mitchell-Innes and Ann Burdus will retire from the Board at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting on 13 May 2004.
The interests of the directors who held office at 31 January 2004 and their families are shown in the Remuneration Report on pages 22 and 23.
Auditors Ernst &Young LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in office as auditors of the Group and their reappointment will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Annual General Meeting The following resolutions will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting, notice of which is on pages 51 and 52.
Share Option Schemes Ordinary resolution 7 will give the directors authority to amend the rules of the Companys management share option and sharesave option schemes to permit options to be satisfied by the allocation of treasury shares.
At present, the rules of the Companys schemes only allow option exercises to be satisfied by the issue of new shares or the transfer of existing shares.
To date, the vast majority of option exercises have been satisfied by the transfer of existing shares held in NEXTs Employee Share Ownership Plans.
The directors wish to extend the Companys flexibility by allowing the use of treasury shares to satisfy employee share options.
Any such use of treasury shares will still count towards the limits on new share issues set out in the rules of the Companys share option schemes.
11 Directors Report Renewal of authority to allot shares Special resolution 8 will renew the directors authority pursuant to Section 95 of the Companies Act 1985 to issue ordinary shares wholly for cash without first offering them to existing shareholders in proportion to their holdings.
This resolution limits the nominal value of ordinary shares which may be issued by the directors to 5% of the issued ordinary share capital in conformity with the guidelines of the Association of British Insurers.
This authority also allows the directors, within the same aggregate limit, to sell for cash shares that may be held by the Company in treasury.
The directors have no present intention of exercising this authority.
This authority will expire on 13 May 2008.
Purchase of own shares Special resolution 9 will renew the authority for the Company to make market purchases as defined in Section 163 of the Companies Act 1985 of the Companys ordinary shares of 10p each provided that: a the aggregate number of ordinary shares authorised to be purchased shall be the lesser of 39,000,000 ordinary shares of 10p each or 15% of the issued ordinary share capital outstanding at the date of the Annual General Meeting, b the payment per ordinary share is not less than 10p and not more than 5% over the average of the middle market price of the ordinary shares according to the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange for the five business days immediately preceding the date of purchase, and c the renewed authority expires on whichever is the earlier of 18 months after the date on which the resolution is passed or at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2005.
The repurchase of ordinary shares would give rise to a stamp duty liability at the rate of 50 pence per 100 or part thereof of the consideration paid by the Company.
The liability will be a liability of the Company.
Your directors intend that the authority to purchase the Companys shares will only be exercised if doing so will result in an increase in earnings per share and it is considered to be in the interest of shareholders generally.
Shares purchased under this authority will be cancelled or, if the directors consider appropriate, held in treasury.
By order of the Board A J R McKinlay Secretary 25 March 2004 12
