Report of the directors The directors of Northern Foods plc present their report and the Options have been exercised under the companys executive and accounts of the company for the year.
Savings-related share option schemes during the year.
As a result, participants in these schemes were allotted 3,400,096 new ordinary Principal activities and business review shares in that period.
This report should be read in conjunction with the Chairmans statement and the Financial review, which together include information Options outstanding under the above schemes at the year end about group activities, the financial performance during the year and were 15,442,449.
From 4 April 2004 to 2 June 2004, 9,051 new likely developments.
ordinary shares have been allotted on the exercise of options.
Acquisitions and disposals Substantial holders of stock The following acquisitions and disposals took place in the year and The directors have received notification of an interest of 3 per cent are referred to in the Chairmans statement and the Financial review: or more in the issued share capital of the company from the following: On 22 May 2003 Green Isle Foods Limited acquired San Marco from Legal & General Investment Management 3.05 per cent H J Heinz Company Ireland Limited for 0.9 million in cash.
Sprucegrove Investment Management Ltd 7.10 per cent On 30 June 2003 Northern Foods plc acquired 100 per cent control Directors of its associate company, Solway Foods Holdings Limited, through The following were directors of the company during the year: the purchase, principally from a family trust, of the 60 per cent of the share capital it did not already own for 26.7 million, comprising Peter Blackburn 24.7 million in cash and 2.0 million in loan notes.
Sean Christie Colin Dyer On 5 September 2003 Northern Foods Grocery Group Limited sold Matthew Gribbin Foxs Confectionery to Big Bear Limited for 9.4 million in cash.
Anthony Hobson Orna Ni-Chionna On 30 January 2004 Northern Foods plc sold the share capital of Pat ODriscoll appointed 29 March 2004 Northern Foods Ireland Limited to Maiden Acquisition Company Howard Sims Limited for 95.5 million including cash balances of 33.2 million.
Jo Stewart resigned 3 September 2003 The main subsidiaries of Northern Foods Ireland Limited were non-executive directors Batchelors Limited and Beck Smith Limited.
Directors biographical details are set out on page 27 of the Annual Since the year end, the following disposals have been announced: review.
H R Sims will retire as a director on 30 June 2004.
On 1 May 2004 Cavaghan & Gray Group Limited sold its Emile In accordance with the companys articles of association, P H Blackburn, Tissot business to Dawn Fresh Foods Limited for 3.5 million in cash.
M S Christie, C Dyer, A J Hobson and O G Ni-Chionna retire and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
The Chairman confirms On 22 May 2004 Convenience Foods Limited sold its chilled dairy that, following formal evaluation, the performance of all the retiring products business, Eden Vale, to Uniq Prepared Foods Limited for directors continues to be effective and that they continue to demonstrate 16.5 million in cash.
commitment to their roles on the board and the board committees.
C Dyer, who has been a non-executive director since 1997, has been Dividend the subject of a rigorous review and the other directors believe that his An interim dividend of 3.30 pence per share was paid on 26 March 2004 particular skills and experience continue to make a valuable contribution and the directors recommend a final dividend of 5.60 pence per share to the board.
The board considers that C Dyer remains an independent to be paid on 27 August 2004 to shareholders on the register on director.
P A ODriscoll, having been appointed a director since the 2003 30 July 2004.
Annual general meeting, offers herself for election.
Share capital The executive directors service contracts, including those of M S Christie, Pursuant to the authority granted by shareholders at the Annual general the retiring executive director, and P A ODriscoll, executive director meeting on 17 July 2003, Northern Foods has implemented a share who is standing for election, are referred to in the Directors remuneration buyback programme of up to 10 per cent of its equity.
All the executive directors service contracts are terminable by programme started in July 2003 and to date 21,160,000 ordinary shares the company giving one years notice, except that P A ODriscolls service have been bought back, of which 6,335,000 are being held in treasury.
contract provides for an initial notice period of 18 months from the date of the commencement of her employment on 29 March 2004, reducing On 19 December 2003, options over 3,375,195 ordinary shares were on a month by month basis to 12 months by 29 September 2004. granted under the companys executive share option scheme at a price of 137.0 pence.
The interests of the directors in the share capital of the company at the year end are shown in the Directors remuneration report.
On 29 March 2004 options over 442,950 ordinary shares were granted Other than service contracts, no director has a material beneficial under the companys executive share option scheme at a price of interest in any contract to which the company, or any of its subsidiaries, 159.16 pence to P A ODriscoll upon joining the board as Chief Executive.
was a party during the year.
08 Report of the directors Northern Foods plc Social responsibility Supplier payment policy The report entitled Recognising and fulfilling our corporate social It is the companys policy that payments to suppliers are made in responsibilities on pages 20 to 23 of the Annual review gives further accordance with the terms and conditions agreed between the company details of our commitments to our employees, training, local and its suppliers, provided that all trading terms and conditions have communities, consumers, the environment and ethical trading.
Suppliers are paid on average within 32 days 2003: 28 days of receipt of invoice.
Employees Northern Foods undertakes its responsibilities to its employees in a serious Annual general meeting and proactive way.
We are committed to equality of opportunity and The notice convening the companys Annual general meeting to be held aim to treat all our employees fairly in every aspect of employment.
at 12.30 pm on Thursday, 22 July 2004 is contained in the circular sent to shareholders with this report.
We believe that effective communication and consultation serve the interests of both the company and our employees.
Going concern After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that Employee share schemes the group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence The company operates savings-related and executive share option schemes, for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the reference to which is made under the section Share capital above.
going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
More than 10,000 current employees, pensioners and former employees Auditors have shares held on their behalf by the trustees of the companys On 1 August 2003 Deloitte & Touche transferred their business to previous Profit sharing scheme.
Deloitte & Touche LLP, a limited liability partnership incorporated under the Limited Liability Partnerships Act 2000.
The companys consent Health and safety has been given to treating the appointment of Deloitte & Touche as Northern Foods commitment to health and safety is set out in the extending to Deloitte & Touche LLP with effect from 1 August 2003 companys policy statement and summarised in the corporate social under the provisions of section 26 5 of the Companies Act 1989. responsibility report in the Annual review.
Annual objectives are set at A resolution proposing their re-appointment will be submitted to the beginning of the financial year and performance is monitored and the companys Annual general meeting.
reviewed by the operating board.
A separate report is prepared on health and safety performance and is available on request.
Corporate governance Charitable donations During the year the group donated 291,000 for charitable purposes.
Compliance The groups donations for the previous financial year totalled 266,000.
Throughout the year Northern Foods has complied fully with all the Details of other support for local communities are included in the provisions of Section 1 of the Combined Code.
The board has approved corporate social responsibility report in the Annual review.
There and implemented the additional actions required to secure compliance were no political contributions.
with the New Combined Code, as it has applied since 1 November 2003.
This section describes how the principles of good corporate governance Product development have been applied.
Lifestyle changes and consumers desire for greater convenience and choice require a continuous programme of investment in catalogue Directors responsibilities refreshment, new products and product innovation.
Northern Foods Company law requires the directors to prepare accounts for each specialist new product development teams work with major retail financial year, which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs customers to address these needs.
Each Northern Foods company of the company and the group, and of the profit or loss for that period.
has the facilities and resources to ensure that its products meet the highest standards of quality, safety and added value.
In preparing those accounts, the directors are required to: Food safety select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently Northern Foods, as one of the leading UK food producers, maintains make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent its absolute commitment to the safety of its products.
This requires the state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, highest operational standards in its facilities, careful design of processes subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in and products and approval of only those suppliers who can meet the the accounts.
companys standards for food safety and integrity throughout the supply chain from farmer to consumer.
Northern Foods also requires high The directors confirm that the accounts comply with the above standards from employees and contractors visiting its factories.
companys proactive approach to food safety includes the setting of standards and policy, food safety training for all employees, accreditation The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records, of Northern Foods central laboratory for microbiological and chemical which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial analysis, assessment and approval of suppliers and audits of the position of the company and the group, and enable them to ensure quality management systems of the companys own sites against that the accounts comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also the Northern Foods standard.
responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company and the group, and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Northern Foods plc Report of the directors 09 Report of the directors continued The board and executive committee Board committees The board of directors met nine times in the year.
All directors attended The board has established certain committees to which it has delegated every board meeting during the year except that O G Ni-Chionna was specific responsibilities as described below: unable to attend one meeting.
The Chairman also held other meetings with the non-executive directors without the executives present.
Audit committee The audit committee comprises C Dyer Chairman, A J Hobson and All the non-executive directors are considered by the board to be O G Ni-Chionna.
It met four times in the year, attended by all members independent.
They have wide-ranging experience and all currently except on one occasion when O G Ni-Chionna was unavailable.
occupy, or have occupied, senior positions in industry.
In accordance with best practice, P H Blackburn relinquished his membership of the audit committee during the year.
The committee The Deputy Chairman, A J Hobson, is the senior independent director.
oversees the groups internal audit function and reviews compliance with the auditors recommendations, accounting standards, regulations Under the companys articles of association all directors are subject to and statutes and reports on the systems of internal control and risk re-election at intervals of no more than three years.
The companys external auditors attend audit committee directors stand for re-election each year.
meetings at least twice a year and also have the opportunity of private meetings with the committee.
The committee also reviews the annual Non-executive directors receive a range of information about the and interim financial statements before they are submitted to the board.
An induction programme is arranged, The audit committee has overseen the introduction of a formal including site visits.
The board aims to hold one or more meetings each disclosure policy whereby staff of the company may, in confidence, year at an operating location.
Appropriate training, including in social, disclose any issues of concern they may have about possible malpractice environmental and ethical matters, is available to all directors on an or wrongdoings by the company or any of its employees without fear of ongoing basis as required.
Arrangements are in place for the proportionate and independent investigation of such matters and for appropriate follow-up action.
The board has specifically reserved a formal schedule of matters for its decision.
These include responsibility for approving overall group Remuneration committee strategy and financial policy, board membership and board committees, The remuneration committee comprises A J Hobson Chairman, acquisitions and divestments, and major capital expenditure.
The schedule P H Blackburn, C Dyer and O G Ni-Chionna.
It met seven times of matters reserved to the board, together with the terms of reference in the year, attended by all members except on one occasion when of the board committees, are available on the companys website.
O G Ni-Chionna was unavailable, and establishes board policy in Senior executives below board level are periodically invited to attend respect of all terms of employment for executive directors and board meetings to make presentations on their areas of responsibility.
The Directors remuneration report can be found on pages 13 to 22.
Northern Foods had an executive committee during the year under review, which met monthly and was responsible for the management Nomination committee of the group.
The executive committee consisted of the four executive The nomination committee comprises P H Blackburn Chairman, directors, three other senior group executives and the Company Secretary.
The committee regularly On 2 June 2004 the creation of a new operating board was announced.
reviews the structure, size and composition of the board.
The board Further details are contained within the Chairmans statement on page 4. currently consists of an equal number of executive and non-executive directors and this is kept under regular review.
The nomination Chairman and Chief Executive committee selects and recommends suitable candidates for appointment Following the resignation of A J Stewart, P H Blackburn assumed the role as directors of the company, after evaluating the balance of skills, of Executive Chairman from 4 September 2003 until the appointment knowledge and experience on the board.
The committee also makes of P A ODriscoll as Chief Executive on 29 March 2004. recommendations to the board in relation to succession planning.
There is a clear, written division of responsibility between the Chairman In the year the nomination committee met three times, attended and the Chief Executive.
The Chairman is responsible for leadership of by all members, and undertook a very thorough search for the new the board, ensuring its effectiveness in all aspects of its role and setting Chief Executive, using consultants who handled the external selection its agenda.
He is also responsible for ensuring that the directors receive process.
P A ODriscoll was the outstanding candidate identified by accurate, timely and clear information, and for effective communication the consultants, with broad experience of the food industry, having with shareholders.
The Chief Executive is responsible for operating the worked for several of the major UK retailers.
She has also held senior business and implementing the boards strategies and is supported in management positions with extensive responsibilities, most recently these matters by the operating board.
as Retail Vice President of Shell Europe.
Board performance evaluation Independent advice During the year the Chairman led the formal evaluation of the board There is an agreed procedure by which members of the board may and its principal committees and of the performance and commitment take independent professional advice in the furtherance of their duties.
This process included a detailed questionnaire, All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company in depth one-to-one discussions with the Chairman and debate at the Secretary, whose removal may only be effected with the approval of board.
A J Hobson, as the Deputy Chairman and senior independent the board.
director, led the board in evaluating the performance of the Chairman, including at a meeting of directors where the Chairman was not present.
10 Report of the directors Northern Foods plc Relations with shareholders The Combined Code requires the directors to review the effectiveness The board attaches great importance to maintaining good relationships of the groups systems of internal control.
The key elements of the with all shareholders, who are kept informed of significant company groups internal control systems and review processes are as follows: developments.
Presentations are made of the interim and preliminary results, briefings are given to analysts, and other meetings to discuss Background company direction are held with institutional shareholders on a The risk culture in the group is based on a local, flexible response to regular basis.
Short lines of communication ensure a rapid upward information flow.
This culture has developed from the nature of the The Chief Executive and the Finance Director are closely involved business, focused as it is primarily on short shelf-life foods.
in investor relations and report back to the board the views of major shareholders.
The Chairman, the senior independent director and other The operating board provides top down strategic input.
Where formality non-executive directors, particularly any new non-executive directors, is necessary, for example on food safety, finance or health and safety are available to meet major shareholders whenever necessary, matters, then policies and procedures are in place to ensure that the and regularly do so.
The senior independent director is available operating companies conform.
to shareholders to address specific concerns.
The following summarises the way the group assesses and mitigates risk: The board regards the Annual general meeting as an opportunity to communicate directly with private investors.
It is attended by all board Policies members.
Shareholders are invited to ask questions and are able to The board sets policy over key areas of risk which are applicable to all meet the directors informally.
Separate resolutions are proposed on companies, dealing inter alia with controls over food safety, accounting, each substantially separate issue and the number of proxy votes cast treasury, capital expenditure, health and safety, human resources and for and against each resolution, as well as the number of votes withheld, information technology.
are announced to the meeting following voting by a show of hands.
Group organisation and controls The company generally welcomes the report by Paul Myners into The business is run on a decentralised basis.
Each of the principal impediments to casting votes at company meetings, published in operating companies has a full management team under the control January 2004, and supports the need for transparency and equity, of a company managing director responsible for strategic direction and which it believes is achieved by the above process.
Each operating company is required to prepare be called on any resolution where it was appropriate or required.
detailed annual budgets and strategic plans.
Budgets are reviewed and The company offers an electronic voting capability to investors.
Each company prepares weekly and monthly accounts and performance is monitored against the original, and any Auditors non-audit services updated, budget.
The groups operating board meets on a formal basis Non-audit services to the group are awarded to providers with the each month to review performance.
appropriate experience who provide the service at a competitive rate.
This is in accordance with the policy laid down by the audit committee, The group operates investment approval procedures for capital projects which restricts the use of the companys auditors if the nature of the and acquisitions, which require operating board or board approval, work presents a threat to the independence of the audit team.
The audit depending upon the level of spend.
committee has stipulated that non-audit fees payable to the external auditors should not normally exceed 100 per cent of audit fees other The companies are supported by a corporate management resource and than with the approval of the Chairman of the audit committee.
These specialist functions, which provide the technical skills to supplement the companies own resource and The audit committee keeps under review the independence and provide assurance over the major areas of risk, are as follows: objectivity of the in-house internal audit function and external audit and reviews the nature, scope and findings of internal audit.
Financial and IT internal audit reviews the standard of internal The auditors report to the directors and the audit committee on financial control and the accuracy of financial reporting through a rolling the actions they take to comply with professional and regulatory cycle of audit visits.
requirements and best practice required to ensure their independence.
Technical services provide risk management in the areas of food safety, Internal control and risk management food quality, fire prevention and approval of contractors providing The directors have responsibility for the groups system of internal building, engineering and professional services.
control, which covers all aspects of the business.
This includes financial, operational, compliance control and risk management.
The directors set The food technology team assesses and approves raw material suppliers, policies and seek regular assurance that the system of internal control audits the quality management systems in the groups operating is operating effectively.
companies, provides guidance on compliance with food-related and environmental legislation, sets technical standards and offers expertise Whilst the directors acknowledge their responsibility for the system on a wide range of food science and technology.
of internal control, any such system can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material mis-statement or loss and is The engineering team sets standards for building construction and designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve fire risk management, maintains a database of approved contractors, business objectives.
provides an expert consultancy for the acquisition, management and disposal of physical assets, as well as assessing and approving suppliers of capital equipment and non-saleable revenue items.
Northern Foods plc Report of the directors 11 Report of the directors continued Health and safety provides professional advice on best practice and also audits health and safety procedures within the business.
Legal provides and obtains advice on a full range of legal issues across the group, and ensures good title to properties and intangible assets.
Insurance maintains adequate cover for major losses with appropriate levels of deductible, through a group programme with external insurance brokers.
This cover is reviewed and negotiated annually.
Human resources, through its management resources review, ensures the adequacy of existing management and plans succession.
Procurement identifies and manages key suppliers on a group-wide basis.
Group executives oversee the companies under their control and also have group-wide responsibility for the major customers.
The audit committee oversees both internal and external audit procedures and deals with significant control issues raised.
The company regularly evaluates social, environmental and ethical SEE risks and ensures that there are effective systems in place for managing such risks.
Information on SEE risks and opportunities for company value is provided in the corporate social responsibility section of the Annual review.
Review process The management of business risks continues to be an essential part of ensuring that the group and each operating company meets its objectives and delivers value for shareholders.
The formal process for reviewing business risks has been embedded in the budget process.
Each company is required to carry out a formal review to assess business risks in terms of impact and likelihood, and the controls in place to manage those risks, as part of the budget process.
Companies are required to formulate action plans where appropriate to improve controls.
Progress of these plans is reviewed by the operating board and the internal auditors.
The board is therefore able to confirm that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the group, that it has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of these accounts, and that it is regularly reviewed by the board and accords with Turnbull guidance.
Companies and specialist functions report by exception on any matters arising during the year to the monthly meetings of the operating board.
The results of the formal half yearly reviews are taken forward to the audit committee.
By order of the board Julian Wild Company Secretary 2 June 2004 12 Report of the directors Northern Foods plc
