259 7408 MF Paladin AR TP 7 4 05 5:45 pm Page 22 Directors Report The Directors present their report and the audited financial statements of Paladin Resources plc and its subsidiaries for the year ended 31 December 2004.
Principal activities The Groups principal activities during the year comprised oil and gas exploration, development and production in the United Kingdom and internationally.
Business review A review of the Groups performance for the year and of future developments is contained in the Chairmans Statement and the Operational and Financial Reviews.
Results and dividends The results of the Group are set out on page 42.
The profit on ordinary activities after taxation amounted to 35,782,000 2003: 28,446,000.
The Directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 1.14 pence per ordinary share, bringing the total for the year to 1.7 pence per share 2003: 1.575 pence per share.
Subject to receipt of shareholder approval at the Annual General Meeting, the final dividend will be paid on 27 May 2005 to those shareholders on the register on 29 April 2005.
Post balance sheet events In January 2005, the Company announced that it had entered into a sale and purchase agreement with a subsidiary of Sumitomo Corporation to sell its interests in the Blake and Ross Fields and neighbouring exploration acreage for a base consideration of $75 million.
Completion is expected during the second quarter of 2005.
In March 2005, the Company announced that it had entered into a sale and purchase agreement with a company in the Royal Dutch Shell Group to acquire interests in the Laminaria and Corallina Fields for a base consideration of $47 million.
Completion is expected during April.
In March 2005, the Company placed 13 million ordinary shares at a price of 173.5p per share.
Placing proceeds net of expenses were 22 million.
Donations Charitable donations totalling 20,000 2003: 11,000 were made by the Group during the year.
The recipients were a number of registered charities nominated by employees.
No political donations were made by the Group during the year.
Payment policies It is the policy of the Company and the Group to agree terms of payment when placing orders for goods and services and to adhere to these arrangements when making payment.
At 31 December 2004, the Company had an average of 29 days purchases outstanding in trade creditors.
Directors The Directors who have served the Company during the year ended 31 December 2004 were: P Davison R A Franklin J M Gourlay C J McDowell I S Paterson W J Turcan G E Watkins In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, Mr R A Franklin and Mr W J Turcan retire by rotation.
Being eligible, they offer themselves for re-election.
Details of the Directors shareholdings in the Company and of Mr P Davisons, Mr R A Franklins and Mr C J McDowells service contracts with the Company are contained within the Directors Remuneration Report.
Mr J M Gourlay, Mr I S Paterson, Mr W J Turcan and Dr G E Watkins are Non-executive Directors and as such do not have service contracts with the Company.
Paladin Resources plc Annual report and accounts 2004 22 259 7408 MF Paladin AR TP 7 4 05 5:45 pm Page 23 Directors Report The interests of those persons who were Directors at the end of the financial year and their immediate families in the ordinary shares of the Company and in share options, and any change in those interests which has occurred since 31 December 2004, are set out on pages 31 and 35-37 of the Directors Remuneration Report.
Corporate governance statement 2004 Compliance with the 2003 FRC Code The Company has throughout the financial period applied the main and supporting principles of good governance and complied with the provisions set out in the 2003 FRC Code, previously known as the Combined Code.
This statement should be read in conjunction with other relevant sections of this Annual Report and Accounts, such as the details of Directors, the Directors Remuneration Report and the HSE and Social Responsibility Statements, and the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
The Board and its Committees The Board currently comprises seven Directors, three of whom are Executive Directors.
Brief biographical details of each Director and a note of their Board Committee memberships are set out on pages 20 and 21.
There were no changes in the membership of the Board during the year.
The Chairman of the Board is a Non-executive Director and, in accordance with the 2003 FRC Code, is not considered to be independent for corporate governance purposes.
The Board considers each of the other Non-executive Directors listed on page 22 to be independent against the criteria set out in the 2003 FRC Code.
This requires the Board to be satisfied that each Non-executive Director is independent in character and judgment and that there are no relationships or circumstances which prejudice his independence.
The discrete roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive, which were already clearly established in practice, have been set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
Mr I S Paterson is the senior independent Non-executive Director.
Routine meetings of the Board take place eight times a year with additional meetings as and when required.
To enable the Board to discharge its duties, all Directors receive appropriate and timely information by means of briefing papers distributed in advance of Board meetings and on an ad hoc basis if necessary.
The Company Secretary is responsible for this information flow, under the direction of the Chairman.
Key matters, such as HSE and hedging policies, and approval of the Groups overall strategy, of annual work programmes and budgets and of the acquisition or sale of oil and gas interests are expressly reserved, in writing, for the approval of the Board and this schedule of matters was expanded during the year to take full account of the recommendations of the 2003 FRC Code.
Detailed Board minutes record not only the decisions of the Board but also the main areas of debate.
More routine matters requiring Board approval are delegated to a committee of the Board comprising any two Directors, while day-to-day management decisions were, during the period under review, delegated to an Executive Committee comprising the Executive Directors, the Company Secretary Group Legal Manager, the General Manager, Finance and the General Managers of the Groups UK and Scandinavian businesses.
In view of the increasing size and complexity of the business, and in particular given the acquisition of assets in Australia announced in January, it has been decided that from the beginning of 2005 the Executive Committee will comprise only those members with an entirely corporate role within the Company: the General Managers of the Companys business units, including the new General Manager, International, will instead report on a regular basis to the Technical and Operations Director through formal meetings and take part in quarterly business reviews with all of the Executive Directors.
These will both monitor past performance and look forward to near-term developments in the relevant business unit.
The Board has agreed procedures under which Directors may take independent professional advice at the Companys expense and all Directors have access to the advice of the Company Secretary.
The Company has in place appropriate insurance cover in respect of legal action against its Directors and officers.
Major shareholders are advised in advance of the proposed appointment of a new Director and, once appointed, given the opportunity to meet the individual concerned.
By way of induction, new Directors are given a series of formal presentations to enable them to familiarise themselves with the structure, financing and existing oil and gas assets of the Group and the operational and other issues affecting its business.
Further detailed presentations in addition to those during Board meetings are given as and when required, for example to assist the understanding of the Non-executive Directors in respect of technical aspects of an oil or gas interest which the Company is proposing to acquire.
The Non-executive Directors are encouraged to attend courses to update and develop their knowledge and skills and a number of such courses were attended during 2004.
Paladin Resources plc Annual report and accounts 2004 23 259 7408 MF Paladin AR TP 7 4 05 5:45 pm Page 24 Directors Report continued A more formal Board evaluation process than had been the case during previous years was initiated in 2004.
All Directors and the Company Secretary were asked to consider certain identified aspects of overall Board performance, Board processes, relationships with shareholders, the effectiveness of Board Committees and the performance of individual Directors.
The Chairman then held a meeting with the other Non-executive Directors, without any executives present, to review the performance of the Board as a whole and of its Committees.
He also held one-on-one meetings with each of the other Directors and the Company Secretary to discuss the performance of the Board and its Committees and that of individual Directors.
Following these meetings, the Chairman reported to the Board as a whole that the Board and its Committees operated effectively and efficiently and that individual Directors were performing in line with expectations, continuing to contribute effectively and to demonstrate commitment to the role.
The Non-executive Directors also met without the Chairman present to appraise the Chairmans performance.
This meeting was chaired by Mr I S Paterson, the senior independent Non-executive Director, and took into account the views of the Executive Directors.
It concluded that the Chairman made a significant contribution to the effective and efficient running of the Board.
The Board has established the following Committees: The Audit Committee is chaired by Mr W J Turcan and the other members are Mr I S Paterson and Dr G E Watkins.
It is comprised solely of independent Non-executive Directors, although in the light of his extensive experience of accounting matters in the oil and gas industry, Mr J M Gourlay attends meetings of the Committee by invitation.
Mr Turcan and Mr Gourlay both qualified as Chartered Accountants and have recent and relevant financial experience.
The Committee has specific written terms of reference and meets at least three times a year to review the annual and interim accounts and the effectiveness of the Groups internal control and risk management systems.
It also considers the provision by the Auditors of non-audit services in respect of which formal procedures, including permitted categories of work and fee levels, have been agreed to safeguard the objectivity and independence of the Auditors, the appointment and re-appointment of the Auditors themselves and the need for an internal audit function.
The Committee has agreed the terms of a written procedure for the reporting of financial and other improprieties and has ultimate responsibility for the investigation of any reported matters.
Meetings of the Committee are generally attended by the Finance Director and the General Manager, Finance and by the Auditors, with whom the planning, scope and results of the audit are reviewed.
The Committee ensures that the Auditors remain independent and objective and reviews the effectiveness of the audit process.
At least once a year, the Committee meets with the Auditors without any Executive Directors or other management representatives present to discuss matters relating to its remit and any issues arising from the audit.
The Auditors are able to request additional such meetings at any time.
During 2004, the Committee was particularly active in relation to internal audit, recommending the development of an internal audit work programme and that one or more internal control areas be identified annually and subjected to internal audit review: further details are provided in the internal audit section on page 27.
The Remuneration Committee is comprised solely of independent Non-executive Directors, who take no part in discussion of their own remuneration.
Chaired by Mr I S Paterson and having as its other members Mr W J Turcan and Dr G E Watkins, it has specific written terms of reference and sets the remuneration of the Executive Directors, the Chairman and other senior managers in accordance with the framework of the agreed remuneration policy.
Mr J M Gourlay and the Chief Executive are generally invited to attend meetings of the Committee but take no part in discussions relating to their own remuneration.
The Board itself determines the remuneration of the independent Non-executive Directors.
Further details of the operation of the Committee are given in the Directors Remuneration Report.
The Nomination Committee makes recommendations to the Board on all new Board appointments and on the re-appointment or continuation in office of any Director in accordance with its specific written terms of reference.
The Committee is chaired by Mr J M Gourlay.
The other members are Mr I S Paterson, Mr W J Turcan and Dr G E Watkins, all of whom are independent Non-executive Directors, and the Chief Executive.
During 2004, the Committee made no recommendations as to Board appointments or removals, but recommended to the Board the re-appointment for three years of each of Mr J M Gourlay, Mr I S Paterson and Mr W J Turcan following the expiry of their existing appointment periods.
These meetings of the Committee were not attended by the Director whose reappointment was being considered.
The Committee also recommended to the Board those Directors who should submit themselves for re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
All Directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first Annual General Meeting after their appointment and to re-election thereafter at intervals of no more than three years.
Particular consideration is given to the re-appointment and or recommendation for re-election of any Non-executive Director who has already served six years or more on the Board.
Paladin Resources plc Annual report and accounts 2004 24 259 7408 MF Paladin AR TP 7 4 05 5:45 pm Page 25 Directors Report The Company Secretary is the secretary of each of the above Committees.
The terms of reference of the Board and its Committees are available on the Companys website.
The number of meetings of the Board and its Committees during 2004, and individual attendance by Directors, are shown below: Board Audit Remuneration Nomination No.
of meetings 10 3 6 3 Attendance P Davison 9 n a n a n a R A Franklin 10 n a 6 2 C J McDowell 10 3 n a n a J M Gourlay 9 3 6 2 I S Paterson 9 3 6 2 W J Turcan 9362 G E Watkins 8363 attended by invitation only Relations with shareholders Communication with shareholders is given high priority.
There is regular dialogue with institutional shareholders, including presentations after the Companys announcements of year-end and interim results and following announcements of material transactions.
This dialogue primarily involves the Chief Executive and the Finance Director, although other Directors and senior management attend where appropriate.
The Board also uses the Annual General Meeting, and any Extraordinary General Meetings called during the year to consider significant transactions, to communicate with private and institutional investors and their participation is welcomed.
The Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees are available at Annual General Meetings to answer questions and all other Directors attend.
The Chairman of the Company and the senior independent Non-executive Director attend meetings with the Companys major institutional investor during the year and are generally available to discuss shareholders concerns as and when required.
During the regular meetings with the Chief Executive and the Finance Director, shareholders are from time to time reminded that both the Chairman and the senior independent Non-executive Director are available to address any issues.
At each Board Meeting, the Chief Executive and the Finance Director update the Board on recent meetings with institutional investors and highlight any issues raised.
Analysts and brokers reports on the Company are forwarded to the Non-executive Directors as a matter of course.
The Company also has a website, found at www.
uk, which provides corporate, operational and financial information, share price details and copies of press releases, annual and interim reports and major presentations.
Internal controls A system of internal control has been established to allow the Board, in conjunction with management, to identify, evaluate and manage the significant risks faced by the Group on an on-going and pro-active basis.
The system also seeks to monitor the Groups overall financial, operational and compliance position and to help to safeguard shareholders investments and to protect the Groups assets.
The Board is responsible for this process and for ensuring that it remains effective and, in order to facilitate it, it has established a simple organisational structure with clearly-drawn lines of accountability, appropriate delegation of authority and open lines of communication.
The controls are designed to safeguard assets and to ensure that all activities operate efficiently, effectively and to high ethical standards, with attendant risks managed and minimised.
Although designed to meet the Groups particular needs and the risks to which it is exposed, as with any such system the controls can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material including financial business risks.
The system has been in place throughout the financial period under review and up to the date of approval of this report.
In late 2003, Deloitte & Touche LLP were engaged to assist management in identifying the major risks affecting the Group and in conducting a review of the Groups risk management processes.
Their report did not identify any significant risks affecting the business of the Group which had not previously been recognised by the Company but the review was nevertheless helpful in enabling the Company to restructure the way in which it assesses and categorises risks.
Further controls were instigated during 2004 to accommodate developments in the Groups business, such as the significant capital investment programme planned for the Montrose and Arbroath Fields.
Minor changes were made to a number of other procedures but the controls relating to the risks affecting the Group have remained largely unaltered during 2004.
Paladin Resources plc Annual report and accounts 2004 25 259 7408 MF Paladin AR TP 7 4 05 5:45 pm Page 26 Directors Report continued The Group has a comprehensive system of financial reporting.
There is a thorough budgeting system for all items of expenditure, with an annual budget together with sensitivity analysis approved by the Board.
Historical financial performance and revised forecasts for the full year are reported against budget on a monthly basis.
The Board pays particular attention to those matters which, by their nature, expose the Group to significant risks and uncertainties, including crude oil prices and interest and exchange rates, which can be subject to considerable volatility and can have a material impact on the Groups operating results.
The Group manages these exposures through the limited use of certain hedging instruments: their use is carefully monitored and the Board receives a report on hedging activities prior to each Board meeting so that an informed discussion can take place at the meeting itself.
Specific authority guidelines and dealing limits are applied in these areas.
The Group has established procedures to deal with authorisations for expenditure and various operational matters, including insurance, procurement, tendering for major external contracts and security of property and information technology systems.
The Board is committed to ensuring that the Groups data and information, and its information technology systems, are as secure as is practicable.
Security controls and procedures are in place to prevent unauthorised access to the Groups premises.
Hardware and software controls have also been instigated to prevent unauthorised access to the Groups computer system and network.
Regular back-ups of electronic information are taken with copies being stored offsite.
Management has established a disaster recovery plan, which would be implemented in the event that head office facilities were inaccessible or unavailable for prolonged periods.
All work necessary to ensure the implementation of the new Sun accounting system in the Stavanger office from 1 January 2005 was undertaken during 2004.
The new system was fully operational in the London and Aberdeen offices throughout the year and has brought significant benefits in terms of efficiency.
Additional procedures appropriate for a Group-wide system will be introduced during 2005.
Recognising that exploration is an important element of the Groups business development and that it carries with it significant risk and uncertainty, the Board has put in place guidelines for the evaluation of exploration opportunities.
These guidelines are reviewed at least annually by means of a detailed Board paper and discussion at Board level.
Exploration risk is also considered, where relevant, in the context of specific acquisition opportunities and current operations.
The significant potential impact of HSE risks is recognised by the existence of a separate HSE Policy applying to the Group as a whole, a copy of which appears on page 11.
The aims of this Policy are achieved by the effective operation of a fit-for-purpose HSE Management System.
The Chief Executive bears ultimate responsibility for HSE matters and the Technical and Operations Director reports to the Board from an operational standpoint at each Board meeting under a separate agenda item devoted to HSE issues.
Further direction is provided by the Corporate HSE Steering Committee, which is chaired by the Technical and Operations Director and meets quarterly to review HSE policy, management and performance in all its regional businesses.
Operational HSE Management Committees from the Aberdeen and Stavanger business units report to the Corporate HSE Steering Committee.
During the year, the Group HSE Policy and the HSE Management System have been critically reviewed by management in the context of the Companys current and anticipated business needs: it is felt that both continue to provide an appropriate framework for HSE management within Paladin.
The Group is committed to ensuring that its employees are of high calibre and the Board actively promotes a culture of quality and integrity.
This commitment, together with the Boards requirement that the Company operate in accordance with prevailing legislation, sound accounting practice and good business ethics, underpins the internal control process.
Further details of the Companys social and ethical practices are provided in the Social Responsibility Statement on page 29.
At each Board meeting, the business risks to which the Group may be subject are considered, both as a separate agenda item in respect of which the Finance Director is the responsible Director and, if appropriate, in the context of other issues being discussed, such as potential acquisitions or the progress of operations.
In addition to its on-going monitoring and management of risks through the Board meetings, the Board has conducted a formal review of the procedures for and the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management systems.
Both the on-going process and the review are conducted in accordance with the guidance issued by the Turnbull Committee and the on-going process has been in place for the full year under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and financial statements.
The review took the form of an extensive paper prepared by management analysing the business risks to which the Group is subject, identifying the key controls in place and noting any weaknesses and corrective action required.
The structure suggested by Deloitte & Touche LLP in its risk management review formed the basis of this paper.
The Directors confirm that, having conducted the review, they consider that the Group was compliant with the internal control provisions of the 2003 FRC Code throughout 2004.
Paladin Resources plc Annual report and accounts 2004 26 259 7408 MF Paladin AR TP 7 4 05 5:45 pm Page 27 Directors Report Internal audit The Company did not have an internal audit function during 2004 and it remains the view of the Board that the lack of such a function has not impaired the effectiveness of the system of internal control.
Following the review by Deloitte & Touche LLP referred to above, the Audit Committee recommended to the Board that, in order to achieve the best balance of effectiveness and cost, an internal audit work programme should be developed using a combination of internal and external resources including peer review, external technical experts, consultants and professional advisers.
During the year, peer review was used extensively on technical projects, while external consultants were engaged to review reserves estimates and future capital expenditure, IT security systems, HSE systems compliance and non-operated joint venture expenditure.
The Audit Committee also recommended that one or more internal control areas be identified annually and subjected to internal audit review.
The main area identified for 2004 related to the UK supply chain processes and procedures.
A review of the supply chain was completed by Pricewaterhouse Coopers LLP towards the end of the year: their report was presented to the Audit Committee and contained certain key findings and recommendations, some of which have already been implemented.
The remainder will be actioned shortly.
A separate internal audit function carried out by an external provider will not be established in the near-term.
The Audit Committee will, however, continue to consider the requirement for a separate internal audit function at least annually.
Shareholder information The ordinary shares of the Company are listed on the London Stock Exchange under the symbol PLR.
As at 14 March 2005, the broad distribution of the 337,706,329 shares in issue was as follows: Shares millions % Institutions 327.58 97.00 Directors and management 5.17 1.53 Other individuals 4.95 1.47 337.70 100.00 Substantial interests As at 14 March 2005, the Company had been notified, in accordance with sections 198 to 208 of the Companies Act 1985, of the following interests of 3% or more in the Companys ordinary share capital: Shares % Aberforth Partners 55,407,000 16.40 Barclays Global Investors 34,536,866 10.22 Caledonia Investments Plc 30,468,614 9.02 Alliance Capital Management Limited 21,992,131 6.51 JP Morgan Fleming Asset Management 18,342,348 5.43 Legal & General Investment Management Limited 12,623,753 3.37 The Company has not been notified of any other person who is interested in 3% or more of the Companys share capital.
Shareview, the portfolio service operated by the Companys Registrars, Lloyds TSB, gives a range of shareholder information on-line, including balance movements, indicative share prices and information on recent dividends.
The portfolio service is: Easy to use.
You only need your User ID and PIN to log-on and these are notified to you by post.
Information about your shareholdings is displayed clearly and conveniently and is updated regularly from the Registrars records.
Registration takes only a few minutes.
Data transferred to your browser is encrypted and other internet users cannot gain access to your portfolio without your User ID and PIN.
As long as you have a PC and access to the internet, there is no further payment to use the service.
The Company affords shareholders the opportunity to receive mailings and to appoint proxies electronically.
For more details, practical help on transferring or updating shareholder details and registration of your preference to receive shareholder communications electronically, please visit www.
co. uk Paladin Resources plc Annual report and accounts 2004 27 259 7408 MF Paladin AR TP 7 4 05 5:45 pm Page 28 Directors Report continued Statement of Directors Responsibilities The following statement is provided with a view to distinguishing for shareholders the relative responsibilities of Directors and Auditors in respect of the financial statements and should be read in conjunction with the Auditors Report.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group and of the profit or loss for that year.
In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and which enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985, as amended.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors confirm that they have complied with these requirements and, being satisfied that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future, continue to prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis.
Auditors A resolution proposing the re-appointment of Ernst & Young LLP will be put to the Annual General Meeting.
Resolutions proposed as special business Details of the resolutions to be proposed as special business at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 18 May 2005 are given in a letter attached to the Notice of Annual General Meeting, which will be published separately and sent to shareholders with this report.
By order of the Board Sally C Powell Company Secretary 16 March 2005 Paladin Resources plc Annual report and accounts 2004 28
