259 7408 MF Paladin AR TP 7 4 05 5:45 pm Page 11 Health, Safety and Environmental Policy Responsibility for Paladins Health, Safety and Environmental Policy For its own operated ventures, the Company has implemented lies with the Chief Executive.
and maintains an HSE Management System to meet its continuing HSE requirements in a structured and unambiguous way.
Where The Companys management regards HSE matters as an integral appropriate, the HSE Management System and its use are audited part of the Companys business processes which are given equal by independent experts in order that the Company can benchmark priority to any other business consideration.
its systems and performance against its industry peers.
The Company is committed to meet or exceed regulatory and or The Company provides emergency response facilities and voluntary industry standards.
HSE performance targets are set in procedures to reduce the risk of injury to employees and contractors order to drive continuous improvement and performance is and damage to the environment.
monitored and reported against these targets.
HSE training is provided for all employees and, where appropriate, The Company is committed to ensuring that everything reasonably contractors, to ensure that they perform their work to meet the practicable is done in managing the Companys activities to maintain Companys HSE standards and targets.
It is the specific responsibility healthy and safe work conditions that protect the welfare of its of every manager and supervisor to ensure that employees and employees and contractors, minimise the risk of personal injuries contractors are aware of potential hazards and of the Companys and avoid any adverse impact on the environment.
requirements for healthy, safe and environmentally friendly working practices.
The Company is committed to maintaining open communication with and involvement of all its employees and contractors in establishing safe and environmentally sound working practices.
Roy A Franklin Chief Executive Paladin Resources plc Annual report and accounts 2004 11
