259 7408 MF Paladin AR TP 7 4 05 5:45 pm Page 12 Health, Safety and Environmental Statement Paladin is committed to ensuring the safety and well-being of to establish a gas management plan to ensure maximum its employees and contractors and minimising the impact of its economic use of associated gas with consequent long-term operations on the environment.
Its goal has been and continues reductions in gas flaring in December, an Environmental to be no Lost Time Incidents LTIs affecting its employees and Statement was submitted to the DTI for the development of the contractors and no environmental incidents.
The project scope includes the installation of a gas export route from Montrose with a consequential reduction in This commitment is underpinned by the Paladin HSE Policy and the gas flared from the installation and its associated HSE Management System and is rooted in a culture of continuous infrastructure and improved environmental performance: and improvement, which strives to reduce HSE risks on all work-fronts.
Effective operation of the HSE Management System is assured, to implement an occupational health scheme to provide as far as is reasonably practicable, by the completion of HSE the best possible working environment for all our staff audit programmes.
occupational health awareness programmes were implemented in all business unit locations during the year.
Health, safety and environmental considerations are an integral Paladins corporate HSE objectives for 2005 are: part of our strategic plan.
The legislative frameworks governing environmental issues in particular are evolving quickly and, by 1.
To complete the year without an LTI on our operated facilities: maintaining pace with this constantly shifting agenda, we can more easily prepare for and manage change.
To work with our primary contractors to support effective HSE behaviour: Paladin assumed the operatorship of the Montrose, Arbroath and Arkwright facilities in 2003 and the 2004 work programme 3.
To deliver an oil in produced water discharge of no more than reflected our strategic commitment to increase the value of the 30 mg kg on Montrose by January 2006: assets by a programme of focussed redevelopment.
To undertake further HSE Management System awareness Annual HSE objectives are adopted in support of the Groups training at all business unit locations: and HSE goals.
Progress against our objectives for 2004 reflected the challenges of an active year: 5.
To implement a hazard-driven HSE audit programme on our operated assets which will review the key elements of the to complete the year without an LTI on our operated HSE Management System already in place.
facilities in 2004, there was one LTI on the Montrose facility, resulting in an LTI frequency of 0.9 per million man-hours worked.
As recommended by the UK Offshore OperatorsAssociation, Paladin has adopted the This was a low potential incident.
Comprehensive investigations OGP International Association of Oil and Gas Producers, formerly known as the E&P were conducted and lessons learned will be reinforced Forum definition of a Lost Time Incident.
This defines a Lost Time Incident as a workrelated injury or occupational illness which prevents the person from doing any work throughout 2005: the day after the incident.
to maintain oil in water discharges below 40 mg kg and to put in place plans for longer term improvements average 2004 oil in water performance for the Montrose installation was 47 mg kg.
Considerable efforts were deployed throughout the year to meet the 2004 objective and to deliver long-term improvements.
These included development of a produced water management strategy, hardware modifications and chemical trials, participation in the UKOOA Oil in Produced Water Trading Work Group, a comprehensive review of treatment technology and the selection of additional equipment to deliver consistent improved performance.
The last is scheduled for installation in mid-2005.
These measures resulted in a significant decrease in oil in water discharges and we will continue to make strenuous efforts to obtain further improvements: Paladin Resources plc Annual report and accounts 2004 12
