30 P&O Annual Report 2004 Report of the directors Report of the directors The directors present their report and accounts for the year ended 31 December 2004.
Principal group activities, review of operations and results The operating and financial review on pages 6 to 21 describes the principal activities, operations, performance and financial position of the Group.
The results of the Group are set out in detail on pages 48 to 51 and in the accompanying notes.
Further information is given in the Chairmans statement on pages 4 and 5.
The principal subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates are listed on page 87.
Principal changes in the Group On 2 February 2004, the Group announced that it had signed a conditional agreement for the disposal of its 50 per cent stake in P&O Nedlloyd Container Line Limited for a consideration of e215 million cash and a 25 per cent shareholding in Royal Nedlloyd N. V. which would be renamed Royal P&O Nedlloyd N. V. This transaction was approved by P&O Stockholders at an extraordinary general meeting held on 29 March 2004 and the transaction completed on 16 April 2004.
On 1 March 2004, the Group announced an agreement to sell to Stena AB part of P&Os Irish Sea ferry operation, including the Fleetwood-Larne route and five ferries, for a cash consideration of approximately 50 million.
This transaction was completed on 20 April 2004.
On 24 March 2004, the Group announced that it had signed a 51 year agreement with the Vancouver port authority to operate the Centerm Container Terminal in Vancouver Harbour, and would invest C$130 million 53 million by the end of 2005 in expanding the terminal.
On 21 April 2004, the Group announced that it had signed a 40 year concession with the Antwerp port authority to equip and operate the Deurganckdok container terminal as part of the Antwerp Gateway consortium.
P&O originally had a 67.5 per cent stake in the consortium of which 25 per cent was subsequently sold to COSCO Pacic Ltd. in November and will manage the terminal, for which the total development cost is estimated at e450 million spread over several years, with the first phase expected to be operational by the middle of 2005.
On 1 July 2004, the Group announced that it had sold buildings comprising 380,000 sq ft of ofce space in the Boston Wharf development for US$92 million 51 million in cash to HDGM Holdings, Inc. At the same time the HTC Hanseatic Trade Center GmbH & Co. Grundbesitz partnership in which the Group holds a 47.5 per cent interest sold a major phase of its ofce development in Hamburg to Credit Suisse Asset Management for e96 million in cash.
On 7 July 2004, the Group announced that it had sold its Australian resorts business for approximately A$210 million 81 million in cash to General Property Trust and Voyages Hotels & Resorts Pty Ltd. On 11 August 2004, the Group announced that it had secured the rights to become an investor in Bengal Port Ltd. which is to develop and operate a port and property development at Kulpi, near Kolkata Calcutta, in India.
P&O will have rights to acquire 69 per cent of Kulpi Port Company, which will have a 50 year concession to develop, operate and maintain the port.
On 28 September 2004, the Group announced the conclusions of its fundamental review of its ferry operations, including subject to employee consultation a reduction in the number of ships from 31 to 23 and the closure of four out of 13 routes.
These proposals initially included the sub-charter of two ships to Brittany Ferries which was subject to the approval of the UK competition authorities.
The Ofce of Fair Trading referred this transaction to the Competition Commission on 7 December 2004.
On 28 February 2005, it was announced that Brittany Ferries had withdrawn from the proposed transaction.
On 29 October 2004, the Group and the French container shipping group CMA CGM announced that they had signed a 36 year concession with the Le Havre port authority to equip and operate two berths at Terminal fide France.
Under this agreement a subsidiary of P&O will invest about e100 million in the terminal.
On 21 December 2004, the Group announced that it had sold 995,000 sq ft of ofces and covered garage parking in Boston for US$97 million 51 million in cash to Berkeley Investments Inc. On 23 December 2004, the Group announced that it had sold its sport and leisure resort La Manga Club for e146 million 102 million in cash to the Spanish leisure and property company MedGroup.
On 31 December 2004, the Group announced that it had sold its property portfolio in Atlanta for US$93 million 48 million in cash in four separate transactions.
On 24 January 2005, the Group announced that the HTC Hanseatic Trade Center GmbH & Co. Grundbesitz partnership had sold the remaining four buildings of its ofce development in Hamburg for e200 million 140 million in cash to a consortium comprising afliates of Lehman Brothers Real Estate Partners, L. P. Tishman Speyer Properties and Quantum Immobilien AG.
On 31 January 2005, the Group announced that it had realised 55 million in cash from its 600,000 sq ft shopping centre development in Plymouth through a sale to Morgan Stanley Real Estate Fund.
On 8 March 2005, the Group announced that it had sold one of the main blocks of the Regent Quarter development at Kings Cross to La Salle London Ofce Fund for 47 million.
Directors A list of the directors of the Company is given on page 23, including the dates of their appointment.
David Williams and Sir John Parker were appointed to the Board with effect from 1 January and 1 February 2005 respectively and will offer themselves for re-election at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
In accordance with the regulations of the Company, Robert Woods, Michael Gradon and Nick Luff will retire by rotation at the forthcoming annual general meeting and being eligible will also offer themselves for re-election.
Lord Sterling and Rodney Galpin will retire from the Board at the annual general meeting and will not seek re-election.
The unexpired term of the letters of appointment of the non-executive directors, Sir David Brown, Sir John Collins, Michael Everard, Sir John Parker and David Williams are given within the directors remuneration report on page 40.
Details of the directors remuneration and their interests in the shares of the Company are set out in the directors remuneration report on pages 37 to 45.
P&O Annual Report 2004 31 Report of the directors Dividends The directors recommend a final dividend in respect of the year ended 31 December 2004 of 6p per 1 nominal of deferred stock.
This would bring the total cash dividend for the year to 9p per 1 nominal of deferred stock.
If approved, the final dividend will be paid on 1 June 2005 to deferred stockholders on the register at the close of business on 29 March 2005.
Employees The Company is committed to keeping employees throughout the Group informed of performance, development and progress through its established system of briengs by management, the Groups bi-monthly newspaper, Wavelength, and widely distributed news and information bulletins.
There is a European Works Council, known as the P&O European Forum, the purpose of which is to inform and consult with employee representatives on transnational issues.
Members are elected in the UK and Ireland and either elected or appointed, in accordance with national laws, in other countries.
The P&O European Forum meets twice a year with several additional meetings during 2004 in connection with the Ferries review.
The Companys aim is to meet the objectives of the code of good practice on the employment of disabled people.
Full and fair consideration is given to disabled applicants for employment and training, and career development is encouraged on the basis of aptitude and abilities.
It remains Company policy to retain employees who become disabled whilst in its service and to provide specialised training where appropriate.
Employees are able to share in the Groups results through performance related bonus schemes which are widely applied in the Group.
The P&O 2004 UK Sharesave plan the 2004 Plan was approved by stockholders on 14 May 2004 and will expire on 14 May 2014.
Under this plan, which is a UK Inland Revenue approved plan, eligible employees may be invited to apply for options during the six weeks after announcement of the interim or final results or at such other times as the directors consider are warranted by special circumstances.
The option granted to each individual is related to the monthly sum the individual agrees to save under a contract, not exceeding 250 per month for a period of three or five years, with a financial institution nominated by the directors.
Options can be granted with an exercise price which is discounted by up to 20 per cent by reference to the market value of the deferred stock at the time the options are offered to eligible employees.
Options are normally exercisable within six months following the end of the related savings contract, but earlier exercise is permitted in certain circumstances, for example, if an individual leaves employment for specic good leaver reasons or if there is a change in control of the Company.
In view of the global nature of the P&O Group and the benets of encouraging wide employee share ownership, the Company operates plans, based on the 2004 Plan, for the benefit of overseas employees.
All such plans operate within the individual and plan limits applicable to the 2004 Plan.
The overseas plans are also due to expire on 14 May 2014.
The P&O 2000 Executive Stock Option Plan the P&O Option Plan was approved by stockholders on 20 October 2000.
Under the P&O Option Plan, options may be granted twice a year, during the six weeks after the release of the interim or final results.
The life of options is ten years and the price at which options can be granted is governed by the market price of deferred stock at the time of grant.
There are restrictions on the total number of options that can be granted in normal circumstances to any one executive and the scheme also contains limits on the total amount of stock over which options may be granted.
The rules of the P&O Option Plan reect current institutional investor guidelines by requiring that options granted under the plan can normally be exercised only if a performance target has been met.
Options granted under this scheme will not normally be exercisable unless the growth in P&Os headline earnings per 1 nominal of deferred stock EPS over a period of at least three years from grant exceeds the percentage increase in the UK Index of Retail Prices by an average of at least three per cent per annum.
The rules permit the adoption of a different basis if at the time of a grant of options it is thought appropriate to do so, provided that the replacement conditions are no less demanding.
The Company reported negative EPS for 2002 and accordingly application of the formula for EPS growth would result in a less stretching hurdle.
Therefore, the remuneration committee resolved that options granted during 2003 will not normally be exercisable unless the growth in P&Os pre-tax and exceptional items profit per 1 nominal of deferred stock over a period of at least three years from grant exceeds the percentage increase in the UK Index of Retail Prices by an average of at least three per cent per annum.
In 2004 the remuneration committee decided to revert to the earlier, EPS, performance target.
On 14 May 2004 the stockholders approved an amendment to the rules of the P&O Option Plan to enable the Company to satisfy the exercise of both existing and future options by the issue of only that amount of stock which has a value, at the time of exercise, equal to the net gain resulting from the exercise, that is, the difference between the market price on the day of exercise of the amount of stock under the option and the total exercise price payable.
Pursuant to the changes in Board and senior executive remuneration structures set out in detail on page 39, it is not intended that any further grants of options will be made under the P&O Option Plan except in exceptional circumstances e. g. recruitment.
No general grant was made in 2004.
Corporate responsibility, safety and the environment There are Group policies for health, safety, welfare, the environment and social responsibility, which are communicated to all staff.
More information on these policies is given on page 17.
Each operating company is required to produce its own policies and management systems to reect Group policies and best industry practice in its sector of business.
The Company also encourages the adoption of similar policies by its significant joint ventures and associates.
Monitoring of compliance with Group policies is maintained by periodic assessment under the direction of the Head of Group Safety and Environment.
Reports are reviewed by Peter Smith, the Board director responsible for safety, environmental and social responsibility issues.
In addition, a monthly report on these matters is submitted to the Board.
A separate report details the measures taken to minimise the environmental impact of Group businesses.
It is available on the internet at www.
com or by request to the Head of Group Safety and Environment.
Share capital There may be occasions when it would be advantageous for the Company to issue stock for cash without a pre-emptive offer to existing stockholders, and since 1989 stockholders in general meeting have extended the authority for such issues originally given at the annual general 32 P&O Annual Report 2004 Report of the directors meeting held on 6 May 1988, which authority also permits new limits to be prescribed.
Stockholders consent is therefore sought to resolution 11 set out in the notice of meeting authorising the directors to issue a specified amount of stock for cash, not exceeding 37 million nominal in aggregate 2004 36 million, without first being required to offer such stock to existing stockholders.
37 million is approximately 5 per cent of the deferred stock currently in issue.
The authority will expire at the conclusion of the annual general meeting in 2006 or on 13 August 2006, whichever is the earlier.
Stockholders approval of resolution 11 set out in the notice of meeting, which will be proposed as special business, will also enable the directors, pursuant to resolution 8 passed at the annual general meeting held on 6 May 1988, to issue redeemable securities and convertible securities and to make technical provision for the manner of conversion.
There may be circumstances when, having regard to gearing levels, other investment opportunities and the effect on earnings per 1 nominal of deferred stock, it would be advantageous for the Company to purchase its own stock.
Any stock purchased by the Company would be cancelled and the amount of stock in issue reduced accordingly.
The existing authority for the Company to purchase its own stock, given at the annual general meeting held on 14 May 2004, expires at the conclusion of the annual general meeting to be held on 13 May 2005.
Stockholders consent is therefore sought to resolution 12 set out in the notice of meeting to enable the directors to purchase up to 37 million nominal of deferred stock approximately 5 per cent of the deferred stock currently in issue, subject to the limits expressed in the resolution.
The authority will expire at the conclusion of the annual general meeting in 2006, and it will be exercised only if there is a resultant increase in earnings per 1 nominal of deferred stock and if implementation of the proposal is for the benefit of stockholders generally.
Holders of the 5.5 per cent concessionary stock concessionary stock should note that a purchase by the Company of deferred stock gives them the right to repayment of their stock at par together with accrued interest and dividends whether earned or declared or not calculated at the date of such purchase.
This should not, however, be construed as a recommendation to such holders to exercise their right to repayment.
Holders of concessionary stock should note that it may not be in their best interests to exercise the right of repayment and should seek their own personal financial advice in deciding whether or not to do so.
If any concessionary stockholder wishes to exercise the right of repayment in the event of a buy-back of deferred stock by the Company pursuant to the authority being sought at the 2005 annual general meeting, then they should write to the Company Secretary at the head ofce of the Company.
Substantial stockholdings As at the date of this report, the Company has been notied that the following have an interest in the Companys stock amounting to 3 per cent or more of the relevant class of the called up capital: Percentage Class Holding of class HBOS plc and subsidiaries deferred 36,037,819 4.84 Legal & General Investment Management deferred 26,361,361 3.54 Prudential plc and subsidiaries deferred 47,192,761 6.34 Schroder Investment Management Ltd deferred 72,289,291 9.70 Threadneedle Investment Management Ltd deferred 34,769,901 4.67 Cleaning Tokens Ltd preferred 102,731 3.07 Deutsche Equity Income Trust plc preferred 300,000 8.97 Ecclesiastical Insurance Group preferred 800,000 23.92 P S Allen preferred 145,577 4.35 Going concern The directors, having made enquiries, consider that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and therefore they consider it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Creditor payment policy The Companys policy is to pay suppliers in accordance with terms and conditions agreed when the orders are placed.
Although the Company does not follow any code or standard on payment policy, where payment terms have not been specifically agreed invoices dated in one calendar month are paid close to the end of the following month.
These policies are understood by the purchasing and finance departments.
The Company has procedures for dealing promptly with complaints and disputes.
The Company had 27 days 2003 33 days purchases outstanding at 31 December 2004.
Donations During the year ended 31 December 2004 the Group contributed 141,000 2003 380,000 for UK charitable purposes.
Further significant charitable donations were made in 2004 and in previous years to overseas causes.
An additional 200,000 is being given, via the Companys ports in South Asia, to support relief operations following the tsunami disaster on 26 December 2004.
The Group made no contributions to political parties during the year 2003 nil.
Indemnity All directors are entitled to contractual indemnification from the Company to the extent permitted by law against claims and legal expenses incurred in the course of their duties.
Auditors Stockholders consent is sought to resolutions 9 and 10 set out in the notice of meeting proposing to re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as independent auditors of the Company and to authorise the directors to determine the auditors remuneration.
By order of the Board R M Gradon Director and Secretary 8 March 2005
