02 P&O Annual Report 2004 Company overview Company overview The Group Local focus P&O is a global transport operator.
It is one of the worlds foremost port companies and one of the UKs leading ferry operators.
With the widely recognised house ag and brand name, P&Os businesses are focused on achieving world class operational and financial performance and on delivering first class service to customers.
Strategy P&O is committed to focusing its capital on those businesses where it is a market leader and which offer strong growth and value creation opportunities.
International strength Container terminal locations Tilbury Antwerp Southampton Vancouver Le Havre Vostochny Marseilles New York Qingdao Baltimore New Orleans Qasim Mundra Shekou Miami Nhava Sheva Manila Chennai Laem Colombo Chabang Surabaya Brisbane Maputo Fremantle Sydney Buenos Aires Melbourne P&O Annual Report 2004 03 Company overview Ports Ferries Other activities Activity Activity Cold Logistics One of the worlds pre-eminent container P&O is a household name in the UK for P&O Cold Logistics provides a full range of terminal operators and stevedores, with ferry travel.
P&O Ferries carries freight and logistics services, ranging from refrigerated 27 container terminals and logistics tourist trafc between the UK and France, warehousing to complex retail supply chain operations in over 100 ports, P&O Ports Spain, Belgium and Holland.
P&O Irish management for temperature controlled operates in 18 countries across the world.
Its Sea operates routes for freight and tourist products.
It is one of the worlds few main service is containerised cargo handling trafc between the UK and Ireland.
P&O has international temperature controlled logistics in ports which offer strong growth a fleet of 26 ships.
P&O Ferrymasters, the companies and has strong competitive opportunities.
Other services include general European road haulage and freight positions in the US, Australasia and cargo, bulk cargo, roll on-roll off facilities and management business, is part of the Ferries Argentina.
cruise passenger terminal management, as division.
com well as a range of maritime services.
Strategy Container Shipping Strategy In 2004, a fundamental business review was undertaken to reshape the direction of the P&O Nedlloyd is one of the worlds leading Ports is committed to achieving profit business.
Extensive research with customers providers of point to point container shipping growth by increasing scale organically was the foundation for developing a strategy services.
To support this core business, it through local trade growth and market share focused on delivering what freight and tourist also offers a range of value added logistics gain at existing locations, by expanding customers really value.
services, from relatively simple freight current capacity and by developing or management to sophisticated supply chain acquiring new terminals and by improving Ferries aims to deliver a simplied customer management.
The company is wholly owned the efficiency of its container terminal focused product operated on fewer routes by Royal P&O Nedlloyd N. V. which is listed operations through sharing best practice.
with fewer ships and a substantially lower, on the Amsterdam Stock Exchange, and in more exible cost base.
com Container volumes P&O equity share 12.8m 13.8m teu Fleet Capacity available January 05 P&O equity share 26 ships 15m teu Property Routes Total potential capacity P&O equity share Dover Calais P&O Properties has most of its assets in the 31m teu Portsmouth Bilbao US but with some developments in the UK excludes new projects under consideration Portsmouth Le Havre and Continental Europe.
It is continuing its Hull Rotterdam www.
com programme of sales within the portfolio, with Hull Zeebrugge a target of 250m net sales set for 2005.
Teesport Rotterdam freight only Teesport Zeebrugge freight only Dublin Liverpool Larne Cairnryan Larne Troon teu 20 foot equivalent unit.
This is the standard size of a container and is a common measure of capacity in the expected to be closed in 2005 www.
