Report of the Directors The Directors submit their report and audited financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2004.
Principal activity and business review Employment policies and employee involvement The principal activities of the Company and its subsidiaries the Group continue to be the provision of water and sewerage Details are set out in the Business review on pages 8 and 9. services and waste management.
Further information regarding the Group, including important events and its progress during the year, events since the year end and likely future developments is Research and development contained in the Chairmans statement, in the Business review and in the Financial review on pages 2 to 15.
Research and development activities within the Group during the year amounted to 0.1 million 2002 03 0.1 million.
The principal subsidiaries of the Company are listed in note 29 to the financial statements on page 57.
Donations Financial results and dividend During the year charitable donations amounting to 50,000 were made.
Details relating to charitable and other donations are set Group profit on ordinary activities after taxation was 61.5 out in the Business review on pages 10 and 11.
The Directors recommend a final dividend of 27.8p per donations were made.
ordinary share to shareholders on the register on 9 July 2004, making a total for the year of 41.0p, the cost of which would be 51.1 million, leaving a retained surplus of 10.4 million to be Tax status transferred to reserves.
The Company is not a close company within the meaning of the The Financial review on pages 12 to 15 analyses the results in Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988. more detail and sets out other financial information, including the Directors opinion on asset values.
Payments to suppliers Directors Details are set out in the Financial review on page 15.
Ms D A Nichols and Mr G D Connell were appointed as Nonexecutive Directors on 12 June 2003 and 1 October 2003 Substantial shareholdings respectively.
Following his appointment by the Board, Mr G D Connell is due to retire at the annual general meeting and offers Details are set out in the Shareholder information section on himself for election.
A resolution for his election will be proposed page 67. at the annual general meeting.
No Director has, or has had, a material interest, directly or Auditors indirectly, at any time during the year under review in any contract significant to the Companys business.
 LLP were appointed auditors until the conclusion of the fifteenth annual general meeting.
A resolution A list of all the Directors during the year is set out in the for their re-appointment upon the recommendation of the Audit emoluments table on page 22.
Further details relating to the Committee of the Board will be proposed at the annual general Directors and their service contracts are set out on pages 17, 20 meeting and the auditors have indicated their willingness to and 21 and details of the Directors interests in shares of the continue in office.
Company are given on pages 23 and 24.
28 Pennon Group Plc Appointed business South West Water Limited is required to publish additional financial information relating to the appointed business as water and sewerage undertaker in accordance with the Instrument of Appointment from the Secretary of State for the Environment.
A copy of this information will be available from 15 July 2004 upon application to the Company Secretary at Peninsula House, Rydon Lane, Exeter EX2 7HR.
Annual general meeting The fifteenth annual general meeting will be held at the Plymouth Pavilions, Millbay Road, Plymouth, Devon PL1 3LF on 29 July 2004 at 11.00am.
In addition to routine business, resolutions will be proposed at the annual general meeting to: n renew the existing authorities to issue a limited number of shares and to purchase up to 10% of the issued share capital: n seek authority to make political donations under the Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000: n elect Mr G D Connell as a Director of the Company: n seek approval to amend the rules of the Pennon Group Restricted Share Plan to permit the Company to make an award of up to 150% of participants basic salary in the calendar year 2004 the maximum being 75% at present because an award was not made the previous year due to the existence of unpublished price sensitive information.
Details of the resolutions are set out in the Notice of Meeting which is circulated separately to the Annual Report.
By Order of the Board K D WOODIER, Group General Counsel & Company Secretary 24 June 2004 Pennon Group Plc 29
