Board of Directors Ken Harvey Bob Baty, Chief Executive Colin Drummond, Chief Executive David Dupont Non-executive Chairman South West Water Limited Viridor Waste Limited Group Director of Finance Gerard Connell Kate Mortimer Dinah Nichols Senior independent Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director 16 Pennon Group Plc n Kenneth George Harvey BSc, CEng, FIEE 63 n Gerard Dominic Connell MA, FCA 46 Non-executive Chairman Senior independent Non-executive Director Was appointed on 1 March 1997.
He was formerly Was appointed on 1 October 2003.
He is currently Group chairman and chief executive of Norweb Plc.
He was Finance Director of Wincanton Plc.
Previously he was a chairman of National Grid Holdings in 1995 and was director of Hill Samuel and a managing director of previously deputy chairman of London Electricity and Bankers Trust and has held other corporate finance and earlier its engineering director.
He is also a nonbusiness development positions in the City and in executive chairman of Beaufort International Plc and a industry.
non-executive director of National Grid Transco Plc.
n Katharine Mary Hope Mortimer MA, BPhil 58 n Robert John Baty OBE, FREng, CEng, FICE, FCIWEM, Non-executive Director CCMI, ACIArb 60 Was appointed on 1 May 2000.
She is currently a Chief Executive, South West Water Limited freelance financial consultant, a member of the Crown Was appointed on 1 March 1996.
He was formerly Agents Foundation Council and a director of Crown engineering and scientific director of South West Water Agents Asset Management Limited and Crown Agents Services Limited having joined South West Water Financial Securities Limited.
She was formerly a director Authority in 1988.
Previously he held engineering and of N M Rothschild & Sons Limited, Director of Policy at the operational appointments with North West Water Securities and Investments Board, Chief Executive of Authority.
Walker Books and was a member of the Competition Commission between 1995 and 2001. n Colin Irwin John Hamilton Drummond MA, MBA, LTCL, CCMI 53 n Dinah Alison Nichols CB, BA Hons 60 Chief Executive, Viridor Waste Limited Non-executive Director Was appointed on 1 April 1992.
Prior to joining the Was appointed on 12 June 2003.
She was formerly Company he was a divisional chief executive of Coats Director General Environment at the Department for Viyella, having previously been corporate development Environment, Food and Rural Affairs and previously held director of Renold plc, a strategy consultant with the various senior appointments within Government Boston Consulting Group and an official of the Bank of departments including being Head of the Water England.
He was a member of the Governments Advisory Directorate during the period of water privatisation.
She Committee for Business in the Environment between is also a Crown Estate Commissioner, a non-executive 2001 and 2003. director of Shires Smaller Companies Plc, a board member of Toynbee Housing Association and the n David Jeremy Dupont MA, MBA 50 chairman of Toynbee Partnership Housing Association.
Group Director of Finance Was appointed on 2 March 2002.
He was formerly regulatory and finance director of South West Water Limited, having joined Pennon Group Plc then South West Water Plc in 1992 as strategic planning manager.
Previously he held business planning and development roles with Gateway Corporation.
Committees of the Board n Audit n Nomination n Company secretary and registered office G D Connell Chairman K G Harvey Chairman K D Woodier Ms K M H Mortimer G D Connell Peninsula House, Rydon Lane, Exeter EX2 7HR Ms D A Nichols Ms K M H Mortimer Registered in England No 2366640 Ms D A Nichols n Environment n Auditors B A O Hewett Chairman co-opted member n Remuneration  LLP R J Baty Ms K M H Mortimer Chairman Chartered Accountants C I J H Drummond G D Connell 31 Great George Street, Bristol BS1 5QD Ms D A Nichols n Registrars Lloyds TSB Registrars The Causeway, Worthing, West Sussex BN99 6DA Pennon Group Plc 17
