The approval of the senior executives share option schemes Unfunded Top-Up Scheme.
Different arrangements applied for expires in 2004 and it is proposed to extend the term of these Andrew Robb who retired from the board on 28th July 2003 and schemes on the same conditions.
During the year, the committee from the company on 31st December 2003. will be reviewing the role of share options within the Groups Service agreements remuneration arrangements.
It is the policy of the Remuneration Committee that executive The Group also operates a savings-related share option scheme for directors should have contracts terminable by no more than one all UK employees including the executive directors.
All existing executive directors have a contract was established in 1984 and was last renewed for ten years at the with a notice period of no more than one year.
This scheme has a value to the Details of the terms of the contracts of each of the executive company by aligning UK employee interests with those of directors are shown in the table set out below.
shareholders and provides a long-term vehicle to enable employees to benefit from growth in the companys share price.
The invitation In the event of termination by the company, other than for misconduct, to participate in this scheme made in June 2003 offered a three, each directors service agreement provides for a maximum payment five, or seven year contract with an exercise price set at a discount of 12 months pay and benefits.
In the case of Stuart Chambers, Iain of ten per cent on the applicable market price.
Lough and Pat Zito those benefits, which are specifically covered by this arrangement, include pension arrangements, private healthcare An all-employee share ownership plan now known as a share and the provision of a company car.
incentive plan was approved by shareholders at the annual general meeting in July 2000.
No invitations or awards have yet been made Details of the director seeking election and the directors retiring under this plan.
by rotation and seeking re-election are referred to on page 2 of the Directors Report.
Stuart Chambers has a service agreement, which Share ownership expires on 25th May 2016, unless termination occurs earlier in The board strongly believes in the value of employee share accordance with its provisions.
James Leng and Christine Morinownership in order to continually align the interests of employees Postel do not have service agreements, but do have letters of with those of shareholders.
The long-term incentive arrangements appointment for a term, which expire in the case of James Leng on have been specifically designed to encourage and facilitate share 10th September 2004 and in the case of Christine Morin-Postel on ownership and many of the Groups senior managers and 31st July 2006. employees have interests in the companys shares.
Policy on external appointments The executive directors and approximately 100 senior executives The committee believes that the company can benefit from its were given share ownership targets to achieve by 2002 or within executive directors holding non-executive appointments and also four years of appointment.
As at September 2002 all the executive believes that this represents a valuable opportunity in terms of directors had achieved their targets and over 80 per cent of all personal and professional development.
Such appointments are executives had exceeded their targets.
During 2003 the share subject to the approval of the board and it is the companys practice ownership targets were reviewed for the executive directors and that each executive director may only accept one such appointment, other senior executives.
As a result, the target for the group chief and that fees from that appointment may be retained by the executive was increased to 500,000 shares and for other executive executive director concerned.
Stuart Chambers holds a nondirectors to 300,000 with a target achievement date of June 2004. executive directorship with Associated British Ports Holdings PLC.
Increased targets were also implemented for senior executives.
The Andrew Robb held a role as a non-executive director with Alfred revised targets for the executive directors have now been met and McAlpine plc up to 22nd May 2003 and became a non-executive the committee intends to continue reviewing the progress against director of Kesa Electricals plc with effect from 1st June 2003. targets on a regular basis and setting new targets.
Neither Pat Zito nor Iain Lough hold non-executive directorships, Pensions but Wilson Bowden plc has announced that it has appointed Iain The company operates pension schemes for selected executives on Lough as one of its non-executive directors with effect from 1st a worldwide basis.
Pension schemes operate under various national September 2004. legislation.
In the UK, the company operates both defined benefit Policy on remuneration of the chairman and non-executive and defined contribution schemes.
directors All executive directors are entitled to a pension on retirement and The remuneration of the chairman is determined by the committee such pensions are calculated in a similar way to pensions provided and the remuneration of the non-executive directors is determined under the Pilkington Superannuation Scheme.
The Articles of Association contain a limit on the arrangements for the executive directors are affected by the Inland aggregate remuneration.
They are not eligible for performanceRevenue cap on approved pension benefits.
Their arrangements are related bonuses or awards under long-term incentive plans and no determined on an individual basis and are in part funded through pension contributions are made on their behalf.
Since June 2000 the Pilkington Superannuation Scheme or personal pension plans the annual fees for the chairman and the non-executive directors with the unapproved balance being provided through the Pilkington have been paid exclusively in shares.
Date of service agreement Notice period Unexpired term from 31st March 2004 from company to normal retirement date Stuart Chambers 3rd December 2002 12 months 12 years Iain Lough 7th February 2003 12 months 2 years 8 months Pat Zito 3rd December 2002 12 months 4 years 8 months Pilkington plc Directors report and accounts 2004 11
