Directors and advisers Sir Robin Saxby Warren East Tim Score Tudor Brown Mike Inglis Mike Muller Mark Templeton Mike Muller age 46 Chief Technology Officer Mike Muller was one of the founders of ARM.
Before joining the Company, he was responsible Tim Score age 44 for hardware strategy and the development Chief Financial Officer of portable products at Acorn Computers.
Tim Score joined ARM as Chief Financial Officer He was previously at Orbis Computers.
At ARM he and director in March 2002.
Before joining ARM, was Vice President, Marketing from 1992 to 1996 he was Finance Director of Rebus Group Limited.
Sir Robin Saxby age 58 and Executive Vice President, Business Development He was previously Group Finance Director of Chairman until October 2000 when he was appointed Chief William Baird plc, Group Controller at LucasVarity Sir Robin Saxby was involved in founding ARM Technology Officer.
In October 2001, he was plc and Group Financial Controller at BTR plc.
and joined the Company full-time in February appointed to the board.
He is a non-executive director of National 1991 as President and Chief Executive Officer, Express Group plc.
Prior to Mark Templeton age 45 ARM, he was with ES2, Motorola Semiconductors General Manager, Physical IP Tudor Brown age 46 and Henderson Security Systems Limited.
He has Mark Templeton joined ARM as General Manager, Chief Operating Officer also served as Chairman of the Open Physical IP in December 2004 as a result of Tudor Brown was one of the founders of ARM.
Microprocessor Initiative Advisory Group, which ARMs acquisition of Artisan.
He co-founded Before joining the Company, he was Principal advised on collaborative R&D activity within Artisan in 1991 and was President and Chief Engineer at Acorn Computers, where he worked Europe.
He holds a BEng in Electronics and Executive Officer for 13 years.
He has been on the ARM R&D programme.
At ARM, he was is a chartered engineer, Hon FIEE and FREng.
instrumental in driving growth in the IP market Engineering Director and Chief Technical Officer He has received an honorary doctorate from through a combination of technical and business from 1993: in October 2000, he was appointed the University of Liverpool where he is a innovations.
His vision of developing an open Executive Vice President, Global Development and Visiting Professor, has honorary doctorates from community of resources for IC designers in October 2001, he was appointed to the board Loughborough University and the University of including foundries, EDA vendors, design service as Chief Operating Officer.
Essex, and has received the Faraday Medal of companies and IP providers has proven to be the IEE Institute of Electrical Engineers.
He a significant contribution to the IC design and Mike Inglis age 45 was knighted in the 2002 New Years Honours manufacturing industries.
Before co-founding Executive Vice President, Marketing List.
He currently serves as Deputy President of Artisan, he held executive positions with Silicon Mike Inglis joined ARM as Executive Vice the IEE, where he is also a trustee.
He is a nonCompiler Systems and Mentor Graphics.
President, Marketing in June 2002, and executive director of Glotel plc.
was appointed to the board in August that year.
Simon Segars age 37 Before joining ARM, he led the UK Communications Warren East age 43 Executive Vice President, Worldwide Sales and High Technology team at A. T. Kearney Chief Executive Officer Simon Segars joined the ARM board in January Management Consultants and held a number Warren East joined ARM in 1994.
He was appointed Executive Vice President, of senior operational and strategic marketing consulting business and was Vice President, Worldwide Sales in January 2004.
He was positions at Motorola.
He previously worked in Business Operations from February 1998.
In previously EVP of Engineering.
He joined ARM in marketing, design and consultancy with Texas October 2000 he was appointed to the board as early 1991 and has worked on most of the ARM Instruments, Fairchild Camera and Instruments Chief Operating Officer and in October 2001 was CPU products since then.
He led the development and BIS Macintosh.
He gained his initial industrial appointed Chief Executive Officer.
Before joining of the ARM7 and ARM9 Thumb families.
He experience with GEC Telecommunications.
He is a ARM he was with Texas Instruments.
He is a holds a number of patents in the field of non-executive director of Superscape Group plc.
He is a chartered engineer and an MCIM.
18 ARM Annual report and accounts 2004 Simon Segars Peter Cawdron Doug Dunn Lucio L. Lanza Philip Rowley John Scarisbrick Jeremy Scudamore Peter Cawdron age 61 Senior independent non-executive director Lucio L. Lanza age 60 Peter Cawdron joined the ARM board in March Independent non-executive director 1998.
From 1983 to 1997 he worked for Grand Lucio L. Lanza joined ARM as a non-executive John Scarisbrick age 52 Metropolitan plc, where he served as Group director in December 2004 following ARMs Independent non-executive director Strategy Development Director.
He was previously acquisition of Artisan.
He was previously a director John Scarisbrick joined the ARM board in August Chief Financial Officer and a director of DArcyof Artisan, from 1996, and became Chairman in 2001.
He had previously worked for 25 years MacManus & Masius Worldwide, Inc. and before 1997.
He is currently Managing Director of Lanza at Texas Instruments TI in a variety of roles that a member of the corporate finance team at techVentures, an early stage venture capital and including as Senior Vice President responsible S. G. Warburg & Co. Ltd.
He qualified as a chartered investment firm, which he founded in January for TI's $5 billion ASP chip business, President of accountant at Peat, Marwick, Mitchell & Co. in 2001.
In 1990, he joined US Venture Partners, TI Europe and leading the team that created 1966.
He is Chairman of Capital Radio plc and is a venture capital firm, as a venture partner and TI's DSP business in Houston, Texas.
Before joining a non-executive director of the following UK was a general partner.
From 1990 to 1995, he TI, he worked in electronics systems design roles listed companies, Compass Group plc, The Capita was an independent consultant to companies in at Rank Radio International and Marconi Space Group plc, Christian Salvesen plc, Arla Foods UK the semiconductor, communications and computerand Defence Systems in the UK.
He is Chairman plc, Punch Taverns plc and Johnston Press plc.
aided design industries, including Cadence Design of Cambridge Positioning Systems Ltd and is a Systems, Inc. and, from 1986 to 1989, was Chief non-executive director of CSR plc, SoIM, Intrinsity Doug Dunn age 60 Executive Officer of EDA Systems, Inc.
Independent non-executive director on the board of directors of PDF Solutions, Inc. Doug Dunn joined the ARM board in December a provider of technologies to improve Jeremy Scudamore age 57 1998.
He was previously President and Chief  yields.
He holds Independent non-executive director Executive Officer of ASM Lithography Holding N. V. a doctorate in electronic engineering from Jeremy Scudamore joined the ARM board in until his retirement in December 2004.
He is Chief Executive Officer of Avecia Before joining ASML, he was Chairman and Group formerly the specialty chemicals business Chief Executive Officer of the Consumer Electronics Philip Rowley age 52 of Zeneca and previously held senior management Division of Royal Philips Electronics N. V. and a Independent non-executive director positions both in the UK and overseas with member of the board.
He was previously Philip Rowley joined the ARM board in January Zeneca and ICI.
He is a board member of the Managing Director of the Plessey and GEC 2005.
He is President and CEO of AOL Europe, Chemical Industries Association and England's Semiconductor divisions and held several the interactive services, web brands, internet North West Science Council and is also a member engineering and management positions at technologies and e-commerce provider.
He is a of the DTI's Innovation and Growth Team for the Motorola.
He was awarded an OBE in 1992. qualified chartered accountant and was Group Chemical Industry.
He is a non-executive director of Finance Director of Kingfisher plc from 1998 ST Microelectronics N. V. Sendo Holdings plc to 2001.
Prior to that his roles included Executive and Soitec S. A.
Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of EMI Music Worldwide.
ARM Holdings plc Stockbrokers Registrars Legal advisers Secretary and registered office Morgan Stanley & Co. International Lloyds TSB Registrars UK Law Patricia Alsop Limited The Causeway Linklaters 110 Fulbourn Road 25 Cabot Square Worthing One Silk Street Cambridge CB1 9NJ Canary Wharf West Sussex BN99 6DA London EC2Y 8HQ United Kingdom London E14 4QA United Kingdom United Kingdom United Kingdom Tel: 44 0 870 600 3984 Registered number 2548782 US Law Hoare Govett Limited Despositary Davis Polk & Wardwell Auditors 250 Bishopsgate The Bank of New York 99 Gresham Street  LLP London EC2M 4AA 101 Barclays Street London EC2V 7NG Abacus House United Kingdom New York United Kingdom Castle Park New York 10286 Cambridge CB3 0AN United States of America United Kingdom ARM Annual report and accounts 2004 19 Corporate governance UK GAAP Compliance with the Combined Code for reviewing and approving the annual report and accounts and the The Group complies and complied throughout 2004 with the new 2003 quarterly reports, and for ensuring that they present a balanced Combined Code appended to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services assessment of the Groups position, lies with the board.
The board Authority, with the exception only that the board does not comprise delegates day-to-day responsibility for managing the Group to the a majority of independent non-executive directors.
The board has executive committee and has a number of other committees, details considered the overall balance between executive and non-executive of which are set out below.
directors and believes that the number of executive directors is fully justified by the contribution made by each of them.
To increase the During the year, the board undertook a formal evaluation of its own size of the board further following the appointments made in late performance, processes, committees, composition, skills and director December 2004 and early January 2005 to meet this particular provision induction, facilitated by external consultants.
It is intended that this is not considered appropriate.
evaluation will be reviewed and updated by the board each year.
The Group has a commitment to training and all directors are encouraged Composition and operation of the board to attend suitable training courses.
A full, formal induction programme The board currently comprises seven executive directors, six independent is arranged for all new directors, tailored to their specific requirements, non-executive directors and the Chairman.
The executive directors are the aim of which is to introduce them to key executives across the the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Operating Officer, the Chief business and to enhance their knowledge and understanding of the Financial Officer, the Chief Technology Officer, the Executive Vice Group and its activities.
President, Marketing, the General Manager, Physical IP division and the Executive Vice President, Worldwide Sales, all of whom play significant Major shareholders are encouraged to meet and talk to the Chairman, roles in the day-to-day management of the business.
The six nonthe senior independent director and other non-executive directors at executive directors are independent in character and judgement and any time.
The Chairman and the senior independent director both had there are no relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect the dialogue with major shareholders during the year.
The non-executive directors provide a blend of experience and considerable knowledge to the boards deliberations.
The board has adopted guidelines for individual directors to obtain Peter Cawdron, who is the Senior Independent Director and the independent professional advice at the Group's expense in appropriate financial expert, has extensive knowledge of UK public group issues and circumstances and all members of the board have access to the advice a strong financial background.
Doug Dunn and Jeremy Scudamore both of the Company Secretary.
have experience of running large companies in allied industries.
Lucio Lanza and John Scarisbrick both have a broad understanding of the Executive committee Groups technology and the practices of major US-based technology The executive committee is responsible for implementing the strategy companies.
Philip Rowley has a strong financial background and set by the board.
Among other things, this committee is responsible for knowledge of internet technologies and e-commerce.
approval of standard licence agreements, ensuring that the Groups budget and forecasts are properly prepared, that targets are met, and The board had six scheduled meetings during 2004 which were all generally managing and developing the business within the overall attended by all the directors, with the exception of the January budget.
Variations from the budget and changes in strategy require meeting when Doug Dunn was absent, and the July, November and approval from the main board of the Group.
The executive committee, December meetings when Jeremy Scudamore was unable to attend.
which meets monthly, comprises the executive directors excluding The Remuneration Committee met on two occasions with all members the Chairman and the directors of ARM Limited, and meetings are present, with the exception of Jeremy Scudamore for the December attended by the Company Secretary and other senior operational meeting.
There is a procedure in place for additional meetings on personnel, as appropriate.
any pertinent issues to be organised as necessary during the year.
In addition, the Chairman held two meetings with the non-executive Audit committee directors without the executives present and the non-executive The audit committee has written terms of reference which were directors met on one occasion without the Chairman being present, updated during the year to reflect the requirements of the Combined to appraise the Chairman's performance.
The committee has responsibility for, among other things, monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the The board is responsible for setting the Companys strategic aims and Company and any formal announcements relating to the Companys ensuring that the necessary financial and human resources are in place financial performance, and for reviewing any significant financial for it to meet its objectives.
The board has a formal schedule of matters reporting judgements contained in them: reviewing the Companys specifically reserved for its decision, which includes the approval of internal controls and risk management systems: making major business matters, policies, operating and capital expenditure recommendations to the board in relation to the appointment, budgets, and ensuring high standards of corporate governance are remuneration and resignation or dismissal of the Groups external maintained.
The board is also responsible for sanctioning unusual auditors: reviewing and monitoring the external auditors independence commercial arrangements such as atypical licence agreements and and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process: developing investments.
and implementing policy on the engagement of the external auditors to supply non-audit services: and considering compliance with legal Before each meeting, the board is furnished with information in a form requirements, accounting standards, the Listing Rules of the Financial and of a quality appropriate for it to discharge its duties concerning the Services Authority and the requirements of the Securities and Exchange state of the business and its performance.
20 ARM Annual report and accounts 2004 The committee also keeps under review the value for money of the appointments of Jeremy Scudamore and Philip Rowley, the services audit and the nature, extent and cost-effectiveness of the non-audit of external search consultancies were used.
services provided by the auditors.
The committee has discussed with the external auditors their independence, and has received and Internal control risk management reviewed written disclosures from the external auditors as required by The board of directors has overall responsibility for ensuring that the the Auditing Standards Boards Statement of Auditing Standard No.
610, Group maintains an adequate system of internal control and risk Communication of matters to those charged with governance, as well management and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The board has as those required by the US Independence Standards Boards Standard reviewed the system of internal control including internal financial No.
1, Independence discussions with audit committees.
Such systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the possibility of the auditors objectivity and independence being the risks inherent in a fast-moving, high-technology business and can, compromised, the Groups tax consulting work is carried out by the therefore, provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against auditors only in cases where they are best suited to perform the work, material misstatement or loss.
for example, tax compliance and advisory work relating to the audit and in connection with the acquisition of Artisan Components, Inc.
In other The Company appointed a risk review committee in 2003 consisting of cases, the Group has engaged another independent firm of accountants the Chief Technology Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the Financial to perform tax consulting work.
The Group does not normally award Controller and the Company Secretary.
The committee receives and general consulting work to the auditors.
From time to time, however, reviews quarterly reports from business unit managers and corporate the Group will engage the auditors to perform work on matters relating functions and its findings are considered and challenged by the to human resources and royalty audits.
The Group may also seek executive committee.
The committee is responsible for identifying professional advice from another firm of independent consultants and evaluating risks which may impact on the Groups strategic and or its legal advisers.
business objectives and for monitoring the progress of actions designed to mitigate such risks.
The risk review committee reports formally to the The current audit committee comprises Peter Cawdron Chairman, executive committee once a year and, in turn, the executive committee Doug Dunn, John Scarisbrick, Jeremy Scudamore and Philip Rowley, reports to the board once a year.
who joined the committee on his appointment as a director on 4 January 2005.
Peter Cawdron is the financial expert as defined in The Company appointed a disclosure committee in 2003, in compliance the Sarbanes Oxley Act 2002 and Philip Rowley is also qualified to with the Sarbanes Oxley Act 2002.
The committee, which comprises the fulfill this role.
The committee met on four occasions during 2004, once Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the Financial Controller, before the release of the preliminary announcement of the 2003 results the General Counsel and the Company Secretary, is responsible for to review the results and audit findings, once to review the half-year ensuring that disclosures made by the Company to its shareholders and interim results, once in connection with the Artisan acquisition and once the investment community are accurate, complete and fairly present before the year end to discuss the scope and planning of the audit of the Companys financial condition in all material respects.
All members were present at each meeting, with the exception of Doug Dunn for the January meeting, and Jeremy In addition, there is a series of interconnected meetings that span the Scudamore for the July and November meetings.
The external auditors, Group from the weekly management meeting chaired by the Chief Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and the Company Executive Officer, and the weekly business review meeting chaired by Secretary attend all meetings in order to ensure that all the information the Vice President, Operations, the purpose of which is to monitor and required by the audit committee for it to operate effectively is available.
control all main business activities, sales forecasts and other matters The representatives of the Groups external auditors meet with the requiring approval that have arisen within the week, to the board audit committee at least once a year without any executive directors meetings of the Group.
Each month an operations meeting, chaired being present.
by the Chief Operating Officer and attended by managers representing different functions across the Group, is held to review key performance Remuneration committee indicators such as revenues, orders booked, costs, product and project A description of the composition, responsibility and operation of the delivery dates and levels of defects found in products in development.
remuneration committee is set out in the remuneration report on Once a quarter, the annual operational plans for the different disciplines page 27. within the Group are reviewed at the operations meeting.
The outputs of the weekly business review meeting and the monthly operations Nomination committee meeting are reviewed by the executive committee which, in turn, The nomination committee leads the process for board appointments raises relevant issues with the board of the Group.
These processes for and makes recommendations to the board in relation to new identifying, evaluating and managing the significant business, operational, appointments of executive and non-executive directors and on board financial, compliance and other risks facing the Group have been in composition and balance.
It is chaired by Sir Robin Saxby, and the other place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of the members are Peter Cawdron, Doug Dunn, John Scarisbrick and Lucio annual report and financial statements.
They accord with the guidance Lanza, who joined the committee on his appointment as a director on on internal control issued in September 1999 by the Internal Control 23 December 2004.
The nomination committee met on two occasions Working Party of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England with all members present, with the exception of Doug Dunn for the and Wales.
The Committee considers the roles and capabilities required for each new appointment, based on an evaluation of the skills and experience of the existing directors.
In relation to the ARM Annual report and accounts 2004 21 Corporate governance UK GAAP continued As required by the Combined Code, the audit committee has considered Health and safety whether it would be appropriate for the Group to have its own financial Although ARM operates in an industry and in environments which internal audit function and has concluded that, taking account of its are considered low risk from a health and safety perspective, the safety relatively small number of employees and a high degree of centralisation of employees, contractors and visitors is a priority in all ARM workplaces in the way the business is run, this is not appropriate at present.
Continual improvement in safety management systems Committee has confirmed this view to the board.
The Group does, is achieved through detailed risk assessments to identify and eliminate however, have an operational internal audit function that audits the potential hazards and occupational health assessments for employees.
Groups business and product project management processes.
These The UK offices are covered by a health and safety committee, fire processes are documented, maintained and continuously improved, wardens and first aiders.
Each year the GoodCorporation verification for effectiveness and efficiency.
In addition, they are audited externally ensures that the criteria in its charter are met.
The UK offices are also by independent auditors for compliance with ISO 9001:2000. audited by the British Safety Council, and the Company achieved three stars in the 2004 audit.
Other offices have similar cover dependent on Corporate social and ethical policies local needs, practices and customs.
While the Group is accountable to its shareholders, it also endeavours to take into account the interests of all its stakeholders, including its Relationships with shareholders employees, customers and suppliers and the local communities and The board makes considerable efforts to establish and maintain good environments in which it operates.
The Chief Financial Officer takes relationships with institutional shareholders.
The Group has a regular responsibility for matters relating to corporate, social and ethical policies dialogue with institutional shareholders throughout the year other than and these matters are considered at board level.
A corporate social during close periods.
The board also encourages communication with responsibility report is on pages 23 to 24 of this report and also on private investors and part of the Groups website is dedicated to the Groups website www.
providing accurate and timely information for all investors including comprehensive information about the business, its Partners and products, The board codified various existing policies into a Code of Business including all press releases.
At present, around 20 analysts write Conduct and Ethics, which was adopted in 2004 and is available on the research reports on the Group.
The Group publishes telephone numbers Group's website.
on its website enabling shareholders to listen to earnings presentations and audio conference calls with analysts.
Members of the board, As a company whose primary business is the licensing of IP, employees including some of the non-executive directors attend the annual are highly valued and their rights and dignity are respected.
The Group analysts day and develop an understanding of the views of major strives for equal opportunities for all its employees and does not tolerate shareholders through any direct contact that may be initiated by any harassment of, or discrimination against, its staff.
In 2003 ARM was shareholders or through analysts' and brokers' briefings and feedback named Employer of the Year in the UK National Business Awards.
The from the Group's financial PR advisers who obtain feedback from Group also endeavours to be honest and fair in its relationships with its analysts and brokers following investor roadshows.
During 2004, the customers and suppliers and to be a good corporate citizen respecting Chairman had meetings with major shareholders to discuss governance the laws of the countries in which it operates.
and strategy, particularly in relation to the acquisition of Artisan Components, Inc. and communicated the views of such shareholders Environmental policies to the board.
All shareholders may register to receive the Groups press The Groups premises are composed entirely of offices since it has releases via the internet.
Staff make use of computer-aided design tools to generate IP.
This involves neither hazardous substances nor The board actively encourages participation at the Annual General complex waste emissions.
With the exception of Development Systems Meeting, scheduled for 25 April 2005, which is the principal forum products, the majority of products sold by the Group comprise for dialogue with private shareholders.
A presentation will be made microprocessor core designs that are delivered electronically to customers.
outlining recent developments in the business and an open questionand-answer session will follow to enable shareholders to ask questions The Group recognises the increasing importance of environmental issues about the business in general.
and these are discussed at board level where the Chief Financial Officer takes responsibility for them.
A number of initiatives in this area have By order of the board continued in 2004.
The Groups environmental policy is published on its website.
An environmental action plan is implemented through various initiatives.
These include monitoring resource consumption and waste creation so that targets set for improvement are realistic and meaningful, ensuring existing controls continue to operate satisfactorily Patricia Alsop Company Secretary and working with suppliers to improve environmental management along the supply chain.
Energy usage and resource consumption data is published in the Groups corporate social responsibility report on its website.
22 ARM Annual report and accounts 2004 Corporate social responsibility UK GAAP ARM considers itself to be a good corporate citizen.
The Group strives This support is sometimes financial, sometimes in the form of providing to reduce the impact it makes on the environment and to increase employees time and skills.
ARM also connects with the local business its connections with the communities in which it operates.
We community and is a founding member of The Learning Collaboration also work hard to connect and considerable efforts are made to TLC within the Cambridge business community in the UK.
The TLC communicate effectively with the Groups shareholders, Partners, enables member companies to pool resources to collaborate to suppliers and employees.
learn, improving the quality, availability and value of training and related services.
The Group is a corporate member of the Institute of Business Ethics IBE and was one of the first members of the GoodCorporation, which Supporting education.
ARMs support for education stretches from was founded in 2001 to help organisations to develop, manage and funding an information technology centre at a UK junior school, monitor their corporate responsibilities.
Based on principles set out by to working on specific projects with students at the Judge Institute, the IBE, the GoodCorporation charter enables companies to measure Cambridge Universitys business school.
The Group has helped four how effective they are in achieving these responsibilities.
ARMs schools near its Cambridge, UK offices and one near its Maidenhead, commitment to the charter includes being verified against a 62-point UK office to achieve specialist school status: the Group supports the charter standard each year covering the fair treatment and protection of Engineering Education Scheme, Young Engineers and contributes to its employees, customers, suppliers, shareholders, the community and the funding to train the UK team for the International Maths Olympics.
This independent verification process is repeated each ARMs University Programme engages universities worldwide, designing year and, during 2004, the Group successfully retained its membership.
course material, providing technical seminars, donating equipment and In addition, ARM is listed on the FTSE4Good Index, is a member of software and offering assistance directly to students.
ARM has worked Business in the Community, and takes part in its Business in the with a number of engineering schools internationally, including Seoul Environment Index and Corporate Responsibility Index each year.
National University, Carnegie-Mellon U. S., Southeast University China, and the National Institute of Technology Karnataka India.
In addition, The environment the Group has relationships with a number of UK universities.
The The Groups business focuses on designing IP which enables devices Chairman, for example, is a visiting professor at Liverpool and the Group to use less power and, as a result, to be more environmentally friendly.
has worked with Loughborough to design a degree course which is Its activities do not produce harmful waste or emissions and the Ethical based on the ARM architecture.
Investment Research Service EIRIS grades ARM as an environmentally low impact business.
Nevertheless, environmental performance is Supporting good causes.
ARM encourages employees to support their monitored to enable targets to be set for reducing paper usage and local communities.
Some are school governors, some help children increasing the amount recycled and controlling water consumption.
improve their reading skills, others support charities.
Employees at the A document output study has been established to examine paper Groups Austin, Texas, office have, for example, helped with blood drives consumption within the Group and to consider how an extension of its and have also collected food and toys for underprivileged families.
electronic document management systems might reduce the need for The Group doubles the efforts of employees who raise money for paper documents.
The Group can also demonstrate an increase in paper approved charities by matching the funds they raise with the exception and packaging recycling and an improvement in the facilities in place to of political donations or other non-approved causes.
Charities for promote recycling of more materials.
Energy usage is monitored closely cancer research, to benefit needy children, to support sufferers of to understand how it is used, which aids the setting of new targets.
multiple sclerosis, mental illness and Parkinsons disease have been Renewable energy sources are also being investigated.
There are some of the beneficiaries of this scheme.
In 2004 a payroll giving recycling bins for aluminium cans in the majority of the Groups offices, scheme was introduced for employees in the UK to enable them and air conditioning systems run on less environmentally damaging to take advantage of UK tax incentives on charitable giving.
The supply of company cars is discouraged and in a group of approximately 1,200 people, there are less than 30 company cars.
In 2004 ARM became a sponsor of the Princes Trust There is a sustainable transport team within the business looking at Technology Leadership Group and has participated in events targeted ways in which impact on the environment can be reduced.
Initiatives at widening the knowledge and understanding of technology and introduced so far include encouraging employees to cycle to work contributed expertise to the technology networking events.
A team through the provision of improved facilities at the Groups offices, or to of five employees from ARM successfully completed the Princes Trust share car journeys, or use public transport.
Business travel is measured, Sahara Challenge raising 12,500 for the Trust.
and ways in which travel can be reduced while still maintaining our very effective partnership network, are under constant review, particularly Connecting with employees through the provision of video conferencing equipment.
The Group will ARMs aim is to attract and retain the best people available by being work closely with the British Safety Council in 2005 to establish ways a good and ethical employer.
The skills, knowledge and motivation to formalise our environmental objectives and performance.
of employees are crucial to ARMs success.
The Group promotes and supports individuals and teams through on-the-job and formal training, Connecting with local communities coaching and mentoring.
Every effort is made to keep employees well The Group aims to be a good corporate citizen of the communities in informed about the Company and matters that affect them.
This is done which it operates and supports local initiatives and fundraising.
In the through both formal and informal communications methods across all UK, the focus has been on educational projects particularly for pupils offices worldwide.
The Group also carries out a regular, comprehensive, who are interested in mathematics, science, IT and business subjects.
global opinion survey to monitor employee views and to provide ARM Annual report and accounts 2004 23 Corporate social responsibility UK GAAP continued valuable input on how the Company operates.
The Employee Assistance Health and safety Programme helps staff and their families with issues such as care for The safety of employees, contractors and visitors is a priority.
ARM children or elderly relatives, legal and health advice, and stress or measures and analyses all accidents and near misses there has been other counselling.
only one RIDDOR reportable accident in the Companys history and by monitoring patterns or trends potential problems can be identified and Equal opportunities.
The Group needs highly-qualified staff and does avoided.
The Group is verified by GoodCorporation each year to ensure that its health and safety requirements are met and in addition its UK not see age, colour, disability, ethnic origin, gender, political or other opinion, religion or sexual orientation as a barrier to employment.
offices are audited by the British Safety Council.
In the UK, there is a health and safety committee and each office has fire wardens and first If any member of staff becomes disabled, their needs and abilities are assessed with a view to them continuing in their current role.
Overseas offices have the health and safety cover required by local legislation.
Health and safety is high on the agenda and there has impossible, every effort is made to offer them alternative employment.
been an increase in the amount of communication with employees on occupational health issues and other health and safety issues through Benefits.
Employees receive benefits including private medical healthcare: health, travel and life insurance: pensions 401k plan: different mediums such as intranet pages and company-wide magazine articles.
During 2004 further health and safety training has been sabbaticals: flexible working: stock options and a Save As You Earn share scheme.
The Group supports family friendly initiatives and offers provided to line managers to assist in the development of a safety culture within the organisation.
child care vouchers for UK tax payers.
Flexible working arrangements are available for all employees, regardless of whether they have children.
Understanding and acceptance of national and cultural diversity is encouraged by giving employees the opportunity to work in offices other than in their home country.
Accessibility The Group endeavours to provide access to all whether through building design to allow easy disabled access or through improving access to our website for those with visual impairments.
24 ARM Annual report and accounts 2004 Directors report UK GAAP The directors present their annual report and audited financial such as the OptimoDE technology and ARM cores based on symmetric statements for the year ended 31 December 2004. multiprocessor and superscalar technology.
In addition, improved security is being developed through the TrustZone and SecurJC technologies.
Principal activities and review of business The principal activities of the Group and its subsidiaries are the licensing, The Group incurred R&D costs of 50.1 million in 2004, compared with marketing, research and development of RISC-based microprocessors 48.1 million in 2003, which have been charged to the profit and loss and systems.
The nature of the global semiconductor industry is such account.
that most of its business is conducted overseas and, to serve its customers better, the Group has sales offices around the world.
These Donations include five offices in the US and offices in Shanghai and Beijing PR During the year the Group made donations for charitable purposes China: Tokyo, Japan: Seoul, South Korea: Taipei, Taiwan: Kfar Saba, Israel: of 33,327 2003: 42,486.
The total amounts given for each such Paris, France: Munich, Germany and Bangalore, India.
Design offices are purpose were: based in Cambridge, Maidenhead, Sheffield, and Blackburn, UK: Sophia Antipolis, France: Leuven, Belgium: Aachen, Germany: Austin, Texas and Local Cambridge charities 7,919 Sunnyvale, California in the US and Bangalore, India.
More information Promotion of education 11,979 about the business is set out in the Chairmans statement on pages 4 Wider understanding of science, maths to 5, the Chief Executive Officers review on pages 6 to 13, and the and information technology 9,180 operating and financial review on pages 14 to 17.
Medical research 3,478 Relief of poverty 771 Future developments The Groups stated objective is to establish a new global RISC The Group does not make any political donations.
ARM employees are architecture standard for the embedded microprocessor market.
The encouraged to offer their time and expertise to help charities and other directors believe that to achieve this goal it is important to expand the groups in need.
The Group operates a gift matching system for number and range of potential customers for its technology.
intends to enter into licence agreements with new customers and to increase the range of new technology supplied to existing customers.
Impact of International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS Relationships will continue to be established with third-party tools and During the year, the Group continued to consider the impact that software vendors to ensure that their products will operate with the implementing IFRS in 2005 will have on its financial statements and ARM architecture.
As a result of its position as an emerging standard in reporting functions.
The project is ongoing and is well progressed, its industry, the Group is presented with many opportunities to acquire and the Group continually monitors the new announcements being made complementary technology or resources.
It continues to review these by the IASB.
The Group has performed analyses of the impact of the opportunities, and in August 2004, the Group acquired Axys Design current standards, and has accordingly begun to maintain its internal Automation, Inc. which provides integrated processor and system financial reporting in 2005 in accordance with IFRS.
The key areas modelling and simulation solutions.
In December 2004 the Group which will affect the financial statements and accounting policies are acquired Artisan Components, Inc. now known as ARM Physical IP, Inc. derivatives and financial instruments, revenue recognition, intangibles, which provides physical IP components for the design and manufacture share-based payments, acquisition accounting and accounting for R&D of integrated circuits.
The first results to be announced in accordance with IFRS will be the Groups interim statement for the six months to 30 June 2005.
Going concern After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation Directors in the year that the Group and Company have adequate resources to continue The following served as directors of the Company during the year in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, ended 31 December 2004: they have adopted the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Sir Robin Saxby KBE Chairman Warren East Chief Executive Officer Dividends Tim Score Chief Financial Officer The directors recommend a final dividend in respect of the year to Tudor Brown Chief Operating Officer 31 December 2004 of 0.42 pence per share which, subject to approval Mike Muller Chief Technology Officer at the Annual General Meeting on 25 April 2005, will be paid on 6 May Mike Inglis Executive Vice President, Marketing 2005 to shareholders on the register at 1 April 2005.
This final dividend, Mark Templeton General Manager, Physical IP division: combined with the interim dividend of 0.28 pence per share paid appointed 23 December 2004 during the year, makes a total of 0.7 pence per share for the year Peter Cawdron independent non-executive, Senior Independent 2003: 0.6 pence.
Director, financial expert Doug Dunn OBE independent non-executive Research and development R&D Lucio Lanza non-executive: appointed 23 December 2004 R&D is of major importance and, as part of its research activities, the John Scarisbrick independent non-executive Group collaborates closely with universities worldwide.
Key areas of Jeremy Scudamore independent non-executive: product development for 2005 include the development of further low appointed 26 April 2004 power, high performance engines for both data and control applications, Lawrence Tesler independent non-executive: resigned 26 April 2004 ARM Annual report and accounts 2004 25 Directors report UK GAAP continued Election and re-election of directors Policy on payment of creditors Jeremy Scudamore, Philip Rowley and Simon Segars were each The Groups policy is to pay suppliers before the end of the month appointed to the board since the Annual General Meeting in 2004. following receipt of the invoice, unless terms have been specifically In accordance with Article 83 of the Group's Articles of Association, agreed in advance.
This policy and any specific terms agreed with they are standing for election at the Annual General Meeting.
suppliers are made known to the appropriate staff and to suppliers on request.
Trade creditors of the Group at 31 December 2004 were In accordance with the Article 79 of the Group's Articles of Association equivalent to 26 days purchases for the Group 2003: 23 days and Sir Robin Saxby, Mike Muller, Tudor Brown, Doug Dunn, John Scarisbrick nil days for the Company in both years.
and Tim Score will retire by rotation at the Companys Annual General Meeting AGM and will seek re-election at that meeting.
See pages Annual General Meeting AGM 18 to 19 for the directors biographies.
The AGM will be held at the Groups offices in Cambridge, UK, on 25 April 2005 at 2pm.
A presentation will be made at this meeting Directors shareholdings in the Company outlining recent developments in the business.
The Group will convey The interests of the directors in the Companys ordinary shares of the results of proxy votes cast at the AGM.
Shareholders are invited to 0.05 pence, all of which were beneficially held, are disclosed in the submit written questions in advance of the meeting.
Questions should remuneration report on page 27. be sent to The Secretary, ARM Holdings plc, 110 Fulbourn Road, Cambridge CB1 9NJ.
Substantial shareholdings The directors are aware of the following substantial interests in the A resolution to reappoint  LLP as auditors to the issued share capital of the Company as at 16 February 2005: Group will be proposed at the AGM.
Percentage of issued A separate notice of AGM and proxy card will be sent to all shareholders.
ordinary share capital Capital Group Companies 10.2% By order of the board Fidelity Investments 5.3% Legal and General Investment Management 3.7% Janus Capital Corporation 3.6% American Century Investments 3.3% Threadneedle Asset Management 3.1% Patricia Alsop Company Secretary Save for the above, the Company has not been notified, as at 16 February 2005, of any material interest of 3% or more or any non-material interest exceeding 10% of the issued share capital of the Company.
Disabled persons The Group has a strong demand for highly qualified staff and, as such, disability is not seen to be an inhibitor to employment or career development.
In the event of any staff becoming disabled while with the Group, their needs and abilities would be assessed and the Group would, where possible, seek to offer alternative employment to them if they were no longer able to continue in their current role.
Employee involvement As the Group is an IP enterprise, it is vital that all levels of staff are consulted and involved in its decision-making processes.
To this end, internal conferences and communications meetings are held regularly which involve employees from all parts of the Group in discussions on future strategy and developments.
Furthermore, employee share ownership is encouraged and all staff are able to participate in one of the Groups schemes to encourage share ownership.
The Group has an informal and delegated organisational structure.
It does not presently operate any collective agreements with any trade unions.
26 ARM Annual report and accounts 2004 Remuneration report UK GAAP Remuneration committee The remuneration committee has responsibility for determining and agreeing with the board, within agreed terms of reference, the Groups policy for the remuneration of the executive directors and the individual remuneration packages for the executive directors including basic salary and annual bonuses, the level and terms of grants of options and awards and the terms of any performance conditions to apply to the exercise of such options and awards, pension rights and any compensation payments.
Where the remuneration committee considers it appropriate, the committee will make recommendations in relation to the remuneration of senior management.
The committee also liaises with the board in relation to the preparation of the boards annual report to shareholders on the Groups policy on the remuneration of executive directors and in particular the directors remuneration report, as required by the Companies Act 1985 as amended, the Combined Code and the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
The committee is chaired by Doug Dunn, and Peter Cawdron, John Scarisbrick and Jeremy Scudamore are members.
The committee met three times during 2004 and all meetings were attended by all the committee members, with the exception of the July and December meetings when Jeremy Scudamore was unable to attend.
Given their diverse experience, the four independent non-executive directors are able to offer a balanced view with respect to remuneration issues for the Group.
The committee has access to professional advice from external advisers, generally appointed by Bill Parsons, the Executive Vice President, Human Resources, in the furtherance of its duties and makes use of such advice.
During 2004, Linklaters, Watson Wyatt, Deloitte & Touche and the Executive Vice President, Human Resources, have provided advice or services to the committee.
Linklaters provided legal services and Watson Wyatt provided pension advice to the Group during this period.
The Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer and the Executive Vice President, Human Resources, normally attend for part of the remuneration committee meetings.
No director is involved in deciding his own remuneration.
Remuneration policy The remuneration committee in its deliberations on the remuneration policy for the Groups directors seeks to give full consideration to the principles set out in the Combined Code.
The committee also monitors developments in accounting for equity-based remuneration on an ongoing basis.
The Group operates a remuneration policy for executive directors designed to ensure that it attracts and retains the management skills necessary for it to remain a leader in its field.
This policy seeks to provide rewards and incentives for the remuneration of executive directors that reflect their performance and align with the objectives of the Group, and comprise a mix of performance-related and  remuneration.
The committee believes that a directors total remuneration should seek to recognise his worth in the external market and, to this end, operates a policy of paying base salaries which are in line with the market median, as part of a total remuneration package which is upper quartile.
The committee believes that this is justified, recognising that more than 50% of total remuneration is performance-related.
The committee obtains information about the external market from various surveys, including the Watson Wyatt High Technology and Executive Reward Surveys and the Deloitte & Touche Executive Directors Remuneration Survey.
The nature of the Groups development has meant that there has been a good deal of focus on the attainment of short-term objectives with a high level of variable remuneration.
Currently, variable remuneration consists of three elements: annual cash bonus, discretionary share options and conditional awards under the Long Term Incentive Plan.
All these incentives are performance-related and, as a result, more than half of each executive directors remuneration is targeted to be performance linked.
Following a review of the Groups variable remuneration structure, the remuneration committee concluded that, in order to align better the interests of executive directors with those of shareholders, and to ensure that these key individuals are appropriately incentivised to remain with the Group, a higher proportion of executive directors remuneration should focus on longer-term objectives.
As a result, in 2003 a shareholding guideline was introduced under which executive directors and certain senior managers are required to build up a holding of shares in the Company over a period of five years.
The shareholdings may be built up of shares received under the Companys discretionary share option schemes and or the Long Term Incentive Plan and, in the case of executive directors, the required holding is equivalent in value to 100% of basic salary.
Incentive arrangements The remuneration committee aims to ensure that individuals are fairly rewarded for their contribution to the success of the Group.
There is a strong bonus element to executive directors remuneration with a bonus of up to 50% of basic pay being available through the executive bonus plan if all targets are met.
Payment of bonus is subject to the achievement of revenue and profit targets set by the remuneration committee, which are directly related to the Groups financial results and ensure that the Group's short-term financial goals are met.
Full bonuses are payable to executive directors in respect of performance during 2004.
For the 2005 operation of the bonus plan, the targets set by the remuneration committee are for growth in dollar revenues between an agreed range with the proviso that no bonus will be payable unless earnings per share exceed a defined target.
If these targets are achieved, bonuses will be payable on a linear basis between the minimum and the maximum of the agreed range.
Any over achievement of the stretching revenue target will result in the percentage out-performance being applied to the bonus, for example if the revenue target is exceeded by 10% the bonus will increase by 5%.
Annual bonuses can be doubled under the deferred bonus plan if payment is deferred for three years, although there are no outstanding elections to do so.
Details of the deferred bonus plan are set out on page 33.
ARM Annual report and accounts 2004 27 Remuneration report UK GAAP continued The Group operates a number of share option plans and employees generally receive a number of share options according to their grade and performance.
Typically, share options are allocated to employees on an annual basis.
Discretionary options under the Approved, Unapproved and Incentive Stock Option Schemes are always issued at market value, while options issued under the Savings-Related Share Option Scheme and the Savings-Related Share Option Plan are issued at a 15% discount to market value.
In line with practice among the Groups peers in the technology sector, there are generally no performance conditions attached to the issue or exercise of discretionary options except for those issued to executive directors where performance conditions based on real EPS apply to drive long-term profitability.
Share options issued to executive directors prior to their appointment to the board of the Group do not have performance conditions attached to them.
However, discretionary options issued to executive directors after their appointment to the board of the Group will have performance conditions attached to them.
Executive directors do not currently receive options under the Approved Scheme and Incentive Stock Option Scheme.
Under the Unapproved Scheme, share options with a value of up to five times base salary may be issued on the executive director joining the Group.
In addition, discretionary options with a value of up to two times base salary may be issued each year.
These discretionary options will vest after seven years, but may vest after three years from grant if the performance conditions are satisfied.
For options granted before January 2003, the performance condition is that the Group must achieve average real EPS growth of at least 33.1% i. e. 33.1% greater than the percentage increase if any in the Retail Prices Index over a performance period of three years from the start of the financial year in which the options were granted the performance period.
For options granted in 2003 under the performance condition, 50% of the shares under option will vest after three years if the Group achieves average real EPS growth of 9.3% over the performance period.
If average real EPS growth of at least 33.1% is achieved over the performance period, 100% of the shares under option will vest after three years.
Where the average real EPS growth over the performance period is between 9.3% and 33.1%, the number of shares which vest after three years increases on a straight-line basis.
For options granted in 2004 and 2005 under the performance condition, 50% of the shares under option will vest after three years if the Group achieves average real EPS growth of 12.5% over the performance period.
Where the average real EPS growth over the performance period is between 12.5% and 33.1%, the number of shares which vest after three years increases on a straight-line basis.
The performance conditions applicable to the Long Term Incentive Plan are described in more detail below and are based on total shareholder return TSR, rather than EPS, providing the link to performance against an appropriate peer group.
These performance conditions were selected having regard to the position of the Group within its sector and the nature of the companies against which it competes to attract and retain high-calibre employees.
The Committee believes that the performance conditions represent the correct balance between being motivational and challenging.
Pensions The Group does not operate its own pension scheme but makes payments into a Group personal pension plan, which is a money purchase scheme.
For the UK-based directors, the rate of Group contribution is 10% of the executives basic salary 25% in the case of the Chairman subject to the Inland Revenue salary capping limits.
For Mark Templeton who is based in the US the rate of Group contribution is 6% of his basic salary.
Service agreements Executive directors have rolling service contracts that may be terminated by either party on one years notice.
The service contracts also terminate when executive directors reach age 65.
With the exception of the Chairman, these agreements provide for each of the directors to provide services to the Group on a full-time basis.
The agreements contain restrictive covenants for periods of three to six months following termination of employment relating to non-competition, non-solicitation of the Groups customers, non-dealing with customers and non-solicitation of the Groups suppliers and employees.
In addition, each service agreement contains an express obligation of confidentiality in respect of the Groups trade secrets and confidential information and provides for the Group to own any intellectual property rights created by the directors in the course of their employment.
28 ARM Annual report and accounts 2004 The dates of the service contracts of each person who served as an executive director during the financial year are as follows: Director Date Sir Robin Saxby 31 January 1996 Warren East 29 January 2001 Tim Score 1 March 2002 Tudor Brown 3 April 1996 Mike Muller 31 January 1996 Mike Inglis 17 July 2002 Mark Templeton 18 November 2004 Where notice is served to terminate the appointment, whether by the Group or the executive director, the Group in its absolute discretion shall be entitled to terminate the appointment by paying to the executive director his salary in lieu of any required period of notice.
Non-executive directors During 2004, the Chairmen of the audit and remuneration committees each received a total fee of 29,000 per annum and the other nonexecutive directors each received a total fee of 27,000 per annum.
These fees were arrived at by reference to fees paid by other companies of similar size and complexity, and reflected the amount of time non-executive directors were expected to devote to the Groups activities during the year, which is around 10 to 15 working days a year.
The remuneration of the non-executive directors is set by the board and their term of appointment is three years.
Non-executive directors do not have service contracts, are not eligible to participate in bonus or share incentive arrangements and their service does not qualify for pension purposes or other benefits.
No element of their fees is performance-related.
The options held by Lucio Lanza were granted during his service with Artisan and were rolled over into options over ARM shares under the terms of the acquisition.
Performance graphs A performance graph showing the Companys total shareholder return TSR together with the TSR for the FTSE Global Technology Index of 50 companies from 31 December 1999 is shown below.
The TSR has been calculated in accordance with the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002.
The TSR for the Companys shares was -87% over this period compared with -67% for the FTSE Global Technology Index for the same period.
ARM share price performance against the FTSE Global Technology Index sterling 140 120 100 80 60 40 20 0 31 December 1999 31 December 2000 31 December 2001 31 December 2002 31 December 2003 31 December 2004 ARM share price FTSE Global Technology Index The directors consider the FTSE Global Technology Index to be an appropriate choice as the Index contains companies from the US, Asia and Europe and, therefore, reflects the global environment in which the Group operates.
In addition, the Index includes many companies that are currently the Groups customers, as well as companies which use ARM technology in their end products.
ARM Annual report and accounts 2004 29 Remuneration report UK GAAP continued Directors shareholdings in the Company The directors beneficial interests in the Companys ordinary shares of 0.05 pence, which excludes interests under its share option schemes, are set out below.
31 December 31 December 2004 2003 Director Number Number Sir Robin Saxby 21,363,060 22,363,060 Warren East 174,920 174,920 Tim Score 10,000 10,000 Tudor Brown 1,496,460 1,496,460 Mike Muller 1,891,860 1,891,860 Mike Inglis 10,000 10,000 Doug Dunn 48,000 48,000 Peter Cawdron 98,000 98,000 John Scarisbrick 10,800 10,800 Jeremy Scudamore 55,000 Mark Templeton 10,535,552 Lucio Lanza 1,277,291 In addition to the interests disclosed above, all the executive directors together with all the employees of the Group are potential beneficiaries of both the ARM Holdings plc Employee Share Ownership Plan and the ARM Holdings plc Qualifying Employee Share Ownership Trust.
They are, therefore, treated as interested in all the shares held by these trusts, being 5,000,000 ordinary shares and 713,034 ordinary shares respectively at 31 December 2004, and 5,000,000 and 721,080 shares respectively at 31 December 2003.
There have been no changes in directors interests in the Companys shares to the date of approval of the remuneration report.
Auditable information The following information has been audited by the Companys auditors,  LLP, as required by Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985.
Denotes share options issued under the Groups Unapproved Share Option Scheme.
Denotes share options issued under the Groups Unapproved Share Option Scheme with performance conditions attached.
Denotes share options issued under the Groups Unapproved Share Option Scheme which are exercisable as follows: 25% maximum from first anniversary, 50% maximum from second anniversary, 75% maximum from third anniversary, 100% maximum on fourth anniversary.
No options lapsed in the year.
Details of the performance conditions and implications on the vesting of options is noted in the remuneration policy section above.
On 4 February 2005, discretionary share options were granted to the following executive directors: Warren East 592,417: Tim Score 473,934: Tudor Brown 436,019: Mark Templeton 498,774, Mike Muller 398,104: Mike Inglis 379,147: and Simon Segars 341,232.
The exercise price is 105.5 pence and all are subject to performance conditions.
ARM Annual report and accounts 2004 31 Remuneration report UK GAAP continued These options vest after seven years, but may vest after three years if the following performance condition is satisfied.
Where the Group achieves an average EPS growth of at least 12.5% greater than the percentage increase if any in the RPI over a performance period of three years from the start of the financial year in which options are granted, then 50% of the shares under option will vest three years from grant.
For an average EPS growth of at least 33.1% greater than the percentage increase if any in the RPI over the performance period, 100% of the shares under option will vest after three years from grant.
Where the average EPS growth is between 12.5% and 33.1% greater than the percentage increase if any in the RPI over the performance period, vesting increases on a straight-line basis.
Details of options held by directors under the Groups Save As You Earn option schemes are set out below: As at As at 1 January 31 December Exercise 2004 Granted Lapsed 2004 price Earliest date Expiry Director Number Number Number Number of exercise date Sir Robin Saxby 15,771 15,771 0.5865 01 08 06 31 12 06 Warren East 15,771 15,771 0.5865 01 08 06 31 12 06 Tim Score 27,152 27,152 0.5865 01 08 08 31 12 08 Tudor Brown 3,157 3,157 3.0685 01 07 04 31 12 04 Mike Inglis 15,771 15,771 0.5865 01 08 06 31 12 06 Long Term Incentive Plan A Long Term Incentive Plan was approved by shareholders at the 2003 Annual General Meeting.
The 2004 conditional awards were made on 3 November 2004.
The performance conditions are based on the Companys TSR when measured against that of two comparator groups each testing half of the shares comprised in the award.
The first index comprises UK companies across all sectors FTSE 250 and the second comprises predominantly US companies within the Hi Tech sector FTSE Global Technology Index.
For each comparator group, the number of shares that may vest may be up to a maximum of 200% of the shares if the Companys TSR ranks in the upper decile, 50% will vest in the event of median performance and between median and upper decile performance vesting will increase on a straight-line basis.
No shares will be received for below-median performance.
In addition, no shares will vest unless the committee is satisfied that there has been a sustained improvement in the underlying financial performance of the Company.
Except as described above, there have been no changes in directors interests under the Groups share option schemes since the end of the 2004 financial year up to the date of approval of the remuneration report.
32 ARM Annual report and accounts 2004 The Companys register of directors interests contains full details of directors shareholdings and options to subscribe.
Share prices The market value of the shares of the Company as at 31 December 2004 was 110.5 pence.
The closing mid-price ranged from 79 pence to 144.75 pence during the year.
Deferred bonus plan The deferred bonus plan was introduced in 2001 and enables directors to double their annual bonus if payment is deferred for three years, and to receive 6% interest per annum on the deferred element.
Warren East elected to participate in the plan in 2001 and deferred 12,680, being one-third of his bonus, for three years.
At 31 December 2004, the bonus payable to him was 25,360 representing an increase of 100% plus interest.
This is included within his emoluments disclosed below.
There are no other outstanding arrangements under this plan.
For Lawrence Tesler, fees are shown up to his date of resignation on 26 April 2004.
All the executive directors receive family healthcare and annual travel insurance as part of their benefits in kind.
In addition, Tim Score has the use of a company car, and Robin Saxby, Warren East, Tudor Brown, Mike Muller and Mike Inglis receive a car and petrol allowance.
The bonus for Warren East includes 14,686 that is payable to him under the deferred bonus plan described above.
Mike Inglis is a non-executive director of Superscape Group plc.
The Group holds 12% of the issued share capital of Superscape Group plc and more details about this investment are included in note 13 on pages 49 to 50.
In this capacity, Mike Inglis received remuneration totalling 15,000 up to 31 December 2004 and was awarded options over 20,000 shares in Superscape Group plc at an option price of 33 pence on 7 January 2004.
The shares will vest in thirds over the next three years providing that performance targets are met.
All the executive directors are accruing benefits under a money purchase pension scheme as a result of their services to the Group, contributions for which were all paid during the year.
ARM Annual report and accounts 2004 33
