Report of the Audit Committee MEMBERSHIP RESPONSIBILITIES As at 1st April 2003 the members of this committee were: The committees responsibilities include: reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups financial reporting Oliver Stocken and internal control policies and procedures for the Appointed to the committee and appointed chairman on identification, assessment and reporting of risks: 11th September 1998.
Chartered accountant, former finance agreeing the nature and scope of the internal audit programme, director of Barclays PLC and currently non-executive deputy and reviewing internal audit reports: chairman of 3i Group plc.
reviewing with the external auditors the nature and scope of their planned work: Sir Nigel Rudd reviewing the Groups financial statements at the half year and Appointed to the committee on 1st August 1994.
Chartered annually before submission to the board: accountant, former chairman of Williams Holdings PLC and reviewing changes in accounting policies: and currently non-executive chairman of Boots Group PLC.
reviewing the cost-effectiveness, independence and objectivity Dr. Hans-Peter Keitel of the external auditors.
Appointed to the committee on 1st September 1995.
Chairman The full terms of reference of the committee are available on the and chief executive officer of Hochtief AG.
William Harrison ACTIVITIES Appointed to the committee on 11th September 1998.
During the year under review the committee had four meetings, Investment banker.
and all persons, who were members at the relevant time, attended all meetings with the exception of William Harrison, who was not James Leng present at one meeting.
One of these meetings involved a Appointed to the committee on 11th September 1998.
Former discussion with the external auditors without management chief executive officer of Laporte Industries PLC and currently being present.
non-executive chairman of Corus Group plc.
The group chief executive, finance director, other directors and The board believes that all the members of the committee have chief internal auditor attended and reported as appropriate.
recent and relevant financial experience.
The external auditors attended all meetings of the committee.
Following the boards review of the Smith Report, Sir Nigel Rudd In addition to reviewing the internal audit reports and the resigned as a member of the committee on 14th May 2003.
Groups financial statements, the committee considered the Dr. Hans-Peter Keitel retired as a member of the committee on his following matters: retirement as a non-executive director following the conclusion of International Financial Reporting Standards and the Groups the annual general meeting on 28th July 2003. programme relating to their adoption: Accounting treatment for pensions under FRS 17: Christine Morin-Postel was appointed a member of the committee Fraud policy: on her appointment as a non-executive director with effect from Reporting of concerns whistleblowing procedure: 1st August 2003.
In view of her recent role at Suez Group and her Policy for, and authorisation of, non-audit work by the former position as chief executive officer of Socit Gnrale fide external auditors: Belgique, the board believes that she has recent and relevant Engagement letters with the external auditors: and financial experience.
There have been no changes in the membership of the committee during the period from 1st April 2004 to 26th May 2004.
Oliver Stocken During the year under review Oliver Stocken acted as chairman of Chairman, Audit Committee the committee and John McKenna acted as secretary.
26th May 2004 Pilkington plc Directors report and accounts 2004 7
