Corporate governance Since the appointment of Oliver Stocken on 14th May 2003 independent director have reviewed the performance of the as senior independent director the company has been in full chairman, the chairman has reviewed the performance of the group compliance with the provisions of Section 1 of the Code chief executive and the non-executive directors, and the group of Best Practice contained in the Combined Code published chief executive has reviewed the performance of the other in June 1998. executive directors.
Although the company is not obliged to comply with the The chairmans principal commitments outside the company as at requirements of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance 1st April 2003 were the non-executive chairmanships of Kidde plc published by the Financial Reporting Council in July 2003 until the and Pendragon PLC, the deputy chairmanship of Boots Group financial year ending 31st March 2005, the board has decided to PLC, a non-executive directorship of Barclays PLC and the adopt its principles and practices forthwith.
This statement, together chairmanship of the Boardroom Issues Group of the Confederation with the Report on Directors Remuneration, describes the way in of British Industry.
During the year under review the chairman which such principles and practices are applied within the Group.
has ceased to be the non-executive chairman of Kidde plc and has become the non-executive chairman of Boots Group PLC.
THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS At 31st March 2004 the board consisted of a non-executive During the year the board had nine meetings, and all persons chairman, group chief executive, two other executive directors and who were directors at the relevant time attended all meetings, with four non-executive directors.
It meets regularly throughout the year the exception of Dr. Hans-Peter Keitel and William Harrison, who and during the year it reviewed and adopted a revised formal each missed one meeting.
schedule of matters reserved for its decision.
The board directs and BOARD COMMITTEES controls the Group and is responsible for strategy, operating Certain matters are delegated by the board, under written terms performance, maintaining an effective system of internal control, of reference, to the following committees: recommending the dividend, approving major changes in the Group organisation, approving the most senior appointments in the Group, Executive Board.
The Executive Board consists of the executive approving capital expenditure, acquisitions and disposals for directors under the chairmanship of Stuart Chambers and amounts above predetermined limits, ensuring compliance with formulates policy and strategy for the boards approval.
It is legal requirements and ensuring the Group has in place appropriate responsible for ensuring that the policies of the board are policies.
All directors receive regular information on the Groups carried out on a Group-wide basis.
It is also responsible for the operational and financial performance, risk management, business development of annual budgets and operating plans linked to plans, future strategy and executive management.
All directors the management and control of the day-to-day operations of the have access to the company secretary and, to enable the board to Group, including the monitoring of performance against those discharge its duties, have full access to management and financial budgets and plans.
It approves capital expenditure up to preinformation.
Any director who, in furtherance of his duties, wishes determined limits set by the board and monitors key research to take external advice, may do so at the expense of the company.
and development programmes and the operation of technology licences to and from the Group.
It formulates and reviews senior The non-executive directors do not participate in any of the management succession plans, is responsible for the overall Groups pension schemes or in any of the Groups bonus, share direction of the development of the Groups management option or other incentive schemes.
The board considers all four non-executive directors to be independent as they are independent resources and approves the terms and conditions of employment of the Groups executive management and free from any business of the senior management.
or other relationship which could materially interfere with the During the year the Executive Board had 11 meetings, and all exercise of independent judgement.
persons, who were members at the relevant time, attended all During the year the board appointed Oliver Stocken as the senior meetings with the exception of Andrew Robb, who was not independent director.
The Nomination Committee nominates candidates for the board as Audit Committee.
The membership, responsibilities and executive and non-executive directors.
External search consultants activities of this committee are detailed in the Audit Committee are used to assist in this process.
During the year this committee had four meetings, and all persons who were members at the relevant time attended all All directors seek election to the board at the annual general meetings, with the exception of William Harrison, who was meeting following their appointment and thereafter seek re-election not present at one meeting.
by rotation at least once every three years.
Every director receives appropriate training and business familiarisation as required on Remuneration Committee.
The membership, responsibilities appointment to the board, and subsequently as necessary.
and activities of this committee are detailed in the Report on Directors Remuneration.
The terms of reference of the At the beginning of the year under review a board performance committee have recently been expanded to include the evaluation exercise was undertaken using the services of an approval oversight of the remuneration packages of 25 of the independent consultant.
Since 31st March 2004 the board has most senior managers in the Group in addition to the approval of considered progress on the issues raised in that board performance the remuneration packages of the executive directors.
The board evaluation exercise, and performance evaluations have been undertaken in respect of the Executive Board, the Audit felt that given this enlarged remit, the committee would benefit Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the Nomination from the chairmans knowledge based on his wider roles and Committee.
The non-executive directors led by the senior responsibilities, and accordingly decided that the chairman Pilkington plc Directors report and accounts 2004 3
