16 Premier Foods plc Directors report The directors have pleasure in presenting the first report and audited financial statements of Premier Foods plc and its subsidiaries for the year ended 31 December 2004.
Principal activities The Group is a leading UK manufacturer and marketer of ambient grocery products and one of the largest suppliers to the retail grocery and out-of-home markets.
The Company has three principal grocery product segments: Convenience Foods, Pickles and Sauces: Tea and Beverages: and Spreads and Desserts.
It also operates a potato packing and marketing business which supplies the retail, foodservice, food manufacturing and potato growing markets.
The branded products include Ambrosia custard and milk puddings, Branston pickles, Typhoo tea, Hartleys preserves, Gales honey and lemon curd, Crosse & Blackwell convenience foods, Sun-Pat peanut butter, Sarsons vinegar, Haywards pickles, Smash instant mash potato, Marvel powder milk creamer and Waistline salad dressings, soups and cooking sauces.
In addition, the Group produces cocoa-based beverages, Rowntrees jelly and Loyd Grossman cooking sauces, soups and salad dressings under agreement or licence.
It also provides a range of retailer brand products, principally for the major multiple grocery retailers.
Business review and future developments Premier Foods plc was incorporated on 22 June 2004 but did not trade until 15 July 2004.
On 15 July 2004, Premier Foods plc acquired the entire share capital of Premier Foods Investments No.
The Companys shares were admitted to the main list of the London Stock Exchange on 19 July 2004.
The shares were placed at 2.15 and as a result 108.4m was raised after direct costs of 10.2m.
In addition, 204.3m of loan notes due to Premier Investments Holdings L. P. were redeemed by the issue of new shares in the Company.
The Chairmans statement on page 2, the Chief Executives review on pages 3 to 9 and the Financial review on pages 10 to 13 provide a review of the business during the year and likely future developments.
Financial results The audited financial statements are presented on pages 36 to 74. profit and dividend The profit loss on ordinary activities before tax for the year ended 31 December 2004 was 8.7m 2003: 0.3 m. In the Listing Particulars of the Company published in July 2004 the Board stated that, in the absence of unforeseen circumstances, it intended to recommend payment in May 2005 of a final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2004 of approximately 9p per ordinary share.
Given that the financial results for the year are in line with the directors expectations at the time of Listing, the directors recommend a final dividend of 9p per ordinary share for the year ended 31 December 2004.
Subject to shareholders approval, the final dividend will be paid on 31 May 2005 to members on the register as at 6 May 2005.
The results after dividends are transferred to reserves.
Participation of controlling shareholder in placing of the Companys shares Details of the share capital movements during the period are set out in note 22 to the financial statements on page 67.
Research and development Research and development costs of 1.0m were incurred during the year relating to salaries paid in the new product development division.
Contracts of signicance with controlling shareholder Details of related transactions with related parties are set out in notes 24 and 29 to the financial statements on pages 71 to 73.
Land and buildings The directors are of the opinion that there is no significant difference between the book and market value of the land and buildings of the Group.
17 Premier Foods plc Directors report Post-balance sheet events On 13 February 2005 the Company completed the acquisition of Birds Custard, Angel Delight and associated brands and assets from Kraft Foods UK Ltd for 70.0m in cash.
On 18 February 2005, the Food Standards Agency initiated a recall of a number of products, which had been identied as possibly being contaminated with a dye Sudan 1 not authorised for use in food products.
The dye was traced to a batch of chilli powder supplied to the Group, which was used by the Group in the manufacture of Worcester sauce.
The Group used the Worcester sauce in the manufacture of three other products and supplied Worcester sauce to a number of retail and food ingredient customers.
A number of the Groups customers have indicated that they intend to claim for their costs associated with the product recall.
These claims may comprise claims for damage to their own products, the costs of recalling and destroying recovered product and claims for consequential loss among others.
Given the nature of the recall, the limited number of claims that have been received at this stage and intrinsic uncertainty involved in such situations, it has not been possible to quantify fully the claims.
However, the Company has made a preliminary assessment of the quantum and nature of the claims based on a set of assumptions reecting managements current view of the situation and after having taken appropriate legal advice.
At this time, based on this assessment, its own insurance position and its potential claims against its suppliers and their own insurers, the Group does not believe that it has any material financial exposure.
Directors and their interests The following directors held ofce during the year ended 31 December 2004: Designation Appointed David Kappler, non-executive Chairman 19 July 2004 Robert Schoeld, Chief Executive 22 June 2004 Paul Thomas, Finance Director 22 June 2004 David Felwick CBE, Senior independent non-executive director 19 July 2004 Sharon Hintze, non-executive director 19 July 2004 Lyndon Lea, non-executive director 22 June 2004 Ian McHoul, non-executive director 19 July 2004 Ian Ramsay, non-executive director 19 July 2004 George Sewell, non-executive director 19 July 2004 Details of the directors service contracts, emoluments, the interests of the directors and their immediate families in the share capital of the Company and options to subscribe for shares in the Company are shown in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 23 to 31.
Corporate governance The Board recognises the value of good corporate governance not only in the areas of accountability and risk management but also as a positive contribution to business prosperity.
The Board believes in conducting the Companys affairs in a fair and transparent manner and in maintaining the highest ethical standards in its business dealings.
Compliance statement During the period from the Companys admission to trading on the London Stock Exchange on 23 July 2004 to 31 December 2004, the Board considers that the Group has complied with the provisions set out in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Council in July 2003 the Combined Code, with the exception that it has yet to undertake a formal review of its own performance, that of its committees and individual directors.
These performance appraisals, which have not been considered to be of value in the short time since Listing, will be undertaken during 2005.
18 Premier Foods plc Directors report Operation of the Board The Board normally meets at least six times each calendar year and also meets on other occasions as necessary.
Meetings are usually held in the Companys head ofce, in St Albans, but also provide an opportunity for the Board as a whole to visit the Groups operating facilities.
Details of the number of Board and Committee meetings and the attendance at those meetings is set out on page 20.
The Board is responsible for the overall management of the Group and has an agreed schedule of matters reserved to it which includes setting long-term strategic and commercial objectives, approval of annual operating and capital budgets, dividend policy, overseeing the Groups internal control systems and generally ensuring that appropriate resources are in place to enable the Group to meet its objectives.
The Chairman is primarily responsible for the workings of the Board, and sets the agendas in consultation with the Chief Executive and Company Secretary.
Board papers, including copies of the minutes of Committee meetings held since the previous Board meeting, are circulated in advance of each meeting.
The Chairman periodically holds meetings with the non-executive directors without the executives present.
The Chief Executive has overall responsibility for the executive management of the Group and for implementing Board strategy and policy, within the approved budgets and timescales.
The Chief Executive is supported by the Finance Director and Operations Board, which consists of the senior executives who head up the Groups principal operations.
The biographies of the directors and members of the senior management team appear on pages 14 and 15.
Procedures are in place which allow directors to take independent professional advice in the course of their duties and all directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
Board structure The Board consists of a non-executive Chairman, two executive directors and six non-executive directors.
In accordance with best practice, separate individuals have been appointed to the positions of Chairman and Chief Executive.
David Felwick has been appointed the senior independent director.
The Board considers that all the non-executive directors, other than Lyndon Lea, are independent in character and judgement and within the denition of this term in the Combined Code.
The Combined Code states that the test of independence is not appropriate in relation to the Chairman.
The Chairman and the non-executive directors contribute external expertise and experience in areas of importance to the Group such as marketing, customer focus, corporate finance, general finance and corporate governance.
They also contribute independent challenge and rigour to the Boards deliberations.
Board committees The Board has established an effective committee structure to assist in the discharge of its responsibilities.
The terms of reference of these committees comply with the provisions of the Combined Code and are available for inspection on the Companys website, www.
Audit Committee Ian McHoul chairs the Audit Committee.
Its other members are David Felwick and George Sewell.
Only independent non-executive directors, who have no links with external auditors, may serve on the Committee.
One member of the Committee, Ian McHoul, has been identied by the Board as having recent and relevant financial experience.
The Audit Committee is scheduled to meet at least four times a year and will meet the internal and external auditors at least twice a year without the executive directors present.
The Audit Committee is responsible for making recommendations to the Board on the appointment of the external auditors and their remuneration, for reviewing the accounting principles, policies and practices adopted in the preparation of the interim and annual accounts and reviewing the scope and findings of the audit.
The Committee assists the Board in achieving its obligations under the Combined Code in areas of risk management and internal control focusing particularly on compliance with legal requirements, accounting standards and the Listing Rules and that an effective system of internal financial and non-financial controls is maintained.
The ultimate responsibility for reviewing and approving the Annual Report and Accounts remains with the Board.
19 Premier Foods plc Directors report The Committee will keep under review the external auditors independence including any non-audit services that are to be provided by the external auditors.
The auditors are also required to confirm their independence at least annually.
A formal policy has been developed and implemented which ensures that the nature of the advice to be provided could not impair the objectivity of the external auditors opinion on the Groups financial statements.
The policy incorporates a fee limit above which a formal tender process must be undertaken and approval of the Committee obtained prior to any proposed appointment.
Additionally, the use of delegated authorities to appoint the external auditors is routinely reported to the Committee.
The Committee has recently approved a formal policy whereby staff may, in confidence, disclose issues of concern about possible malpractice or wrongdoings by the Company or any of its employees without fear of reprisal.
This includes arrangements to investigate such matters and for appropriate follow-up action.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee is chaired by David Felwick.
The other members of the Committee are Sharon Hintze and Ian Ramsay.
Only independent non-executive directors may serve on the Committee.
The Chairman and Chief Executive attend Remuneration Committee meetings at the invitation of the Committee Chairman.
The Remuneration Committee will normally meet at least twice a year.
The Remuneration Committee has responsibility for making recommendations to the Board on the Companys policy on remuneration of executive directors and senior managers and for determining, within agreed terms of reference, specic remuneration packages for each of the Chairman, the executive directors of the Company and such members of senior management as it is delegated to consider, including pension rights, any compensation payments and the implementation of executive incentive schemes.
In accordance with the Committees terms of reference, no director may participate in discussions relating to their own terms and conditions of service or remuneration.
Further information on the activities of the Remuneration Committee is set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 23 to 31.
Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee is chaired by David Kappler, and its other members are Lyndon Lea, Ian McHoul, David Felwick and Ian Ramsay.
David Kappler will not chair the Committee when it is dealing with a successor to the Chairmanship of the Company.
The Committee, which will normally meet not less than twice a year, has responsibility for considering the size, structure and composition of the Board of the Company, retirements and appointments of additional and replacement directors and making appropriate recommendations so as to maintain an appropriate balance of skills and experience on the Board.
During 2005 the Nomination Committee will establish a process for Board appointments that it considers to be formal, rigorous and transparent.
This process will include a review of the skills, experience and knowledge of the existing directors to assess which of the potential short-listed candidates would most benefit the balance of the Board having regard also to the need for succession planning.
The terms of appointment for the non-executive directors are available for inspection on the Companys website, www.
Reappointment The Companys Articles of Association require directors appointed by the Board during the year to retire and, if agreed, offer themselves for reappointment at the first Annual General Meeting AGM following their appointment.
As all of the directors were appointed during the year, separate resolutions proposing their reappointment will be put to shareholders at the AGM to be held on 26 May 2005.
There is also a process of rotation which ensures that no director holds ofce for more than three years without being reappointed at an AGM and also that at least one-third of directors will be required to retire and seek reappointment at each subsequent AGM.
Remuneration The Directors Remuneration Report, providing a statement on the Companys policy on directors and senior managers remuneration, benets, share scheme entitlements and pension arrangements is set out on pages 23 to 31.
A resolution to approve the Directors Remuneration Report will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
The Directors Remuneration Report sets out the status of the Companys compliance with the requirements of the Combined Code with regard to remuneration matters.
20 Premier Foods plc Directors report Internal control The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups systems of internal control, for reviewing their effectiveness and for ensuring that there is a process to identify, evaluate and manage the significant risks to achievement of the Groups strategic objectives.
Such systems cover strategic, commercial, operational and financial areas and include the management of risks therein.
However, the Board also recognises that these systems are designed to manage rather than to eliminate risk and can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
During the period from Listing to approval of the Report and Accounts an exercise has been completed to identify the key risks.
Appropriate management actions have been determined and these include transfer to third parties eg through insurance and financial derivatives and internal monitoring and contingency planning.
Measures have and are being taken to embed all such actions in the systems of internal control.
The Board and Audit Committee have reviewed the effectiveness of the internal control system including financial, operational, compliance control and risk management in line with the requirements of the Combined Code for the period from Listing to approval of the Report and Accounts.
During the year the Board reviewed the need for, and made the decision to establish, an internal audit department.
The head of internal audit was appointed at the start of 2005 and has subsequently developed the internal audit and risk management strategy and produced a detailed plan of activities for the year that has been approved by the Audit Committee.
The head of internal audit will provide regular independent reports to the Audit Committee on the operation of internal controls including the management of risk.
These will incorporate the findings of the other internal assurance teams.
The Audit Committee will in turn monitor and review the effectiveness of the internal audit department and ensure that it is adequately resourced to perform its duties.
Relations with shareholders The Board recognises that its primary role is to represent and promote the interests of its shareholders and that it is accountable to shareholders for the performance and activities of the Company.
The interim and annual reports remain the primary means of communicating with the Companys shareholders and the Groups website, www.
co. uk, contains the full text of such reports together with Stock Exchange announcements, after their release to the market.
The Company will announce its results on a half-yearly basis.
Presentations will be made to analysts and major shareholders following the release of the interim and year end results.
The Chief Executive and Finance Director are also available to meet with shareholders during the year.
The Chairman and, if appropriate, the senior independent director are available to discuss issues and concerns of shareholders.
Shareholders are also provided with the opportunity to ask questions of the Board, including the chairmen of the various committees, and to present their views at the AGM.
Notice of the AGM, together with the Annual Report and Accounts, is sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting, and details of the proxy votes for and against each resolution are announced after the result of the vote on the show of hands.
The following table sets out the number of meetings of the Board and its committees and individual attendances during the period from Listing on 23 July 2004 to 31 December 2004.
Whilst the Company was incorporated on 22 June 2004 and held a number of meetings preparatory to otation, to report such meetings would convey no useful information to shareholders as the majority of directors did not formally take up their appointments until 19 July 2004.
In addition to the meetings detailed below, ad hoc committees of the Board are convened for specic purposes from time to time.
Group Board Remuneration Nomination Audit Number of meetings held since Listing 5102 David Kappler, non-executive Chairman 5 1 0 2 Robert Schoeld, Chief Executive 5 1 Paul Thomas, Finance Director 5 2 David Felwick CBE, Senior independent non-executive director 4102 Sharon Hintze, non-executive director 5 1 Lyndon Lea, non-executive director 4 0 Ian McHoul, non-executive director 4 0 2 Ian Ramsay, non-executive director 5 1 0 George Sewell, non-executive director 5 1 2 Denotes attendance by invitation.
21 Premier Foods plc Directors report Employment policies A summary of the Companys employment policies is set out in the report headed Corporate Social Responsibility on pages 32 and 33.
Directors interests in contracts No director had a material interest at any time during the year in any contract of signicance, other than a service contract see Directors Remuneration Report on pages 23 to 31, with the Company or any of its subsidiary undertakings.
Charitable and political donations No donations were made by the Group to political parties.
During the year the Group made charitable donations amounting to 29,271.
The annual donations budget is administered by local site committees to a policy predominantly directed towards educational objectives and those communities in which the Groups businesses are located.
Substantial shareholdings As at 18 March 2005, the Company has been notied, in accordance with Sections 198 to 208 of the Companies Act 1985, of the following interests in the ordinary shares of the Company: Number of Percentage of Notication received from ordinary shares issued share capital AXA Investment Managers UK Ltd 29,148,519 11.90 Standard Life Investments UK 24,586,477 10.04 Fidelity International Limited 12,644,487 5.16 Legal & General Group plc 9,823,874 4.01 Creditor payment policy The Company recognises the benets to be derived from maintaining good relationships with its suppliers.
It is the Companys policy that payment is made on time, provided suppliers perform in accordance with agreed terms.
The Group has a variety of payment terms with suppliers.
Payment terms for purchases under major contracts are agreed as part of the contract negotiations.
Trade creditors at the year end represented 59 days of purchases.
Directors responsibilities The directors are required to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group as at the end of the financial year and of the profit or loss, total recognised gains or losses and cash ows of the Group for that period.
The directors confirm that appropriate accounting policies have been used and applied consistently, and reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates have been made in the preparation of the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2004.
The directors also confirm that the financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985, and all applicable accounting standards have been followed.
The directors are responsible for maintaining adequate accounting records, for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and the investment of shareholders.
They also take reasonable steps to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for maintaining the integrity of financial information, including the Annual Report, on the Groups website, www.
Legislation in the UK concerning the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Going concern The directors are satisfied that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
22 Premier Foods plc Directors report International Financial Reporting Standards As a UK quoted company, Premier Foods is required to produce financial statements for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2005 in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
This will require an opening balance sheet to be prepared under IFRS at 1 January 2004 the date of transition together with financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2004 for comparative purposes.
We intend to publish this restatement in June 2005.
The Group has established a dedicated team to study the effects of adopting IFRS on the Groups financial statements and the most significant areas of impact with respect to known and anticipated changes to financial statements have been identied.
The effect of these changes is currently being quantied and work is also in progress to implement any changes to financial reporting processes that may be required.
The most significant areas of impact with respect to known and anticipated changes to financial statements have been identied and are detailed below.
The Group currently applies SSAP 24 to account for dened benefit pension schemes and complies with the FRS 17 transitional arrangements.
IAS 19 is broadly consistent with FRS 17 except that that it provides the option not to recognise actuarial gains and losses below a threshold while spreading forward those above this threshold over the average remaining service life of the employees in the scheme.
If the spreading option is not adopted then the effect of adopting IAS 19 is broadly as illustrated in the FRS 17 disclosures.
The Group pension deficit will be reected in the balance sheet at the date of transition.
IAS 36 stipulates that goodwill is not amortised but instead is subject to annual impairment testing.
The Group considers that it will not need to restate its goodwill balance at the date of transition.
In accordance with IAS 39 the Group intends to recognise the fair value of financial instruments at the balance sheet date.
The Group has introduced share incentive plans in 2004 and, in accordance with IFRS 2, it will recognise the fair value of these share based payments and charge them to the profit and loss account over the vesting period of the plans.
Auditors A resolution to reappoint the auditors,  LLP, will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM in accordance with Section 385 of the Companies Act 1985.
The reappointment of  LLP has been approved by the Audit Committee who will also be responsible for determining their audit fee on behalf of the directors.
Annual General Meeting business The first Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at Haberdashers Hall, 18 West Smitheld, London EC1A 9HQ on Thursday 26 May 2005 at 2.00 pm.
The Notice convening the AGM appears on page 77, together with details of the business to be considered, and full explanations of each resolution that is being proposed.
By order of the Board Paul Thomas Company Secretary 18 March 2005 Premier Foods plc Premier House Centrium Business Park Grifths Way St Albans Hertfordshire AL1 2RE Registered in England No.
