14 Premier Foods plc Board of Directors David Kappler Aged 58 Robert Schofield Aged 53 Paul Thomas Aged 49 Chairman Chief Executive Finance Director Joined the Group on flotation in 2004 Joined the Group in 2001 taking Joined the Group in 2002 as Finance as Chairman.
David Kappler was responsibility for its branded business.
Prior to this he served as previously Finance Director of Cadbury He was appointed Chief Executive in Finance Director of the leisure and Schweppes plc.
Robert Schofield has brewing divisions of Bass plc.
Previously, Management Accountant and is currently extensive manufacturing and operational he was the Director of Planning and a non-executive director of HMV Group experience gained at United Biscuits plc Business Development in the retail plc, Shire Pharmaceuticals Group plc where he ultimately served as Managing division of Grand Metropolitan plc.
and Intercontinental Hotels Group plc.
Director of United Biscuits UK, directing He is a Chartered Accountant and both the McVities and KP Foods the Company Secretary.
Mr Schofield is the non-executive Chairman of Burtons Foods Limited.
David Felwick CBE Aged 60 Sharon Hintze Aged 60 Lyndon Lea Aged 36 Non-executive director Non-executive director Non-executive director Joined the Group on flotation in 2004.
Joined the Group on flotation in 2004.
He was Prior to this he was Deputy Chairman She is currently a non-executive director appointed to the Board immediately prior of the John Lewis Partnership of HSBC Holdings plc and a trustee of to flotation in 2004 and currently serves and Chairman of the British Retail the Society of Genealogists.
She was on the boards of Yell Group plc and Consortium.
He was previously Managing formerly a non-executive director of various Cayman limited companies which Director of Waitrose and is currently Safeway plc and Senior Vice President wholly own Weetabix Limited, Aster City Chairman of Product of the Year Ltd. responsible for the Petcare strategic Cable, Eurotax Glasss Holdings AG and and Leckford Estate Ltd. business unit at Nestl SA in Switzerland.
Prior to this Miss Hintze worked for Mars Incorporated and a number of its subsidiaries in the United States, the United Kingdom and Switzerland.
Ian McHoul Aged 45 Ian Ramsay Aged 65 George Sewell Aged 58 Non-executive director Non-executive director Non-executive director Joined the Group on flotation in 2004.
He is currently the Group Finance He was formerly President of Europe, He was previously president of Quaker Director of the Scottish & Newcastle Africa and the Middle East at Bestfoods European Foods.
He was previously the Finance Europe.
Prior to this, he was Senior formerly Chairman of the Association and Strategy Director of the Inntrepreneur Vice President of Finance and Human of Cereal Food Manufacturers, a member Pub Company Limited and prior to that Resources and President of Europe of the Council of Food & Drink Federation.
he spent 10 years with Courage Limited Operations at Bestfoods Europe.
and its parent company Fosters Brewing Group in a variety of roles.
Mr McHoul is a Chartered Accountant.
