Board of directors Sir David John 66, became non-executive Chairman on Ian Gray 66, joined Premiers Board as a non-executive 1 March 1998.
He was non-executive Chairman of the BOC Group director in January 1996.
He held a number of international plc until 18 January 2002 and is currently Chairman of the British management positions during his 25 years with Conoco, Standards Institution and Chairman of Balfour Beatty plc.
Sir David culminating in the position of President of Dubai Petroleum.
is a member of the CBIs International Advisory Board, and is He joined Amerada Hess in 1995 where he was Vice President the Chairman of Premiers Nomination Committee.
of International Exploration and Production until May 2000.
Mr Gray is a member of Premiers Audit and Risk, Remuneration Azam Alizai 73, joined Premiers Board as a non-executive and Nomination Committees.
His career has included appointments as Director of the Oil, Gas and Mining Department of the Charles Jamieson 60, Chief Executive Officer is a Chartered International Finance Corporation and Chairman of West Pakistan Accountant and MBA.
He became Premiers Finance Director Industrial Development Corporation and Sui Northern Gas in January 1981, after a career with Ernst & Young and Gulf Oil Pipeline in Pakistan.
Mr Alizai is currently Chairman of Pakistan Corporation, and became Chief Executive in 1992.
Mr Jamieson Petroleum Ltd, the major producer of natural gas in Pakistan.
is a member of Premiers Nomination Committee.
Charles Jamieson retired as Chief Executive Officer on 24 March 2005 Robin Allan 45, joined Premier from Burmah Oil in 1986 working and will retire from the company on 30 June 2005. initially as a geologist.
After technical and new venture roles he spent six years in South East Asia initially managing Premiers Simon Lockett 40, joined Premier in 1995 from Shell and has Asian existing and new venture business and later becoming worked in a variety of roles for Premier, including the management Premiers Country Manager in Indonesia.
He became a member of investor relations, as Commercial Manager in Indonesia and of the Premier Board on 9 December 2003 as Director of Business as a Country Manager in Albania.
He became a member of the Development.
Premier Board on 9 December 2003 as Director of Operations.
Simon Lockett was appointed Chief Executive Officer with effect Scott Dobbie 65, joined Premiers Board as a non-executive from 24 March 2005. director in December 2000.
He has a career background in stockbroking, as Managing Director of Wood Mackenzie and John Orange 62, joined Premiers Board as a non-executive subsequently Chairman of NatWest Securities.
He is currently director in February 1997.
He held a variety of senior international Chairman of the Securities & Investment Institute, of The Edinburgh management and legal posts during his 30 years with the BP Group.
Investment Trust plc and of Standard Life European Private Equity Mr Orange is Premiers senior independent non-executive director, Trust.
He is also a Commissioner of the Jersey Financial Services Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and a member of the Commission.
Mr Dobbie is a member of Premiers Audit and Risk, Audit and Risk and Nomination Committees.
John van der Welle 49, Finance Director qualified as a Ronald Emerson 58, joined Premiers Board as a non-executive Chartered Accountant with Arthur Andersen.
He is a member director in March 2001.
He has held a number of senior positions of the Association of Corporate Treasurers and the Oil Industry in the banking sector, including senior roles at Bank of America, Accounting Committee, and is a Chartered Tax Advisor.
He joined Nomura Bank and most recently with Standard Chartered Bank Premier in March 1999, having previously been Finance Director where he was Chief Executive of their Malaysia operations before at Hardy Oil & Gas plc and before that spent nearly 12 years at becoming the Group Head of Corporate Banking.
Between 1997 Enterprise Oil plc in senior business development and finance and 1998 he was a Senior Advisor to the Bank of England, and roles.
From 2003 he has had general management responsibility between 1998 and 2000 he was a Senior Advisor to the Financial for Premiers Indonesian and Pakistan Business Units.
Mr Emerson is Chairman of Premiers Audit and Risk Committee, and a member of the Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
14 14 Pr Premier Oil emier Oil Annual Report & Accounts 2004 Annual Report & Accounts 2004
