Senior management 20 Punch Taverns plc Annual report and financial statements 2004 www.
com Francis Patton Customer Services Director Francis Patton, 41, is responsible for the Companys relationships with our key stakeholders: retailers, shareholders, employees, the media, the city and our suppliers.
This is done through the management of Human Resources, external agents for PR IR, internal communication and retailer relationships.
His role also encompasses retailer sales and query resolution through telesales and the help desks.
When Punch Pub Company was formed he became Commercial Director and as the Company grew this role was split into Commercial and Customer Services with him taking up his new role as Customer Services Director in June 2003.
Francis has years of hands on industry experience.
A graduate who joined Joshua Tetley in 1985, Francis gained extensive experience in operational roles with The Tetley Pub Company before becoming Commercial Director of Vanguard Pubs and Restaurants, the leasing section of Allied Domecq.
Deborah Kemp Property & Development Director Deborah Kemp, 43, has responsibility for three key strategic areas of the business.
Firstly in maximising the profitability of the property portfolio through innovative and appropriate investment schemes which optimise returns for Punch and its retailers.
Secondly achieving growth through selective acquisitions, and thirdly the effective property management of the pub portfolio, including delivery of rental growth and lease renewals and the identification of opportunities for alternative property development or disposals.
Her property experiences range from general private practice to the licensed retail business.
Deborah joined Punch Taverns in 1998 as Director of Investment, prior to which she gained invaluable operational experience as a Business Director with Bass Lease Company.
Her qualifications include a BSc Hons Urban Estate Surveying degree.
Andrew Thompson Operations Director Andrew Thompson, 52, is responsible for implementing the operational elements of the Companys strategy consistently through Regional Operational Directors.
This involves developing and implementing business plans based on growth opportunities, maximising profit streams of sales margins, rental and machine income, controlling operational costs and implementing annual investment and acquisition plans.
Andrew has 30 years experience in the licensed retailing sector and before becoming Operations Director North was Regional Director for Punch Taverns and Retail Director of Bass plc.
Bill Walker Operations Director Bill Walker, 43, shares responsibility with Andrew Thompson for implementing the operational elements of the Companys strategy consistently through a team of Regional Operational Directors.
Bill was appointed Operations Director South of the Group in March 2002.
He has over twenty years experience in retailing.
Prior to joining the Group he had held the position of Retail Operations Director at First Quench Retailing Ltd, a division of Whitbread plc, since March 1998.
Prior to this appointment, he was a General Manager with overall responsibility for the Spanish operations of Sears plc based in Madrid.
Neil Preston Company Secretary Neil Preston, 44, is responsible for ensuring that the company meets all our legal and regulatory requirements as a PLC.
He is a Fellow of the Chartered Association of Certified Accountants and has held various roles within Punch, including that of the Finance Director of Punch Group and Punch Retail now known as Spirit Group following the demerger in March 2002.
Prior to this he worked for Allied Domecq and started in the industry in 1986.
