Helping retailers 12 13 build better businesses Punch Taverns plc Annual report and financial statements 2004 www.
com The transformation of the Dulais Rock has been one of the major success stories of the last year.
RENAISSANCE OF THE Prior to our involvement, and consequent investment in terms of finance and expertise, the pub had been closed and the domestic living accommodation had been declared unfit for habitation.
However, in partnership with the lessee, the pub has been fundamentally changed in terms of positioning DULAIS and offering.
The outlet is now predominantly food-based with the focus on the restaurant, which turns over in excess of 130 covers a week with an average dry spend per head of 22.
The outlet now takes between 7,000 and 9,000 per week.
There is also a bar meal menu and a caf style menu ROCK of paninis and coffees, with non-beer sales well above appraised levels and ale and lager barrelage levels better than predicted.
The main changes to the building were the inclusion of 3 letting bedrooms which required significant structural work, reinstating the original cellar and the conversion of a skittle alley into new toilet facilities including disabled.
The trade area was doubled by converting part of the domestic accommodation into a 50 cover split level restaurant.
The lessee was a regional winner at the Shine awards under the Customer Experience category.
After Dulais Rock Following our detailed programme of investment and practical support, The Dulais Rock is now one of the best performing pubs in our portfolio.
Before The Lounge in Macclesfield has been developed as a contemporary bar with a city centre feel, following extensive research and assessment of local opportunities and competition.
Having identified the outlet for investment, the scheme was worked THE up on the basis that Macclesfield is an affluent area but lacking a stylish, upmarket bar of the type that we have now developed with The Lounge.
The lessee had extensive experience of running this style of concept elsewhere and now has a 20 year lease.
LOUNGE The extensive work included moving the bar, involving some structural alterations, which has significantly opened up the space.
This has given The Lounge a light, airy feel which is complemented by hard floorings, A NEW CONCEPT new backfitting, good lighting and an excellent signage scheme.
AND STYLE Previously the outlet had a turnover of 1,000 to 1,800 per week.
The Lounge now has a turnover of between 10,000 to 12,000 per week.
95% of this is wet and evening trade, and a food offer has now been introduced which is expected to further build on The Lounges initial success.
Despite the fact that the site has only been trading since April 2004, expectations are that barrelage will increase from a Moving Annual Total of around 70 barrels prior to the development to over 400 barrels subsequently.
After The Lounge Formerly known as Abariginals, the site was an Australian theme bar, in very poor condition internally and externally, and with low barrelage.
