Who we are 02 03 Our business at a glance Punch Taverns plc Annual report and financial statements 2004 www.
com Geographical split This year we have successfully integrated the Pubmaster estate and have a portfolio of pubs that covers the geographical spread of the UK.
PUNCHS MISSION IS TO PUNCH IS AN INNOVATIVE AND DYNAMIC PUB COMPANY HELP WITH MORE THAN RETAILERS 7,300 PUBS IN ITS ESTATE BUILD BETTER Scotland 6% North 6% North West 15% Yorks and Humber 13% BUSINESSES West Midlands 13% East Midlands 7% East Anglia 5% Wales 6% London 5% South East 18% South West 6% Sector split Punchs growth propeller model Our methodology for organising Our propeller business model formalises our drive and our portfolio of pubs greatly determination to realise the potential for each of our enhances our ability to help each pubs.
Its a dynamic, virtuous circle and helps us to retailer individually.
enhance value throughout our estate.
Attract the best retailers A K We strive to find the best calibre of entrepreneurial retailers to run the pubs in J I our estate.
Over the last 12 months we have expanded our recruitment team H and revamped our website making it even easier for prospective retailers to G apply.
Together with our field based support teams and a structured interview process we now have a talent bank of over 1,600 registered applicants looking F for pubs with Punch.
E Industry leading training and support In the past year over 1,800 retailers have taken part in our award winning training programmes which give our retailers the best possible start in business.
D Our approach to training is to focus on those issues making the biggest financial impact such as increasing customer footfall and raising financial awareness.
This year our training initiatives have been recognised by the National InnKeeper Training Awards NITAs at which we won Best Development Programme in a Non Managed Estate for our retailer facing Ex!Factor course.
C Develop full pub potential To ensure we maximise the full potential of every pub in our estate we commit significant amounts each year on investment.
One of the key drivers of our B business is our extensive pub development programme and this year has seen us invest 35 million on 580 schemes of which 74 were from the ex Pubmaster estate.
Every project is carefully planned according to the target market and the retailers specific objectives and a full evaluation is carried out on each one.
A Basic Local 39% Develop income streams B Mid Market Local 27% We know there is more to running a pub than selling a decent pint.
We can C City Local 9% help our retailers to harness the non-beer potential and give help and advice D Upmarket Local 5% on developing food offerings and sourcing wines from across the world.
In E Premium Dining 3% fact our extensive ranges of wines and spirits were re-launched this year F Value Dining 5% through the Connect to Wine brochure and specific trade shows.
G Chameleon 2% H Circuit 2% Acquire more pubs I Venue 2% Our most significant acquisition in the past year was the 1.2bn purchase J Others 2% of Pubmaster, the UKs third largest pub group which brought our estate K Unallocated 4% to circa 7,300 pubs.
In September 2004 we completed the purchase of InnSpired Group Ltd adding a further 1,064 pubs to our estate.
QUALITY PUB ESTATE ACQUIRE ATTRACT MORE THE BEST PUBS RETAILERS OPTIMISE FINAMCE DEVELOP INDUSTRY INCOME LEADING STREAMS TRAINING & SUPPORT DEVELOP FULL PUB POTENTIAL
