Directors and management Peter Smith BSc, FCA Aged 58, Peter Long CIMA Aged 52, John Poulter MA Aged 62, non-executive Chairman.
Appointed to the Board on 1 non-executive director.
Appointed to the Board in April January 2003 as non-executive Deputy a non-executive director in February 2002.
He is Chairman of Spectris plc, Chairman and became Chairman on 2001.
He is Chief Executive of First an international instrumentation and 30 April 2003.
He was UK Senior Partner Choice Holidays plc and was formerly controls business, which he joined in of  until July Chief Executive of Sunworld Ltd having 1988 after an earlier career with 2000 and a member of its Global previously been Finance Director then Cambridge Instruments and BTR plc.
Chief Executive of the tour operating He was Chief Executive for ten years division of International Leisure Group.
prior to becoming non-executive He is a non-executive director of He is a non-executive director of Chairman in 2001.
He is a non-executive N M Rothschild & Sons Ltd and of The Rentokil Initial plc.
Aud, Nom and Rem director of Kidde plc, Smaller Companies Equitable Life Assurance Society.
In Value Trust plc and The London Metal 2004, he relinquished his non-executive Exchange.
Aud, Nom and Rem directorship in Safeway plc and was appointed as a non-executive director and Chairman of Savills plc, the international property services group: he was also appointed as a non-executive director of Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust.
He is a member of the Finance and General Purposes Committee of the CBI and sits on the Harvard Business Schools Global Corporate Governance Advisory Council.
Nom Dianne Thompson BA, FCIM John Warren BSc, FCA Aged 51, Aged 54, non-executive director.
Appointed as Appointed as a non-executive director a non-executive director in September in February 2002.
He is the Group Finance Director Executive of Camelot Group plc.
Her of WH Smith plc and his previous previous appointments include appointments include Group Finance Marketing Director for the Signet Group, Director of United Biscuits Holdings plc Director of Marketing for Woolworths and and a non-executive directorship of Managing Director of Sandvik Saws and Rexam plc.
Aud, Nom and Rem 28 RAC plc Annual report and accounts 2004 Andrew Harrison BA, MBA Aged 47, Peter Harris BA, FCA Aged 53, Group Debbie Hewitt MBA, FIPD Aged 41, Chief Executive.
Appointed to the Board Managing Director, Manufacturer Group Managing Director, RAC Roadside as Chief Executive in 1996.
Joined the Company in 1987 previously a director of Courtaulds Board on joining Lex Service PLC as and held various personnel and Textiles plc, responsible for its Finance Director in 1994 he currently operational positions in Lex Retail prior International Fabrics and Home leads the businesses which provide to her appointment as Human Resources Furnishings businesses, having worked outsourced business services to vehicle Director in December 1997.
She was for the Courtaulds group since 1986.
He manufacturers and fleet operators.
These appointed to the Board in January 2000 is a non-executive director of Emap plc, businesses include Lex Auto Logistics, and from May 2004 became Group where he is the Chairman of the Audit Lex Transfleet, Lex Commercials, Managing Director of RAC Roadside Committee.
Nom Hyundai Car UK, Lex Defence and Services, which provides vehicle RAC Software Solutions.
He is a breakdown and recovery assistance to non-executive and senior independent motorists.
She is a non-executive director, director of Wembley plc and Chairman and Chairman of the Remuneration of Coworth-Flexlands School Ltd. Committee, of fide Vere Group plc.
Executive Board Andrew Harrison Chief Executive, RAC plc Simon Carter Group Quality and Systems Director, RAC plc Peter Harris Group MD, Manufacturer Support Services Debbie Hewitt Group MD, RAC Roadside Services Jill Nealon Group Human Resources Director, RAC plc Richard Pennycook Group Finance Director, RAC plc Jon Walden Managing Director, Richard Pennycook BSc, FCA Aged 40, Jon Walden FCA Aged 51, Managing Lex Vehicle Leasing Group Finance Director.
Appointed to the Director, Lex Vehicle Leasing.
Having Duncan Wilkes Group MD, Board in August 2003 as Group Finance previously held a number of senior RAC Business Solutions Director.
His previous appointments management positions within the include Group Finance Director of JD Company he rejoined in May 1999 Secretary Wetherspoon, Laura Ashley, Welcome and was appointed to the Board in Pamela Coles Break and HP Bulmer.
He is a nonJanuary 2000 as Managing Director executive director of jjbeanos and was a of Lex Vehicle Leasing.
From September Notes non-executive director of Richer Sounds 2004 he was responsible for leadership Committee membership plc until 17 February 2004. of the RAC Consumer Services business.
Aud Member of the Audit Committee His previous appointments within the Nom Member of the Nominations Company included Deputy Chief Committee Executive of Volvo Concessionaires, Rem Member of the Remuneration overseeing the Companys acquisition Committee of Hyundai Car in the UK, and Managing Committee Chairman Director of both Lex Vehicle Leasing and Lex Retail.
He is a non-executive director of Morgan Sindall PLC.
RAC plc Annual report and accounts 2004 29
