Directors report The directors of RAC plc submit their million of its own shares, representing Fixed assets The Groups tangible report and the audited financial approximately 10% of the share capital fixed assets are included in the financial statements for the financial year ended in issue on 31 December 2003, expires statements at cost less accumulated 31 December 2004. at the close of the 2005 Annual General depreciation.
No shares have been employed in the business and many of Principal activities The principal activity purchased pursuant to this authority.
them were acquired when market values of the Company is to provide a range of The directors are seeking to renew this were significantly lower than at present.
motoring and vehicle services to authority i. e. for the Company to The directors consider that a surplus over individual and business customers.
purchase in the market up to 11.84 book value exists but have not quantified million of its own shares, representing the excess.
Business review and future approximately 10% of the share capital developments The directors report in issue on 31 December 2004 at the Going concern The directors consider should be read in conjunction with the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
that the Company, and therefore the operating and financial reviews on pages The Board announced in December 2004 Group as a whole, has adequate 20 to 27 and the Chairman and Chief that it has approved a share buy-back resources to continue its operational Executives joint statement on pages programme to purchase up to 20 million activities for the foreseeable future.
The 18 and 19 which together include of shares for treasury, if the market directors therefore continue to adopt the information about the Company, its conditions are deemed appropriate.
going concern basis in preparing the subsidiaries and associated companies Beyond that, the Board has no present financial statements.
including the financial performance during intention to make market purchases but the year and likely future developments.
would like to retain the flexibility to do so.
Directors The names and biographical details of the current directors, all of Acquisitions Disposals In September Purchases will be made only if the whom held office throughout the whole 2004 the Group announced its directors deem them to be in the best of 2004, are given on pages 28 and 29. agreement with AXA to buy out AXAs interests of shareholders generally.
The There were no resignations from, or interest in RAC Financial Services, which authority sought by this resolution will appointments to, the Board during was established in 2002, and to acquire expire at the conclusion of the Annual the year.
the renewal rights of AXA Direct - AXAs General Meeting to be held in 2006 or, personal lines direct insurance business if earlier, 14 July 2006.
The directors In accordance with the Companys which provides motor and home cover.
intend to seek renewal of this authority articles of association, Peter Harris, at each Annual General Meeting.
Andrew Harrison and Dianne Thompson During 2004 the Group disposed of will retire by rotation at the forthcoming Lex Manutention S. A. Lex Havelange Authority to allot shares A resolution will Annual General Meeting and, being S. A. and the net assets of Lex Komatsu be proposed at the forthcoming Annual eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
Forklift South Limited, thus completing General Meeting to give the Board Peter Harris and Andrew Harrison are its divestment of the mechanical handling authority to allot unissued shares up to executive directors and their service businesses, and the net assets of both an aggregate nominal value of 9,500,000 contracts are terminable upon one Multipart Universal and Isuzu Truck UK which represents approximately one third years notice from the Company.
of the issued share capital of the Thompson is a non-executive director Company.
If approved, the authority will and does not have a service contract.
Details of these acquisitions and expire at the conclusion of the Annual disposals are contained in the financial General Meeting to be held in 2006 or, Details of directors interests in the review on pages 24 and 25, and in notes if earlier, 14 July 2006.
Companys ordinary shares are set out 28 and 29 on pages 68 and 69. in the Remuneration Report on pages A resolution will also be proposed 35 to 41.
Dividends The directors recommend a seeking shareholders approval for final dividend of 15.6p per share 2003 renewal of the authority given at last A table showing each Directors record of 14.6p which, with the interim dividend years Annual General Meeting to enable attendance at meetings held during 2004 already paid, will provide total dividends the directors, to a limited extent, to issue is shown in the Corporate Governance for the year of 25.8p per share, an ordinary shares for cash without first section on page 34. increase of 6.2% on the 24.3p paid in offering such shares to existing respect of last year.
Payment of the shareholders in proportion to their Employee relations Employee recommended final dividend, if approved holdings.
The authority being sought involvement The Company believes that, at the Annual General Meeting, will be is for a maximum nominal value of to achieve excellent customer service, its made on 5 May 2005 to shareholders 1,480,000 being approximately 5% of employees should be well informed about registered at the close of business on the issued share capital of the Company.
the Companys plans and performance 8 April 2005.
If approved, the authority will expire at and have the opportunity to discuss their the conclusion of the Annual General performance regularly with their Share capital Details of the Companys Meeting to be held in 2006 or, if earlier, managers.
The Company is therefore authorised and issued share capital at 14 July 2006.
It is not currently the committed to providing all its employees 31 December 2004, of shares issued intention of the directors to issue for cash with information on a regular basis and during the year and of options granted any part of the unissued share capital for to encouraging their participation in under the Companys employee share purposes other than upon the exercise schemes where they will benefit from schemes, are detailed in notes 6 and 23 of options granted under the Companys the Companys progress and profitability.
to the financial statements on pages 55, employee share schemes.
Employees receive information about Substantial shareholders Details the Company in several different forms.
Purchase by the Company of its own of shareholders who have notified the There are publications such as the annual shares The authority given at last years Company that they have an interest in report and accounts, the interim report Annual General Meeting for the Company 3% or more of the Companys issued and Juice, a magazine which is sent to purchase in the market up to 11.8 share capital are set out on page 80. to all employees at least twice a year.
30 RAC plc Annual report and accounts 2004 Individual businesses also produce Known environmental risks are closely Company a limited authority to their own in-house newspapers.
The monitored by the operating companies, make certain payments which might Companys intranet provides details on Group-wide assessments of inadvertently breach the provisions all businesses in the Group, copies of the environmental risks are frequently of the Political Parties, Elections and latest press releases and vacancies undertaken and significant environmental Referendums Act 2000 the Act in across the Company as well as access issues are regularly discussed by the an aggregate amount not exceeding to a bespoke on-line learning resource.
The authority will expire at the conclusion of the Annual Open communication and feedback The Groups Environmental Policy, General Meeting to be held in 2007 or, operates throughout all parts of the environmental management systems, if earlier, 29 April 2007 and the Board Group.
In 2004, employees were objectives and targets are reviewed will not use that authority to make any engaged regularly in large scale briefings periodically to ensure that they continue political donations as that expression from their business managing directors to address significant environmental would have been understood before and Executive Board members.
Views aspects and to achieve continued the Act became law.
and opinions were also collected in the improvement in the Groups annual colleague satisfaction survey, environmental performance.
Policy on the payment of suppliers which was completed by 86% of Due to the diverse range of the services employees in 2004, and we act positively The Groups annual environmental report, offered by the Companys operating to address the issues that they raise.
including a policy statement, is available businesses, the Company does not on the website www.
follow any uniform code or standard The Board is committed to acting with on payment practice.
The operating integrity towards each of our stakeholder Health and safety Andrew Harrison, Chief businesses are responsible for agreeing groups and has an established Safety Executive, is the director responsible for the terms and conditions under which Net policy which enables all of our health and safety, reinforcing the business transactions are conducted colleagues to raise their concerns in message that health and safety issues with their suppliers.
It is Company policy confidence, and without fear of reprisals.
are a high priority for the Group: Groupthat payments to suppliers are made in This policy, which is part of our integrity wide assessments of health and safety accordance with these terms, provided commitment, can be viewed on the risks are periodically undertaken, that the supplier is also complying with website www.
reported to and discussed by the Board.
all relevant terms and conditions.
A copy of the health and safety policy Employees are encouraged to become statement is available on the website The amount due to trade creditors at the involved in the performance of the www.
end of the financial year for the Company Company through a variety of share represents 38 days 2003 33 days of schemes.
The principal schemes are In accordance with guidance provided by purchases received from those creditors.
the Long Service Share Award Scheme the Health and Safety Commission, the under which employees receive ordinary Board formally recognises its collective Annual General Meeting The Annual shares according to their length of responsibility for, and individual directors General Meeting will be held at 12:00 service, the Sharesave Scheme and each accept their individual roles in, noon on Thursday, 14 April 2005 at The the Executive Share Option Scheme.
providing leadership across the Group.
Montcalm Hotel, Great Cumberland Place, London W1.
Employment of disabled persons It is the As part of the Groups commitment to Companys policy to ensure that disabled reducing accidents at work, accident By way of special business, approval is persons are treated fairly and consistently statistics across the Group are analysed.
being sought from shareholders for the in terms of recruitment, training, career This enhances the visibility of areas adoption of new Articles of Association development and promotion and that where improvements can be targeted and also for an increase in the their employment opportunities should and is supported by regular status Companys authorised share capital.
be based on a realistic assessment of reports on health and safety incidents For shareholders, a separate Notice their aptitudes and abilities.
of Meeting document, which includes possible the Company will continue the an explanation of all of the proposed employment of employees who become Charitable donations and resolutions, will be mailed with this disabled during the course of their contributions for political purposes annual report.
employment with the Company through During the year the Company made re-training, acquisition of special aids and charitable donations amounting to Auditors A resolution to re-appoint equipment or the provision of suitable 100,000 2003 124,000.
This was KPMG Audit Plc as auditors and to alternative employment.
distributed to a range of charities, the authorise the directors to determine their largest donation being a long-term remuneration will be proposed at the Pensions information The pensions commitment to the Motor and Allied forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
department provides the Companys Trades Benevolent Fund, BEN.
Included UK employees with guidance on pension in the 2004 total are donations made by The Boards opinion is that re-election matters during their employment.
The the Company to match the charitable and fees of the auditors are inter-related department also counsels and assists fund-raising activities of our own issues and should therefore be dealt employees in preparation for retirement.
Community relations Environment There were no contributions for political The report of the directors has been The directors regard the protection of the purposes either in the current or prior approved by the Board and signed environment as an essential part of the year and the Company has no intention on its behalf by Companys corporate responsibilities.
of changing its policy of not making donations to political parties.
Pamela Coles Within the context of the Groups Secretary Environmental Policy, individual At the 2003 Annual General Meeting, 16 February 2005 companies undertake their own initiatives shareholders agreed to grant the to address their business specific impacts.
RAC plc Annual report and accounts 2004 31
