RAC at a glance consumer services Roadside Our patrol team serve over RAC Auto Windscreens Our expert fitters RAC Legal Services We have been 7 million members across the UK repair and replace over 750,000 pieces providing legal advice for motorists for including individual members and those of glass every year, and serve individual over 90 years.
Our straight forward and receiving cover through corporate fleets, motorists, fleet vehicles and the clear approach to dealing with personal insurers and vehicle manufacturers.
With over 820 fitters, injury and legal expenses insurance has year we were awarded No1 in customer across 154 sites, we operate 24 hours a seen our customer base increase in the satisfaction in the annual JD Power day, 365 days a year.
last year to 2.3 million legal expenses Study, the Best in Vehicle Recovery policies, and our personal injury claims in the 2004 Fleet Excellence Awards, and work increase to over 21,000. at the National Customer Service Awards picked up the Best use of technology in customer service.
RAC Financial Services We offer BSM We are the UKs largest driver Vehicle Inspections RAC provides vehicle customers personal insurance products training company, with over 3,100 examinations for individual motorists, covering motor, home and travel, as well instructors across the UK.
In 2004, we fleets, vehicle manufacturers, finance as a range of motor and personal loans.
delivered driver tuition and training to companies, and dealerships.
We have a track record in achieving high over 157,000 people, from learner drivers In 2004, our Inspectors carried out over levels of insurance renewals with our to those requiring refresher or advanced 350,000 vehicle inspections: providing customers reflecting the success of our driving skills for personal or business use.
peace of mind and potentially money approach based on choice, value for BSM also accredit a network of Rider saving advice to customers.
money and excellence in customer Training Schools across the country, service.
RAC was ranked the top roadside rescue and recovery company in the J. D. Power and Associates 2004 UK Roadside Assistance SM Study.
Study based on responses from 23,641 owners and drivers of 51 and 02 registered vehicles who required roadside assistance.
com 06 RAC plc Annual report and accounts 2004
