RAC at a glance our sector expertise Across RAC plc we combine our knowledge and expertise to provide services to organisations in the public and private sectors.
It is a fundamental part of our product offer that we approach each new prospect with a tailored service to meet their individual needs.
We have identified five target sectors, where we have existing relationships, and which represent significant areas for growth.
Contracts within these sectors can involve long lead times from the Defence Responsible for over 1 billion Motor and Vehicle Manufacturers Our identification of a prospect through to of MoD contracts, Lex Defence is one capabilities extend to contact centre and pre-qualification, tendering, award and of the largest suppliers of vehicles, fleet customer care services, mystery full implementation.
management, and logistics support shopping, centralised service bookings, services to the UK defence market.
lead qualification, breakdown assistance In addition to managing over 14,000 for commercial and motor vehicles, and vehicles on behalf of the MoD, Lex inspection services and warranties.
Over Defence provides logistics support 40% of all new cars sold carry RAC solutions, from spares for the Challenger breakdown cover and we have recently 2 Tank, to a warehouse and distribution integrated contract hire services to Ford.
management service for the Rapier weapon system.
Airside Airlines, airports and ground Utilities Services For every company Insurance Services Providing customer handling companies are increasingly within the utilities sector, regulatory and contact centres for leading insurance and aware of the need to concentrate on core commercial pressures create a constant financial services companies, including capabilities.
From 2003, Lex Transfleet need to reduce costs and optimise Lloyds TSB, NFU Mutual, and Norwich Airside Solutions has been working with efficiency, while maintaining service Union, we design our services to bring British Airways on one of the largest quality.
RAC Utilities Services has efficiency gains to our clients, and contracts of its kind, delivering extensive experience in this specialist deliver high levels of satisfaction for their maintenance and fleet management for sector and a wide range of skills from customers.
We work extensively with British Airways fleet of ground support total fleet management through to insurers and fleet operators on all equipment.
This 10-year contract covers effective asset management.
aspects of the claims handling event over 7,000 vehicles from aircraft tugs and from the first notification of an accident baggage trailers, to crew buses and or vehicle damage or loss, through to passenger coaches, and includes managing the repair and settling the operations at Heathrow, Gatwick, claim.
08 RAC plc Annual report and accounts 2004
