inspiring our colleagues We invest in learning and development Core to our business Pioneering programmes designed to support our success is the service colleagues in delivering inspirational service, and build our overall we deliver to our Pace & Ambition understanding of colleague satisfaction customers.
We have through an annual company-wide survey.
a fundamental belief Integrity In 2004, our overall colleague satisfaction in the role that our increased by 2% to 73%, and almost 10,000 colleagues responded to the colleagues play in Hungry to Learn survey.
Our monthly People P&L which delivering inspirational looks at colleague turnover, stability, absence and satisfaction, gives further service.
With the Together we make information on progress and ensures that support of our a difference our colleagues and the environment in which they work is high on the agenda colleagues, we base across the company.
our actions and build our culture, around a set of five key values: RAC plc Annual report and accounts 2004 09 RAC at a glance supporting the community We recognise our corporate social Environment We have minimum responsibility in a number of ways: standards for both health and safety through the donations we and our and environmental management in each colleagues make to charities, through business, supported by training and sitethe promotion of road safety to schools specific policies and procedures.
We also across the United Kingdom, and through track our performance through an annual our adoption of environmentally aware environmental report which covers areas processes.
We also play a role in helping from accident reporting to managing our shape the policy debate around motoring environmental standards.
This is and are proud to represent the views published on our website of our members, and Britains motorists www.
co. uk in general, both through our annual Report on Motoring, and contributing Voice of the motorist The RAC brand is to comment on the transport issues synonymous with motoring.
We support 13 pupils at of the day.
motorists from their first experience behind the wheel and throughout their King James School Charities RAC plc supports colleagues motoring lives.
As such, we have a wealth in Knaresborough, through matching funds raised by them of experience and knowledge which we to a maximum of 250 per individual constantly grow and enhance.
Each year, receiving their award or 500 per team.
We believe that our we produce our Report on Motoring, now from RAC Patrol, colleagues are motivated to raise funds in its 16th year, to put the spotlight on a for initiatives close to them and therefore topical issue.
In 2005 we are looking at Andy Hardcastle.
do not have a chosen charity for the the frustration and liberation drivers company.
The range of charities experience on todays busy roads.
benefiting from our fundraising include We use our findings to inform ongoing Macmillan Cancer Relief, British Heart debate with our members, the media Foundation through to transport related and with government.
charities including BEN the Motor and Allied Trades Benevolent Fund and Motability, which provides adapted vehicles for people with disabilities.
Road safety Every year we work with schools across the UK to involve children in suggesting ways to improve safety measures on their route to school.
This programme, called Grass Routes, involves 11-14 year olds, the most vulnerable group on the roads.
Over 3,000 Grass Routes resource packs, which are endorsed by the Department for Transport and the Department for Education and Skills are used in secondary schools as part of the national curriculum.
Our 16th annual Report on Motoring looks at the agony and ecstasy of driving today.
10 RAC plc Annual report and accounts 2004 building on our strengths 2004 has been a good year for RAC plc.
The following pages highlight a number of our key successes.
These include: our Roadside Assistance and Fleet Excellence awards: our strategic step in financial services: the successful integration of our new Ford contract: the growth of BSM: our expanding business to business services: and our investment in future skills for our British Airways contract.
RAC plc Annual report and accounts 2004 11 Building on our strengths Number 1 for customer satisfaction This year we were voted No.
1 for customer satisfaction in the annual JD Power Study, Best in Vehicle Recovery at the Fleet Excellence Awards, and also picked up the Best use of technology in customer service award at the National Customer Service awards.
These achievements recognise the outstanding service delivered 24 hours a day by our front line patrols and dedicated customer service and support teams.
12 RAC plc Annual report and accounts 2004 Financial services In September we made a major commitment to our financial services business through our agreement to buy the renewal rights to AXA Directs 270,000 motor and home insurance policies.
Our agreement included regaining ownership of our brand, RAC Insure, and created tremendous potential to grow our financial services business by offering members and non-members alike products offering value, choice and great service.
For information on our financial services, call 0800 0154435.
RAC plc Annual report and accounts 2004 13 Building on our strengths Fleet management Lex Vehicle Leasing successfully integrated our contract with Ford, which is worth 1 billion over the next 7 years.
Our total managed fleet now exceeds 123,600 vehicles.
Building on our vision to be a world-class business, we were also pleased to receive a number of service awards in 2004 including: Best Leasing and Best Fleet Management company at the Fleet Excellence Awards.
For more information on our fleet management services go to www.
co. uk 14 RAC plc Annual report and accounts 2004
