DIRECTORS AS AT 31 JANUARY 2005 PHILIPPE LITARD 56 Chairman Mr Litard was managing director of the Global Natural Resources Fund from 2000 to 2003.
Prior to July 2000 he was director of the Oil, Gas and Mining Department of the International Finance Corporation.
His experience in corporate and project finance with UBS, IFC and the World Bank extends over 30 years, most of them in the minerals business and in Africa.
Mr Litard is now an independent consultant and a promoter of mining and energy investments.
He was appointed a director in February 1998 and chairman in November 2004.
D MARK BRISTOW 46 Chief executive officer A geologist with more than 20 years experience in the mining industry, he holds a PhD in Geology from Natal University.
Dr Bristow had executive responsibility for the exploration and new business activities of Randgold & Exploration from 1992 to 1995.
In August 1995 he was appointed a director and subsequently in October 1995 chief executive of Randgold Resources, when it was established as Randgold & Explorations international mining and exploration subsidiary.
He has been instrumental in building and developing Randgold Resources into a gold-focused mining and exploration company and has played a significant role in encouraging the emergence of the mining sector in the West African sub-region.
In addition to the above responsibilities, during the period from 1995 to 1997 he also directed the re-engineering of the reserve management functions of the gold mines of the Randgold & Exploration Group and its affiliated gold mining companies.
He has held director positions on the boards of Harmony Gold Mining Company Limited and Durban Roodepoort Deep Limited.
ROGER A WILLIAMS 41 Finance director Mr Williams is a chartered accountant with 17 years experience in finance including eight years in the mining industry.
Prior to joining Randgold Resources in January 1997, he was a financial manager for Kimberly-Clark of Southern Africa and an audit manager with Deloitte & Touche in the UK.
In November 2001 he was appointed an alternate director, and was appointed finance director in April 2002.
BERNARD H ASHER 68 Senior independent non-executive Chairman of the audit committee and member of the remuneration committee 1986 - 1998, he was an executive director of HSBC Holdings plc and chairman of the HSBC Holdings subsidiary, HSBC Investment Bank plc.
He was chairman of Lonrho Africa plc, vice-chairman of the Court of Governors of the London School of Economics and of the Legal & General Group plc and a director of Morgan Sindall plc.
He is chairman of Lion Trust Asset Management and senior independent director of Morgan Sindall.
He was appointed a director of Randgold Resources in June 1997 and senior independent director in October 2003.
JEAN-ANTOINE CRAMER 73 Non-executive Member of the audit committee Mr Cramer was senior partner in Messieurs Cramer & Cie, a Geneva portfolio management company, was president of the Corporate Association of Geneva Investment Managers and lectures on various topics relating to politics and economics.
He was appointed a director of Randgold & Exploration in 1994 and resigned following his appointment to the Randgold Resources board in 1997.
ROBERT I ISRAEL 55 Non-executive Chairman of the remuneration committee Until April 2000, a managing director of Schroder & Co Inc of New York and head of its energy department, Mr Israel is now partner at Compass Advisers, LLP.
His experience in corporate finance, especially the natural resources sector, extends over 26 years.
Mr Israel was appointed a director in June 1997.
AUBREY L PAVERD 66 Non-executive Member of the audit committee Appointed a non-executive director in August 1995, Dr Paverd brings 40 years of international geological experience to the board.
He served as vice-president of exploration for Newmont in USA and from 1994 to December 1999, he was the group executive exploration at North Limited in Melbourne, Australia.
Dr Paverd is now an independent consultant and a non-executive director of Compania fide Minas Buenaventura.
