EXPLORATION REVIEW In 2004, exploration activities concentrated on the conversion of resources to reserves and the expansion of the resource base at both Morila and Loulo.
As promised by our African Footprint strategy outlined last year, the company continued to expand its presence within the most prospective gold belts of West and East Africa and now has operations in six African countries boasting a portfolio of 115 targets on 2 8 700km of groundholding.
The development of the companys second mine at Loulo is well underway and exploration continues to add long-term value to the project.
Deep drilling on the Yalea orebody confirmed the underground potential of the deposit and the geological model of shear-hosted mineralisation as well as the identification of numerous high-grade payshoots which do not always crop out at surface, down to vertical depths of 640 metres.
The drilling also closed the gap to the P125 satellite deposit forming a continuous 2.7 kilometre zone of mineralisation.
In addition to the resource conversion work, new conceptual targets are being drilled and reconnaissance work to the south of Yalea highlights a potential for a further two kilometre strike of mineralisation.
At Morila mine, a review of the data is leading to the development of a new model, where it is interpreted that the deposit locates within the high-grade metamorphic core of a contact thermal aureole.
In Senegal, a first phase of reconnaissance drilling was completed on two targets.
These identified significant mineralised systems and a pipeline of advanced targets is ready for drilling in early 2005.
Exploration recommenced on two permits in Burkina Faso, Danfora and Kiaka, after an absence of four years.
The company made its first venture into Ghana and is currently focused on building a portfolio in the country.
Tanzania is another important focus outside Mali and Senegal, where the company holds the dominant land position in the Musoma greenstone belt one of the most underexplored areas in Tanzania.
In the Mara belt the company has a focused approach exploring for a known style of mineralisation beneath recent cover basalts.
Drilling has intersected sulphide-bearing rocks and gold assay results are pending.
A new concept has been developed to investigate similarities in banded iron formation hosted gold mineralisation to those observed in the Southern Lake Victoria goldfields.
Generative work continues to develop this concept and identify further exploration opportunities.
Randgold Resources portfolio of projects in West and East Africa reflects its business strategy of organic growth through exploration and its overriding objective, which is to build sustainable mining projects with significant returns.
The company holds a well-balanced portfolio of targets across the various levels of the resource triangle.
MALI Loulo The principal focus this year was the conversion of resources to reserves through drill testing of the underground potential of the Yalea and Loulo 0 orebodies as well as infill drilling on satellite deposits and the development of new targets.
At the Yalea deposit a total of 68 diamond drill holes for 39 590 metres have been completed of which 12 000 metres consisted of deep drilling.
Results have been received down to a maximum vertical depth of 640 metres returning values of up to 23.97g t over widths of 3.7 to 52 metres see table showing drill results.
This includes a plus 800 metre strike length of very high grade averaging 12g t over a width of 15.6 metres which is open along strike and down dip.
These extensions to the orebody will be evaluated during 2005.
The deep drilling has confirmed the geological model of shear hosted mineralisation and the identification of numerous high-grade payshoots which do not crop out at surface.
Drilling also closed the gap with the P125 deposit and confirmed continuous mineralisation over a 2.7 kilometre north-south direction.
The Yalea orebody is a big mineralised system possessing characteristics similar to multimillion ounce deposits such as Obuasi and Prestea.
It is still open to depth and along strike.
The new drill data have been incorporated into a new structural study of the orebody and the results show that it is more complex than first thought.
A structural contour map has been produced and the grade model superimposed.
The results show that: The Yalea deeps high-grade zone appears to be related to a change in dip of the orebody: In the north of the orebody the mineralisation appears to be controlled by an apparent south plunging oreshoot which eventually joins the steep dipping highgrade zone further south.
Interestingly, the south-plunging oreshoot corresponds to the line of intersection between the north south trending Yalea shear zone and the northeast trending Yalea Baboto thrust: In the south of the orebody, there appears to be a steep plunging oreshoot which corresponds to a gentle left hand flexure.
However, this is based on two drill intercepts: and At shallow depths within the Yalea orebody the advanced grade control RC drilling has intersected shallow dipping north plunging oreshoots which correspond to the intersection between the main Yalea shear zone and footwall spays.
A detailed ore microscopy study has been completed on core samples from the Yalea deeps drilling.
The aim of this exercise was to understand the geology and alteration in the hanging wall footwall orezone and the sulphide and gold mineralisation of the orebody.
The results are: The hanging wall package consists of low-grade regionally metamorphosed fine grained arkosic grits locally interbedded with shaley and calcareous units.
Thin heavy mineral layers and laminae with concentrations of zircon and iron titanium oxides were also deposited in places.
The footwall is a sequence of rhymically PAGE THIR TY-SIX banded fine-grained arkosic grits and shale.
The Yalea structure hosting the orebody is developed at the contact of these two geological units: The orebody is represented by shearing and localised tectonic brecciation accompanied by hydrothermal alteration: the alteration consisting of carbonate, albite, tourmaline and gold bearing sulphide mineralisation: Sulphide mineralisation is represented by multi-phased events with pyrite predominating, common arsenopyrite and rutile together with minor chalcopyrite and sphalerite: and The majority of gold grains are associated with pyrite, with between 46% and 74% of grains occluded in pyrite, between 14% and 26% of grains attached to pyrite and between 3% and 22% free in gangue.
Some gold is also associated with chalcopyrite, arsenopyrite and rutile.
Follow-up surface exploration work along the Yalea structure confirmed continuation of the mineralisation southwards for a further two kilometres.
Reconnaissance diamond holes were drilled to test the structure and returned encouraging intercepts of 19 metres at 1.4g t, eight metres at 2.7g t and five metres at 2.8g t. Subsequently a detailed dipole dipole induced polarisation IP ground geophysical survey has been completed.
Initially six lines over the Yalea orebody were surveyed as an orientation study to geophysically fingerprint the deposit followed by 200 metre spaced lines tested two kilometres to the south.
A moderate to good, north-south chargeability anomaly characterises the Yalea orebody over the six lines surveyed.
To the south of the orebody the anomaly disappears but is then seen to redevelop some 600 metres to 800 metres further south for a distance of about one kilometre along a similar north-south trend.
This is a prime target for further exploration.
One drillhole, YSDH03 drilled in the anomalous area, intersected 1.47g t over 11 metres from 107 metres and 1.33g t over 20 metres from 169 metres.
The two lines surveyed to the north of P125 do not indicate a continuation to the north-south anomaly, suggesting that the mineralisation terminates.
Modelling to the north of Yalea - P125 identified 13 target areas along a 10 kilometre strike length which will be the focus of continued generative work.
A diamond hole was completed to test the first of these and intersected multiple zones of mineralisation between 85 and 120 metres vertically below surface.
At Loulo 0, an 8-hole diamond drill programme completed infill drilling of the Loulo 0 orebody down to vertical depths of 400 metres.
Gold mineralisation is hosted within a folded and tourmaline altered greywacke.
High-grade payshoots of plus 6g t are associated with brecciated quartz vein stockworks and locate along the axial planes of folds.
The orebody is still open at depth and along strike.
In addition to the two main orebodies there are a series of satellite deposits where resources have been defined, namely Loulo 0 West, Loulo 2, Loulo 3, P129 and Baboto, locating within a 12 kilometre radius of the plant site.
Definition drilling is required to convert these resources to reserves.
Elsewhere in the Loulo region of western Mali, a heads of agreement has been signed between Randgold Resources and the Cooperative des Orpailleurs fide Sitakili.
Artisanal gold workings operate over three sub-parallel zones, each measuring three kilometres by 150 metres.
Permit applications have been submitted to government authorities, and once these have been approved exploration will start.
Gold mineralisation is associated with felsic dykes intruding a package of sedimentary rocks along the hinge zone of an antiformal structure.
Reconnaissance rock chip sampling has returned gold grades PAGE THIR TY-SEVEN PAGE THIRT Y-EIGHT ranging from 5g t to 19.5g t. Artisanal gold workings operate over three sub-parallel zones, each measuring three kilometres by 150 metres.
Morila exploitation permit Exploration has concentrated on the identification of additional resources close to the current pit and the conversion of these resources to reserves.
Additionally, drilling of conceptual targets has identified hidden mineralisation at depth within shallow dipping structures.
On the western margin a programme of 48 diamond drill holes has been completed on the orebody extension to the north-west of the pit with the intention of upgrading this resource to a reserve and incorporating this into a mine plan.
Multiple flat lying mineralised zones at depths between 40 and 200 metres were intersected.
Better results include: SAN387 nine metres at 8.37g t from 90 metres : SAN394 five metres at 14.35g t from 188 metres : SAN413 five metres at 21.0g t from 40 metres : and SAN421 eight metres at 13.23g t from 43 metres.
At the Samacline target, 850 metres west of the current pit, previous drilling intersected 30 metres at 7.22g t including five metres at 31.54g t SAN487 and four metres at 35.99g t SAN270.
Mineralisation locates within a gentle, north to north-northeast trending antiformal hinge within the main flat lying Morila shear zone.
SAM001 the first follow-up hole drilled, confirmed the model and intersected two metres at 18.84g t from 283 metres down hole, 10 metres at 3.43g t from 482 metres and seven metres at 4.47g t from 485 metres.
A further three holes have been completed, SAM002, SAM003 and SAM007 the results have returned multiple gold intercepts ranging in grade from 0.8g t to 6g t and widths of two to 26 metres.
The Morila model was analysed following a structural review of the deposit and the following observations were made: The gold distribution is controlled by both the intensity and orientation of the foliation in the host rocks: The margins of the orebody appear to be broadly controlled by the change in dip and intensity of the foliation rather than any cross cutting faults: The previous structural architecture believed to control mineralisation, i. e. compartments bounded by north-south and northwest orientated structures, appears not to be valid as these have now been interpreted to be late structures: and The presence of high-grade metamorphic mineral assemblages, which includes almandine rich garnets, amphiboles, cordierites and evidence for migmatisation, would place the package in the upper amphibolite metamorphic facies.
This together with the lack of strong widespread concurrent deformation indicates that the Morila deposit is situated in or near to the high temperature core of a broad contact metamorphic aureole.
Morila region In the Morila region, work to date has not identified an orebody at surface but the presence of insitu gold mineralisation, gold anomalism, alteration, prospective host rocks and a structural framework suggests similarities to the setting of Morila.
The Ntiola area locates within the continuation of the Morila Domba north-west trending structural corridor, while further to the east the Dionkala permit locates in a second sub-parallel north-west trending corridor.
At the Ntiola target area 15 RC holes PAGE THIR TY-NINE totalling 2 598 metres were drilled.
Eleven of these holes were testing IP chargeability anomalies, while the other four tested insitu mineralisation.
The chargeability anomalies appear to be generated by elevated amounts of pre syn deformational pyrite and pyrrhotite which lie as plates or needles on the foliation planes within silicified, fine to medium grained clastic sediments and greywackes.
The presence of these sulphides may be related to a regional metamorphic event: they are not associated with gold.
The drilling at Ntiola Main confirms the continuation of a mineralised structure of over 600 metres strike length.
Intersections in both NTRC3 and NTRC4 indicate the presence of a mineralised structure of up to 40 metres wide.
Alteration in this structure appears to be similar to Morila with sulphides on fine biotite filled fractures within heavily silicified medium grained, biotite rich meta-greywackes.
These sediments are steeply dipping to the west.
Both garnets and andalusite are visible in previously drilled core indicating a high temperature alteration as at Morila.
The presence of this structure is highly relevant at a regional scale as it suggests that Morila is not a unique system.
Ntiola remains a target for further work.
On the Dionkala permit, structural and geochemical data together with the first vertical derivative magnetic data define a broad dome shaped structure with a potential flat lying core that is within two kilometres of the intrusive contact.
Most of the anomalous soil geochemical points appear to plot within a 1 kilometre wide zone parallel to the foliation suggesting anomalism detected to date is focused in a single broad horizon 10 12 kilometres long.
This together with garnet bearing sediments and patchy fine grained arsenopyrite along biotite rich foliation represents a large system within which a Morila-sized orebody could be present.
A programme of five RC drill holes totalling 865 metres has been completed to test conceptual targets and confirmed this model but returned weak anomalous gold values.
On the Segala permit, which is part of the OMRD joint venture to the west of Morila, data integration and interpretation have led to the development of a new model for the Nemala target.
The target locates in a north-east south-west structural corridor which deflects around a large granitic intrusion, it is cross cut by north-west and north-south structures and is intruded by dolerites, gabbros and felsic dykes.
Mineralisation locates in the hinge zone of an anticline with a steep plunge to the northeast, a best intersection of 20 metres at 2.31g t has been returned from trenching.
Work is currently focused on defining reconnaissance drill locations.
SENEGAL 2 The Senegal portfolio includes three permits covering 1 200km, located within the Sabodala volcano sedimentary belt in the east of the country.
Data integration and interpretation have defined four priority targets, in addition to two which have already been drilled, for reconnaissance drilling during the current field season: Sofia, Kaviar, KB main and Makana 2.
On the Tomboronkoto permit at the Tombo target drilling has identified a low-grade resource.
The target is being placed on hold while additional targets within the portfolio are evaluated.
On the Kounemba permit five holes were drilled at Bambaraya to follow up anomalous soil samples as well as 18 metres at 2.92g t and eight metres at 4.50g t in trenches BBTR002 and 003 respectively over a strike length of plus 1 500 metres.
Two holes intersected encouraging results: BBDH002 24 metres at 1.75g t Au from 24 metres PAGE FOR T Y including 12 metres at 3.17g t and BBDH004, 300 metres further south intersected five metres at 1.31g t. Mineralisation is associated with quartz tourmaline veins and vein o breccias hosted in sheared andesitic volcanics.
The prospect lies within a 020 trending segment, which forms a gentle right hand flexure, within a larger north trending shear corridor.
It is thought that dextral movement within the north trending corridor has resulted in o dilational opening along the 020 trending segment.
Our next round of drilling will be designed to further test this target.
At the Makana 2 target, exploration work has highlighted that a circular soil anomaly is associated with a silicified dioritic intrusive hosting disseminated sulphides and returning a trench intercept of 29 metres grading 1.1g t. Mineralisation is open eastwards but the silicified hill is concealed beneath a laterite cap rock and will be drill tested in the current field season.
The Mandinka target in the north of the permit locates within the main transcurrent shear zone and has been identified from a regional 1 000 metre by 100 metre soil sampling which returned plus 25 ppb gold, N030 trending soil anomaly with dimensions of plus 10 kilometres long open towards the north beyond the permit boundary and between 300 metres in the south and 1 100 metres in the north wide.
The highest soil value in the grid is 571ppb.
Detailed soil sampling 200 metre by 50 metre has been o completed.
The first results have been received and return two prominent north 30 gold anomalies, the first measures 5 000 metres by 500 plus 50ppb and the second 3 600 metres by 400 metres plus 50ppb.
The anomaly occurs mainly in erosional windows with incised valleys draining the area.
The lithologies encountered include volcanic and volcano-sedimentary formations of the Mako supergroup mainly andesites, rhyolites, tuffs and sedimentary rocks of the Dialle basin greywackes, argillites, quartzites and gossans intruded by granites, gabbros and pegmatites.
On the Kanoumering permit, the Sofia target locates along the Tombo-Sofia structural corridor which can be traced from Tomboronkoto in the south for 35 kilometres to Sabodala in the north.
The Sofia target is identified by a N30 trending, plus 3 kilometre soil anomaly 100ppb at the sheared contact between ultramafic and a foliated tuffaceous andesitic package.
Gold mineralisation locates within silicified and foliated andesitic tuffs in contact with an outcropping mylonite - jasper zone.
Gold is associated with  alteration.
Trenching highlights a broad, low-grade 1g t envelope of between 18-44 metres within which higher-grade zones of eight metres at 3.9g t and eight metres at 3.8g t have been outlined.
The major structures in the Sabodala belt which control the gross geologic architecture are generally sub-parallel to the north-east trend of the belt itself and are interpreted to be old thrusts along which terrane accretion has occurred.
Gold mineralisation is closely related to a far more subtle set of belt discordant structural corridors which trend northsouth especially where they have reactivated the belt parallel structures.
This intersection leads to structurally favourable sites for fluid focusing and gold deposition.
Exploration will be primarily focused at the intersection of these two structural trends to supply a steady stream of targets with the potential to pass the companys criterion of plus two million ounces.
PAGE FOR T YONE PAGE FOR T Y-TWO TANZANIA Randgold Resources has worked hard over the last year to expand its footprint in the major gold belts of Africa.
Its efforts have been rewarded in Tanzania and it now holds the dominant land position in the Musoma greenstone belt, one of the most underexplored areas in Tanzania, while in the Mara belt it is exploring for a known style of mineralisation beneath recent cover basalts.
Within the Mara greenstone belt, where the company is in joint venture with Barrick, induced polarisation IP geophysical surveys were completed on two permits to test for gold mineralisation beneath recent cover basalts on extensions to the structures which host the Gokona, Nyabigena and Nyabirama gold deposits currently being exploited by Placer Dome.
The results returned coincident resistivity and chargeability anomalies on both grids with similar magnitudes to those over the Placer Dome orebodies.
Dipole IP surveys were carried out over these anomalies to provide additional depth information for the anomalies and allow three dimensional modelling and selection of drill targets.
A programme of 26 drill holes for a total of 2 208 metres of reverse circulation drilling has been completed.
On the Nyabigena South permit, 11 RC drill holes for 973 metres have been completed over the Mughusi target area, which is the structural extension of Placer Domes Nyabirama deposit.
Two holes tested flat lying reefs hosted by foliated granodiorites: no anomalous gold values were intersected.
Four holes tested geophysical targets intersecting granodiorites gneiss and weak finely disseminated pyrite: gold assay results returned no anomalous values.
Five holes tested combined geological and geophysical targets intersecting weak anomalous zones 10 metres at 0.07g t and three metres at 0.91g t associated with bands of pyrite, carbonate and silica alteration hosted by granodiorite gneiss.
The drilling, albeit very widely spaced, confirmed the geological model and identified a large system of alteration.
Results have, however, returned only very weak anomalous values.
All the data are being incorporated into a generative study to drive further follow-up programmes.
On the Mobrama East permit, 15 RC drill holes for 1 235 metres have been drilled to test two coincident IP resistivity and chargeability anomalies, which locate along the extension to structures hosting Placer Domes Nyabigena and Gokona deposits.
These are conceptual targets due to recent rift basaltic volcanics covering the area.
On the eastern anomaly the drill holes intersected moderate amounts of disseminated pyrite up to 3% and pyrrhotite up to 5% within silicified intermediate intrusives, silicified greywackes and black shales.
However, there was no coincident gold mineralisation and this programme will be completed in the next field season.
In the Musoma belt, early-stage reconnaissance work is underway to understand geological and structural controls on mineralisation in order to evaluate and progress targets within the resource triangle.
A feature of the most productive belts in Tanzania is their arcuate shape which is especially apparent in the inner and outer arcs which host the Bulyanhulu and Geita deposits respectively.
Gold production from Nyabigena, Gokona and Nyabirama in the Mara belt, and Buhemba in the Musoma belt, highlights the prospectivity of this region to host world-class gold deposits.
Generative work continues to identify further exploration opportunities.
BURKINA FASO The company recommenced exploration in Burkina Faso.
The completion of regional generative models highlighted the southern part of the country as highly prospective.
PAGE FOR T YTHREE On the basis of this study two permits were acquired, namely Danfora and Kiaka.
2 The Danfora permit covers a 45km area and locates along the Banfora greenstone belt in the south-west portion of the country.
Exploration has highlighted a plus o two kilometre long, gold bearing N40 trending shear zone developed along the contact between basalt and volcaniclastics.
Detailed field mapping has outlined a plus 60 metre wide zone of mineralisation hosted within the basalts and associated with  alteration containing disseminated pyrite and pyrrhotite.
The host rock, alteration and structural setting are very similar to Syama in Mali.
Reconnaissance lithosampling returned grades of between 0.1 and 72.5g t from quartz veinlets 5cm and associated altered basalts with an average grade of 4.2g t for the 60 samples collected.
A five hole reconnaissance diamond drill programme was completed at the Moussobadougou 1 target.
The holes confirmed the continuity of a 60 to 80 metre wide zone of shearing and strong alteration at the contact between basalts and volcaniclastics.
Within this zone multiple gold intercepts from two to 14 metres in thickness and grades from 0.62g t to 9.45g t occur.
The Kiaka permit, located in the southeast of the country is at an early stage of exploration.
To date mapping and rock sampling have been completed.
The results include 38 samples with values ranging from 1g t to 77g t and averaging 8.3g t, 19 of these results are from quartz material average grade 7.33g t and 19 from host rock average grade 9.3g t, the host rock consists of strongly foliated biotite rich schists containing disseminated arsenopyrite and pyrite, the rocks are very similar in appearance to the host rocks at Morila, but the foliation is sub-vertical.
The mineralised zone presently extends for more than 2.5 kilometres and modelling is underway to prioritise drill locations.
GHANA A partnership has been established between Randgold Resources and Inter-Afrique Holdings a Ghanaian company to identify and exploit profitable business opportunities in Ghanas gold mining sector.
Through this partnership a joint venture agreement has been signed with local company Adansi Asaasi Mining Company Limited to undertake 2 exploration on a 234km licence located directly north-east of the Obuasi mining lease.
The extension to the main Obuasi shear on surface and within adits has been defined.
Results have returned low gold values over moderate widths.
Three dimensional modelling of the data has been completed.
A decision relating to future work is pending.
The companys primary focus is to build a quality portfolio of projects within Ghana.
CTE DIVOIRE In Cte dIvoire, exploration activities are still suspended pending resolution of the current political impasse.
The company continues to monitor the situation and holds regular meetings with the government.
A state of force majeure has existed since the onset of civil unrest.
The companys portfolio in the north of the country includes the Nielle permit which hosts the 3 million ounce Tongon project and complementary satellite targets within a 10 kilometre radius, the Boundiali permit where the advanced target of Tiasso locates and three reconnaissance licences, which amount to a groundholding of some 2 2 628km.
