MANAGEMENT TEAM AS AT 31 JANUARY 2005 DAVID HADDON 47 - General counsel and secretary After qualifying as an attorney in 1984, David gained several years legal and commercial experience with a financial institution and a major South African insurance company.
In 1995 he was appointed group company secretary of Randgold & Exploration.
Having overseen the administrative obligations of Randgold Resources from its incorporation in 1995, he assumed secretarial responsibility when it listed on the London Stock Exchange in July 1997.
PAUL HARBIDGE 35 - Exploration manager Paul Harbidge graduated from Kingston University with a BSc in geology and obtained his MSc from Leicester University.
He is a geologist with over 12 years experience, mainly in West Africa having previously worked for Rio Tinto, Anglo American and Ashanti.
He joined Randgold Resources in February 2000 where he has been responsible for managing exploration project activities in West Africa.
He was appointed exploration manager in July 2004.
BILL HOUSTON 57 - General manager - human resources Bill has a masters degree in human resources management and 24 years experience in human resources and organisational development.
He joined Randgold in 1992 as group training and development manager.
Bill currently heads the human resources function.
AMADOU KONTA 47 - General manager Loulo Amadou has a degree in civil engineering as well as several management and project management qualifications.
He was appointed mine foreman and superintendent at Syama mine by BHP and served as mine manager from 1997.
In 2001 he was promoted to construction manager for the Randgold Resources group in Mali and he was appointed Loulo general manager on 1 October 2004.
VICTOR MATFIELD 40 - Corporate finance manager Victor joined Rand Mines in 1992 as management accountant.
He is a chartered accountant by training and was appointed corporate finance manager in August 2001.
Prior to that he served as the financial manager of the Syama mine, and as the financial manager of the Morila capital project.
CHRIS PRINSLOO 54 - Group financial manager Chris has 32 years experience in the mining industry.
Commercial manager with the Randgold group since June 1993 and since 1996 responsible for the coordination of logistics and materials supply, he has also been responsible for the groups risk management and insurance portfolio.
He was appointed the financial director of Somisy SA in 2000 and, with effect from January 2002, Chris assumed the position of group financial manager.
PAGE FIFTY from left to right David Haddon, Paul Harbidge, Bill Houston, Amadou Konta, Victor Matfield, Chris Prinsloo, Richard Quarmby, Adrian Reynolds, Mahamadou Sam Samak, Ngolo Sanogo, John Steele and Lois Wark.
RICHARD QUARMBY 45 - Technical manager Richard is a qualified chemical engineer with extensive experience in the mining industry.
He joined Randgold's metallurgical team in 1997, playing a pivotal role in the development and implementation on site of the Syama and Morila metallurgical plant designs.
His responsibilities include metallurgical development through liaising with partner consultants and evaluating all technical and economic implications with the aid of both proprietary and in-house developed software.
ADRIAN REYNOLDS 50 - General manager - exploration and evaluation Adrian has 24 years' experience in the exploration and mining industries and was part of the team that developed the Randgold Resources strategy.
He leads the exploration team and manages the evaluation of early stage and development projects.
He is responsible for Morila technical oversight and for the compilation of the company's technical audits, due diligences and feasibility studies.
He is a director of Morila Limited and Somilo SA.
MAHAMADOU SAM SAMAK 57 - General manager - Mali A professor of company law at the University of Mali, Sam was instrumental in writing the Malian labour legislation and brings valuable local insight into the human resources aspects of the company.
He is the general manager of the Bamako office and is a director of the companys Malian subsidiaries.
NGOLO SANOGO 42 - Financial controller - Mali Ngolo Sanogo has a masters degree in Economics from the National School of Administration ENA of Bamako.
After teaching high school economics, accounting and commerce, he qualified as an auditor with SEC Diarra before joining BHP Mali in 1995.
He has held positions as materials manager and senior accountant at Syama, and was appointed Randgold Resources Mali financial controller in February 2004.
JOHN STEELE 44 - General manager - capital projects John gained extensive metallurgical and management experience in his 17 years with Rand Mines and Randgold & Exploration.
Upon the acquisition of the Syama gold mine in October 1996, he was appointed a director of the Malian company, Somisy SA, and general manager of the mine.
At the beginning of July 1998, he assumed the position of general manager capital projects for the Randgold Resources group, overseeing the construction of the Morila mine.
LOIS WARK - Manager - communications and cartography Lois joined Randgold in 1995.
Her responsibilities include the production of corporate communications materials and presentations, co-ordinating the groups conference and exhibition programme and the management and integration of data captured in GIS, databases and various other software packages.
