05 Madrid Hard Rock Hotel Q4 2005 Manchurian Candidate Manchurian Candidate for all casinos is the only sensible way to ensure performance in 2005.
The US$235m licensed control the distribution of that content to that the UK market remains competitive and Hard Rock hotel casino development in Biloxi, third parties.
maintains its position as one of the worlds most Mississippi, is on track and scheduled to open respected gaming markets.
in 2005, and the Group continues to explore Group structure other opportunities to license the Hard Rock Having now completed a detailed review of It is against this background that Rank and brand for gaming projects both in the US and the possible separation of both Deluxe Film the rest of the UK gaming industry are having other international markets.
and Deluxe Media which was announced in to plan for all possible outcomes.
Despite the September 2004, the Board has concluded that lack of clarity regarding the detail and timing Deluxe Film a sale of Deluxe Media is the preferred route of any new legislation, the Group intends to During 2004, Deluxe successfully extended to separation for that business and is currently continue its strategy of improving the quality two major lm contracts so that its weighted engaged in discussions with a number of and scale of its UK gaming operations through average contract life, as at 31 December 2004, interested parties.
The Board is convinced of a programme of carefully planned investment was 53 months, with no major contract due the strategic merit of separating Deluxe Film and development.
for renewal before December 2007. and is working towards a solution.
However, the issues involved are complex and the Board Hard Rock The acquisition of the remaining 80% of EFILM is determined to ensure that any separation will Hard Rocks results improved in 2004.
Not only not already controlled by the Group was an be undertaken only if it is in the best interests were like-for-like sales positive, the investments exciting and significant development for the of shareholders.
made in extending the brand into hotels and business, and consolidated Deluxe Films casinos are now starting to deliver real returns.
These rapidly Exceptional charge Whilst merchandise sales remain difficult, the growing business segments offer high valueThe Group incurred an exceptional charge core restaurant proposition is attracting more added services to lm directors and producers of 233.4m in the year, of which 19.0m was and more customers, profitability is improving, that allow them to improve the quality of their cash.
30.3m of the total charge was recorded and this is stimulating additional franchise lms and associated DVD products.
in the first half and related to restructuring activity.
Having opened eight new franchised costs within Deluxe Media and a loss on the cafes in 2004, there are already confirmed plans With one of the most sophisticated digital sale of RLMS.
A further exceptional charge of to open a number of new franchised cafes in laboratories in Hollywood, EFILMs market 203.1m has been recorded in the second half.
2005: in Belo Horizonte Brazil, Canary Islands, leading position in the digital intermediates This relates to a provision for loss on disposal Caracas, and Santo Domingo.
market means that Deluxe can now offer of Deluxe Media totalling 181.4m including lm-makers the use of state-of-the-art digital goodwill previously written off to reserves In 2004, Hard Rocks management focus has imaging technologies, helping to optimise of 76.7m.
In addition, a charge of 31.0m been on developing and repositioning the brand the quality and impact of their release prints.
has been recorded within Hard Rock, relating to improve its image and marketability.
This has Increasing competition at the box ofce is to the relocation of the New York cafe, closure prompted a reorganisation of the management driving lm studios to create better motion of the Vault, and the impairment of certain team, as well as a detailed review of the business pictures and should help to increase the underperforming assets.
The tax credit on operating assets, including sites and locations.
In 2004, EFILM exceptional items was 9.5m.
After 20 years on the 57th Street site, the Hard worked on 29 major lms compared with Rock cafe in New York is to be relocated to Times 23 in 2003.
Cash ow and nancing Square during the third quarter of 2005.
In its The Group again generated positive cash new location, the cafe is set to become a New Deluxe Digital Studios compression, encoding flow after interest, tax and dividends, but York landmark featuring a 700-seat restaurant, and authoring business, now incorporating before acquisitions and disposals, of 36.3m a 1,500 square foot retail shop, and a live music DVCC and Softitler, which were acquired 2003 17.1m.
Following the conversion of area for concerts and special events.
during 2004, is one of the largest of its type the outstanding 65.0m convertible loan notes in the world.
Designing and creating the menus which were issued in connection with the The hotel joint venture with Sol Meli has made for major lm title DVDs, as well as compressing acquisition of Blue Square in 2003, net debt further progress in 2004 with the opening of the lm data onto a DVD and creating much was 606.7m at the year-end 2003 700.5m the Chicago hotel and the announcement of of the bonus material such as documentaries with an average cost of borrowing of 5.5% for further hotels in New York and Madrid.
A fourth and interviews, is a highly skilled and technical the year.
urban hotel in San Diego is also expected to process.
As the volume of DVD sales has open under franchise in 2006.
Continued record continued to expand, so has the demand for International Financial Reporting occupancy and room rate at the Hard Rock high quality services like those provided by Standards Hotel in Orlando, and solid performances at Deluxe Digital Studios.
In accordance with regulations issued by the the two Hard Rock hotels on Seminole Indian European Parliament in 2002, Rank is preparing properties in Florida, are further indications The digital asset management business for the adoption of International Financial of Hard Rocks true potential as a hotel brand.
continues to broaden its product offering and Reporting Standards IFRS as its primary The two Seminole casinos have performed has already secured a major contract from one accounting basis.
IFRS will apply for the first in line with expectations to date and a full of Hollywoods leading studios to archive and time in the Groups annual report for the year years contribution will be a further boost to digitise over 58,000 pieces of content and ended 31 December 2005.
As a result, the The Rank Group Plc 06 Chief Executives review continued Groups results for the six months to 30 June 2005 will be prepared under IFRS and will Looking forward to 2005 include a comparative table showing the results for the same period to 30 June 2004.
A new financial year is always accompanied been of greatest concern to the UK industry.
by a range of uncertainties that lie ahead, While no new casinos are likely to open Overall, while a full assessment has yet to and 2005 is no different.
While a UK general for some years, once open, they can be be completed, it is not expected that there election adds to the political and economic expected to have a competitive advantage will be a material impact on the reported uncertainty facing the Group and its over the existing 137 casinos that operate in profits of the Group as a result of the adoption stakeholders, the three issues which stand the UK.
The UK is one of the most respected of IFRS.
The Group plans to provide a further out as being most prominent for Rank in gaming markets in the world and existing update during the second quarter of 2005. the coming year are i the outcome of the operators have earned the right to be able current Gambling Bill: ii the separation to compete on a level playing eld.
Board appointment of Deluxe Film and Deluxe Media from the The Board is pleased to announce the rest of the Group: and iii the adoption of iii Gambling Bill passed with amendments appointment of David Boden to the main Board International Financial Reporting Standards.
Assuming that the legislation can be of Rank as an executive Director with effect amended so as to create a fair and level from 1 March 2005.
David has been head of the Outcome of the Gambling Bill playing eld, allowing all casinos to compete Groups Gaming division since January 1998.
As already outlined in the Chief Executives on the same basis, Rank believes that this review, the process to deliver a new would be the preferred outcome.
In this Current trading and outlook regulatory framework for UK gaming has case Rank will seek to expand its existing Current trading patterns across the Group are been a long and difficult journey.
Despite network of 36 UK casinos, creating a number in line with expectations.
Overall, both Mecca the possibility that the new Bill will become of multi-gaming venues.
Bingo and Grosvenor Casinos are performing law in the current year, there remain a broadly in line with expectations although a number of unknowns, not least of which Rank hopes that, together with the lower win percentage in the provincial casinos are whether the Bill will be enacted at rest of the UK gaming industry, it can has offset the return to a more historic level all and if so, what shape the final legislation demonstrate the merit of a level playing of profit at the Clermont.
Hard Rock has started will take.
field, and that the Gambling Bill is enacted, well and like-for-like sales are ahead of last year, with suitable amendments, so as to with Europe continuing to perform strongly.
It is against this background that Rank facilitate the development of an already Deluxe Film has seen reasonable volumes in and the rest of the UK gaming industry is competitive, strictly-regulated and the first few weeks of the year, while at Deluxe having to anticipate three broad possible profitable gaming market.
Media, DVD volumes have been strong but VHS outcomes: i the Bill fails: ii the current continues to decline.
draft of the Bill is enacted without any Separation of Deluxe Film amendment: and iii the Bill is enacted and Deluxe Media The future prospects for the Group will be but with certain amendments.
A process to sell Deluxe Media is already affected by the outcome and implementation under way.
While the separation for Deluxe of the proposed Gambling Bill, and the possible i Gambling Bill fails Film is more complex, the Board remains separation of Deluxe.
Notwithstanding these A return to the status quo, after four years convinced of the strategic merit in separating uncertainties, the Group is well placed to of debate, parliamentary time and enormous Deluxe Film from the rest of the Group continue to make progress in 2005.
As a result, expense by the industry as a whole, would and continues to work towards achieving we are pleased to announce a 5.4% increase in be a major disappointment.
the proposed final dividend to 9.8p per share, to tighten the regulatory framework and making a total dividend for the year of 14.6p introduce a single regulator would have International Accounting Standards per share.
In this circumstance, Rank would In accordance with regulations issued by continue as it has done under the current the European Parliament in 2002, Rank is law relocating its properties to bigger and preparing for the adoption of International better premises and adding new casino and Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as new bingo licences in appropriate locations.
Mike Smith Chief Executive ii Gambling Bill passed no amendment Overall, while a full assessment has yet to be Whilst much of the current Bill is completed, it is not expected that there will uncontentious, it is the inevitable creation be a material impact on the reported profits of a two-tier system within the UK casino of the Group as a result of the adoption market whereby there would be a limited of IFRS.
number of new casinos that can offer a broad range of gaming products, and all of the existing casinos that cannot which has The Rank Group Plc
