Our strategy The Boards primary objective is to continue to deliver attractive returns for shareholders through a combination of income and capital growth since 2000, the Group has delivered a total shareholder return of over 90%.
Having completed a thorough investigation of the possible separation of both Deluxe Film and Deluxe Media, the Board has announced that whilst Deluxe Media is to be sold, the route to separating Deluxe Film is more complex and remains work in progress.
Following the proposed sale of Deluxe Media, the specic business strategies for each of the remaining businesses will include i growing Gaming, primarily through organic development: ii growing Hard Rock, by continuing to exploit the strength of the Hard Rock brand through selective opportunities both in the Americas and throughout the world: iii expanding Deluxe Films customer base through the continued development of its creative services business as well as through entry into new geographic markets: and iv optimising the Groups financial structure so as to ensure that total returns are maximised.
The individual business strategies for each of the Groups businesses are as follows: Gaming Hard Rock Deluxe Film The Groups gaming business has 156 The Hard Rock business has 122 cafes Deluxe Film has been in operation since licensed properties in the UK with some worldwide, of which 69 are owned and 1915 and is one of the worlds leading 3.4m square feet of covered space.
With 53 operate under franchise arrangements.
suppliers of products and services to the 4.6m registered bingo customers and With activities in 41 countries, management motion picture industry.
Its activities are approaching 1.2m registered casino believes that Hard Rock is one of the now focused into two complementary members, the Board believes that there most widely recognised leisure brands businesses: lm processing and distribution, are a number of opportunities to expand in the world, and that substantial and creative services.
With operations in the Groups gaming operations under opportunities exist for the brand, in North America, the United Kingdom, Italy, the current law, through investment restaurants, hotels and casinos.
The strategic Spain and Australia, Deluxe Film is a truly in new developments as well as the focus is therefore to continue to support international enterprise, providing a range relocation of existing licences to bigger the brand through selective investment of skills and services to major Hollywood and better premises.
in the owned cafe estate, but with a much and international lm studios alike.
Its greater focus on expanding the restaurant business strategy is founded upon the The nature and pace of development of operations through the increasing use delivery of outstanding customer service our Gaming business going forward will of franchised cafes, which requires little and innovative products and services inevitably be influenced by the outcome or no capital investment.
through efficient low cost operations.
of the Gambling Bill which is currently The business continues to develop a broad In non-restaurant activities, the Board will before the UK Parliament.
The latest and complete service offering, thereby continue to seek opportunities to extend announcement by the UK Government providing an end-to-end solution to the brand into hotels and casinos, again regarding a proposed national policy for all of its existing and new customers.
with minimal capital investment, and is casinos represented a major shift from the Expanding its customer base in existing as actively exploring a number of exciting proposals originally set out in the Gambling well as new markets through international projects in both areas.
Assuming that there are no further expansion, as well as the introduction of new changes to the Bill, Rank intends to apply All of Hard Rocks operations, whether innovative products, is another key element for a number of the new licences, none owned, franchised or licensed, share the of the business strategy.
Deluxe Film is also of which are expected to be operational common themes of rock and roll music taking steps to ensure that it is well-placed before 2008 at the earliest.
The Group and quality service with attitude!
to manage the eventual transition by motion will continue to explore opportunities picture production to digital rather than internationally, including Spain where analogue technologies: and, should it ever the Group already has 11 bingo clubs.
become a realistic prospect, the advent of digital cinema exhibition.
