04 Chief Executives review focus on 2004 Relocated Cardiff Casino Grosvenor Casinos also saw further investment in its estate with the opening of two new casinos, in Stoke-on-Trent and Bolton.
Two new casino licences were also granted in Dundee and Swansea.
A total of 22 of the Groups existing 36 operational casinos in the UK are now either new or have been relocated or extended since 1997, and whilst there is still further work to do before the programme is complete, management believes that the quality of the current estate is key to Grosvenors ability to attract and retain casino customers.
During the year, changes in the identification rules for guests served to stimulate casino membership which increased by 30%, or 265,000 new members.
Blue Square has continued to broaden its product offering with the launch of two exciting new products during 2004: an online casino and a poker room.
The substantial growth in the popularity of poker in particular has been well documented and now Blue Square has an opportunity to capture some Mike Smith Chief Executive of this growth.
The first Blue Square betting shop, located next to the Groups Victoria Casino in London, is scheduled to open later The future prospects for the Group will be affected by the this year and will offer sports-betting customers outcome and implementation of the proposed Gambling Bill, a different environment and service approach.
and the possible separation of Deluxe.
Notwithstanding these UK Gambling Bill uncertainties, the Group is well placed to continue to make A new Gambling Bill is currently being considered by Parliament.
Over the past progress in 2005. four and a half years, Rank has worked closely with Government to try and ensure that the new legislation passes the critical test of being Results capital expenditure was similar to last both consistent with the Governments The Groups 2004 operating profit before year at 115.6m although on a like-for-like policy objectives, whilst serving to stimulate a goodwill amortisation and exceptional items basis i. e. excluding Rank Leisure Machine competitive market for the benefit of customers.
Services RLMS, it was 20.5m ahead of 2003.
While much of the Bill is uncontentious, Gaming enjoyed another year of profit growth, Investment in acquisitions during the year Rank believes that, if passed without suitable helped by a much stronger second half totalled 74.7m 2003 123.6m, including amendment, those elements of the Bill which performance, and Hard Rock began to benefit a series of small additions to the creative affect the UK casino industry will fail this test from brand licensing deals and an improved services business within Deluxe Film and on both counts.
However, a much weaker a further bingo club in Spain.
lm schedule than in previous years and the The process to deliver a new regulatory loss of two contracts in 2003 meant that Deluxe Gaming framework for UK gaming, which began back Films performance in the second half was In Mecca Bingo, the plan of relocating some in 2001 with Professor Alan Budds Gambling disappointing.
As expected, Deluxe Media of the older facilities to new, often larger, Review, has been a long and difficult journey.
was well behind last year.
Since the year-end, premises continues.
The clubs at Burton, Bolton, We now have a situation where, despite being trading patterns across the Group have been Easterhouse Glasgow and Ellesmere Port were close to enactment, the current proposals in line with expectations and the Group is well all relocated during the year.
The Edinburgh are not acceptable to the UK casino industry placed to make progress in 2005.
Palais will be relocated and new units will open because they will place existing casino in Paisley, Thanet and Crewe in 2006.
Over the operations at a substantial competitive Development past ten years the Group has invested over disadvantage.
Rank, and the rest of the industry, During 2004, the Group continued its strategy 330m in its bingo facilities and the quality is continuing to engage with Government of expansion and carefully planned investment of the estate is seen as a major strength and on this very important matter and trusts that in each of its three business divisions.
Total differentiator from its competitors.
ministers will recognise that a level playing eld The Rank Group Plc
