THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE A truly multi-national Board and Executive team.
We believe that combining talented people from different professional and cultural backgrounds in action-oriented teams gives us a competitive edge.
The Board is responsible for the overall stewardship of the Company on behalf of shareholders.
The Executive Committee is responsible for the day-to-day management of the Company and reects the overall management structure.
THE BOARD Adrian Bellamy 63, British # Dr George Greener 59, British Peter White 63, British # Was appointed a Non-Executive Director of the Was appointed a Non-Executive Director in Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Was Company in 1999 and became Non-Executive 1996 and was Senior Non-Executive Director appointed a Non-Executive Director in Chairman in May 2003.
He is Executive from May 2003 to February 2005.
He was previously Group Chairman of The Body Shop International Plc Chairman of British Waterways and was, until Chief Executive of Alliance & Leicester Plc.
and a Director of The Gap, Inc. and WilliamsFebruary 2005, Chairman of The Big Food Judith Sprieser 51, American # Sonoma, Inc. During 2004 he stepped down Group Plc.
He is also a Non-Executive Director Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
from the boards of Gucci Group NV and The of JP Morgan Fleming American Investment Was appointed a Non-Executive Director Robert Mondavi Corporation.
She is Chief Executive Dr Ana Maria Llopis 54, Spanish Colin Day 49, British Officer of Transora, Inc. an e-commerce Was appointed a Non-Executive Director Joined Reckitt Benckiser in September 2000 software and service company.
She has recently been from Aegis Group plc where he was Group was previously Executive Vice President appointed Executive Deputy Chairman of Jose Finance Director from 1995.
He is a Nonformerly Chief Financial Officer of Sara Lee Felix Llopis Foundation, a non-profit making Executive Director of easyJet plc.
She is also a Director of Allstate Arts Foundation.
Until February 2005, she as a Non-Executive Director of the Bell Group Insurance Company, USG Corporation and was Executive Vice President of the Financial in June 2004, upon the sale of Bell Group Kohls Corporation.
She was previously to Securitas.
CEO of Open Bank for six years Banco Kenneth Hydon 60, British Bart Becht 48, Dutch # Santander on-line bank.
She was appointed Was appointed a Non-Executive Director in Joined the Board in 1999 on his appointment a Non-Executive Director of British American December 2003 and the Senior Independent as Chief Executive officer of the Company.
He was Chief Executive of Benckiser He is Financial Director and has been a member Hans van der Wielen 61, Dutch Detergents, subsequently Benckiser N. V. since of the Board of Vodafone plc since 1985.
He is Was appointed a Non-Executive Director of 1995 and Chairman of Benckisers Management a Director of several subsidiaries of Vodafone the Company in 1999.
He was President and Board from May 1999.
He holds no external plc and also a member of the Board of Chief Executive officer of Koninklijke Numico directorships having resigned from the Board Representatives of the Verizon Wireless N. V. until May 2002 and Chairman of Pink of Prudential plc during 2004. partnership in the USA.
He will be retiring Roccade until December 2003.
He is a Director from the Board of Vodafone plc at the Graham Mackay 55, South African of Gouda Vuurvast.
conclusion of their AGM to be held in 2005.
Was appointed a Non-Executive Director He was appointed a Non-Executive Director Dr Peter Harf 58, German # in February 2005.
He is the current Chief of Tesco plc in 2003.
Joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director Executive of SABMiller plc, one of the worlds in 1999 and is the Deputy Chairman.
He served largest brewers with a brewing presence in over Member of the Audit Committee as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 40 countries across four continents.
He joined Member of the Remuneration Committee until June 2004.
He is Chairman of Coty Inc. the then South African Breweries Limited in # Member of the Nomination Committee and a Director of Inbev and the Brunswick 1978 and has held a number of senior positions Corporation.
He is Chief Executive officer within that Group.
20 Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report 2004 THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE Alain Le Goff 52, French Tony Gallagher 49, British Frank Ruether 52, German Executive Vice President, Supply.
Was appointed Senior Vice President, Information Services.
Senior Vice President, Human Resources.
Joined EVP for Operations at Benckiser in October Joined Benckiser in September 1997.
Benckiser in July 1996 as Personnel Director 1996.
He joined the Company in 1986, serving He was previously CEO of InfoSol, a systems and was appointed SVP Human Resources in as Industrial Director in France, Monaco, integration and consulting company in the March 1997.
He was previously with Mars, Germany and as Logistics Director for the Middle East.
Prior to that, he was at Integraph 19861996, as Director of Compensation & Group.
He was previously with Lesieur.
Alain is responsible for the global supply chain Tony is responsible for global information Frank is responsible for human resources including procurement, manufacturing, systems and services and telecommunications.
management, remuneration and benets, warehousing and logistics.
Also responsible for and organisational development.
Colin Day 49, British management of Squeeze and X-trim gross Chief Financial officer.
Joined Reckitt Elio Leoni Sceti 39, Italian margin enhancement programmes.
Benckiser in September 2000 from Aegis Group Executive Vice President, Category Development.
Erhard Schoewel 56, German plc where he was Group Finance Director from Joined Benckiser in 1992 serving in various Executive Vice President, Europe.
Prior to that he was at Kodak, British marketing roles and as General Manager of Benckiser in January 1979 and served as Gas, fide La Rue Group plc and ABB Group.
Following the merger in General Manager of Germany and of Propack 1999, Elio was promoted to Senior Vice Colin is responsible for financial controls Europe private label.
He was General President, North American Household and was and reporting, treasury, tax, corporate Manager of Italy 19951996.
From 1996 to appointed EVP, Category Development in July development, legal affairs and internal audit.
1999, he was EVP, Central Europe.
Elio was previously with Procter & previously with PWA Waldhof.
Gamble in Italy and France.
Bart Becht 48, Dutch Chief Executive officer.
Joined Benckiser in Erhard is responsible for all European markets, Elio is responsible for global category 1988 and served as General Manager in Western and Eastern.
development, research & development, media Canada, the UK, France and Italy before and market research.
Javed Ahmed 45, Pakistani being appointed Chief Executive of Benckiser Executive Vice President, North America Detergents, subsequently Benckiser N. V. in Freddy Caspers 44, German and Australia and Regional Director North 1995.
He was appointed Chief Executive Executive Vice President, Developing Markets.
Joined Benckiser in officer of Reckitt Benckiser following the Joined Benckiser in September 1997 as EVP 1992 as General Manager, Canada and in merger in December 1999.
He was previously for Eastern Europe.
He previously served in 1995 became General Manager, UK.
with Procter & Gamble both in the USA PepsiCo and Johnson & Johnson in a variety Appointed SVP North American Household in and Germany.
of international assignments in Europe, US, 2001 and EVP, North America and Australia Eastern Europe and Turkey.
Bart is Chairman of the Executive Committee.
Prior to joining Benckiser, Freddy is responsible for all companies in Asia he previously worked with Procter & Gamble Pacic, Latin America and Africa Middle East.
Javed is responsible for North America and Australia New Zealand.
