REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS The Directors submit their fifty-second Annual Report to the members A resolution seeking to renew this authority will be put to of the Company, with the audited financial statements for the year shareholders at the Annual General Meeting AGM on 5 May 2005. ended 31 December 2004.
Directors Review of the activities and development of the Groups business Information regarding the Directors of the Company who were serving The principal activities continue to be the manufacture and sale on 31 December 2004 and those serving at the date of this report is of household and healthcare products.
Further biographical details of all Directors are available from the Companys website.
A review of the results for the year ended 31 December 2004 and of the years activities appears under the Financial Review on pages There were no changes to the Board of Directors during 2004.
Since 14 to 18 and in the profit and loss account on page 36.
The Directors the year end, Graham Mackay has been appointed to the Board as a endorse the content of that review.
Since his appointment was made subsequent to the date of the 2004 AGM, he will offer himself for election at In July 2004, the Directors resolved to pay an interim dividend of 16p this years AGM.
The dividend was paid on 23 September 2004.
The Directors are recommending a final dividend for the year of Adrian Bellamy retires by rotation and, being eligible, offers himself 18p per share 2003 14p, which, together with the interim dividend, for re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
makes a total for the year of 34p per share 2003 28p.
The final Ana Maria Llopis and Hans van der Wielen retire by rotation in dividend, if approved by the shareholders, will be paid on 26 May accordance with the Articles of Association but will not be offering 2005 to ordinary shareholders on the register at the close of business themselves for re-election at the AGM.
They will accordingly step on 4 March 2005. down from the Board at the conclusion of the AGM.
In the view of the Directors, the Groups likely future development George Greener has served on the Board as a Non-Executive Director will continue to centre on the main product categories in which since February 1996.
In accordance with the Combined Code it now operates.
7.2, since his term in office exceeds nine years, he is Research and development now required to stand for annual re-election and will do so at the The Group continues to carry out research and development in the forthcoming AGM.
search for new and improved products in all its categories and for A statement of Directors interests in the share capital of the Company increased manufacturing efficiencies.
Direct expenditure on research is shown in Table 1 at the end of this report.
and development in 2004 amounted to 60m 2003 57m.
Details of the Directors service agreements are given on page 32.
Acquisitions and disposals Acquisitions are detailed in note 24 to the accounts.
There have Corporate governance been no disposals during the year.
The Company recognises the importance of high standards of corporate governance.
It understands, supports and has applied the Employees principles set out in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance, During 2004, the Group employed an average of 19,900 2003 as issued in July 2003, and has complied with the great majority of 20,400 people worldwide, of whom 1,300 2003 1,300 were the detailed provisions contained in the Code.
The ways in which the employed in the UK.
The Group is committed to the principle of Company applies these principles, and the few provisions with which equal opportunity in employment: no applicant or employee receives the Company does not consider that it is appropriate to comply, are less favourable treatment on the grounds of nationality, age, gender, set out in the appropriate sections of this Annual Report and Accounts.
The Group recognises its responsibilities to disabled persons and endeavours to assist them to make their full The Board comprises nine Non-Executive Directors including contribution at work.
Where employees become disabled, every Adrian Bellamy, the Chairman, who has the responsibility for practical effort is made to allow them to continue in their jobs or managing the Board, and two Executive Directors, Bart Becht, the to provide retraining in suitable alternative work.
Officer CEO and Colin Day, the Chief Financial Chief Executive Officer.
The Company has adopted a Board structure which is similar It is essential to the continued improvement in efficiency and productivity to that of its key international competitor companies, the majority of throughout the Group that each employee understands the Companys which are based in the USA.
The Board carries out a strategy-setting, strategies, policies and procedures.
Open and regular communication advisory and supervisory role and accepts ultimate responsibility for with employees at all levels is an essential part of the management the conduct of the Companys business.
The CEO, together with process.
A continuing programme of training and development the other members of his Executive Committee, provides the day-toreinforces the Groups commitment to employee involvement.
day management of the Company.
The Board encourages employees to become shareholders and to The Board has identified Kenneth Hydon, as the senior independent participate in the Groups employee share ownership schemes, should Non-Executive Director in accordance with provision A.
Sharesave schemes across the world now give more Combined Code.
He assumed the role in February 2005 when employees the opportunity to acquire shares in the Company by George Greener became non-independent in terms of the Combined means of regular savings.
Following the expiry of these plans during Code, having served more than nine years on the Board.
The majority 2004, the Company will be seeking shareholder approval to establish of Non-Executive Directors are independent, as recommended by the new Sharesave schemes worldwide.
Judith Sprieser is Chief Executive of Transora, the Share capital consumer goods e-commerce exchange.
Reckitt Benckiser is one of Details of changes to the ordinary shares issued, and of options over 50 founding shareholders in Transora, although it is not and awards granted, during the year are set out in note 21 represented on the Board, and uses Transoras exchange for some to the accounts.
The Board views Ms Sprieser as independent as the scale of the companys shareholding in Transora, As described in the Chairmans statement on page 2 a rolling share around 2% in preference shares, and of its transactions involving buy back programme has continued throughout 2004.
Details of Transora, which amount to roughly 1% of Transoras annual turnover market purchases made, under the authority given to the Directors are immaterial both to Transora and to the Company.
Three of the by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting held on 13 May 2004 Non-Executive Directors are not considered to be independent for all to make such purchases up to a maximum of 70,800,000 shares, are purposes: Adrian Bellamy, as Chairman of the Board, Peter Harf, given in note 21 on page 54. because of the shareholding he represents, and George Greener, since he has served as a Director for more than nine years.
22 Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report 2004 The Articles of Association require that every Director will seek Committees of the Board re-election to the Board at least every three years, in line with The Company has established three Committees of the Board, the provision A.
terms of reference of which are available on the Companys website and upon request.
The Board meets a minimum of five times a year and will meet further as necessary to consider specific matters which it has reserved to itself Audit Committee for decision, such as significant acquisition or disposal proposals or The Audit Committee, chaired by Peter White, comprises four major financing propositions.
In 2004, there were five regular Non-Executive Directors.
All members are independent Non-Executive meetings and one held at short notice.
A statement of the Directors Directors and Kenneth Hydon has recent and relevant financial attendance at these Board meetings, and at meetings of Board experience, being the current Financial Director of Vodafone plc.
Committees on which they served during the year, is shown in Table 2 The membership of the Committee complies with provision C. 3.1 at the end of this report.
In compliance with Code Provision A.
The Committee monitors the adequacy and the Chairman holds a session with other Non-Executive Directors at effectiveness of the internal controls, compliance procedures and the the conclusion of each formal Board meeting without the Executive Groups overall risk framework including the Groups whistleblowing Directors present.
The Chairman and other Non-Executive Directors arrangements.
It reviews the interim and full year financial statements devote sufficient time to the Company.
before submission to the full Board and makes recommendations to the Board regarding the auditors and their terms of appointment.
During the year the Board has carried out a formal evaluation of its It reviews and monitors the external auditors independence and performance and that of its committees and individual Directors in objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process.
The Chief accordance with Code Provision A.
The Board analysed responses Financial Officer and other senior management attend by invitation.
from all Board members to a detailed questionnaire.
George Greener, The Groups external auditors and the Groups Vice President, Internal as the Senior Non-Executive Director at the time of the evaluation, Audit attend meetings and have direct access to the Committee.
conducted an evaluation of the Chairmans performance in conjunction In evaluating its performance during the year, the Committee analysed with his Non-Executive Director colleagues with input from both responses from all Committee members to a detailed questionnaire.
The Nomination Committee has primary responsibility for reviewing the performance of individual Directors Remuneration Committee and in addition to this review process, the Chairman carried out an The Remuneration Committee meets regularly to review remuneration evaluation of the performance of individual Directors by face-to-face, policy for Directors and senior executives.
During the year, Peter Harf one-on-one interviews.
The Board is of the view that it is best placed stepped down as Chairman, and a member, of the Remuneration to carry out such evaluations, without the need to employ the services Committee.
Judith Sprieser was appointed to the Chair of the of an outside consultancy, and that this is an appropriate and cost Committee.
The Committee comprises three members, of whom effective procedure.
The performance of the CEO, and of other two are considered independent as defined by the standards of the members of the Executive Committee, is regularly reviewed by the Combined Code.
Accordingly the Company does not comply with Remuneration Committee of the Board.
Adrian Bellamy is not considered independent as he is the Chairman of Reckitt Benckiser plc.
The Executive Committee presents an annual strategic review and The Board is satisfied that the personal integrity and experience of Mr the Annual Plan to the Board for its approval.
Actual performance Bellamy makes him a highly effective member of the Board and the against the Plan is presented to the Board at each of its regular Remuneration Committee.
meetings and any changes to forecasts as a result of current performance are reviewed.
Following a review of the Terms of Reference of the Committee, and in recognition of the guidelines of the Combined Code, All members of the Board receive timely reports on items arising at the Committee now has responsibility for making decisions on meetings of the Board to enable them to give due consideration to the Chairmans remuneration.
such items in advance of the meetings.
Nomination committee Non-Executive Directors receive appropriate briefings on the Company The Nomination Committee is responsible for nominating candidates and its operations around the world when they are appointed to for the approval of the Board to fill vacancies on the Board of the Board.
They are encouraged to visit the Companys offices and Directors.
During 2004 no new appointments were made to the Board.
factories, whenever the opportunity presents itself, where they can Following the year end, Graham Mackay was appointed to the Board be briefed on the local business operations.
The Board endeavours to in February 2005. hold one meeting each year at one of the operating units.
Full, formal and tailored induction processes are put in place on appointment to As and when vacancies arise on the Board, the services of an external the Board which retain flexibility to allow the new Director to have search consultancy are employed to seek candidates for appointment.
input to the induction process so that areas of particular interest to The Nomination Committee reviews each candidate as presented by that Director can be accommodated.
the consultancy and all members of the Committee are involved in the interview process before making their recommendations to the full All the Directors have access to the Company Secretary, who is Board.
All members of the Board are given the opportunity to meet responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and the recommended candidates prior to their appointment.
that the Company complies with all applicable rules, regulations and obligations governing the Companys operations.
A procedure exists The Committee comprises the Chairman, who also chairs the for the Directors to take independent professional advice, if necessary, Committee, the CEO, the Deputy Chairman and the Chairs of both in furtherance of their duties at the Companys expense.
the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
The Board believes this membership is appropriate to the Group despite this not being in The members of the Executive Committee are appointed to the compliance with Code Provision A.
4.1, which requires a majority of Committee by the CEO who leads the Committee.
the members to be independent.
Adrian Bellamy is not considered The Executive Committee manages the day-to-day operations of independent as he is the Chairman of Reckitt Benckiser, Peter Harf the Company.
Individual Executive Committee members hold global is not considered independent because of the shareholding he responsibility for specific operating functions including category represents and Bart Becht is not considered independent because development, supply, finance, human resources and information he is the CEO.
The three Area Executive Vice Presidents covering Europe, Internal control North America Australia, and Developing Markets are also members The Board acknowledges that it has overall responsibility for the of the Committee.
Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness, Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report 2004 23 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS CONTINUED and has established a control structure designed to manage the Group policy in respect of non-audit services provided by achievement of business objectives.
The system complies with the external auditors Smith Report guidance on internal control and provides reasonable, The Audit Committee and the Chief Financial Officer keep under but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
review the independence and objectivity of the external auditors.
The Committee reviews the nature and level of non-audit services Throughout the year the Group has had in place an ongoing process undertaken by the external auditors each year to satisfy itself that for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks and there is no effect on their independence.
The Board recognises that opportunities faced by the Group and the Board has performed a in certain circumstances the nature of the advice required may make specific assessment of internal control for the purpose of this Annual it more timely and cost-effective to appoint the external auditors who Report.
The Groups control environment is supported by a Code of already have a good understanding of the Group.
Any significant Business Conduct and a range of policies on corporate responsibility.
informantion technology consultancy projects are put out to tender Other key elements within the internal control structure are summarised and the external auditors are excluded from this tender process.
as follows: The external auditors report to the Audit Committee on the actions The Board and management as set out above the Board performs they take to comply with professional and regulatory requirements a strategy-setting, advisory and supervisory role with the day-to-day and with best practice designed to ensure their independence from management of the Company being undertaken by the Executive the Group, including periodic rotation of the lead engagement Committee.
The CEO and other Executive Committee members audit partner.
Details of non-audit services are set out in note 3 operating have clearly communicated the Group vision, strategy, on page 41. constitutions, values and business objectives across the Group.
Social, environmental and ethical SEE matters and Organisational structure the Group operates three area management reputational risk organisations, Europe, North America Australia and Developing The Board regularly considers and takes account of the significance Markets and centralised functions covering category management, of social, environmental and ethical SEE matters and their potential supply, sales, finance and legal, information services and human risks to the business of the Company, including reputational risk.
Throughout the organisation, the achievement of business The Board undertakes a formal review of such matters at least objectives and the establishment of appropriate risk management and annually.
Additionally, the Boards Audit Committee undertakes internal control are embedded in the responsibilities of line executives.
regular review of the arrangements for, and effectiveness of, risk Budgeting there is an annual planning process whereby detailed management and the findings of internal audits.
operating budgets for the following financial year are prepared and The CEO is the Board member with specific responsibility for such are reviewed by the Board.
Long-term business plans are also prepared matters.
As part of established management processes, responsible and are reviewed by the Board on an annual basis.
functions report directly to the CEO on a regular basis.
Key areas of Management reporting there is a comprehensive system of control and performance are independently reviewed and verified by management reporting.
The financial performance of operating units internal and external organisations, including Internal Audit, both as and the Group as a whole is monitored against budget on a monthly part of the Company's established management processes and in basis and is updated by periodic forecasts.
Area and functional support of its annual non-financial reporting which can be found executives also perform regular business reviews with their management on the Company's corporate website, at: www.
teams, which incorporate an assessment of key risks and opportunities.
The Board has concluded that there are limited material risks to the Risk management as part of the ongoing risk and control process, Company's short and long-term value arising from such matters operating units review and evaluate risks to the achievement of other than potential reputational issues common to enterprises with business objectives and the Board reviews those significant risks which well-known brands.
might impact on the achievement of corporate objectives.
Mitigating The issues of potential reputational risk considered by the Board include: controls, together with any necessary actions, are identified and implemented.
To this end, key corporate risks include the ongoing Industry sector product safety risks: The household products and development of the new product pipeline, protection of intellectual health & personal care sectors have a number of product and property, financial and business controls in emerging markets and ingredient issues relating to concerns voiced over the long-term effects continuing recruitment and retention of high-quality management.
of household chemicals on human health and the environment.
The Company has comprehensive management processes in place to Operating unit controls each operating unit maintains internal ensure that our products are both suitable and safe for their intended controls, which are appropriate to its own business environment.
Additionally, regulatory compliance and product safety are actively Such controls must be in accordance with Group policies and include addressed by industry associations in Europe and North America management authorisation processes, to ensure that all commitments Australia.
For example, the HERA Human and Environmental Risk on behalf of the Group are entered into after appropriate approval.
Assessment project, established in 1999, is a voluntary industry In particular, there is a structured process for the appraisal and programme of publicly available risk assessments on ingredients of authorisation of all material capital projects.
household cleaning products see: www.
A number Monitoring the effectiveness of internal controls is monitored of specific ingredients are being systematically removed from regularly through a combination of management review, self-assessment Company product formulas and packaging specifications globally.
and internal and external audit.
The results of external and internal Recent programmes include: the removal of nitro and polycyclic audit reviews are reported to and considered by the Audit Committee, artificial musks from fragrances: the replacement of PVC packaging and actions are taken to address significant control matters identified.
where presently feasible : the replacement of formaldehyde The Audit Committee also approves annual internal audit plans and preservatives: and the removal of NPEs Nonyl Phenol Ethoxylates is responsible for performing the ongoing review of internal control APEs Alkyl Phenol Ethoxylates from fragrances and surfactants.
These programmes are above and beyond regulatory requirements.
The Board confirms that reviews of the appropriateness and effectSupply chain risks: Most product and raw material supply chains iveness of the system of internal control throughout the financial year present a number of reputational risks relating to: labour standards: have been satisfactorily completed in compliance with provision C. 2.1 health, safety and environmental standards: raw material sourcing: of the Combined Code.
In particular major risks have been identified and the performance of third-party manufacturers and suppliers.
and ongoing monitoring procedures are in place.
The Companys Global Manufacturing Standard GMS mandates minimum standards regarding employment arrangements and health, 24 Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report 2004 The Directors have responsibility for ensuring that the Company keeps safety and environmental management, in line with international accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy the guidelines, for both the Company and its suppliers.
The GMS is financial position of the Company and which enable them to ensure publicly available on the corporate website.
Management processes that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985. in place include both self-certification against, and independent audit of, compliance with the required standards, including the external The Directors are also responsible for ensuring that reasonable audit of our third-party manufacturers.
procedures are being followed for safeguarding the assets of the Group, and for preventing and detecting fraud and other irregularities.
Product quality risks: Failures in product quality controls could potentially lead to damage to the reputation of, and trust in, The Directors are required to prepare the financial statements on the Company's brands.
The Company has established quality the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that management processes in place, including a Group Quality the Company will continue in business.
Assurance function that works with, and monitors, product quality.
Going concern The Board believes that it receives adequate information and training The Directors, having made appropriate enquiries, are satisfied that on SEE matters through its annual corporate responsibility review.
the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason Corporate responsibility they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Information on the Companys management of corporate financial statements.
responsibility issues is provided on page 19.
Impact of International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS Relations with shareholders The Group will adopt IFRS for its financial reporting for the year ended The Board is committed to effective communication between the 31 December 2005 as required by EU and UK legislation.
The Groups Company and its shareholders.
The Executive Directors, with the project is on track and the first results to be published under IFRS will Senior Vice President and the Manager, Investor Relations, meet be those for the quarter ending 31 March 2005 to be published on regularly with institutional shareholders and financial analysts, 26 April 2005.
Restated IFRS results for 2004 will be published in in Europe and North America, to discuss matters relating to the early March in preparation for the first quarter of 2005.
The Directors Companys business strategy and current performance issues.
expect the impact of the conversion on the results of the Group to The Board receives regular monthly reports from the CEO which be minor.
There is expected to be no impact on net revenue or gross include updates on the share price development, major buyers and profit.
Operating profit and profit for the year are expected to be sellers of shares and on investor views, including analyst reports on the impacted by the expensing of share options, the adoptions of industry and specifically on the Company.
Feedback on presentations International Accounting Standard 19, Employee Benefits and the and roadshow meetings with institutional investors is presented to the cessation of amortisation of goodwill for assets with infinite lives.
in Europe and Executive Directors following twice-yearly roadshows The net impact is expected to be a reduction in profit for the year North America.
The Chairman is available to discuss governance and net income of around 1.5%.
strategy with major shareholders should such a dialogue be requested and has met with institutional shareholders during 2004.
The Senior Charitable and political donations Independent Non-Executive Director does not routinely attend any Donations to charitable organisations in the UK amounted to meetings with shareholders.
Although this is recommended by Code 496,000 2003 367,000.
No political donations were made Provision D. 1.1, the Board considers he, together with other Board 2003 nil.
members, receives sufficient feedback on shareholders, views through AGM the Executive Management and the Chairman, and his own regular The notice convening the fifty-second AGM of the Company to be The Company believes that interface with major institutional investors.
held on Thursday, 5 May 2005 at 11.15 a. m. at the Marriott London it is important that it makes key executives available, including the Heathrow Hotel, Bath Road, Hayes, Middlesex UB3 5AN is contained Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, if required, to discuss in a separate document for shareholders.
matters of concern with its shareholders.
Employee Share Plans The Companys Annual General Meeting is used as the main The all-employee share save plans previously offered by the Company opportunity for the Directors to communicate with private investors.
to employees throughout the Group expired during 2004.
Further Policy on the payment of creditors details of proposals to adopt new plans for UK, overseas and US It is the Companys policy to follow the CBI Prompt Payers Code.
employees are included within the Notice of AGM.
This policy requires the Company to agree the terms of payments with As referred to in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 29, its suppliers, to ensure that those suppliers are aware of those terms a recommendation to increase the time limit for senior executives and to abide by those terms.
Copies of the Code are available from participating in the Senior Executives Share Ownership Policy Plan to CBI, Centre Point, 103 New Oxford Street, London WC1A 1DU.
As at achieve their share ownership target is to be proposed to shareholders 31 December 2004 the Company did not have any amounts due to its at the forthcoming AGM.
Further details appear in the Notice of AGM.
Auditors Directors responsibilities The auditors,  LLP, have indicated their The following statement, which should be read in conjunction with willingness to continue in office and a resolution that they be the Auditors Report set out on page 33, is made with a view to reappointed will be proposed at the AGM.
distinguishing for shareholders the respective responsibilities of the Directors and of the auditors in relation to the financial statements.
The Directors are required by the Companies Act 1985 to prepare financial statements for each year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group as at the end of the year, and of the profit or loss for the year.
The Directors consider that, in preparing the financial statements on pages 34 to 63 including the information on Directors remuneration on pages 27 to 32, the Company has used appropriate accounting policies consistently applied and supported by reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates, and that all applicable accounting standards have been followed.
Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report 2004 25 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS CONTINUED Other information As at 6 March 2005 the Company had received the following notices of substantial interests 3% or more in its ordinary share capital: JAB Investments BV: 111,105,415 shares 15.3% of the issued ordinary share capital.
Legal & General Investment Management Limited: 23,243,269 shares 3.2% of the issued ordinary share capital.
Barclays PLC: 21,932,139 shares 3.0% of the issued ordinary share capital.
MFS Investment Management: 22,038,694 shares 3.0% of the issued ordinary share capital.
By order of the Board Elizabeth Richardson Company Secretary 103-105 Bath Road Slough, Berks SL1 3UH 21 March 2005 Table 1 Interests in the share capital of the Company The Directors in office at the end of the year had the following beneficial interests in the ordinary shares of the Company: 6 March 2005 31 December 2004 31 December 2003 Adrian Bellamy 12,770 12,770 11,152 Bart Becht 963,314 963,314 758,911 Colin Day 198,296 190,296 82,688 George Greener 2,701 2,701 2,398 Peter Harf 840,860 840,860 840,464 Kenneth Hydon 3,303 3,303 3,000 Ana Maria Llopis 3,689 3,689 3,380 Graham Mackay appointed 25 February 2005 Judith Sprieser 1,401 1,401 Peter White 1,701 1,701 1,398 Hans van der Wielen 10,396 10,396 10,000 Notes 1 No person who was a Director or a member of a Directors family on 31 December 2004 had any notifiable share interests in any subsidiary of the Company.
2 The Companys Register of Directors Interests which is open to inspection contains full details of Directors shareholdings and options to subscribe.
Table 2 Attendance at meetings In 2004, there were five formal Board meetings, three Audit Committee meetings, three Remuneration Committee meetings and two Nomination Committee meetings.
Attendance by individual Directors at Board meetings and at meetings of committees on which they sit is given in the table below.
In addition to the formal meetings, there was one Board meeting held at short notice with only the Executive Directors present and one written resolution of the Remuneration Committee.
Written resolutions are required to be signed by all Directors on the Board or serving on the relevant Committee.
Number of meetings attended Note Board  Adrian Bellamy 532 Peter Harf a 5 1 2 Bart Becht 52 Colin Day 5 George Greener 53 Kenneth Hydon b 5 2 Ana Maria Llopis 42 Judith Sprieser c 5 3 1 Peter White 53 2 Hans van der Wielen 53 Notes a Peter Harf resigned from the Remuneration Committee on 15 June 2004 and attended all meetings of the Committeee prior to his resignation.
b Kenneth Hydon was appointed to the Audit Committee on 13 May 2004 and attended all subsequent meetings of the Committee.
c Judith Sprieser was appointed to the Nomination Committee on 15 June 2004 and attended all subsequent meetings of the Committee.
