PATENTED SCIENCE THAT WORKS LIKE MAGIC Apply directly and watch.
6 Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report 2004 Stains are a pain.
They make people washing machine, to add muscle to Great party, best anxious.
Some want to spray it cant deal with it right away?
A blob straight on and see an instant result.
on your shirt can make you feel dress, bad luck awkward all day.
Thanks to Vanish, now in some Theres no mystery about how we made Vanish the global market 50 countries worldwide, were It drives you mad.
We made it the global leader in stain removal.
And kept on making it only worn that dress once, work better.
So instead of feeling and its ruined.
Of course Some like to mix up a paste.
We just anxious, people trust Vanish to do want everyone happy and stain-free.
Thats what So weve made a choice of formats: Last year we launched our best drives us to push the science powder, gel or spray.
formulation yet: Vanish Oxi Action One recipe that doesnt change is Max.
Tackling all kinds of stains is a of stain removal til it acts our winning marketing formula.
scientific balancing act, and this like magic.
Now Vanish Constant product improvement.
combination of ingredients is so good Powerful advertising based weve patented it.
Its made Vanish works in front of your eyes.
And brand even more effective against greasy Stain gone party on!
extensions like Vanish Carpet stains better, in fact, than chlorine Cleaner, which tripled the German bleach.
Add it to water and it zzes market last year and took European into action, foaming into a creamy market leadership.
Apply it direct and youll see the stain start to fade as you watch.
But whats the best way to use it?
Some people want to put it in their Reckitt Benckiser Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report 2004 Annual Report 2004 7 7 NO BLADE, NO CUTS, NO HAIR NO DELAY Smooth legs without the drag.
8 Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report 2004 Unwanted hair is a nuisance.
And So in December 2003 we gave Hes early for once.
theres no best way to get rid of it.
Its a unique Want long-lasting results?
system: smooth-on our fastest-ever Moisturising and softness?
cream, wait just three minutes, Sooo inconsiderate.
At then safely glide-off hair and least, thats how it used to be.
And cream with the bladeless tool.
for a lot of women, that just wasnt Dont men drive you mad?
To date weve launched OK, we said.
How about cream Hes got a taxi waiting outside, that acts fast enough to be part of Rasera in all Veets developed and you havent done your legs your shower routine?
And is markets and were now gentle enough to apply with your yet.
So send the cab away, using it to spearhead the hands?
How about a technique keep the meter running, or ditch brands entry into new ones.
that doesnt involve scraping your skin with sharpened steel?
the dress and wear trousers?
That leaves your skin feeling Sure enough, women loved it.
With new Veet Rasera, smoother?
That removes hair doubled Veets market share in leaving a softer edge so its less you can look your best in next North America.
It strengthened stubbly and lasts longer?
That our UK and French leadership.
makes cuts and nicks impossible?
generating big incremental sales And doesnt smell too bad, either?
up to 60% of users are coming When we tried the idea on over from shaving.
Not consumers, the response was us.
Were busy working on further terric: youd think wed proposed improvements.
