CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT and risk management: Governance framework The Board of Redrow plc is committed to high standards of corporate 7.
Approval of corporate acquisitions or disposals, significant land governance.
Under the requirements of the Listing Rules of the UK purchases or contracts: Listing Authority, the Company sets out details below on how it has 8.
Changes to the size, structure and composition of the Board: applied the principles set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code published in June 1998.
The Directors confirm that the Group has 9.
Approval of significant policies, including Redrows Health & complied with Section 1 of the Combined Code throughout the year Safety policy: and ended June 2004.
10. Review of overall corporate governance arrangements.
In July 2003, a revised Combined Code the 2003 Combined Code Board papers are distributed in advance of the meetings to allow was published which will apply to the Company for the year ended adequate time for review and preparation and include key strategic, June 2005.
The Directors have considered the contents and operational and financial information.
requirements of the 2003 Combined Code and believe that the Company is already substantially compliant.
Within this section on Board structure Corporate Governance, the Directors have identified those provisions The Board considers that it is of a size and has a balance of skills, with which it does not comply with the 2003 Combined Code.
knowledge and experience that is appropriate for its business.
The combination within the Executive team of the Chief Executive, The Board of Directors Group Managing Director and Group Finance Director, together with The Board currently comprises a Non-Executive Chairman, six the local operational knowledge and experience provided by each of Executive Directors and three independent Non-Executive Directors.
the three Regional Chairmen, provides the Board with an appropriate All directors submit themselves for re-election at regular intervals of view of the detail of the business.
The Non-Executive Directors bring not more than three years and are subject to re-election at their first a depth of experience and understanding from outside the Group.
annual general meeting after appointment.
Under the 1998 Combined Code, the Company met requirements that The Chairman is responsible for leadership of the Board and this at least one third of the Board and all Non-Executive Directors were responsibility is clearly established, set out in writing and agreed by the considered to the independent under that code.
The Chief Executive leads the business and is responsible for Combined Code, at least half the Board, excluding the Chairman managing it within the authorities delegated to him by the Board.
should comprise independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Group does not comply with this provision.
Following the publication of the The Board meets on a monthly basis and has a formal schedule of 2003 Combined Code, the Board considered a variety of changes that matters specifically reserved for its decision.
The matters reserved would have led to compliance and will keep the matter under review.
include: One of the options considered was to reduce the number of Executive Directors but the Board felt it would have had a detrimental effect 1.
Approval of Redrows long term objectives and strategy: upon its performance given its current balance of skills, knowledge and 2.
Approval of the annual report and accounts, preliminary and experience.
interim financial statements, trading updates and the recommendation of dividends: Independence 3.
Approval of any significant changes in accounting policies or The Board considers each of its Non-Executive Directors to be practices: independent, with the Chairman having been independent upon his appointment in July 1997.
Any changes relating to capital structure: has been an employee of the Group within the last five years: 5.
Approval of treasury policies: has, or has had within the last three years, a material business 6.
Ensuring the maintenance of a sound system of internal control 36 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT relationship with the Group either directly, or as a partner, broader continuous assessment programme to ensure performance is shareholder, director or senior employee of a body that has maintained at a high level.
such a relationship with the Group.
Whilst Malcolm King is In May 2004, the Board completed its first formal review of its own Senior Partner of King Sturge, international property effectiveness.
This internal review was conducted through a Board consultants with whom the Group from time to time discussion against a set of key topics and headings.
This review process undertakes business, this is not regarded by the Board or by will continue to evolve in the future, particularly as the practice Malcolm King as material to either party and therefore does develops across companies following its requirement under the 2003 not affect his independent status: Combined Code.
has received or receives remuneration from the Group apart from the directors fee, or participates in any of the Groups Relationship with shareholders performance related pay schemes, or is a member of the The Group announces its financial results half yearly and immediately Groups pension plan: following their publication undertakes formal presentations to equity analysts.
These presentations are available on the Companys website.
has close family ties with any of the Groups advisers, directors Following the results announcement, the Chief Executive and Group or senior employees: Finance Director meet institutional shareholders and feedback from holds cross directorships or has significant links with other these meetings is independently collected and disseminated to the directors through involvement in other companies or bodies: Board.
The Chairman and Senior Independent Non-Executive represents a significant shareholder: or Director also attend meetings with a sample of institutional shareholders or where requested to do so to ensure that contact is has served on the Board for more than nine years from the maintained to understand any issues or concerns of major shareholders.
date of their first election.
In addition to the results presentations, the Group publishes a trading Jim Martin is the Senior Non-Executive Director.
update before entering its closed periods.
The Annual General Meeting AGM takes place at a venue close to Professional development and Board evaluation the Groups Head Office, and formal notification, through the Annual The Board recognises that a structured appraisal process and good Report and Accounts, is sent to shareholders at least 20 working days training are important requirements across the Group.
The AGM represents an opportunity for shareholders to receives regular presentations and briefings from those responsible for table questions formally during the meeting and informally afterwards key Group disciplines.
In addition, the Board maintains close to the Companys Directors.
relationships with the local management teams, for example through site visits and regional meetings attended by both Executive and Redrows website, www.
co. uk, gives access to current financial Non-Executive Directors.
Performance evaluation of all Directors is undertaken as part of the Groups structured appraisal process.
All Executive Directors have an annual appraisal conducted by the Chief Executive at which performance against personal objectives is reviewed, having received input from the Board generally.
The Chairman conducts the annual appraisal of the Chief Executive and the Senior Non-Executive Director undertakes the performance evaluation of the Chairman, in both cases having received feedback from their fellow Directors.
The Chairman and Chief Executive review the performance of each Non-Executive Director individually.
This appraisal process is part of a CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT 37 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT Board and Committee composition and attendance The following table sets out the number of meetings held in the year ended 30 June 2004 for the Board and its Committees together with the attendance record of each Director.
Notes Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Environmental Committee Committee Committee Corporate Responsibility Committee Total number of meetings in 2003 04 13 5 2 3 1 Robert Jones 13 13 3 3 1 1 Paul Pedley 13 13 Neil Fitzsimmons 13 13 1 1 David Arnold 1 11 11 Barry Harvey 12 13 Colin Lewis 12 13 John Tutte 12 13 Jim Martin 13 13 5 5 2 2 3 3 Brian Duckworth 12 13 4 5 2 2 2 3 1 1 Malcolm King 2 5 6 3 3 2 2 Bob Williams 3 3 5 2 2 1 1 Notes 1 David Arnold was appointed 15 September 2003 2 Malcolm King was appointed 1 January 2004 3 Bob Williams retired 5 November 2003 The terms of reference for each Committee are available on the Redrow website or on request from the Company Secretary.
The following table sets out the membership of the Board Committees as at 30 June 2004.
Audit Remuneration Nomination Environmental Committee Committee Committee Corporate Responsibility Committee Robert Jones Chairman CM Neil Fitzsimmons Group Managing Director M Jim Martin Senior Non-Executive Director C M M Brian Duckworth Non-Executive Director M M C Malcolm King Non-Executive Director M C M Key C - Chairman MMember 38 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Board and its programme, administered by the Groups Human Resources Director, Committees and is a member of the Executive management team and which has included meeting key executives within Redrow, all Directors have access to his advice and services.
In certain understanding the critical business processes in the Group and circumstances, Board committees and individual Directors may wish to spending time with operating companies.
In addition, major take independent professional advice in connection with their shareholders were offered the opportunity to meet him on his responsibilities and duties and, in this regard, the Company will meet appointment.
the reasonable costs and expenses incurred.
The appointment and In accordance with the Articles of Association, as a new Director removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for the Board as a Malcolm King will offer himself for re-election at the Companys 2004 whole.
Nomination Committee Report Audit Committee Report The Nomination Committees terms of reference include reviewing the The Audit Committees terms of reference include the appointment, structure, size and composition of the Board, leading the process for re-appointment and removal of the external auditor, liaison with the Board appointments and making recommendations to the Board with external auditor and review of their objectivity and independence, the regard to any changes.
review of the Groups results, internal audit programme and its internal During the year ended 30 June 2004, the Nomination Committee control and risk management systems.
recommended two appointments to the Board.
Under the provisions of the 2003 Combined Code, the Board should In September 2003, the Nomination Committee recommended that satisfy itself that at least one member of the audit committee has David Arnold be appointed Group Finance Director as a result of the recent and relevant financial experience.
Jim Martin, Chairman of the promotion of Neil Fitzsimmons to the position of Group Managing Audit Committee, is a qualified accountant and is involved with a Director.
David Arnold joined Redrow in July 2002 as Deputy Finance number of private companies as Chairman where close monitoring of Director and was appointed to the Board as Group Finance Director financial issues is expected by shareholders.
He is a Non-Executive on 15 September 2003.
Director of two other FTSE 250 companies and is Chairman of the Audit Committee of one of them.
In addition, Brian Duckworth, a With the retirement of Bob Williams in November 2003, the member of the Audit Committee is a qualified accountant who has Nomination Committee considered the balance of skills, knowledge previously been Director of Finance of Severn Trent Water Limited.
and experience of the Board and hence that required of a new The Board therefore believes that the Audit Committee has the non-executive director.
These included significant experience of appropriate level of experience to fulfil its terms of reference.
working with professional property developers.
It considered a variety of methods of recruiting such an individual including an external The Audit Committee meetings in the year ended June 2004 included search consultancy and open advertising.
Following independent consideration and review of the following: external advice, the Committee recommended the appointment of 1.
Interim and full year financial results including 2003 Annual Malcolm King, Senior Partner of King Sturge.
This recommendation Report and Accounts: was approved by the Board following a series of interviews conducted 2.
Internal audit plans and the effectiveness of the function: by both Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
Results of 2003 external audit and the 2004 external audit plan Malcolm King was appointed to the Board on 1 January 2004 and his and associated audit fees: letter of appointment details his requisite time commitment, 4. Review of independence and objectivity of external auditors: committee service and involvement outside Board meetings.
Scope, effectiveness and quality of the systems of internal control, This letter of appointment, together with all letters and contracts of including site visits to provide background to control processes on appointment for the Directors of the Company is available for site: inspection.
He has been provided with a customised induction 6.
Major risk review: CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT 39 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT 7.
Introduction of a Group Whistleblowing Policy: and impact and internal controls in relation to those risks have been 8.
Progress on the implementation of International Accounting assessed.
The Executive Board through its regular meetings reviews the Standards.
areas of risk on an ongoing basis and considers whether the internal controls identified in relation to those risks are appropriate.
This procedure also takes place at Regional Board Meetings on a Audit independence quarterly basis.
The Audit Committee also reviews its assessment of  LLP were appointed auditors in 2003 having risk at twice yearly meetings.
The key features of the Group's internal succeeded  who were appointed in 1987. controls are as follows: The current audit partner was appointed in 1999 and will retire following the conclusion of the 2004 audit.
The fees relating to A Policy and Procedures Manual covers all the significant non-audit services provided by  LLP are aspects of the Group's operations and describes the systems disclosed in Note 2 to the Accounts, summarised according to the and controls that are to be applied.
The Manual is reviewed different types of work undertaken and are 0.1m.
The main area of and updated regularly with amendments being approved by an non-audit work relates to advice provided to the Company in Executive Director.
connection with the operation and valuation of the pension scheme.
The Board asks each Director of its operating subsidiaries to The Audit Committee has reviewed the nature of the work and the complete an annual statement on corporate governance and level of fees related to non-audit work undertaken and has concluded related party transactions.
This letter is designed to provide that their involvement does not affect the auditors objectivity or the assurance that Group policies and procedures are being independence of the audit.
In order to safeguard the independence of implemented and are being complied with in all material the auditor, appointments in respect of non-audit work require the respects.
prior approval of the Audit Committee.
Defined authorisation levels established over key areas such as land purchase and the placing of orders and contracts.
Internal control A monthly reporting pack is circulated in advance and The Board of Directors recognises its overall responsibility for the reviewed at each of the Main, Executive, Regional and Groups systems of internal control and for monitoring their subsidiary company board meetings.
Annual budgets are set effectiveness.
There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and monthly forecasts prepared, with actual performance and managing significant risks.
However in reviewing the effectiveness compared against the annual budget and updated forecasts.
of internal control, such systems can only provide reasonable but not The Group's systems provide weekly updates on key statistics absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
in relation to sales and production.
In addition, daily Key business activities including land acquisition, product design, statements of a reconciled cash position identifying significant specification, procurement and information technology are controlled payments are prepared.
All activity is organised within a defined structure with formal lines of responsibility, designated authority levels In addition to the above, Redrow has an Internal Audit function.
The Internal Audit Manager reports to the Group Finance Director but maintains regular contact with the Audit Committee Chairman A formalised reporting structure is established within Redrow.
and attends Audit Committee meetings.
The annual work programme The Executive Directors and the Company Secretary meet monthly to of Internal Audit is approved in advance by the Audit Committee and discuss the Group's key issues, risks and opportunities.
Similarly, each commented upon by the External Auditors.
This programme includes Region holds a Board Meeting, chaired by the Regional Chairman and time for unscheduled visits to companies within the Group.
The attended by the Managing Directors of the relevant companies.
These Internal Audit function updates the Audit Committee on this work at Managing Directors chair a monthly board meeting of their own their meetings.
All reports are distributed to the Board as well as to subsidiary company.
the External Auditors and any outstanding control weaknesses are The Board has reviewed the Group's operations and processes and has followed up as appropriate.
identified risk areas which have been assessed for their potential 40 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT
