DIRECTORS REPOR T The Directors have pleasure in presenting to the members their report Going concern and the financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2004.
The Directors have considered the Groups financial position and trading prospects and consider they have a reasonable expectation for Principal activities and business review stating that Redrow plc has adequate resources to continue trading for The principal activities of the Group are housebuilding and the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going commercial property development.
concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Turnover and profit on ordinary activities before taxation are stated Substantial shareholdings at 670.3m and 124.1m respectively.
After providing for taxation As at 13 September 2004, the Company has been notified of the of 37.2m and paying an interim dividend of 4.8m, the Directors following interests of 3% or more in its ordinary shares: recommend a final dividend of 9.5m and the transfer of the balance No.
of % of issued of 72.6m to reserves.
Name shares held share capital A detailed review of the Groups activities during the year and of its prospects is contained within the Chairmans statement, Chief Stephen Peter Morgan 13,685,155 8.6 Executives review and Financial review.
FMR Corp. and its direct and 7,924,166 5.0 indirect subsidiaries and Statement of Directors responsibilities Fidelity International Limited The Directors are required by the Companies Act 1985 to prepare FIL and its direct and indirect financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair subsidiaries view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group as at the Pamela Elaine Morgan Bell 7,600,000 4.8 end of the financial year and of the profit of the Group for that period.
Morgan Stanley Securities Limited 7,252,800 4.6 In preparing the financial statements the Directors ensure that suitable accounting policies have been used and applied consistently, that Legal & General Group plc 6,296,568 4.0 reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates have been made The Egerton European 5,972,050 3.8 and that applicable accounting standards have been followed.
Dollar Fund The Directors are required to prepare the financial statements on the Directors going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the The Directors are listed together with their biographical details on Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible pages 32 and 33. for maintaining adequate accounting records, and are also responsible for taking such steps and instituting and maintaining such systems and R G Williams resigned on 5 November 2003. controls as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the M King was appointed to the Board on 1 January 2004.
Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
In accordance with Article 79 of the Articles of Association, whereby The maintenance and integrity of the Redrow plc website is the Directors who have been appointed to the Board since the last Annual responsibility of the Directors.
The work carried out by the Auditors General Meeting must be re-appointed at the next following Annual does not involve consideration of these matters and accordingly, the General Meeting, M King will retire at the Annual General Meeting Auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have and, being eligible, offers himself for re-election.
By reason of his occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented qualifications and industry experience the Board endorses the on the website.
In accordance with Article 84 of the Articles of Association, Legislation in the U. K. governing the preparation and dissemination of P L Pedley, J F Tutte and J Martin will retire by rotation at the Annual financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
General Meeting and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
As part of the Boards annual evaluation process, each 34 DIRECTORS REPORT Director underwent formal performance evaluations which included Creditor payment policy looking at the individuals effective contribution.
As a result, the The Group values its relationships with suppliers and sub-contractors.
Board confirms that P L Pedley and J F Tutte, who stand for It is the policy to agree credit terms prior to commencement of re-election as Executive Directors and J Martin, who stands for trading.
Subject to any items of genuine dispute, it is policy to pay creditors within the terms agreed.
At June 2004 the Group had 38 re-election as a Non-Executive Director, continue to be effective and days purchases outstanding in respect of payments to suppliers and demonstrate the appropriate commitment to their roles.
The Executive Directors have formal service agreements.
Termination European Monetary Union EMU of their employment may be effected by twelve months notice given The Group has minimal exposure to foreign exchange and continues by either party.
to monitor the implications of EMU.
The Non-Executive Directors have fixed term service agreements Research and Development outlining their duties and responsibilities.
The Group has a centralised Research and Development team charged Directors interests with identifying and evaluating new construction techniques and There were no material related party transactions which require products.
Environment Redrow recognises its responsibilities to the community as a whole The Directors interests in the ordinary shares of the Company are given in the Remuneration report on pages 47 to 50. and has adopted an environmental strategy which is a core part of the Groups objectives.
Further details are provided in the Corporate Charitable and political donations Social Responsibility review on pages 26 to 31.
The Group made no political donations but paid 96,000 in charitable Auditors donations during the year.
The Group and its employees are actively A resolution to re-appoint  LLP as Auditors involved in fund-raising activities for specific charities.
will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting on 3 November 2004.
Employees Purchase of the Companys own shares Redrow places considerable importance on the provision of training Resolution 11 set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting and development.
seeks authority from Shareholders for the Company to purchase up to 15,886,870 ordinary shares, an aggregate nominal amount training@redrow, a purpose built in-house training facility at of 1,588,687, which is equivalent to approximately 10% of the Tamworth, commenced delivering courses in September 2003.
Companys issued ordinary share capital at 30 June 2004.
The Group supports the employment of disabled persons wherever The authority will expire at the end of next years Annual General possible through recruitment and by the retention and retraining of Meeting and the resolution specifies the maximum and minimum those who become disabled during their employment.
prices at which the shares may be bought.
Other investment opportunities, appropriate gearing levels and the overall financial The Directors recognise the importance of good communications with position of the Company will be taken into account before deciding employees.
Companies within the Group are encouraged to make their upon this course of action.
employees aware of the financial and economic factors affecting their respective companies and the Group.
This is assisted through the Notice of Annual General Meeting medium of regular management meetings and staff publications.
Pages 75 to 80 set out the Notice of Annual General Meeting and Employee share ownership is encouraged through savings related and details the resolutions proposed together with explanatory notes.
In the year ended 30 June 2004, the By order of the Board Save As You Earn scheme was administered via a Qualifying Employee G A Cope Company Secretary Share Ownership Trust QUEST.
