CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW Redrow remains firmly committed to meeting the reasonable expectations of stakeholders in the Company beyond our primary responsibilities to shareholders.
We aim to ensure that our corporate decision-making processes take into account all our stakeholders and serve the wider community in which we live.
During the last year, Redrow reviewed its Corporate Social Responsibility CSR Charter and this is now available on our website, www.
The website incorporates a new section specifically dedicated to CSR issues including up to date news as well as base information on CSR issues within Redrow.
Our website has also been re-engineered to meet Priority2 of the W3C Web Content Accessibility Guidelines to make it more friendly to those users with disabilities and Neil Fitzsimmons compliant with the requirements of the Disability Discrimination Act Group Managing Director Part III due to come into effect in October 2004.
As a leading developer, Redrow The CSR Charter establishes goals in key areas to improve the sustainability of our business.
aims to play its part in shaping a better future.
To make Redrow an employer of choice.
To further improve awareness of health and safety issues.
To deliver higher standards of customer service and increase levels of customer satisfaction.
To work with our supply chain to improve ethical sourcing, health and safety and environmental issues.
To continue to provide quality environments in which people live and work.
To improve performance in terms of environmental management through increased recycling and reduced landfill usage.
Investing in our employees Brian Duckworth Non-Executive Director Having good quality people is a fundamental part of being successful in Chairman of Environmental Corporate business and the Redrow Team is one of the Groups core strengths.
Responsibility Committee In a growing business that is becoming increasingly complex and where skills are at a premium, it is important Redrow is an employer of choice.
Whilst competitive pay and benefits packages have been put in place and are reviewed annually by the Board, Redrow believes that fostering a culture of continuous improvement through high quality training is essential to attracting and retaining high calibre people.
This was 26 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW behind Redrow investing in its own dedicated team, training@redrow, Health and Safety with a purpose built facility to meet the training needs of our employees Three years ago the Group invested in an in-house Health & Safety from the important induction of new employees to providing more Team to make health and safety an integral part of the Redrow culture.
advanced training in systems and operational skills including delivery Important progress has been made which has been recognised through of customer service and health and safety awareness.
each Redrow company receiving National Safety Awards from the British Safety Council BSC.
In addition, the Royal Society for the In addition, other learning and training initiatives are provided from Prevention of Accidents RoSPA has awarded a Bronze Award to apprenticeships for skilled trades through to courses for senior personnel Redrow, one of only two major housebuilders to secure a RoSPA award to improve management techniques.
It is important that high quality in 2004. people continue to be attracted into the industry and since 1998 Redrow has operated a graduate intake scheme to encourage this The increased awareness of health and safety issues has also resulted in process.
The early intakes are now making important contributions improvements in key statistics relating to health and safety.
During the as managers within our operations.
year the number of reportable accidents was virtually unchanged but major injuries on site were reduced by 50% and the Groups Accident Redrow believes in communicating openly and honestly with its Incidence Rate reduced 25% and is now approximately 10% below the employees and the Company provides clear and fair terms of Health & Safety Executive HSE sector figures.
Overall, using the employment to all employees through an appointment letter and the BSC figures for the costs of accidents, the cost to the Group of Redrow Staff Handbook.
These contain policy statements on equal accidents reduced by 15% during 2004. opportunities, discrimination, bullying, victimisation and sexual harassment.
It also embodies a formalised grievance procedure available Redrow has developed an internal measurement of on site health and to all employees.
We have recently also introduced a formal safety performance, the Accident Potential Rate APR, which has also whistleblowing procedure that provides employees with a means of shown a positive trend in the year.
Internal benchmark targets for the informing the Board and independent non-executive directors if APR in our companies have been agreed with a target set below this necessary of any issues of concern.
The numbers of dangerous occurrences reduced to 3 during the year whilst only 1 HSE Enforcement Notice and 1 Prohibition Notice Already, the steps we are taking are having an impact with reductions was issued.
No Improvement Notices were issued in the year.
in staff turnover being recorded.
Since training@redrow was launched in September 2003, there has been a 20% reduction in the level of staff turnover.
Redrows 2004 Graduate intake The Buster Rules Ok!
Health and Safety initiative CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW 27 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW This represents important progress but we recognise the need to maintain this momentum.
During the year, new initiatives were introduced to ensure a consistent quality of inductions is delivered on all our sites and each site has a Health & Safety Site Information Board where the Site Manager can prominently provide information on specific site hazards and safety initiatives.
Redrow will continue its St-Cred scheme to provide appropriate levels of training for all its employees in health and safety.
This scheme was short listed for a Building Magazine Health and Safety Award.
A major new programme, Work Safe-Home Safe is currently being rolled out across our developments focusing on the four main causes of accidents on sites.
Health & Safety Managers are using in-house produced videos to educate both employees and subcontractors on the risks and preventative measures that can be taken in relation to slips and trips, falls from height, manual handling and moving objects.
However, health and safety must also be tackled on an industry wide basis and in this regard, Redrow played a leading role in developing the Health & Safety Charter of the House Builders Federation and was one of the first signatories to the Charter.
This commits Redrow to working with its peers on an action plan across a wide range of Site Manager welcomes customers to their new Redrow home issues related to improving the housebuilding industrys performance communication with the customer and all new employees receive on health and safety.
training on this important aspect of the business.
These represent just some of the investments Redrow is making on Each customer will now receive a Homebuyer Guide that explains this important CSR issue with a view to enhancing health and safety the complete home buying process and details the Companys as an integral part of our culture.
This is in addition to an Information Pack providing details of specification and amenities of both the Serving our customers home and the development.
The Barker Report has set new challenges for the industry to demonstrate increased levels of customer satisfaction.
Redrow had During the construction of the home, improved procedures are in already recognised that todays customers have higher expectations place to document the quality of the process.
Once the home has and a full review of our procedures had been completed even before been fully inspected and tested using a detailed standard checklist, the publication of the Barker Report.
This resulted in new customer the site-based team will introduce the new home to the customer by service procedures being implemented from July 2004 that aim to way of a standard demonstration.
Finally, every home comes with a satisfy the needs of our customers at each stage of the customer Homefile that provides relevant information on the operation and journey.
This is supported by a comprehensive post completion service that includes 24-hour emergency assistance The procedures in the new Customer Service Handbook provided to and a formal procedure to deal with any issues that arise in the first all employees focus on communication being clear and honest.
few weeks of occupation with continuing commitment to deal with All site teams and customer facing personnel have received training all legitimate customer service issues into the future.
on the procedures that set down clear requirements regarding 28 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW Performance on customer service must be measured if the procedures Where possible, Redrow specifies products and materials that generate are to be effective.
Redrow believes customer service needs to be the least environmental impact particularly as regards timber from embraced by all our staff and therefore every customer is contacted by managed plantations, aggregates from nearby quarries and non-toxic telephone by a member of the senior management team following paints.
Hardwood timber is purchased from certified sources and occupation to ascertain their experience on their customer journey.
Redrow is part of the Global Forest and Trade Network and is working This is followed up with a more detailed survey questionnaire in partnership with them to improve our environmental record in this undertaken by the Group Marketing Department.
Each customer is important area.
asked to record their views on the performance of our people, the quality of the home and the level of service.
These reports and surveys The quality of relationships is measured through regular surveys of are used in management meetings to identify and resolve issues and performance of both suppliers by Redrow and of Redrow by the improve performance.
During the coming year we will further develop relationships by discussing with key suppliers and subcontractors their The Barker Report has also set the challenge to the industry regarding environmental policies and working with them to align their policies increasing the proportion of house buyers who would recommend with our aim of reducing the environmental impact of the industry their housebuilder from 46% to at least 75% and improving the level and ensuring respect for human rights.
of customer satisfaction from a current level of 65% to a level of 85% by 2007.
During the last 12 months, 84% of those customers returning Building communities of the future a survey questionnaire indicated they would recommend Redrow.
Redrow continues to create quality environments in which people Redrow looks forward to the investment made in its new customer live and work through high quality design incorporating many aspects service procedures improving further its performance in servicing our of sustainable development, investing in the amenities of the local customers best interests.
community and having specific regard to the environment in which it operates.
A responsible relationship with suppliers and subcontractors Redrow has long standing relationships with many of its key suppliers It is important to work closely with local planning authorities in and subcontractors.
This is based upon an ethical trading policy as devising a development strategy that enhances the environment and regards terms and conditions and the wider CSR philosophies.
This includes the provision of comprehensive It also provides important benefits in developing a shared landscaping plans that include the planting of new trees and the understanding of how to improve efficiency in operations and reduce provision of public open space as well as protecting existing trees and environmental impact.
The winning of 51 Green Leaf Awards in the last five years supports Redrows commitment and in 2004, the Group Through its in-house Research and Development Team, Redrow received 12 out of 48 such awards including 4 Best in Region awards.
works with suppliers to improve existing products, develop new We also invest in local communities through the provision of facilities components, review packaging and increase recycling, all with a view such as community centres, schools, playgrounds, football pitches, to improving the quality of our homes, reducing environmental cycle ways, and traffic calming measures: all these investments impact, mitigating health and safety risks and enhancing the significantly contribute to enhancing the communities in and around efficiency of our operations.
This includes increased use of off-site our developments.
manufacture such as prefabricated bathroom pods, factory made internal door sets, prefabricated chimneys and preformed dormer Our commitment goes further as the in-house Research and windows as well as modern methods of construction including the use Development Team investigate cost effective ways to incorporate of light steel frames.
water conservation and energy efficiency into our designs.
Already, all new Redrow homes have dual flush toilets in the specification to reduce water consumption and most new properties CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW 29 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW incorporate water meters.
A number of larger developments environmental specification that includes high energy efficiency incorporate sustainable urban drainage systems that not only assist in performance in advance of current regulations and the use of materials returning water to the environment but also help enhance the from sustainable or renewable resources.
This major development has environment by creating new wildlife habitats.
As regards energy been designed, where possible, to optimise solar gain and with consumption, all electrical white goods appliances are rated either facilities to make recycling easier for homeowners.
Waste AA or AB for energy consumption and low energy use lighting is minimisation will also be a feature of the construction process.
included in our current specification for each new home.
Standard Assessment Procedure SAP ratings that provide As part of its strategy to enhance the environment, Redrow is information on energy running costs are available for our homes and committed to meeting the Governments policies on brownfield land are displayed in all completed properties.
During the year Redrow and the regeneration of derelict sites.
More than 70% of our land completed an affordable housing project at Lansdowne Gardens in bank is recycled land and the Group has a skill base capable of taking Cardiff that was a regional winner and was highly commended at on some of the largest and most technically difficult sites in the national level in the Local Authority Building Control Services Built country.
Redrows new housing range allows the more efficient use of in Quality Awards 2004.
This development included grey water land through the delivery of higher densities whilst still providing recycling and solar energy as part of the specification to improve high quality living environments.
In addition, Redrows capability to sustainability.
undertake mixed use development, combining places where people can both work and live, is an important element in delivering sustainable communities of the future.
Already Redrow has been a leading partner in the redevelopment of Buckshaw Village, one of the largest brownfield sites in the North West that includes mixed use development of residential and commercial properties, provision of many new community facilities, sustainable drainage and new landscaped areas.
Redrow has also recently entered into a development agreement with BAE SYSTEMS to promote through the planning system the remediation and Award winning affordable housing scheme at Lansdowne Gardens, Cardiff redevelopment of 2,500 acres at the former Royal Ordnance site Redrow has historically been active in looking at innovation for the adjacent to Bishopton near Glasgow, to provide homes and communities and homes of the future.
The House for the Future at employment as well as significant community facilities in a highly the Museum of Welsh Life designed and built in conjunction with sustainable location.
Jestico and Whiles incorporated many new features on sustainability.
Redrow is now working with the School of the Built Environment at Redrow recognises that in building communities for the future it Nottingham University to build a test house for long term testing needs to operate on site in a responsible way.
Whilst initiatives are and development of building components and systems.
This project taking place with suppliers to reduce the level of waste generated, will include examining the practical aspects of using enhanced Redrow is putting in place a waste management policy that is now thermal and acoustic insulations, hydrogen fuel cell energy, combined being introduced on new developments.
The policy includes heat and power units and wireless technology to provide benefits for procedures to reduce damage to materials, segregating waste to our customers and the environment.
facilitate re-use on site, recycling and reduce landfill.
As well as investigating innovations to improve sustainability of its Suppliers and subcontractors will be required to ensure where possible developments, work has now commenced on site for a pioneering and within agreed costs that packaging is either biodegradable, uses development in South Manchester for 450 new homes in conjunction materials from sustainable sources or is re-useable.
Packaging should with the National Trust.
Homes will be built to an enhanced be such that damage in storage or transit is minimised.
Subcontractors 30 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW will be required to undergo induction into our waste management It is important that schoolchildren are interested in our industry today policy that will include the use of skips, waste segregation and use of if they are to be attracted to a career in our industry tomorrow.
The Research and Development Team will Redrow works with schools inviting children on to site to learn about monitor the implementation of the procedures to further develop the the industry, the materials used and environmental health and safety policy and improve its effectiveness.
A National Curriculum Pack has been developed to support teachers and pupils and is available through the Redrow Learning Investing in the community Web www.
The first two modules are aimed at Redrow believes in investing in the communities in which it operates.
9-11 year olds and 12-16 year olds with the former launched in Over the last three years approximately 32.5 million has been September 2004 focusing on how we live in communities and care for invested in affordable housing, 4.3m towards public open space areas the environment.
The next module will be available in January 2005 and 250,000 to public art.
Redrow also invests in projects that giving students the chance to research, plan and market a fictional benefit the community as a whole and in particular focuses on the development and look at ways to enhance their local environment wellbeing and education of children.
This is delivered through direct and community.
funding of projects, encouraging voluntary work by employees and sponsoring charitable fundraising events.
Each company in the Group In other areas such as arts, crafts and sport, Redrow also provides is encouraged to adopt a local charity and undertake activities for opportunities and sponsorship.
In arts and crafts, this ranges from the fundraising.
A number of these relate to children such as Ty Hafan, a Art for Everyday project in Scotland where furniture and accessories childrens hospice in South Wales, the Rainbow Centre in Bristol that made by local designers are displayed in showhouses which won the assists bereaved children and Save the Family that provides temporary Financial Times Arts and Business Award through to the sponsorship accommodation for homeless families in Chester and North Wales.
of a concert by the City of Birmingham Symphony Orchestra.
In sport it ranges from buying new goal posts and kit for Chapel Other initiatives include the continuing three-year ongoing Schools Haddlesley Primary School and sponsorship of the 2004 Suffolk Youth Partnership Programme with The National Trust.
This programme Games, to the sponsorship of the Redrow Lancashire Amateur offers opportunities for schools from different backgrounds to work Football League and Cardiff City in the Coca-Cola Championship.
together on curriculum based art activities.
So far 25 partnerships have been launched involving approximately 2,000 schoolchildren.
Summary Our employees are involved in the Learning Link project through The Groups activities are wide-ranging and we look to embrace the Business in the Community that provides mentoring for secondary CSR agenda in each aspect of our business.
Redrow has an schoolchildren and assists primary school children with learning.
The Environmental Corporate Responsibility Committee chaired by a Redrow interior design team has provided showhome furniture Non-Executive Director that focuses on environmental and to the Save the Family charity and as our IT hardware is upgraded, community commitments.
However, Redrow considers that CSR suitable surplus equipment is provided to local schools.
issues are a matter for the Board as a whole as they are an integral part of the success of the Group delivering on our responsibilities to all our Redrows involvement includes a programme of visits to schools near stakeholders.
As a leading developer, Redrow aims to play its part in our developments by the Health & Safety Team to promote safety shaping a better future.
awareness and advise about the dangers associated with construction sites.
A total of 33 visits were made in 2004 involving over 4,000 schoolchildren.
This initiative is now supported by the Buster Rules Ok!
safety activity pack with Buster the bear as the childrens building buddy dressed in correct protective safety clothing to deliver important messages in a fun and friendly way.
Neil Fitzsimmons Group Managing Director CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW 31
