13 Regus Report & Accounts 2004 Directors Report The directors present their report and the audited financial statements Equal opportunity of Regus Group plc for the year ended 31 December 2004.
The Group endorses and supports the principal of equal employment opportunity.
It is the policy of the Group to provide PRINCIPAL ACTIVITY AND BUSINESS REVIEW equal employment opportunity to all qualied individuals which The Group is the worlds leading supplier of global ofce outsourcing ensures that all employment decisions are made, subject to legal solutions.
The Groups trading results are set out in the financial obligations, on a non-discriminatory basis.
Due consideration is statements on pages 26 to 29.
Details of the Groups future prospects given to the recruitment, promotion, training and working environment and review of operations are described in the Chairmans Statement, of all staff including those with disabilities.
It is the Groups policy to Chief Executives Review and Operational and Financial Review on encourage the training and further development of all its employees pages 2 to 11. where this is of benefit to the individual and to the Group.
RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS HEALTH AND SAFETY Loss for the year before tax was 8.7 million 2003: 29.9 million loss, The Board recognises the importance of maintaining high standards which after adding back exceptional items of 8.6 million 2003: of health and safety.
This means taking all reasonable and practicable 6.4 million and amortisation of goodwill of 2.0 million 2003: nil steps to safeguard the health, safety and welfare of our employees, amounted to a profit of 1.9 million 2003: 23.5 million loss.
customers, visitors and other persons who may be affected by our activities.
The effective management of health and safety is a legal The directors do not recommend the payment of a dividend.
issue and it is also business critical as it effects reputation, investor confidence, supplier relationships, staff morale and overall profitability.
DIRECTORS AND DIRECTORS INTERESTS The directors who held ofce since the last Annual Report were: In order to meet these responsibilities the Group: Assesses the risks to health and safety Executive directors Implements safe systems at work Mark Dixon Provides information, instruction and training Rudy Lobo Establishes and maintain emergency procedures Regularly reviews health and safety policies and procedures.
Non-executive directors John Matthews We are proactive in our approach to health and safety by Roger Orf monitoring proposed changes in legislation and implementing Martin Robinson policies accordingly.
Stephen East Appointed 11 March 2005 THE ENVIRONMENT Biographical details for all current directors are shown opposite.
The Group does not operate in a business sector which causes significant pollution but the Board recognises that the business Details of the directors interests and shareholdings are given in the does have an impact on the environment.
The Board is committed Remuneration Report on pages 19 to 23. to managing and improving the ways in which our activities affect the environment by: CORPORATE AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY The Board recognises its responsibilities in respect of social, Optimising the use of energy with nearly 700 locations it is environmental and ethical SEE matters.
The directors continually important that we continually identify ways to improve energy monitor risks to its businesses, including SEE risks, which may efficiency across all our operations.
We have implemented certain impact the Groups short and long term value.
During 2004 no initiatives to reduce our energy use.
These include, among others, significant risks were identied.
resetting boiler controls, amending time settings for air conditioning and using timing switches for hot water supply.
PEOPLE AND CULTURE Employee involvement Encouraging the re-use and recycling of paper and toner It is the Groups policy to communicate with all employees and cartridges, mixed ofce paper, packaging, bottles, aluminium to encourage employees to contribute to the management of the cans and plastic cups.
Communication with employees is carried out through the Companys intranet, employee newsletters, brieng meetings POLITICAL AND CHARITABLE DONATIONS conducted by senior management and formal and informal The Group made no charitable donations during the year 2003: discussions.
Interim and Annual Reports are available to all staff.
It is the Groups policy not to make political donations either Informal communication is further facilitated by the Groups regional in the UK or overseas.
POLICY AND PRACTICE ON PAYMENT OF CREDITORS The workplace The Group does not follow a universal code dealing specifically with Empowered employees are key to delivering value for the payments to suppliers but, where appropriate, our practice is to: organisation.
Clear accountabilities have been established and reward strategies have been aligned with financial and non-financial Agree the terms of payment upfront with the supplier performance measures.
In our centres we operate exible working Ensure that suppliers are made aware of these terms of payment practices which give us the edge in retaining experienced and well Pay in accordance with contractual and other legal obligations.
trained staff and allows us to align our team members hours to the evolving needs of the business and our customer requirements.
At 31 December 2004, the number of creditor days outstanding for the Group was 35 days 2003: 37 days and the Company, nil days 2003: nil days.
14 Regus Report & Accounts 2004 Directors Report continued GOING CONCERN The directors, having made appropriate enquiries, have a reasonable expectation that the Group and the Company have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Accounts on pages 26 to 48.
SUBSTANTIAL INTERESTS As at 11 March 2005, the Company has been notied of the following interests held in more than 3% of the issued share capital of the Company.
Number of % of issued Ordinary Shares share capital Holder a Paramount Nominees Ltd 366,329,286 37.20 Artemis Investment Managers 81,267,251 8.25 Cantor Fitzgerald Europe 80,184,196 8.14 M&G Investment Management 53,295,462 5.41 Man Financial 52,400,721 5.32 Merrill Lynch Investment Managers UK 52,126,157 5.29 a The beneciary is Maxon Investments BV.
Mark Dixon owns the 100% interest in Maxon.
AUDITORS In accordance with Section 384 of the Companies Act 1985, a resolution for the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of the Company is to be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting AGM.
On behalf of the Board TIM REGAN COMPANY SECRETARY 11 March 2005
