Directors report 13 The directors have pleasure in presenting their 31st All the above holdings were beneficially held with the Annual report, together with the audited financial exception of 2,320,311 shares 2003 2,320,311 shares statements for the year ended 30th June 2004 as which were non-beneficially held by D J Deer but in set out on pages 20 to 35. respect of which he has voting rights.
There has been no change in the above holdings in the Trading results period 1st July 2004 to 21st July 2004.
A C G Roberts and G McFarland, neither of whom has a The group results for the year were:- service contract, retire by rotation and being eligible, offer 2004 2003 themselves for re-election.
000 000 Biographical details of the directors are shown on pages Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 20,146 17,799 4 and 5.
Taxation on profit on ordinary activities 4,023 3,454 Environmental control Profit for the financial year 16,123 14,345 The Group operates in an  Dividends 13,100 12,156 manner, adopting the most appropriate technologies and practices to minimise its impact on the environment.
Retained profit for the year 3,023 2,189 All manufacturing processes have been designed and are run in a way that best preserves the environment.
Waste is minimised and, wherever possible, recycling Principal activities and review of the business circuits have been put in place to re-use or re-process it.
The principal activities of the Group during the year were Manufacturing operations are run to the same high the design, manufacture and sale of advanced precision standard of cleanliness as design and clerical activities, metrology and inspection equipment, computer aided providing an overall environment that clearly design and manufacturing systems and Raman demonstrates the Companys determination to support spectroscopy systems.
As a result, an extensive sample A review of the business and likely future developments of the local wildlife has elected to take up residence on are given in the Chairmans statement and the Operating the Companys sites.
An analysis of turnover by geographical The continued refurbishment work on the Woodchester market is given in note 2 to the financial statements.
site is performed through exacting standards, using a Further information is also available on the Groups number of techniques aimed at minimising energy website: www.
com and in the Group profile.
These include the use of a heat and cooling recovery system Munters wheel, systematic air reDividends circulation, extra roof insulation and high frequency lighting systems.
Measurement systems have been put The directors propose a final dividend of 12.39p per in place to monitor the energy consumption of each of share 2003 11.36p which, together with the interim the main processes in order to identify where further dividend of 5.61p 2003 5.34p, makes a total of 18.0p improvements may be achieved.
for the year, compared to 16.7p for the previous year.
The final dividend will be paid on 18th October 2004 to A programme is in place for the reduction in the use of shareholders on the register on 17th September 2004. lead through the Companys manufacturing operation, in line with the requirements of the European Directive for Directors and their interests the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances The directors who served during the year and their RoHS.
Compatible equipment is now in place and interests in the share capital of the Company, at the current efforts are focused on the analysis of supply beginning and the end of the year, were:- in order to identify which product changes may be required to accommodate the new set of compatible Ordinary shares of 20p each electronic components.
2004 2003 Auditors D R McMurtry 26,377,291 26,377,291 A resolution to re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of D J Deer 12,393,040 12,393,040 the Company will be proposed at the forthcoming annual B R Taylor 10,147 10,147 general meeting.
A C G Roberts 5,165 5,165 G McFarland - - J P McGeehan 900 900 T D Snowden 5,000 5,000 T B Garthwaite - - Annual report 2004 14 Typically, the Company settles all due invoices in the Special business calendar month following their receipt.
The number of The notice of meeting on page 37 sets out a resolution days purchasing outstanding at the end of June 2004 was which the directors have resolved should be proposed as approximately 30 days 2003 30 days.
special business during the course of the meeting.
Purchase of own shares The directors consider that the Corporate governance Company should have the flexibility to be able to make The Board is committed to maintaining high standards of market purchases of its own ordinary shares, up to a total corporate governance.
of 10% of the issued share capital.
Shareholders are The statement below, together with the report on being asked to pass the necessary special resolution no.
directors remuneration on page 18, explains how the 7 at the annual general meeting to give the required Company has applied the principles set out in the authority until the earlier of the conclusion of the 2005 Combined Code and the subsequent Turnbull guidance.
A annual general meeting and 31st December 2005. new Combined Code was issued by the Financial There is at present no intention to purchase shares and, Reporting Council in July 2003 and applies to listed if granted, the authority would only be exercised if an companies with reporting years beginning on or after 1st improvement in earnings per share were expected November 2003.
As the new Combined Code does not to result.
apply to the Company until the financial year beginning 1st July 2004, the compliance statement on corporate Employees governance is based upon the old Combined Code.
The maintenance of a highly skilled workforce is essential However, the content of the following corporate to the future of the business and the directors place great governance report reflects the new Combined emphasis on the continuation of the Companys approved Code provisions.
Health and safety matters are given special attention by the directors and well established Directors systems of safety management are in place throughout The Board is responsible for the proper management the Group to safeguard employees, customers of the Company and retains control over the Company and visitors.
It meets as often as is Employment policies are designed to provide equal necessary for the proper conduct of business.
During opportunities irrespective of colour, ethnic origin, the year ended 30th June 2004, the Board met seven nationality, religion, sex, marital or disabled status.
The times and the directors attendance record for Board Company always considers carefully an application for and committee meetings is set out at the end of this employment by any registered disabled person.
The Board comprises opportunities are given to employees who become eight members, five executive directors and three nondisabled, to continue in their employment or to be trained executive directors.
Biographical details are set out for other positions.
Regular contact is maintained with all on pages 4 and 5.
During the year, the non-executive employees through monthly communications meetings directors met a number of times without executive and departmental channels.
The quarterly in-house directors present.
Each of the non-executive directors journal ensures staff are kept well informed on the is considered by the Board to be independent in progress of the Group.
In addition, in August, the character and judgement and free of any relationship Assistant Chief Executive presents the final results, or circumstances which are likely to affect, or could following their publication, to all employees.
appear to affect, the directors judgement.
The Board receives appropriate documentation, Creditor payment policy management accounts, forecasts and commentaries The Company has a variety of payment terms: thereon, in advance of each formal meeting to enable Contracts have been negotiated with a number of its members to review the financial performance of the suppliers and payments are made in accordance with Group, current trading and key business initiatives.
the terms of these contracts.
The Board focuses on formulation of strategy, management Payment terms are disclosed on the Companys of effective business controls and review of business standard purchase order forms, or, where appropriate, performance.
There is also a formal schedule of matters specified in individual contracts agreed with suppliers.
specifically reserved to it for decision, including the Two payment runs are made each month.
The Companys approval of annual and interim results, acquisitions, policy is to ensure that all invoices are settled within major capital expenditure, material agreements, 60 days of the receipt and agreement of a valid and forecasts and senior executive appointments and complete invoice.
Wherever possible, payments are removals including the company secretary.
made using the Bankers Automated Clearing Service.
15 15 The Board has two formally constituted committees: the Directors remuneration audit committee and the remuneration and nomination Details of directors remuneration and information committee.
Both have terms of reference that have been regarding compliance with the Combined Code as it approved by the Board.
These are published on the relates to directors remuneration are set out in the Companys website.
Directors' remuneration report on page 18 and in There is an executive committee known as the Executive note 4 to the financial statements.
Board that is responsible for the executive management of Accountability and audit the Groups business.
It is chaired by the Chairman and includes the executive directors and the managing director The Company has established procedures to ensure of Renishaw Inc. compliance with the Combined Code and the related Turnbull guidance regarding systems of internal A framework of authorities is in place that maps out the controls, including financial, operational, compliance structure of delegation below Board level and includes the and risk management.
matters reserved to the Executive Board and below.
The Board acknowledges that it is responsible for the There is an agreed procedure for directors in the Companys system of internal control and for reviewing furtherance of their duties to take independent its effectiveness.
Also, it acknowledges that it has ultimate professional advice if necessary, at the Companys responsibility for ensuring that the Group has in place a expense.
All directors have access to the advice and system of controls, financial and otherwise, that is services of the company secretary, who is responsible appropriate to the business environment in which it to the Board for ensuring Board procedures are followed operates.
This is intended to ensure that the directors and applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
maintain full and effective control over all significant All directors have the benefit of appropriate liability strategic, financial, organisational and compliance issues.
insurance at the Companys expense.
However, any system is designed to manage rather than The senior independent non-executive director position is eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives rotated between the non-executive directors on an annual and can provide only reasonable and not absolute basis.
The senior independent non-executive director for assurance against material misstatement or loss.
the year from 1st July 2004 is David Snowden.
The key procedures that the directors have established, The remuneration and nomination committee is the and which are designed to provide effective internal committee with responsibility for determining remuneration control, are set out below: policy, determining executive director remuneration Directors and senior managers have identified the packages, reviewing the structure and composition of the significant risks faced by the Company and its Board and nominating candidates for appointment to the subsidiaries.
There is an on-going process for identifying, Board.
The current members of the remuneration and evaluating and managing risks, together with determining nomination committee are set out on page 5.
It met 5 key controls and reporting procedures to minimise their times during the financial year.
It is reviewed regularly by the Board and accords Until 21st November 2003 the remuneration and with the Turnbull guidance.
nomination committee included the Chairman and Chief Formal interviews have been conducted with directors and Executive and the Deputy Chairman amongst its general managers from all areas of the business.
However, both stepped down from the The key risks have been identified with due consideration committee on that date.
There have been no new and analysis of political, economic, social and technological appointments to the Board during the year.
There has factors that could impact on each business areas been a period of adjustment following the increase in the objectives.
For each identified risk, a value judgement has size of the Board from six to eight members and the been made on the impact, both financial and reputational, Board feels it is necessary and appropriate for there to be that its crystallisation would have on the business, a period of stability in the short to medium term.
together with the likelihood of the risk occurring.
Scores David Snowden and Terry Garthwaite, who were have been calculated for each risk using a risk score appointed non-executive directors at the beginning of matrix and the risks prioritised based on these scores.
the financial year, received appropriate induction into This process has been facilitated by Internal Audit, to the business of the Group and met representatives of ensure consistency.
Following this process, Internal Audit major shareholders.
has ensured that proper control policies, procedures and The terms and conditions of appointment of non-executive activities are in place to maintain the key business risks directors are available for inspection at the Companys within the risk tolerance levels agreed by the Board.
registered office upon request and at the annual This process is ongoing.
Annual report 2004 16 In addition, monthly reports are prepared by senior companies.
The internal control system is monitored and management setting out the strengths, opportunities, supported by Internal Audit.
This monitoring process is failures and threats facing the business, which are continual.
It is a principal function of the Groups formally reviewed in board meetings.
Monthly sales managers to ensure established control procedures are reports are also prepared for the Board by each overseas adhered to and that appropriate corrective measures are subsidiary company.
These reports address pertinent taken, should control weaknesses be identified.
It is recognised that internal controls must evolve over There is an appropriate organisation structure with clearly time, given the growth in the Groups business activities defined areas of responsibility and delegation of authority and the audit committee reviews the controls formally on from the Board to the operating divisions and companies.
Appropriate reporting lines are established, including a Relations with shareholders comprehensive set of procedures for monthly reporting to the Board.
There is a commitment to competence and The Company reports formally to shareholders twice integrity and this is achieved through appropriate a year, when its half-year and full-year results are recruitment procedures and employment policy.
announced, and an interim report and an annual report are issued to the shareholders.
After the announcements, Control procedures are established that are considered the Assistant Chief Executive and Group Finance Director appropriate to the size and nature of the organisation.
give presentations on the results to institutional investors, In particular, controls are designed to prevent the analysts and the media.
Meetings with institutional unauthorised use or disposition of the Groups assets, shareholders and others are reported at each to ensure proper accounting records are maintained and Board meeting.
that financial information used within the business or for publication is reliable.
The Board is ready, where practicable, to enter into a dialogue with institutional shareholders based on the Up-to-date internal financial reports, including monthly mutual understanding of objectives.
Institutional investors management accounts and forecasts are prepared.
Sales and analysts are actively encouraged to visit and orders are reported daily, cash balances are reported the Company.
weekly and there is periodic reporting to the Board on the Groups tax and treasury position.
The annual general meeting takes place at the Companys head office and formal notification is sent Key procedures and controls are defined in the Group to shareholders at least 20 working days in advance.
Authorisation limits have been At the meeting, a business presentation is made to reviewed, documented and formally approved at Board shareholders and all directors are available, formally level.
All items of capital expenditure and all employee during the meeting, and informally afterwards, for recruitment require authorisation by the Board of the questions.
Shareholders are offered the opportunity relevant group company or division.
Treasury policies are to meet non-executive directors at this time.
The overseas trading subsidiaries only retain sufficient funds to meet their working capital The Company will advise shareholders attending the requirements.
Significant foreign currency transactions are annual general meeting of the number of proxy votes decided by the Board, which determines when and how lodged for each resolution, in the categories For and foreign currency is converted into Sterling.
The Group Against, together with the numbers at the Chairmans does not use any open-ended financial discretion, and of abstentions.
These will be advised after derivative instruments.
each resolution has been dealt with on a show of hands.
The Board has an audit committee whose members are The Companys internet site www.
com gives set out on page 5 and comprises solely independent nonaccess to information about the Group, its products and executive directors.
The Board is satisfied that at least one its performance.
The interim results and the preliminary member of the committee has recent and relevant announcement of the full years results are published on financial experience.
It met 3 times in respect of the the website no later than ten minutes after they have been financial year including at least one meeting, or part, with released at the Financial Services Authority.
the external auditors without the executive directors being Going concern present.
The Group Finance Director, Group Internal Audit Manager and external auditors have been in attendance On the basis of current financial projections and available at all such meetings.
funds and facilities, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to The audit committee reviews the accounting policies and continue in operational existence for the foreseeable procedures of the Group and its compliance with statutory future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going requirements.
It reviews the scope and reports of the concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
external audit and its cost effectiveness, internal audit reports and the internal control self-assessment declarations made by the senior management of all group 17 17 Compliance statement Substantial shareholdings The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the system Apart from the shareholdings of Sir David McMurtry and of internal control during the year and for the period to the John Deer 36.2% and 17% respectively, the date of approval of the financial statements.
shareholdings notified to the directors, which represent 3% or more of the issued share capital of the Company, In its opinion, the Company has complied from 1st July as at 21st July 2004, are: 2003 with the Combined Code before reissue in July 2003, except for the following matters: Company Number of shares Percentage The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are currently Aegon UK plc 3,645,018 5.01% combined, as the directors consider this to be in the best HBOS plc 2,834,442 3.89% interests of the Company and shareholders.
The Board During the year, the Company received notifications from considers that there is a clear division of responsibilities Capital Management and Research Company of the at the head of the Company, which ensures an reduction in its holding of shares in the Company to appropriate balance of power and authority, such that 1,482,396 2.04%.
no one individual has unfettered powers of decision.
The remuneration and nomination committee was not Research and development constituted in accordance with the Combined Code as The Group has a continuing commitment to a high level regards its role as the remuneration committee from 1st of research and development.
The expenditure involved July 2003 to 21st November 2003 since it included the is directed towards the research and development of Chairman and Chief Executive and the Deputy Chairman, new products relating to metrology, computer aided both being executive directors.
However, since 21st design and manufacturing systems and Raman November 2003, the committee has comprised solely spectroscopy systems.
non-executive directors and has therefore complied with the Codes requirements from that date.
Donations and community involvement In accordance with the articles of association of the During the year the Group made charitable donations Company, the Chairman and Chief Executive and of 101,661 2003 57,345.
The Group organises its Deputy Chairman are not subject to re-election by charitable donations by two methods: firstly, by allocating the shareholders.
a fund of money to its Charities Committee: and secondly, through direct grants as decided by the Board.
The Board and committee membership attendance record Charities Committee meets at least four times a year to Against each directors name is shown the number of consider all applications for donations from local groups meetings of the Board and its committees at which the in the UK.
Its donations policy is to provide funds to local director was present and, in brackets, the number of such causes or local branches of national groups, with specific meetings that director was eligible to attend during focus on youth projects.
In addition to donations to charitable causes, the Company is actively involved with the community, for example, hosting events at its premises for local schools Director Board AC R&NC and supporting the community sports foundation efforts in D R McMurtry 7 7 - 0 2 providing sporting facilities in Wotton-under-Edge.
No D J Deer 7 7 - 0 2 political donations were made during the year 2003 nil.
B R Taylor 7 7 - - A C G Roberts 7 7 - - G McFarland 6 7 - - By order of the Board J P McGeehan 7 7 3 3 5 5 A C G Roberts FCA T D Snowden 7 7 3 3 5 5 Secretary T B Garthwaite 7 7 3 3 5 5 21st July 2004 AC - Audit committee R&NC - Remuneration and Nomination committee
