Annual report 2004 Directors 4 After inventing the original probe in the David McMurtry were members of the fourSir David McMurtry, early 1970s, Sir David founded Renishaw man team of Renishaw engineers honoured in 1973 with John Deer and joined with the MacRobert Award in 1987.
John CBE, RDI, CEng, FIMechE, Renishaw in 1976.
His CBE was awarded is responsible for group manufacturing for services to Science and Technology and group quality and is chairman of the FREng, Chairman and and he was appointed a Royal Designer overseas marketing subsidiaries.
He is a visiting Chief Executive, age 64, Ben Taylor Professor of Huddersfield University and Assistant Chief Executive, age 55, has has been awarded an honorary Doctorate of was employed by Rollsbeen involved in the field of metrology Engineering at the University of Birmingham all his working life, after graduating in and honorary degrees of Doctor of mechanical engineering and design from Royce plc, Bristol, for 17 Engineering at Heriot-Watt University and Pennsylvania State University.
Sir David is a Chartered joining Renishaw Inc as President in 1985, Engineer, a Fellow of the Institute of years, latterly holding the he was the Director of Engineering at Mechanical Engineers, a Fellow of the Sheffield Measurement, USA.
Ben was American Society of Manufacturing positions of Deputy Chief appointed to the Board of Renishaw plc Engineers and a Fellow of the Royal in 1987.
He serves on various metrology Academy of Engineering.
In addition to Designer and Assistant committees and other professional his role as Chairman and Chief Executive, associations and is responsible for group Sir David also has responsibility for Chief of Engine Design of marketing, international operations and group technology.
all Rolls-Royce engines John Deer Allen Roberts, FCA Deputy Chairman, age 66, trained as a manufactured at the Filton, Group Finance Director, age 55, is a Fellow mechanical engineer and worked for Rollsof the Institute of Chartered Accountants in Royce plc, Bristol, from 1960 to 1974.
Before joining Renishaw was Managing Director of Renishaw from in 1979, he was employed for 11 years by 1974 to 1989, primarily involved in the Peat, Marwick, Mitchell & Co.
He was commercial direction of the Group, with appointed a director in 1980.
Allen heads particular emphasis on marketing and the group finance, business systems and Wotton establishment of the Groups wholly-owned Travel and is the company secretary.
subsidiaries in USA, Ireland, Japan, Germany, France and Italy.
John and Sir 01 John Deer 04 Sir David McMurtry 07 Terry Garthwaite 02 03 06 01 02 Ben Taylor 05 Joe McGeehan 08 David Snowden 04 07 05 08 03 Allen Roberts 06 Geoff McFarland 5 Geoff McFarland Engineers and a Fellow of the Royal Academy KPMG in 1993, David has been a director Group Engineering Director, age 36, graduated of Engineering.
Joe was appointed a director and corporate adviser to a number of private with a BEng in computer aided mechanical in January 2001. companies.
David was appointed a director engineering at Heriot-Watt University, where of the Company on 1st July 2003 and is Terry Garthwaite, FCA he subsequently worked for several years as a the chairman of the remuneration and non-executive director, age 57, is a research associate.
After working briefly in the nomination committee.
chartered accountant, who qualified with high-volume manufacturing electronic sector, Price Waterhouse, London.
Following 12 Geoff joined Renishaws research and years working at Foseco Minsep plc, a specialty development facility in Edinburgh in 1994, chemical company, Terry joined the specialist before moving to Renishaws headquarters to multinational engineering group, Senior plc as become Director and General Manager of the Group Finance Director.
Whilst at Senior he CMM Products Division.
Geoff was appointed was also responsible for investor relations to the Board in July 2002.
He heads the group and chaired the groups tax and treasury engineering function and is also responsible committee and the UK pension funds.
Since leaving Senior, he has been providing Joe McGeehan, CBE, FIEE, FREng consultancy services whilst working with the non-executive director, age 58, is Managing Princes Trust and the Support Group of the Director of Toshiba Research Ltd: Institute of Chartered Accountants in England Telecommunications Research Laboratory, and Wales.
Terry is a non-executive director Bristol.
After obtaining the degrees of BEng and of Brammer plc.
He was appointed a director PhD in electrical and electronic engineering of Renishaw plc on 1st July 2003 and is the Audit committee: from the University of Liverpool, he spent chairman of the audit committee.
Terry Garthwaite Chair several years involved in industrial research Joe McGeehan David Snowden, FCA before entering academia.
Since 1985, he has David Snowden the senior independent non-executive director, held a number of senior positions at the age 67, was a partner at KPMG for 25 years, University of Bristol.
In 2003 he was awarded Remuneration and latterly acting as Senior Partner for KPMG in the degree of DEng by the University of Nomination committee: South Wales.
David was an audit partner Liverpool for his major contribution to mobile David Snowden Chair covering a wide range of businesses and was communications research, much of which has Terry Garthwaite also regional partner in charge of insolvency formed the basis of international standards.
Since his retirement from Joe McGeehan He is a Fellow of the Institution of Electrical
