Report of the Directors DIRECTORS Information on the directors is given on page 19.
Sir Clive Thompson was a director until 19th May 2004 and Mr J C F Wilde was a director until 27th July 2004.
All directors submit themselves for re-election once every three years.
The directors retiring by rotation will be Mr B D McGowan and Mr I Harley, who are eligible and offer themselves for re-election at the 2005 annual general meeting.
Neither of them has service contracts although Mr McGowan has a letter of appointment, details of which are set out in the Remuneration Report on page 35.
In March 2005, the company announced that Mr R C Payne would be retiring as a director.
Mr Payne has been a director since July 1998.
On a recommendation from the Nomination Committee, Mr D Flynn was appointed to the board on 4th April 2005 and, under the companys Articles of Association, offers himself for election at the 2005 annual general meeting.
The terms of Mr Flynns contract were approved by the Remuneration Committee and details are set out in the Remuneration Report on page 35.
BOARD COMMITTEES Following the introduction of the Code on Corporate Governance by the Financial Reporting Council on 23rd July 2003, the board has reviewed in detail its procedures and practices and, in particular, has updated the terms of reference of the board committees.
The principal board committees are as follows: Audit committee Nomination committee Remuneration committee The terms of reference of the committees may be found on the companys website, www.
com, or if a hard copy is required, by application to the company secretarys department at the companys head office.
Audit committee The terms of reference of the committee have been modified to take account of the Smith Guidance which is appended to the Combined Code.
The report of the audit committee is set out on pages 27 to 29.
Its members are Mr I Harley chairman, Mr P J Long and Mr P Mason, all of whom are independent non-executive directors.
Nomination committee This committee is responsible for recommending board appointments.
Its terms of reference take into account the Higgs Guidance which is appended to the Combined Code.
Its members are Mr B D McGowan, Mr D Flynn, Mr I Harley and Mr R R Spinney.
Remuneration committee The terms of reference of the committee take into account the Higgs Guidance.
The Remuneration Report is set out on pages 30 to 40.
The members of the remuneration committee are Mr R R Spinney chairman, Mr P J Long and Mr P Mason, all of whom are independent non-executive directors.
DIRECTORS INTERESTS The interests of the directors and their families in the share capital of the company, other than in relation to share options, on 1st January 2004, or their date of appointment if later, and 31st December 2004, are set out on page 40.
The only directors who have been granted share options in the year by the company are the executive directors, details of whose option holdings are shown in the Remuneration Report on pages 37 and 38.
No director had any beneficial interest in the shares of any of the companys subsidiaries on those dates.
The interests of the directors and their families in the company and its subsidiary companies during the period from the end of the financial year to 13th April 2005 have changed only to the extent of awards of shares to executive directors under the Deferred Share Award Plan, details of which are set out on page 37.
DIRECTORS INSURANCE The company has purchased cover for the directors against liabilities arising in relation to the company, as permitted by the Companies Act 1985.
20 INTERESTS OF DIRECTORS During 2004, no director had any material interest in any significant contract to which the company or any subsidiary was a party.
IN CONTRACTS INTEREST IN On 13th April 2005, the following were registered as being interested in the companys issued share capital: SHARE CAPITAL Franklin Resources, Inc 13.00% Janus Capital Management LLC 4.25% Legal & General Investment Management Limited 3.64% Davis Selected Advisors LP 3.50% Britel Fund Trustees Limited 3.02% The disclosed interests of 3% and above total 27.41% March 2004: 15.59%.
EMPLOYEES The company attaches considerable importance to keeping its employees informed of matters affecting their jobs and the progress of the business.
As well as the companys intranet there is a UK magazine and a number of other in-house publications in the UK and other countries covering local and divisional matters.
Employees have frequent opportunities to meet and have discussions with their managers.
Senior executives from the United Kingdom make regular visits overseas for meetings with managers and staff.
A European Forum has been established under the European Works Council Directive as a means of informing, communicating and consulting with employees across Europe and currently covers employees in all current member countries of the European Union, Norway and Switzerland.
Applications for employment by disabled persons are always fully considered, bearing in mind the aptitudes of the applicant concerned.
In the event of members of staff becoming disabled, every effort is made to ensure that their employment with Rentokil Initial continues and that appropriate training is arranged.
It is the policy of Rentokil Initial that the training, career developments and promotion of disabled persons should, as far as possible, be identical with that of other employees.
POST BALANCE The company has made 10 acquisitions at a cost of 22 million since the 31st December 2004 up to 13th April 2005.
SHEET EVENTS POLICY IN RELATION TO Rentokil Initial has a variety of payment terms with its suppliers in various countries.
These are either negotiated along with PAYMENT OF SUPPLIERS other contract terms or conform to standard terms applied either by the relevant group company or by the supplier.
It is the companys policy to pay suppliers in accordance with either negotiated or standard terms, provided that the relevant invoice is properly presented and is not the subject of dispute.
At 31st December 2004 the trade creditors of the group represented 57 days of annual purchases and the UK businesses trade creditors represented 55 days of purchases: UK trade debtors represented 44 days of turnover.
During the year the parent company did not have any trade creditors.
CORPORATE SOCIAL The company takes account of social, environmental and ethical considerations when managing the business and when contemplating RESPONSIBILITY new activities.
In 2002 the board adopted a range of corporate social responsibility CSR policies.
In addition to the existing policies and procedures in respect of the environment and health and safety, they comprise policies on ethics, and policies in relation to the fundamental rights of employees, equal opportunities and diversity, employee remuneration, training and employee development, job security and wealth creation, relationships with customers and suppliers and community involvement.
Mr E F Brown is the director responsible for corporate social responsibility matters.
2004 saw the further development of good practice management guides and their communication to the operating businesses.
During the year, we have reviewed their implementation and the degree of compliance of our business units.
As is often the case, this process has highlighted areas where we need to have additional focus, as well as areas which we had not identified previously as presenting CSR challenges.
We regularly review our progress on CSR as part of the boards agenda.
We believe we have made good progress on many areas over the past year, but recognise that we still have a long journey to make in the arena of CSR.
This is particularly true over better communicating what we regard as responsible behaviours in the context of CSR reporting.
21 Report of the Directors continued CORPORATE SOCIAL The company has produced its second CSR report, which is available in the CSR pages on the companys website, RESPONSIBILITY www.
com, as is other information on CSR including copies of policies and good practice guides.
The examples continued of corporate responsibility actions given within the dedicated CSR annual report for 2004 demonstrate the extent to which the various parts of Rentokil Initial have taken on board the CSR issues relating to their business - they are indicative of a much wider range of activity.
In our web-based CSR report last year still available on the website we identified the key challenges we believed we faced in the CSR arena.
Since that time, we have regularly reviewed all our areas of impact, including those areas where we believe we have significant opportunities to make positive impacts, especially with our workforce and community stakeholders.
Any shareholder without access to the website who would like to have further information on CSR matters should contact the company at the address shown on the inside back cover of this report.
Over the last year, we have taken action to continue to bear down on the following risks: health & safety occupational road risk : environmental operational impact on the community through the further development of non-toxic pesticide procedures : workplace developing integrity of service delivery through employee development with the initiation of basic skills training in UK Cleaning and in South Africa : marketplace maintaining fair and open dealings with customers and suppliers and securing best value bought in products or services to the standards required through the enhancement of procurement management systems and community the Olivenhoutboush community development and AIDS support project.
We are pleased that the introduction in 2004 of a local investor in our business in South Africa owning 25.1% will be not only in the long term best interests of the company and its employees but will also play a small part in spreading economic prosperity in the wider community.
As a result of our review of CSR activities we plan ongoing activity in areas to address social, environmental and ethical risks.
A detailed description of these risks and associated actions we are undertaking and planning is included in our 2004 CSR report.
These actions will be reinforced through organisational changes that we have introduced during the course of the last year.
Our environmental and health and safety management was repositioned to become part of our risk management directorate.
Similarly, we have appointed our first group human resources director previously there had been no professional human resources representation at the group level.
We will continue to focus our CSR attention on areas where our impact on our stakeholders is most beneficial: - delivering an improved and more secure environment for our employees, clients and the communities in which they and we operate: - providing strong and developing career opportunities for all our employees, based on merit: and - operating ethically as an international business to the benefit of the clients and suppliers in the communities where we operate.
Delivering against each of these has to be set against meeting our shareholders expectations and our being satisfied that a good business case exists for the promotion of corporate responsibility initiatives.
The directors believe firmly that behaving responsibly is key to protecting and enhancing the reputation and value of our brands for the benefit of all stakeholders.
The company views the processes in place to manage risk and to motivate and incentivise managers described in the report as equally relevant to an analysis of social, environmental and ethical matters.
The ongoing evaluation of systems and procedures is intended to ensure that the management system including the internal control framework is effective in ensuring that issues of a social, environmental or ethical nature are identified and acted upon.
The company has extended its internal control verification systems to ensure that businesses report periodically on their progress towards compliance with the companys CSR policies.
RESEARCH AND The company invests in an active programme of research and development in support of its major international business streams.
DEVELOPMENT This programme includes the conception, design, testing and manufacture of new products to enhance the quality and safety of the companys services and minimise their environmental impact.
Where appropriate, work is sponsored at universities with expertise in specific relevant areas.
PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES A description of the companys activities is given on the inside front cover.
REVIEW OF THE YEAR The review of the companys affairs is given on pages 4 to 18.
22 FUTURE DEVELOPMENTS Future developments are commented on by the chairman in his statement on page 5.
DIVIDENDS An interim dividend of 1.93p per share amounting to 34.5 million was paid on 29th October 2004.
The board recommends the declaration of a final dividend of 4.78p amounting to 86.2 million adjusted for the waiver of dividend in respect of the shares held by the trustees of the Rentokil Initial Employee Share Trust payable on 3rd June 2005.
The total distribution for 2004 would then be 6.71p per share 2003: 6.10p amounting to 120.7 million.
ACQUISITIONS During the year 19 companies and businesses were acquired for a total consideration of 29.6 million, which, together with adjustments for deferred consideration, took the total spend to 27.5 million.
These acquisitions contributed 7.6 million to turnover, 2.4 million to profit before interest and 1.5 million to profit after interest.
Goodwill amounting to 28.9 million has been capitalised as an intangible asset on these acquisitions.
CONSOLIDATED ACCOUNTS The consolidated profit before taxation for 2004 was 297.8 million the tax on this was 81.6 million.
The book value of the consolidated tangible fixed assets at 31st December 2004 amounted to 675.7 million 2003: 662.8 million.
Dividends declared and recommended out of 2004 profits amount to 120.7 million.
Retained profits of 93.8 million have been transferred to reserves.
Net consolidated capital employed is now negative 559.4 million compared to negative 624.6 million last year.
During 2004, employees exercised options to buy 0.2 million shares of 1p each in the capital of the company under the terms of the share option schemes approved by shareholders in general meeting.
As a result, the companys issued share premium account increased by 0.3 million.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The company complies with the Code on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Council on 23rd July 2003 Combined Code save insofar as an explanation of a failure to do so is given below.
The following specific disclosures are now made in accordance with Schedule C to the Combined Code: 1.
Effective board The board is responsible to shareholders for the overall direction and control of the company and specifically reserves certain matters for its consideration such as approval of the companys financial statements, major capital expenditure and major acquisitions and disposals in the standing board procedures and practices, which are reviewed annually.
The chief executive has delegated authority from the board to manage the company, subject to the strategic direction of the board.
He is also responsible for the achievement of the objectives set by the board and preparing an overall strategy for the company to achieve such objectives and the implementation of the overall strategy decided by the board through the management and organisation of the company.
The board meets routinely 9 times a year and additionally when necessary and follows an agreed formal schedule of matters which are considered at individual meetings.
In 2004 the board met on 14 occasions at which all directors were present, other than for Messrs McGowan, Harley and Thompson, who each did not attend one meeting and Messrs Long and Mason, who each did not attend two meetings.
Composition of the board Information on directors is set out on page 19 and membership of the boards committees is set out on page 20.
Board committees Details on the audit, nomination and remuneration committees are set out respectively on page 20.
In the light of the circumstances surrounding the departure of the previous chairman and chief executive in May and July 2004 respectively, the board as a whole effectively took on the role of the nomination committee and therefore there were no meetings of the nomination committee in 2004.
However, the nomination committee did meet in February 2005 to consider the appointment of Mr D Flynn as chief executive and it is envisaged that, in future, it will meet at least twice a year.
Independent non-executive directors The board regards Mr R R Spinney, Mr I Harley, Mr P J Long and Mr P Mason to be independent non-executive directors within the tests set out in the Combined Code.
23 Report of the Directors continued CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 5.
Further significant commitments of the chairman continued The external commitments of Mr B D McGowan have remained the same since his appointment as chairman in May 2004, although as referred to in the Remuneration Report on page 35, he took on the role of executive chairman from 27th July 2004, pending the appointment of a new chief executive.
Performance evaluation The board has undertaken a formal evaluation of its own performance and that of its committees and individual directors.
The directors completed detailed appraisals on matters relevant to the board, committee and director performance.
A report was presented to and reviewed by the board.
The review was conducted internally but with the aid of a framework developed by external specialists.
Individual director evaluation showed that each director including those seeking re-election at the annual general meeting in 2005 continues to demonstrate commitment to the role.
The non-executive directors, led by the senior independent director, carried out a performance evaluation of the chairman after taking account of the views of the executive directors.
The board intends to carry out further performance evaluations but will keep under review the method and frequency.
Dialogue with major shareholders The chief executive and finance director hold regular meetings with analysts and institutional shareholders to discuss the companys strategy and financial performance.
In the absence of a chief executive in 2004 and 2005, the chairman took on the role in this context of the chief executive.
The company has sought the views of major UK based shareholders on how members of the board and, in particular, the non-executive directors, should develop an understanding of the views of major shareholders about the company with the result that the chairman, and if so requested, non-executive directors will make themselves available for discussions with shareholders at the time of the release of the preliminary results and on other occasions if specifically requested by shareholders.
Accountability and audit The board has delegated the responsibility for accountability and audit to the audit committee.
See Audit Committee Report on pages 27 to 29.
Going concern After reviewing group and company cash balances, borrowings and projected cash flows, the directors believe that the group and company have adequate resources to continue operations for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Auditors independence The company has reviewed its relationship with its auditors,  LLP and concluded that there are sufficient controls and processes in place to ensure the required level of independence.
Consequently there are no plans to replace  LLP, whose re-appointment is proposed as set out in the notice of annual general meeting on page 75 of this annual report.
Exceptions to compliance with the Combined Code The board identified the following exceptions to full compliance with the Combined Code in 2004: a.
The offices of chairman and chief executive were combined in the person of Mr B D McGowan following the stepping down of Mr J C F Wilde as chief executive in July 2004.
The board believed that it was important that Mr McGowan should take on executive responsibilities to provide the necessary leadership for the company while an active search for a new chief executive was undertaken.
The search continued during the remainder of 2004 and early 2005 and an announcement was made on 6th February 2005 that Mr D Flynn would be joining the company as chief executive in April 2005. b.
As mentioned above, because of the significant changes to the board which occured in 2004, the nomination committees role was effectively assumed by the board as a whole.
24 CHARITABLE AND Donations for UK charitable purposes in 2004 amounted to 130,000 and a further 44,000 was donated in other countries.
POLITICAL DONATIONS There were no payments to political organisations.
Payments are made to a wide range of charitable organisations both in the UK and overseas.
Encouragement is given to a matched giving scheme whereby the company matches donations made by employees.
AUDITORS A resolution to re-appoint  LLP as auditors of the company will be proposed at the annual general meeting to be held on 26th May 2005.
AUTHORITY TO MAKE Shareholders approved an authority for the company to make market purchases of its own shares at the annual general meeting PURCHASES OF held on 27th May 2004, when authority was given to purchase up to 235 million shares.
This represented 15% of the companys OWN SHARES issued share capital at the time, being the maximum which the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority permit to be bought by way of market purchases under a single authority.
Since 27th May 2004 the company has purchased a further 7.1 million shares by way of market purchases, which represents 0.4% of the companys issued share capital at the date of this report.
In line with current practice, the company intends to seek an authority to purchase up to 5% of its issued shares, compared with the 15% authority received in previous years.
The proposed authority is dealt with in resolution 7 contained in the notice of annual general meeting on page 75.
If given, it will replace the current authority granted on 27th May 2004.
The minimum price payable per share under the proposed authority in resolution 7 is 1p the nominal amount of each share and the maximum price exclusive of expenses is 5% above the average market price per share for the five business days immediately preceding any purchase.
In the event that the board used this authority, purchases would be made only from funds not required for other purposes and in the light of prevailing market conditions.
No purchase would be made unless the board was of the opinion that it would result in an increase in earnings per share.
The board would also take into account the companys cash resources and bank facilities, the effect on gearing and other possible investment opportunities before deciding whether to exercise this authority.
Any purchase of shares pursuant to this authority would be made on market.
Shares purchased would be cancelled and will not be available for reissue.
AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT, The Audit Committee and Remuneration Reports, which have been adopted by the board, are set out on pages 27 to 29, and REMUNERATION REPORT AND 30 to 40 respectively and the Statement of Directors Responsibilities is set out on page 41.
STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES RECOMMENDATION The board believes that the proposed resolutions to be put to the annual general meeting to be held on 26th May 2005 are in the best interests of shareholders as a whole and, accordingly, recommends that shareholders vote in favour of the resolutions, as the directors intend to do in respect of their own beneficial shareholdings in the company.
R Ward-Jones Secretary 13th April 2005 25 Report of the Directors continued DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE A copy, or a memorandum of the terms, of every service contract or letter of engagement between the company or any of its FOR INSPECTION subsidiaries and any director of the company is available for inspection at the companys registered office and at the offices of Denton Wilde Sapte, One Fleet Place, London EC4M 7WS during normal business hours on any weekday Saturdays and public holidays excepted until 26th May 2005 and will also be available for inspection at the place of the annual general meeting for at least fifteen minutes prior to and during the meeting.
NOTE REGARDING As at the close of business on 13th April 2005, there were options remaining to be satisfied by subscription for shares in the PURCHASES OF company in respect of 49 million shares, which represents 2.7% of the current issued share capital of the company.
This would OWN SHARES represent 3.3% of the issued share capital of the company after the purchase and subsequent cancellation of both the remaining 228 million shares, which as at 13th April 2005 the company had authority to purchase under the authority referred to above granted on 27th May 2004, and the maximum 79 million shares which the company would then have authority to purchase under the authority being proposed in resolution 7.
