Directors and Secretary DIRECTORS B D McGowan Chairman Aged 60.
Appointed a director in October 1996 and non-executive chairman in May 2004.
Appointed executive chairman in July 2004.
Chairman of UMECO plc and Catalyst Corporate Finance UK Limited.
Formerly chief executive of Williams plc and chairman of House of Fraser plc.
Appointed a director and chief executive on 4th April 2005.
He was previously chief executive of Aegis Group PLC, having joined the board as a non-executive director in 1999.
Prior to this, he spent 13 years with the News Corporation Limited in the UK and Australia, latterly as managing director of News International Plc.
Before joining News Corporation Limited he was with ICI for ten years working in Australia and Hong Kong in various management roles.
Appointed a director in July 1998 and finance director in January 2001.
Joined the company in December 1986 and became business development director shortly afterwards.
A regional managing director from January 1991 until the end of 1999 when he became finance director designate.
Before joining the company, held executive appointments with Mars Inc and Societ Gnrale fide Surveillance SA.
An independent non-executive director and chairman of the audit committee of LogicaCMG plc.
Joined Rentokil Initial in 1981 and held numerous executive positions in the company prior to his appointment as a director.
Appointed marketing director in June 2002 and sector managing director in January 2003.
Before joining the company, held executive appointments with British Steel plc, Kwikform Limited and Sedgwick Group plc.
A director of British Energy plc and Remploy Limited.
Past President of the Chartered Institute of Bankers.
Formerly chief executive of Abbey National plc.
Chief executive of First Choice Holidays PLC.
Formerly chief executive of Sunworld Limited.
President of Levi-Strauss & Co. Europe.
Formerly president and managing director of Asda Wal-Mart UK and chief executive of Matalan plc.
Chairman of Hanover Real Estate Investment Management Limited, a Crown Estates Commissioner and a non-executive director of Homestyle Group plc, Fuller, Smith & Turner plc, Kennington Oval Limited and Rockspring Property Investment Managers Limited.
The senior independent non-executive director.
