Company Overview Company Overview Rentokil Initial is one of the largest business services companies in the world, operating in the major economies of Europe, North America, Asia Pacific and Africa.
The company has some 90,000 employees providing a range of support services in over 40 countries where the Rentokil and Initial brands have come to represent consistent quality of service.
Initial Washroom Solutions delivers 7.5 million roller 8.
Initial Retail Cleaning has over 1,000 scrubber towels to its customers annually which, if joined end dryers, which daily can clean a floor area the size to end, would circle the equator over seven times.
Our European Textiles operation washes 93,500 9.
com tonnes of linen every year, equivalent to the website is designed to educate and inform weight of 316 Boeing 747 airliners.
architects, interior designers and related professionals about the use and benefits of 3.
Initial Electronic Securitys cameras scan and landscaping in general and forms part of a capture in the region of 1 million toll transactions Continuous Professional Development scheme each week at the UKs Dartford River Crossing on for Royal Institute of British Architects members.
Each night, Initial City Link collects on average 4.
Rentokil Pest Controls Luminos 3 is a non-toxic 170,000 parcels from its network of 70 branches method of attracting and trapping flying insects and delivers them next day at their allocated time.
on an adhesive film a thoroughly modern version of the fly paper.
Initial Catering Services education division serves some 38 million school meals per year.
Initial Foodguard won the Golden Service 2004 Manufacturing Award, the Oscar of the cleaning 12.
Just ten minutes walk from the bustle of Oxford industry, for their exceptional standard of twentyCircus, is 17 Portland Place, the prestigious, Initial four hour cleaning at Walkers Snack Foods Limited.
Style Conferences venue in the centre of London.
Initial Style Conferences 29 venues can accommodate nearly 10,000 delegates a day who consume 2 million biscuits washed down with 2.6 million cups of coffee per year.
With 25 years of knowledge and experience, Initial Security is the first and only security company in the UK to achieve accreditation by the National Security Inspectorate for all three international standards for quality, health and safety and environmental management.
