were conducted in the vicinity of the Boron and Tincalayu mines.
In Indonesia, exploration in and around the Grasberg mine led to the Exploration group addition of further copper reserves.
Rio Tinto Exploration seeks to discover or identify mineral resources that FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE will contribute to the growth of the Rio Tinto Group.
The discovery of 2004 compared with 2003 new resources is essential to replace deposits as they are mined and to Cash expenditure on exploration in 2004 was US$193 million and the help meet the increasing global demand for minerals and metals.
pre-tax charge to earnings was US$187 million, a US$60 million The Exploration group is opportunistic in approach and its increase over 2003, reflecting increased iron ore exploration in Western resources are deployed on projects that show the best chance of Australia and acceleration of evaluation on significant projects by delivering a world class deposit to Rio Tinto.
Mineral exploration is a product groups during the year.
Rio Tintos statistics show that an average of only one in 350 mineral prospects that are drill tested result in a mine for the 2003 compared with 2002 Group.
Rio Tinto believes in having a critical mass of projects, selected Cash expenditure on exploration in 2003 was US$130 million and the through a rigorous process of prioritisation.
pre-tax charge to earnings was US$127 million, similar to 2002.
The Exploration group is organised into four geographically based teams and a fifth team that looks for industrial minerals on a global basis.
Additionally, a small focused project generation team covers the world for new opportunities.
At the end of 2004, Rio Tinto was exploring in 30 countries for a broad range of commodities including copper, diamonds, nickel, industrial minerals, gold, bauxite, iron ore and coal.
Exploration employs 191 geologists and geophysicists around the world and has a total complement of 880 people.
Tom Albanese succeeded David Klingner as head of Exploration, and is based in London.
2004 operating performance Exploration in 2004 focused on advancing the most promising targets across the spectrum of grassroots, generative, drill test stage, and near mine programmes.
Encouraging results were obtained from a number of locations.
Order of magnitude studies were completed on the Simandou iron ore, Guinea and Eagle nickel-copper, Michigan, US projects.
Both projects have been transferred to relevant product group teams for pre-feasibility assessment.
Since 2001 five projects have moved from exploration to the next stage of project evaluation including Resolution copper, Arizona, US and Potasio Rio Colorado potash, Argentina.
In addition to these projects, near mine exploration has also been undertaken.
Where resources have been supplemented or additional resource discovered this has been has reported by the respective product group.
Several projects are in the process of, or about to initiate, order of magnitude studies to assess their economic potential for advancement to pre-feasibility assessment.
An order of magnitude study was commenced at the La Sampala nickel laterite resource in Indonesia, and is nearing completion.
The pler and Marcona deposits discovered previously were divested in 2003 and 2004 respectively.
In 2004, the Groups interest in the Sepon project in Laos was sold.
Diamond exploration continued in Canada, southern Africa, Mauritania, Brazil and India.
A number of diamond bearing kimberlite pipes were discovered and follow up test work is in progress to gauge economic potential.
Copper exploration continued in Turkey, Peru, Chile, Argentina and the US.
Copper mineralisation was encountered in drilling in projects in Turkey and Peru, which warrant further follow up drill testing.
Exploration focus on the bulk commodities iron ore, coal and bauxite has been increasing each year for the last several years and evaluation of several projects is continuing with the intention to progress two projects to product group handover in 2005.
The Exploration group was active in the search for industrial mineral deposits in a number of parts of the world including North and South America, Europe, south east Asia and Turkey.
The Exploration group continued to support brownfield work at a number of Rio Tinto operations.
Additional work to develop the Argyle diamond mine continued.
In the US and Argentina, active programmes Rio Tinto 2004 Annual report and financial statements 53 OPERATIONAL REVIEW
