Directors report The directors are pleased to present their report to shareholders of Rio claims arising out of actions taken in connection with Group business.
It Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited, together with the financial statements is a condition under the insurance contract that detailed terms and for the year ended 31 December 2004 on pages 85 to 141. premium paid cannot be disclosed.
Activities and review of operations Employment policies Details of the Groups results, operations and principal activities, likely The average number of people employed worldwide by Rio Tinto, future developments, significant changes during the year and post including the Groups share of joint ventures and associates, was balance sheet events are set out in the Chairmans letter on page 2, the approximately 33,000 2003: 36,000 during 2004.
Of those, about Chief executives report on pages 3 to 5 and in the Operational review 11,000 were located in Australia and New Zealand, around 9,000 in the on pages 38 to 57.
US and Canada and 1,000 in the United Kingdom.
As allowed by Section 299 3 of the Australian Corporations Act, Rio Tintos employment policies are set out in its statement of information which may be unreasonably prejudicial, regarding likely business practice, The way we work.
future developments in, and the expected results of, the operations of Rio Tinto is committed to equality of opportunity for all, as set out in the Group has been omitted.
The way we work, and applies this philosophy to recruitment, development and promotion of individuals.
Dual listed structure Within this philosophy, each operating company is further Details of the dual listed companies structure DLC, which unified Rio encouraged to develop its own policies and practices to suit individual Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited in 1995, can be found on page 81. circumstances.
Group companies employ disabled people and accept the need to maintain and develop careers for them.
If an employee Corporate governance becomes disabled and, as a result, is unable to perform his or her A full report on corporate governance can be found on pages 71 to 75. current duties, every effort is made to offer suitable alternative employment and to assist with retraining.
Annual general meetings Rio Tinto respects the right of employees worldwide to choose for The 2005 annual general meetings will be held on 14 April in London themselves whether or not they wish to be represented collectively.
Notices of the 2005 annual general meetings Group companies actively promote a healthy and safe working are set out in separate letters to shareholders of each Company.
environment through training and communication with employees.
For further information about Group staff and health and safety initiatives, Dividends please see pages 55 to 57.
Final dividends of 23.94p per share and 58.29 Australian cents per Post retirement benefits are provided by Rio Tinto and its major share will be paid on 8 April 2005.
Full details of dividends paid and subsidiaries in accordance with local conditions and good practice in dividend policy can be found on page 77. the countries concerned.
Directors Share capital The names of the directors who served during the year, together with There were no changes to the authorised share capital of Rio Tinto plc their biographical details and directorships of other companies in the during the year.
In 2004, 1,346,874 Rio Tinto plc shares and 280,332 past three years, are shown on pages 58 to 59.
Richard Goodmanson, Rio Tinto Limited shares were issued in connection with employee share who was appointed a non executive director on 1 December 2004, and plans.
Ashton Calvert and Vivienne Cox, who were appointed to the boards as Since the year end 429,764 Rio Tinto plc shares and 167,248 non executive directors on 1 February 2005, retire and offer themselves Rio Tinto Limited shares have been issued as a result of the exercise of for election at the 2005 annual general meetings.
Paul Skinner retires by employee options.
As at 14 February 2005, there were 9,253,990 options rotation and, being eligible, offers himself for re-election.
Sir Richard outstanding over Rio Tinto plc shares and 6,506,800 options outstanding Giordano, Leon Davis and John Morschel also retire by rotation but do over Rio Tinto Limited shares in connection with employee share plans.
not offer themselves for re-election.
Details of directors service At the annual general meeting of Rio Tinto plc held in April 2004, contracts and letters of appointment can be found on page 66.
A table the authorities for Rio Tinto plc to buy its own shares and for Rio Tinto of directors attendance at board and committee meetings is on page 71.
Limited to buy shares in Rio Tinto plc were renewed and extended until October 2005.
These authorities enable Rio Tinto plc to buy back up to Remuneration of directors and executives ten per cent of its publicly held shares in any 12 month period.
At its A discussion of the Groups policy for determining the nature and annual general meeting held in April 2004, Rio Tinto Limited renewed amount of remuneration of directors and senior executives, and of the its shareholder approvals to buy back up to all its shares held by relationship between that policy and the Groups performance appears Tinto Holdings Australia Pty Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of in the Remuneration report on pages 63 to 70.
Rio Tinto plc plus up to ten per cent of the publicly held share capital in The Remuneration report includes details of the nature and amount any 12 month period on market.
Neither Company bought back any of each element of the remuneration of each director and of the five shares during 2004. highest paid executives of the Group.
Creditor payments Secretaries It is the Groups policy to agree terms of payments with suppliers when Details of the company secretaries of each of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto entering into contracts and to meet its obligations accordingly.
The Limited are set out on page 60.
Group does not follow any specific published code or standard on payment practice.
Indemnities and insurance At 31 December 2004, there were 23 days purchases outstanding The articles of association and constitution of the Companies require in respect of Rio Tinto Limited and 24 days purchases outstanding in them to indemnify officers of the Companies, including officers of wholly respect of Rio Tinto plc, based on the total invoiced by suppliers during owned subsidiaries, against liabilities arising from Group business, to the the year.
The Group, therefore, purchased directors and officers insurance Donations in 2004.
In broad terms, the insurance indemnifies individual directors Worldwide expenditure on community programmes by Rio Tinto and officers personal legal liability and costs as permitted by law for managed businesses amounted to US$87.8 million 2003: Rio Tinto 2004 Annual report and financial statements 61 DIRECTORS REPORT Directors report continued US$70 million and is described more fully in Society and environment on page 55.
The Group committed A$1 million about US$750,000 to disaster relief following the tsunami in Asia with support directed mainly to Indonesia and India where the Group has a presence.
Total community spending in Australia amounted to A$6.9 million.
Donations in the UK during 2004 amounted to 2.1 million of which 0.4 million was for charitable purposes as defined by the Companies Act 1985 and 1.7 million for other community purposes.
As in previous years, no donations were made for political purposes during 2004 in the EU, or elsewhere as defined by the UK Companies Act 1985 as amended by the Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000, nor in Australia.
Environmental regulation Details of the Groups environmental performance is set out on pages 55 to 57.
Value of land The Groups interests in land consists mainly of leases and other rights which permit working of the land and the erection of buildings and equipment to extract and treat minerals.
This land is normally carried in the financial statements at cost, as the market value depends on product prices over the long term and therefore will vary with market conditions.
Exploration, research and development Group companies carry out exploration, research and development necessary to support their activities.
They also make grants to universities and other institutions which undertake relevant research.
Cash expenditure during the year was US$193 million for exploration and evaluation and US$23 million for research and development.
Auditors  LLP and  are the auditors of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited respectively.
 LLP have indicated their willingness to continue in office as auditors of Rio Tinto plc and a resolution to re-appoint them as auditors of Rio Tinto plc will be proposed at the 2005 annual general meetings of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited.
 will continue in office as auditors of Rio Tinto Limited.
No officer of Rio Tinto was a former partner or director of either Companys auditors during 2004.
Non audit services The directors are satisfied that the provision of non audit services by  is compatible with the general standard of independence for auditors on the basis set out in the Audit committee report on page 74.
Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 The close company provisions of the UK Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 do not apply to Rio Tinto plc.
The Directors report is made in accordance with a resolution of the board.
Paul Skinner Leigh Clifford Guy Elliott Chairman Chief executive Finance director 24 February 2005 24 February 2005 24 February 2005 62 Rio Tinto 2004 Annual report and financial statements DIRECTORS REPORT
