Operational review continued There is continuing emphasis on ensuring that safety, operability and maintainability issues are fully addressed and incorporated in all the Technology group units work.
The Technology group provides technical assistance to Rio Tintos FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE product groups and their businesses, and advises executive The charge for the Technology group against net earnings was management.
In support of the drive towards operational excellence, a US$25 million, compared with US$16 million in 2003.
The increase was key focus is to identify and implement best practices, to improve safety mainly due to the weaker US dollar and the greater level of activity in all and environmental performance, maximise operating efficiency and add Technology group units.
Technology staff include experienced professionals covering all the main industry related disciplines, while the Office of the Chief Technologist manages the Groups involvement in external and collaborative research.
The total staff in the Technology group at year end was 362 compared with 333 in 2003.
John OReilly, head of Technology, is based in London.
He moves to a part time role on 1 May, 2005 and will be succeeded by Ian Smith, currently managing director, Aluminium Smelting, Comalco.
2004 operating performance Technical Services Technical Services continued to increase its involvement with Rio Tinto operations and also provided significant contributions at non managed operations.
Activity over the year was again at record levels, with a strong focus on the enhancement of initiatives to improve performance and implement best practice such as in water management and metallurgical margin improvement.
New initiatives recently commenced include Excellence in Mine Planning and Resource Management.
A number of current development projects are linked with external research programmes in order to leverage value for Rio Tinto.
Others are focussed on innovation and best practice in key areas to add value in a shorter time frame.
Office of the Chief Technologist The Office of the Chief Technologist is responsible for the identification and the transfer of technology based opportunities for the Group.
The external research portfolio covers a broad range of industry related initiatives.
Some of these link directly with internal development projects.
Work on improving efficiency and reducing costs is continuing in areas such as comminution, water usage and materials handling.
A number of breakthrough projects are also being pursued.
The Rio Tinto Foundation for a Sustainable Minerals Industry approved a further 14 projects for funding.
Technical Evaluation and Project Management Technical Evaluation continued in its principal role of providing independent review of all major investment proposals being considered by the Group.
Risk assessment and management is an important and integral component of the project review process.
The unit also continued with the programme of post investment reviews.
It has established a database to consolidate the findings so that lessons learned from completed projects can be shared within the Group.
The Project Management Unit provides ongoing support to major project teams across Rio Tinto, both for projects in execution and those still in the feasibility stage.
There was also continued involvement with some major projects at non managed operations.
Two project management forums were held during the year focussing on collaboration between projects and lessons learned.
Asset Utilisation This unit is now well established across the Group and its workload continued to expand.
There has been particularly heavy involvement with the iron ore operations in Western Australia which is expected to continue through 2005.
The process control group is now well established.
The development of tools to improve performance continues, including on asset integrity and remote monitoring.
54 Rio Tinto 2004 Annual report and financial statements OPERATIONAL REVIEW
