The ratings by Standard & Poors Corporation have a stable outlook.
there is no taxation treaty.
The ratings by Moodys Investor Services improved from a negative to Since 1988, all dividends paid by Rio Tinto Limited have been fully a stable outlook during 2004. franked.
It is the Groups policy to pay fully franked dividends whenever possible.
TAXATION UK resident individuals Dividend reinvestment plan DRP Taxation of dividends Shareholders will generally be liable for tax on dividends reinvested in Dividends carry a tax credit equal to one ninth of the dividend.
the DRP on the same basis as if they had received the cash and Individuals who are not liable to income tax at the higher rate will have arranged the investment.
The dividend should therefore be included in no further tax to pay.
Higher rate tax payers are liable to tax on UK the annual tax return in the normal way.
dividends at 32.5 per cent which, after taking account of the tax credit, The shares acquired should be added to the shareholding at the produces a further tax liability of 25 per cent of the dividend received.
date of acquisition at the actual cost of the shares, which is the amount of the dividend applied by the shareholder to acquire shares and any Reclaiming income tax on dividends incidental costs associated with the acquisition, including stamp duty, Tax credits on dividends are no longer recoverable.
However, tax credits on will form part of the cost base or reduced cost base of the shares for dividends paid into Personal Equity Plans or Individual Savings Accounts capital gains tax purposes.
will be refunded on dividends paid prior to 6 April 2004.
Capital gains tax Dividend reinvestment plan DRP The Australian capital gains tax legislation is complex.
Shareholders are The taxation effect of participation in the DRP will depend on individual advised to seek the advice of an independent taxation consultant on circumstances.
Shareholders will generally be liable for tax on dividends any possible capital gains tax exposure.
reinvested in the DRP on the same basis as if they had received the If shareholders have acquired shares after 19 September 1985 they cash and arranged the investment.
The dividend should, therefore, be may be subject to capital gains tax on the disposal of those shares.
included in the annual tax return in the normal way.
The shares acquired should be added to shareholdings at the date US resident individuals and at the net cost shown on the share purchase advice.
The actual The following is a summary of the principal UK tax, Australian tax and cost of the shares, for Rio Tinto plc shareholders including the stamp US Federal income tax consequences of the ownership of Rio Tinto plc duty stamp duty reserve tax, will form the base cost for capital gains ADSs, Rio Tinto plc shares, Rio Tinto Limited ADSs and Rio Tinto tax purposes.
Limited shares the Groups ADSs and Shares by a US holder as defined below.
It is not intended to be a comprehensive description of all Capital gains tax the tax considerations that are relevant to all classes of taxpayer.
Future Shareholders who have any queries on capital gains tax issues are changes in legislation may affect the tax consequences of the advised to consult their financial adviser.
ownership of the Groups ADSs and shares.
A leaflet which includes details of relevant events since 31 March It is based in part on representations by the Groups depositary 1982 and provides adjusted values for Rio Tinto plc securities as at that banks as Depositaries for the ADRs evidencing the ADSs and assumes date is available from the company secretary.
that each obligation in the deposit agreements will be performed in accordance with its terms.
Australian resident individuals A US holder is a beneficial owner of securities who, for purposes of Taxation of dividends the income tax conventions between the US and both the UK and The basis of the Australian dividend imputation system is that when Australia the Conventions, is a resident of the US and is not a US Australian resident shareholders receive dividends from Rio Tinto corporation owning directly or indirectly ten per cent or more of the Limited, they may be entitled to a credit for the tax paid by the Group in stock issued by either of the Companies.
respect of that income, depending on the tax status of the shareholder.
For the purposes of the Conventions and of the US Internal The application of the system results in tax paid by the Group being Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, the Code US holders of ADSs allocated to shareholders by way of franking credits attaching to the are treated as the owners of the underlying shares.
Such dividends are known as franked dividends.
The summary describes the treatment applicable under the A dividend may be partly or fully franked.
The current Rio Tinto Limited Conventions in force at the date of this report.
dividend is fully franked and the franking credits attached to the dividend are shown in the distribution statement provided to shareholders.
UK taxation of shareholdings in Rio Tinto plc The extent to which a company can frank a dividend depends on the Taxation of dividends credit balance in its franking account.
Credits to this account can arise in a US holders do not suffer deductions of UK withholding tax on dividends number of ways, including when a company pays company tax or receives paid by Rio Tinto plc.
Dividends carry a tax credit equal to one ninth of a franked dividend from another company.
The dividend is required to be the net dividend, or ten per cent of the net dividend plus the tax credit.
included in a resident individual shareholders assessable income.
In The tax credit is not repayable to US holders.
addition, an amount equal to the franking credit attached to the franked dividend is also included in the assessable income of the resident Capital gains individual, who may then be entitled to a rebate of tax equal to the franking A US holder will not normally be liable to UK tax on capital gains credit amount included in their income.
Should the franking credits exceed realised on the disposition of Rio Tinto plc ADSs or shares unless the the tax due, the excess is refunded to the resident individual.
holder carries on a trade, profession or vocation in the UK through The effect of the dividend imputation system on non resident a permanent establishment in the UK and the ADSs or shares shareholders is that, to the extent that the dividend is franked, no have been used for the purposes of the trade, profession or Australian tax will be payable and there is an exemption from dividend vocation or are acquired, held or used for the purposes of such a withholding tax.
A withholding tax is normally levied at the rate of 15 per cent when unfranked dividends are paid to residents of countries with which Inheritance tax Australia has a taxation treaty.
Most Western countries have a taxation Under the UK Estate Tax Treaty, a US holder, who is domiciled in the US treaty with Australia.
A rate of 30 per cent applies to countries where and is not a national of the UK, will not be subject to UK inheritance tax Rio Tinto 2004 Annual report and financial statements 79 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
