Risk factors and cautionary statement RISK FACTORS restrictions.
Any of these can have a material adverse effect on the The following describes some of the risks that could affect Rio Tinto.
profitability or, in extreme cases, the viability of an operation.
There may be additional risks unknown to Rio Tinto and other risks, Some of the Groups current and potential operations are located in currently believed to be immaterial, could turn out to be material.
These or near communities that may now, or in the future, regard such an risks, whether they materialise individually or simultaneously, could operation as having a detrimental effect on their economic and social significantly affect the Groups business and financial results.
Should this occur, it might have a material adverse should also be considered in connection with any forward looking impact on the profitability or, in extreme cases, the viability of an statements in this document and the cautionary statement below.
In addition, such an event may adversely affect the Groups ability to enter into new operations in the country.
Economic conditions Commodity prices, and demand for the Groups products, are Technology influenced strongly by world economic growth, particularly that in the US The Group has invested in and implemented information system and and Asia.
The Groups normal policy is to sell its products at prevailing operational initiatives.
Several technical aspects of these initiatives are still market prices.
Commodity prices can fluctuate widely and could have a unproven and the eventual operational outcome or viability cannot be material and adverse impact on the Groups asset values, revenues, assessed with certainty.
Accordingly, the costs and benefits from these earnings and cash flows.
Further discussion can be found on page 11, initiatives and the consequent effects on the Groups future earnings and Business environment and markets, and on page 35, commodity prices.
financial results may vary widely from present expectations.
Exchange rates Land and resource tenure The Groups asset values, earnings and cash flows are influenced by a The Group operates in several countries where title to land and rights in wide variety of currencies due to the geographic diversity of the Groups respect of land and resources including indigenous title may be unclear sales and areas of operation.
The majority of the Groups sales are and may lead to disputes over resource development.
Such disputes denominated in US dollars.
The Australian and US dollars are the most could disrupt relevant mining projects and or impede the Groups ability important currencies influencing costs.
The relative value of currencies can to develop new mining properties.
fluctuate widely and could have a material and adverse impact on the Groups asset values, costs, earnings and cash flows.
Further discussion Health, safety and environment can be found on page 34, exchange rates, reporting currencies and Rio Tinto operates in an industry that is subject to numerous health, currency exposure.
safety and environmental laws and regulations as well as community expectations.
Evolving regulatory standards and expectations can result Acquisitions in increased litigation and or increased costs all of which can have a The Group has grown partly through the acquisition of other businesses.
material and adverse effect on earnings and cash flows.
Business combinations commonly entail a number of risks and Rio Tinto cannot be sure that management will be able effectively to integrate Mining operations businesses acquired or generate the cost savings and synergies Mining operations are vulnerable to a number of circumstances beyond anticipated.
Failure to do so could have a material and adverse impact the Groups control, including natural disasters, unexpected geological on the Groups costs, earnings and cash flows.
These can affect costs at particular mines for varying periods.
Mining, smelting and refining processes also Exploration and new projects rely on key inputs, for example fuel and electricity.
Appropriate insurance The Group seeks to identify new mining properties through an active can provide protection from some, but not all, of the costs that may exploration programme.
There is no guarantee, however, that such arise from unforeseen events.
Disruption to the supply of key inputs, or expenditure will be recouped or that existing mineral reserves will be changes in their pricing, may have a material and adverse impact on the replaced.
Failure to do so could have a material and adverse impact on Groups asset values, costs, earnings and cash flows.
the Groups financial results and prospects.
The Group develops new mining properties and expands its Rehabilitation existing operations as a means of generating shareholder value.
Costs associated with rehabilitating land disturbed during the mining Increasing regulatory, environmental and social approvals are, however, process and addressing environmental, health and community issues required which can result in significant increases in construction costs are estimated and provided for based on the most current information and or significant delays in construction.
Estimates may, however, be insufficient and or further issues materially and adversely affect a projects economics, the Groups asset may be identified.
Any underestimated or unidentified rehabilitation costs values, costs, earnings and cash flows.
will reduce earnings and could materially and adversely affect the Groups asset values, earnings and cash flows.
Reserve estimation There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating ore reserves.
Non managed operations Reserves that are valid at the time of estimation may change significantly Rio Tinto cannot guarantee that management of mining and processing when new information becomes available.
Fluctuations in the price of assets not subject to its management control will comply with the commodities, exchange rates, increased production costs or reduced Groups standards and objectives, nor that effective policies, procedures recovery rates may render lower grade reserves uneconomic and may, and controls will be maintained over those assets.
A significant restatement could have a material and adverse impact on the Groups asset values, costs, cash flows and earnings.
Political and community The Group has operations in jurisdictions having varying degrees of political instability.
Political instability can result in civil unrest, expropriation, nationalisation, renegotiation or nullification of existing agreements, mining leases and permits, changes in laws, taxation policies or currency Rio Tinto 2004 Annual report and financial statements 7 RISK FACTORS AND CAUTIONARY STATEMENT Risk factors and cautionary statement continued CAUTIONARY STATEMENT ABOUT FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS This document contains certain forward looking statements with respect to the financial condition, results of operations and business of the Rio Tinto Group.
The words intend, aim, project, anticipate, estimate, plan, believes, expects, may, should, will, or similar expressions, commonly identify such forward looking statements.
Examples of forward looking statements in this Annual report include those regarding estimated reserves, anticipated production or construction commencement dates, costs, outputs and productive lives of assets or similar factors.
Forward looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties, assumptions and other factors set forth in this document that are beyond the Groups control.
For example, future reserves will be based in part on market prices that may vary significantly from current levels.
These may materially affect the timing and feasibility of particular developments.
Other factors include the ability to produce and transport products profitably, the effect of foreign currency exchange rates on market prices and operating costs, and activities by governmental authorities, such as changes in taxation or regulation, and political uncertainty.
In light of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, actual results could be materially different from any future results expressed or implied by these forward looking statements which speak only as at the date of this report.
Except as required by applicable regulations or by law, the Group does not undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward looking statements, whether as a result of new information or future events.
The Group cannot guarantee that its forward looking statements will not differ materially from actual results.
8 Rio Tinto 2004 Annual report and financial statements RISK FACTORS AND CAUTIONARY STATEMENT
