In addition to the Takeovers Act, there are statutory limitations in on the DLC Dividend Share, on the Equalisation Share if on issue or by Australia on foreign ownership of certain businesses, such as banks and way of a contractual payment.
airlines, not relevant to Rio Tinto Limited.
There are no other statutory or If the payment of an equalised dividend would contravene the law regulatory provisions of Australian law or ASX requirements that restrict applicable to one of the Companies, then they may depart from the foreign ownership or control of Rio Tinto Limited.
However, should such a departure occur then the relevant Company will put aside reserves to be held for payment on the DUAL LISTED COMPANIES STRUCTURE relevant shares at a later date.
On 20 December 1995, Rio Tinto shareholders approved the terms of Rio Tinto shareholders have no direct rights to enforce the dividend the dual listed companies merger the DLC merger which was designed equalisation provisions of the Sharing Agreement.
to place the shareholders of both Companies in substantially the same The DLC Dividend Share can also be utilised to provide the Group position as if they held shares in a single enterprise owning all of the with flexibility for internal funds management by allowing dividends to be assets of both Companies.
As a condition of its approval of the DLC paid between the two parts of the Group.
Such dividend payments are merger, the Australian Government required Rio Tinto plc to reduce its of no economic significance to the shareholders of either Company, as shareholding in Rio Tinto Limited to 39 per cent by the end of 2005.
The they will have no effect on the Group's overall resources.
current holding is approximately 37.6 per cent.
Following the approval of the DLC merger, both Companies Voting rights entered into a DLC Merger Sharing Agreement the Sharing Agreement In principle, the Sharing Agreement provides for the public shareholders through which each Company agreed: of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited to vote as a joint electorate on all a to ensure that the businesses of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited matters which affect shareholders of both Companies in similar ways.
are managed on a unified basis, These are referred to as Joint Decisions.
Such Joint Decisions include b to ensure that the boards of directors of each Company is the the creation of new classes of share capital, the appointment or removal same, and of directors and auditors and the receiving of annual financial c to give effect to certain arrangements designed to provide statements.
Joint Decisions are voted on a poll.
shareholders of each Company with a common economic interest The Sharing Agreement also provides for the protection of the public in the combined enterprise.
shareholders of each Company by treating the shares issued by each In order to achieve this third objective, the Sharing Agreement provided Company as if they were separate classes of shares issued by a single for the ratio of dividend, voting and capital distribution rights attached to company.
So decisions that do not affect the shareholders of both each Rio Tinto plc share and to each Rio Tinto Limited share to be fixed Companies equally require the separate approval of the shareholders of in an Equalisation Ratio which has remained unchanged at 1:1.
Matters requiring this approval procedure are referred Sharing Agreement has provided for this ratio to be revised in special to as Class Rights Actions and are voted on a poll.
circumstances where, for example, certain modifications are made to Thus, the interests of the shareholders of each Company are the share capital of one Company, such as rights issues, bonus issues, protected against decisions which affect them and the shareholders in share splits and share consolidations, but not to the share capital of the the other company differently, by requiring their separate approval.
Outside these specified circumstances, the Equalisation Ratio can example, fundamental elements of the DLC merger cannot be changed only be altered with the approval of shareholders under the Class Rights unless approved by shareholders under the Class Rights Action Action approval procedure described under Voting rights.
any adjustments are required to be confirmed by the auditors.
Exceptions to these principles can arise in situations such as where One consequence of the DLC merger is that Rio Tinto is subject to legislation requires the separate approval of a decision by the appropriate a wide range of laws, rules and regulatory review across multiple majority of shareholders in one Company and where approval of the jurisdictions.
Where these rules differ, in many instances it means that matter by shareholders of the other Company is not required.
Rio Tinto, as a Group, complies with the strictest applicable level.
Where a matter has been expressly categorised as either a Joint Consistent with the creation of a single combined enterprise under Decision or a Class Rights Action, the directors do not have the power the DLC merger, directors of each Company are to act in the best to change that categorisation.
If a matter falls within both categories, it is interests of the shareholders of both Companies ie, in the best interests treated as a Class Rights Action.
In addition, the directors can of Rio Tinto as a whole.
Identified areas where there may be a conflict of determine that matters not expressly listed in either category should be the interests of the shareholders of each Company must be approved put to shareholders for their approval under either procedure.
under the Class Rights Action approval procedure.
To facilitate the joint voting arrangements each Company has To ensure that directors of each Company are the same, resolutions entered into shareholder voting agreements.
Each Company has issued to appoint or remove directors must be put to shareholders of both a Special Voting Share to a special purpose company held in trust by a Companies as a joint electorate as a Joint Decision as described under common Trustee.
Voting rights, and it is a requirement that a person can only be a director Rio Tinto plc has issued its Special Voting Share RTP Special of one Company if the person is also a director of the other Company.
Voting Share to RTL Shareholder SVC and Rio Tinto Limited has issued So, for example, if a person was removed as a director of one Company, its Special Voting Share RTL Special Voting Share to RTP Shareholder he or she would also cease to be a director of the other.
The total number of votes cast on Joint Decisions by the public shareholders of one Company are voted at the parallel meeting of the Dividend rights other Company.
The role of these special purpose companies in The Sharing Agreement provides for dividends paid on Rio Tinto plc and achieving this is described below.
Rio Tinto Limited shares to be equalised on a net cash basis, that is In exceptional circumstances, certain public shareholders of the without taking into account any associated tax credits.
Dividends are Companies can be excluded from voting at the respective Companys determined in US dollars and are then, except for ADR holders, general meetings because they have acquired shares in one Company translated and paid in sterling and Australian dollars.
The Companies are in excess of a given threshold without making an offer for all the shares also required to announce and pay their dividends and other in the other Company.
If this should occur, the votes cast by these distributions as close in time to each other as possible.
excluded shareholders will be disregarded.
In the unlikely event that one Company did not have sufficient Following the Companies general meetings the overall results of distributable reserves to pay the equalised dividend or the equalised the voting on Joint Decisions and the results of voting on separate capital distribution, it would be entitled to receive a top up payment from decisions will be announced to the stock exchanges, published on the the other Company.
The top up payment could be made as a dividend Rio Tinto website and advertised in the Financial Times and Australian Rio Tinto 2004 Annual report and financial statements 81 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
