About Rio Tinto INTRODUCTION Iron Ore Rio Tinto Limited and Rio Tinto plc operate as one business Energy organisation, referred to in this report as Rio Tinto, the Rio Tinto Group Industrial Minerals or, more simply, the Group.
These collective expressions are used for Aluminium convenience only since both Companies, and the individual companies Copper in which they directly or indirectly own investments, are separate and Diamonds distinct legal entities.
Exploration, and Limited, plc, Pty, Inc, Limitada, or SA has generally been Technology.
omitted from Group company names, except to distinguish between The chief executive of each group reports to the chief executive of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited.
Financial data in United States dollars US$ is derived from, and should be read in conjunction with, the Rio Tinto Groups consolidated 2004 financial summary financial statements which are in US$.
In general, financial data in On 31 December 2004, Rio Tinto plc had a market capitalisation of pounds sterling and Australian dollars A$ have been translated from 16.4 billion US$31.6 billion and Rio Tinto Limited had a market the consolidated financial statements at the rates shown on page 149 capitalisation of A$19.5 billion US$15.2 billion.
The combined Groups and have been provided solely for convenience: exceptions arise where market capitalisation in publicly held shares at the end of 2004 was data, such as directors remuneration, can be extracted directly from US$41.1 billion.
Certain key information has been provided in all three At 31 December 2004, Rio Tinto had consolidated operating currencies on page 142. assets of US$16.6 billion: 61 per cent were located in Australia and Rio Tinto Group turnover, profit before tax and net earnings and New Zealand and 27 per cent in North America.
Group turnover, or operating assets for 2003 and 2004 attributable to the Groups products sales revenue, in 2004 was US$14.1 billion or US$11.3 billion excluding and geographical areas are shown in notes 26 and 27 to the Financial Rio Tintos share of joint ventures and associates turnover.
Net statements on pages 111 to 115.
In the Operational review, operating earnings in 2004 were US$2,813 million.
assets and turnover are consistent with the financial information by business unit on pages 138 and 139.
History The tables on pages 13 to 24 show production for 2002, 2003 and The Rio Tinto Company was formed by investors in 1873 to mine 2004 and include estimates of proven and probable reserves and ancient copper workings at Rio Tinto in southern Spain.
The weights and measures used are mainly metric Consolidated Zinc Corporation was incorporated in 1905, initially to treat units: conversions into other units are shown on page 149.
Words and zinc bearing mine waste at Broken Hill, New South Wales, Australia.
phrases, often technical, have been used which have particular The RTZ Corporation formerly The Rio Tinto-Zinc Corporation was meanings: definitions of these terms are on pages 146 to 148. formed in 1962 by the merger of The Rio Tinto Company and The Consolidated Zinc Corporation.
CRA Limited formerly Conzinc Riotinto AN OVERVIEW OF RIO TINTO of Australia Limited was formed at the same time by a merger of the Rio Tinto is a leading international mining group, combining Rio Tinto plc Australian interests of The Consolidated Zinc Corporation and The and Rio Tinto Limited in a dual listed companies DLC structure as a Rio Tinto Company.
Between 1962 and 1995, RTZ and CRA discovered single economic entity.
Nevertheless, both Companies remain legal important mineral deposits, developed major mining projects and also entities with separate share listings and registers.
Rio Tinto plc is grew through acquisition.
incorporated in England and Wales and Rio Tinto Limited is RTZ and CRA were unified in December 1995 through a DLC incorporated in Australia.
Directed by a common board of directors, this is designed to Rio Tintos international headquarters are in London whilst the place the shareholders of both companies in substantially the same Australian representative office in Melbourne provides support for the position as if they held shares in a single enterprise owning all of the operations, undertakes external and investor relations and fulfils assets of both Companies.
For legal purposes, Rio Tintos US agent is In June 1997, The RTZ Corporation became Rio Tinto plc and Shannon Crompton, Secretary of Rio Tintos US holding companies, CRA Limited became Rio Tinto Limited, together known as the Rio Tinto 8309 West 3595 South, Magna, Utah 84044.
Investor relations in the Group.
Since the 1995 merger, the Group has continued to invest in US are provided by Makinson Cowell US Limited, One Penn Plaza, developments and acquisitions in keeping with its strategy.
Rio Tintos address and telephone details are shown on the inside RECENT DEVELOPMENTS back cover of this report.
Share buybacks and issues 2004 In April 2004, Rio Tinto plc shareholders renewed approvals for the Objective, strategy and management structure buyback of up to ten per cent of its own shares and Rio Tinto Limited Rio Tintos fundamental objective is to maximise the overall long term shareholders renewed approvals to buy back up to 100 per cent of return to its shareholders by operating responsibly and sustainably in Rio Tinto Limited shares held by Tinto Holdings Australia Pty Limited areas of proven expertise where the Group has competitive advantage.
a wholly owned subsidiary of Rio Tinto plc plus, on market, up to ten Its strategy is to maximise the net present value per share by investing in per cent of the publicly held capital in any 12 month period.
large, long life, cost competitive mines.
Investments are driven by the The Group announced on 3 February 2005, its intention to return quality of opportunity, not choice of commodity.
US$1.5 billion of capital to shareholders, therefore, Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tintos mining interests are diverse both in geography and Rio Tinto Limited will seek renewal of their existing shareholder product.
The Group consists of wholly and partly owned subsidiaries, approvals at their respective annual general meetings in 2005.
Both joint ventures, associated companies and joint arrangements, the Companies will also seek shareholder approval for Rio Tinto Limited to principal ones being listed in notes 31 to 34 of the Financial statements make off market purchases of its shares within 12 months of the annual on pages 123 to 125. general meeting, within the overall limit of ten per cent of publicly held Rio Tintos management structure is designed to facilitate a clear capital described above.
This would be through a tender process at a focus on business performance and the Groups objective.
The discount to the market price.
The shareholders approval being sought management structure, which is reflected in this report, is based on will also allow Rio Tinto Limited to buy back its shares from Tinto principal product and global support groups: Holdings Australia, after such an off market tender at the same price, to maintain the proportional holding of Tinto Holdings Australia following Rio Tinto 2004 Annual report and financial statements 9 ABOUT RIO TINTO About Rio Tinto continued the off market buyback.
The number of shares, if any, which may The sale of the Groups 51 per cent interest in Rio Paracatu eventually be bought back under these authorities will be determined by Minerao, the owner of the Morro do Ouro mine in Brazil, was the directors, based on what they consider to be in the best interests of completed on 31 December 2004 for US$250 million, subject to an all shareholders.
In the year to 31 December 2004, neither Rio Tinto plc nor The sale to Nippon Steel of an eight per cent interest in the Hail Rio Tinto Limited purchased any publicly held shares for cancellation in Creek Joint Venture, and the increase in the combined share of the either Company.
However, a further 1,346,874 Rio Tinto plc and original participants, Marubeni Coal and Sumisho Coal Development, by 280,332 Rio Tinto Limited shares were issued in respect of the two per cent was completed in the fourth quarter.
Rio Tinto will receive Companies employee share plans.
During the year, options for a further about US$150 million for the sale of these interests in the Hail Creek 1,541,367 Rio Tinto plc and 1,339,834 Rio Tinto Limited shares were Joint Venture together with the sale of a 47 per cent interest in the granted under Rio Tintos share plans.
Beasley River iron ore deposit to its joint venture partners in Robe River, which includes Nippon Steel.
Share buybacks and issues 2002-2003 Kennecott Energy successfully bid for an additional 177 million In 2002, 887,000 Rio Tinto plc and 360,000 Rio Tinto Limited shares tonnes of in-situ coal reserves at West Antelope at a cost of were issued under the Companies employee share plans and options US$146 million.
were granted over 2.6 million Rio Tinto plc shares and 2.2 million Rio Tinto Limited shares.
Operations acquired and divested 2002-2003 In 2003, 1,193,000 Rio Tinto plc and 240,000 Rio Tinto Limited In January 2002, Kennecott Energy KEC purchased the North Jacobs shares were issued in respect of the Companies employee share plans.
Ranch coal reserves for US$380 million, payable in instalments over a During 2003, options were granted over 2.7 million Rio Tinto plc and five year period.
The reserves are adjacent to KECs existing Jacobs 1.6 million Rio Tinto Limited shares in respect of the Companies Ranch operation and provide a basis for low cost expansion in line with employee share plans.
In the years 2002 and 2003, neither Rio Tinto plc nor Rio Tinto Following the purchase of outstanding units in the Western Limited purchased any publicly held shares for cancellation in either Australian Diamond Trust, Rio Tintos interest in Argyle Diamonds Company.
increased from 99.8 per cent to 100 per cent.
In August 2002, Comalco completed the acquisition of an Operations acquired and divested 2004 additional 9.5 per cent interest in reduction lines 1 and 2 of the Boyne In January 2004, Rio Tinto completed the sale of its 100 per cent Island Smelter for US$80 million.
This increased Comalcos share in lines interest in the nickel mining company Minerao Serra da Fortaleza Ltda 1 and 2 of the smelter to 59.5 per cent from 50 per cent.
Comalcos to Votorantim Metais, a Brazilian controlled mining company.
Including interest in line 3 remains unchanged at 59.25 per cent.
an adjustment for future nickel prices, the total cash consideration was During the first half of 2002, Coal & Allied Industries completed the approximately US$80 million.
sale of its interest in the Moura Joint Venture for US$166 million and in A 20 per cent interest in the Sepon project in Laos, comprising a Narama and Ravensworth for US$64 million.
These were classified as gold operation and the Khanong copper project, was sold to Oxiana assets held for resale and consequently their disposal had no effect on net Limited for a cash consideration of US$85 million.
In September, Rio Tinto acquired for cash in the market a further In March, Rio Tinto completed the sale of its shareholding in three per cent in Coal & Allied to bring its shareholding to 75.7 per cent.
Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc FCX.
Rio Tinto received net As a result of a refinancing in December 2002, in which the proceeds of US$882 million for its 23,931,100 FCX shares.
Rio Tinto Labrador Iron Ore Royalty Income Fund LIORF chose not to retains its 40 per cent joint venture interest in reserves discovered after participate, Rio Tintos interest in Iron Ore Company of Canada 1994 at the Grasberg mine which is managed by FCX.
The sale of FCX increased from 56.1 to 58.7 per cent.
shares does not affect the terms of the joint venture nor the The sale of Rio Tintos 25 per cent interest in Minera Alumbrera management of the Grasberg mine.
Limited in Argentina, acquired as part of North, together with its wholly In June, Rio Tinto completed the sale of its 100 per cent interest in owned Peak gold mine in New South Wales, Australia, was completed Zinkgruvan Mining AB to South Atlantic Ventures.
The cash consideration was US$210 million.
acquired in 2000 as part of North.
Rio Tinto received US$101 million in Rio Tinto Zimbabwe sold the Patchway gold mine in 2003. cash plus US$5 million for working capital, and can earn a further The Framework Agreement signed with the Government of US$5 million over the next two years in price participation payments Indonesia in 2002 for divestment of 51 per cent of Kaltim Prima Coal based on zinc, lead and silver prices.
Also in June, Rio Tintos interest in KPC to Indonesian interests lapsed in 2003 when no assignment of the Bok bauxite deposit in west Africa was divested for US$12 million.
KPCs offer was made or accepted within the required timeframe.
Rio Tinto and Empresa fide Desenvolvimento Mineiro completed the On 21 July 2003 Rio Tinto and BP announced that they had sale of their interests in the Neves Corvo copper mine in Portugal to agreed to sell their interests in KPC for a cash price of US$500 million, EuroZinc for a cash consideration and a participation in the average including assumed debt, to PT Bumi Resources, a public company copper price in excess of certain thresholds.
Rio Tintos share of the listed on the Jakarta and Surabaya Stock Exchanges.
The sale was consideration for its 49 per cent share of the mine was US$70 million.
completed on 10 October and each company received 50 per cent of The remaining price participation rights relating to copper production the net proceeds.
from Neves Corvo, which was sold in the first half of the year, were themselves sold for US$22 million.
Development projects 2004 The directors of Rio Tinto Zimbabwe RioZim agreed to a Rio Tinto invested over US$2.2 billion in 2004 on development projects restructuring of Rio Tintos 56 per cent shareholding in RioZim.
Murowa diamond project in Zimbabwe had been a 50:50 joint venture In December 2003, Hamersley Iron announced the US$920 million between Rio Tinto and RioZim.
As a result of the restructuring, Rio Tinto expansion of its port and mine capacity, with further expenditure on the owns a direct 78 per cent interest in Murowa and RioZim became an rail network and power infrastructure being evaluated.
The partners in independent Zimbabwean controlled, listed company owning the the Robe River Joint Venture approved US$214 million Rio Tinto share remaining 22 per cent of Murowa.
Rio Tinto ceased to be an ordinary US$113 million to dual track a significant part of the Hamersley Iron rail shareholder in RioZim but retains a reduced cash participation in line.
Hamersley Iron will spend a further US$46 million to upgrade power RioZims assets other than the Murowa diamond project for a period of infrastructure in the Pilbara.
The port and mine expansions are on track ten years.
The transaction had no material effect on Rio Tinto.
for completion by the end of 2005.
10 Rio Tinto 2004 Annual report and financial statements ABOUT RIO TINTO In January 2004, Rio Tinto approved the expansion of QIT-Fer et cent owned Escondida copper mine in Chile was started in June 2003 to Titane Incs upgraded slag UGS plant in Quebec, Canada.
Total provide mill feed to keep Escondidas capacity above 1.2 million tonnes of investment will be US$76 million and capacity will be increased from copper per year to the end of 2008.
First production is expected by the 250,000 tonnes per year to 325,000 tonnes per year in 2005. end of 2005.
Commissioning of the new US$1,045 million, 110,000 tonnes The owners of the Escondida copper mine in Chile approved of ore per day Laguna Seca concentrator was completed in the second expenditure of US$870 million Rio Tinto share US$270 million on a quarter of 2003. sulphide leach project to produce 180,000 tonnes Rio Tinto share In 2003, Rio Tinto Coal Australia completed development of the 54,000 tonnes of copper cathode per annum for more than 25 years US$255 million Hail Creek coking coal project in Queensland, Australia starting in the second half of 2006. with an initial capacity of 5.5 million tonnes annually.
Construction of the US$100 million second block cave at the underground Northparkes copper and gold mine in New South Wales, BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT AND MARKETS Australia was completed and production commenced in 2004.
Competitive environment Development of the 54 per cent owned Eastern Range iron ore Rio Tinto is a major producer in all the metals and minerals markets in mine in Australia with a capacity of ten million tonnes per year was which it operates.
It is generally among the top five global producers by completed.
First shipments started in the first half of 2004. volume.
It has market shares for different commodities ranging from five Expansion of the Weipa bauxite mine in Queensland, Australia, was per cent to 40 per cent.
The competitive arena is spread across the completed, resulting in an increase in production capacity to 16.5 million globe, including eastern Europe, Russia and China.
This supports the requirements of the new Comalco Most of Rio Tintos competitors are private sector companies which Alumina Refinery.
A key component of the US$150 million expenditure is are publicly quoted.
Several are, like Rio Tinto, diversified in terms of a 9.5 million tonne beneficiation plant for ore from the Andoom deposit.
commodity exposure, but others are focused on particular commodity In 2005, a new US$42 million power station will be constructed to segments.
Metal and mineral markets are highly competitive with few service the Weipa mining operations and surrounding communities.
They can be subject to price declines in real terms Construction of the first stage of Comalcos new alumina refinery at reflecting large productivity gains, increasing technical sophistication, Gladstone, Queensland commenced in January 2002 and was better management, and advances in information technology.
completed in late 2004, three months early and in line with its budget of High quality, long life mineral resources, the basis of good financial US$750 million.
Initial shipments from the 1.4 million tonnes per year returns, are relatively scarce.
Rio Tintos ownership of or interest in some plant started in early 2005.
There is potential for the refinery capacity to of the worlds largest deposits enables it to contribute to long term increase to over four million tonnes per year in two additional stages market growth.
World production volumes are likely to grow at least in when market conditions allow.
line with global economic activity.
The emergence of China and Construction began in January 2003 on an expanded US$200 eventually India as economic forces requiring metals and minerals for million HIsmelt plant at Kwinana in Western Australia.
Cold development could mean even higher market growth.
First hot metal is expected to be produced in the second quarter of 2005 with the full production rate Economic overview of 800,000 tonnes per year expected in the fourth quarter of 2006.
World economic activity in 2004 grew at the fastest rate since the 1970s, Approval was given in 2004 for expansion of the Hail Creek coal rising to over five per cent from three per cent the year before on a mine in Australia to eight million tonnes per year at a cost of purchasing power parity basis.
Trade growth accelerated even faster, to US$157 million.
At the Diavik diamond mine in Canada construction more than eight per cent in real terms, nearly double the rate seen in 2003. begins in 2005 of a second dike at a cost of US$190 million to enable The increase in economic activity was widely based, led by the US mining of a third orebody.
Also approved was an optimisation study and China which grew by 4.3 per cent and nine per cent respectively.
costing US$75 million including construction of an exploration decline to Japan benefited from strong exports, which stimulated growth of four investigate underground mining.
Growth elsewhere in Asia was also stimulated by exports.
Kennecott Lands Project Daybreak in Utah, US, a mixed use land Latin America grew by five per cent, driven by the boom in demand for development on a 1,800 hectare site, started in 2003, with the first land metals, oil and some agricultural products.
European activity lagged, but sales in 2004 that will ramp up over a period of five to six years.
higher exports enabled growth to rise to over two per cent.
Further detail on these investments and projects is provided in the Inflation remained low by historical standards in spite of the large rise Operational review on pages 38 to 57. in prices of oil and other commodities.
This reflected fierce competition in Development projects have been funded using internally generated the manufacturing sector and generally weak labour markets.
funds and proceeds of asset disposals.
The US benefited from very low real interest rates and a loose fiscal policy in the run up to the presidential election.
The twin deficits of Development projects 2002-2003 government finance and trade increased rapidly.
The fact that US growth Work on the Robe River Joint Ventures US$450 million West Angelas was based on borrowing was underscored by the decline in the value of iron ore mine and port facilities in Western Australia was completed in the US dollar, which fell eight per cent in trade weighted terms, following mid-2002 and the first shipments were made.
Some currencies are pegged to the US dollar, Freeport Indonesias Deep Ore Zone DOZ underground block cave notably the Chinese renimbi, and the fall against freely traded currencies project was declared fully operational from 1 October 2002.
This such as the euro and the Australian dollar was considerably greater.
achieved design capacity of 25,000 tonnes of ore per day in 2002, a The other pillar of global growth was China, with GDP rising by nine year earlier than originally projected.
In the first quarter of 2003, Freeport per cent.
This was driven by investment in fixed assets, which rose by Indonesia completed a further DOZ expansion to 35,000 tonnes per day more than 25 per cent for the second successive year, and industrial at a cost of US$34 million.
output, which grew more than 16 per cent, also for the second year The Diavik diamond project in the Northwest Territories, Canada running.
was completed in January 2003 three months early and within budget.
Growth was strongest in the first half and then slowed.
This was Initial production commenced from the contact zone above the orebody most notable in Europe and Japan as their currencies strengthened with the main orebody accessed during the second half of 2003. against the US dollar.
The picture in China was less clear.
Growth there Production ramp up at Palaboras US$465 million underground seems to have slowed from the earlier breakneck pace as the copper mine in South Africa started in 2003 but was constrained by an government signalled before the middle of the year that it wanted to inability to clear drawpoints blocked by poorly fragmented, large rocks.
reduce growth in investment in fixed assets and introduced curbs.
Trade Development of the Escondida Norte satellite deposit at the 30 per with China in many commodities eased considerably in the second half, Rio Tinto 2004 Annual report and financial statements 11 ABOUT RIO TINTO About Rio Tinto continued but other factors including port congestion also contributed.
Consequently, Rio Tinto has numerous marketing channels, which Commodity markets had already started to improve in 2003, but now include electronic marketplaces, with differing characteristics and the acceleration in economic activity and trade in 2004 tipped many of pricing mechanisms.
them into a zone of extreme tightness.
Prices soared, aided by a In general, Rio Tintos businesses contract their metal and mineral declining US dollar.
Fund activity fluctuated through the year, but production direct to end users under long term supply contracts and at provided strong support for prices overall.
Demand for many products prevailing market prices.
Typically, these contracts specify annual grew considerably faster than the world economy.
Chinese growth volume commitments and an agreed mechanism for determining prices, continued to be very commodity intensive, and there was some for example, businesses producing non ferrous metals and minerals rebuilding of stocks in the supply chain.
Global steel production grew reference their sales prices to the London Metal Exchange LME or nine per cent, the fastest since 1973. other metal exchanges such as the Commodity Exchange Inc Comex Copper benefited more than most non ferrous metals from the in New York.
Fluctuations in these prices, particularly for aluminium, acceleration in growth, as it was already in deficit and refined output copper and gold, inevitably affect the Groups financial results.
was held back by a series of disruptions to mine output and by smelter Businesses producing coal and iron ore would typically reference capacity.
Demand grew by seven per cent, the deficit in refined copper their sales prices to annually negotiated industry benchmarks.
In rose sharply and exchange stocks fell below the levels seen in the mid markets where international reference market prices do not exist or are 1990s.
Fund buying intensified pricing in a very tight physical market.
not transparent, businesses negotiate product prices on an individual The average cash LME price rose to US$1.30 per pound from 80 US customer basis.
cents per pound the year before, only just short of the highest ever price Rio Tintos marketing channels include a network of regional sales in nominal terms not adjusted for inflation.
In contrast, the copper offices worldwide.
Some products in certain geographical markets are concentrates market, which had been tight for several years, was well sold via third party agents or to major trading companies.
supplied in the second half.
The seaborne iron ore trade continued to grow strongly with Chinas Governmental regulations iron ore imports nearly 40 per cent above their 2003 level.
Price increases Rio Tinto is subject to extensive governmental regulations affecting all of nearly 20 per cent early in the year underlined the tightness of the aspects of its operations and consistently seeks to apply best practice market.
The rapid growth in demand for iron ore caused a shortage of in all of its activities.
Due to Rio Tintos product and geographical shipping capacity leading to the highest freight rates ever recorded.
spread, there is unlikely to be any single governmental regulation that Prices for seaborne thermal coal rose by over 60 per cent.
Even a could have a material effect on the Groups business.
rise of this magnitude, however, did not dampen the market and spot Rio Tintos businesses in Australia, New Zealand, Papua New prices remained above the contract settlement price throughout the Guinea and Indonesia are subject to state and federal regulations of year.
World seaborne thermal coal trade is estimated to have grown by general application governing mining and processing, land tenure and about six per cent during 2004.
Coking coal prices rose by less than use, environmental requirements, workplace health and safety, trade those of thermal coal but significant increases in demand in Asia meant and export, corporations, competition, foreign investment and taxation.
that some spot cargos were trading at very high prices.
Some operations are conducted under specific agreements with the The North American aluminium market improved significantly in respective governments and associated acts of parliament.
In addition, 2004 with demand growth of around ten per cent.
Combined with Rio Tintos uranium operation in the Northern Territory, Australia is demand in China, the primary aluminium market moved into deficit for subject to specific regulation in relation to its mining and export of the first time since 2000.
The annual average price of aluminium uranium.
increased accordingly to 78 US cents per pound in 2004 from 65 US US and Canada based operations are subject to local and national cents the previous year.
However, the rise was not as strong as for regulations governing land use, environmental aspects of operations, copper because stocks were higher.
The spot price for alumina remained product and workplace health and safety and trade and export very high by historical standards throughout 2004 reflecting general administration.
market tightness and strong demand from Chinese aluminium smelters.
The South African Mineral and Petroleum Resources Development The economic recovery in developed countries, the US in Act 2002, as read with the Empowerment Charter for the South African particular, benefited the demand for industrial minerals such as borates Mining Industry, targets the transfer for fair value of 26 per cent and titanium minerals.
Demand growth for these products, however, ownership of South African mining assets to historically disadvantaged generally continued to fall short of that achieved by metal markets.
South Africans HDSAs within ten years.
Attached to the Empowerment This was partly due to a lower exposure to the present stage of Charter is a scorecard by which companies will be judged on their Chinese growth.
progress towards empowerment and the attainment of the target Gold averaged US$409 per ounce, a 16 year nominal high, almost transfer of 26 per cent ownership.
The scorecard also provides that entirely driven by the falling US dollar.
Many less widely traded metals also 15 per cent ownership should vest in HDSAs within five years of 1 May benefited from much higher prices, notably molybdenum, which averaged 2004.
The Mineral and Petroleum Royalty Act, proposed for approval in US$14 per pound for trader oxide, a 25 year nominal high, and silver, 2005, will govern state royalties and introduce new royalty payments in which averaged US$6.70 per ounce, up 40 per cent year on year.
respect of mining tenements in South Africa.
The royalty will be A discussion of the financial results for the two years to calculated on a gross sales value basis in relation to any minerals 31 December 2004 is given in the Financial review on pages 32 to 37. extracted, rather than on the basis of profits generated.
The South Comments on the financial performance of the individual product African government has confirmed that any such royalties would groups for the three years to 31 December 2004 are included in the become payable only from 2009.
Operational review on pages 38 to 57.
Details of production, reserves and resources, and information on Group mines are given on pages 13 to 24 and 26 to 31, respectively.
Analyses of Rio Tintos revenues by product group, geographical origin and geographical destination have been set out in notes 26 to 27 to the Financial statements on pages 111 to 115.
Marketing channels Each business within each product group is responsible for the marketing and sale of their respective metal and mineral production.
12 Rio Tinto 2004 Annual report and financial statements ABOUT RIO TINTO
