Shareholder information continued upon the holders death or on a transfer during the holders lifetime terrorist organisations and specific targets related to Myanmar, Federal unless the ADSs and shares form part of the business property of a Republic of Yugoslavia and Serbia, Iraq, Liberia and Zimbabwe.
permanent establishment in the UK or pertain to a fixed base situated in There are no restrictions under Rio Tinto plcs memorandum and the UK used in the performance of independent personal services.
In articles of association or under English law that limit the right of non the exceptional case where ADSs or shares are subject both to UK resident or foreign owners to hold or vote Rio Tinto plcs shares.
inheritance tax and to US Federal gift or estate tax, the UK Estate Tax Treaty generally provides for tax payments to be relieved in accordance Rio Tinto Limited with the priority rules set out in the Treaty.
Under existing Australian legislation, the Reserve Bank of Australia does not restrict the import and export of funds and no permission is required Stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax by Rio Tinto Limited for the movement of funds into or out of Australia, Transfers of Rio Tinto plc ADSs will not be subject to UK stamp duty except that restrictions apply to certain transactions relating to the provided that the transfer instrument is not executed in, and at all times following: remains outside, the UK.
a supporters of the former government of the Federal Republic of Purchases of Rio Tinto plc shares are subject either to stamp duty Yugoslavia: and at a rate of 50 pence per 100 or to stamp duty reserve tax SDRT at a b ministers and senior officials of the Government of Zimbabwe.
Conversions of Rio Tinto plc shares into Rio Tinto The Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade upholds international law plc ADSs will be subject to additional SDRT at a rate of 1.5 per cent on that prohibits anyone from making assets available to terrorists and their all transfers to the Depositary or its nominee.
Members of the general public are also required to report the Australian taxation of shareholdings in Rio Tinto Limited sending of A$10,000 or more in currency out of Australia to the Taxation of dividends Australian Transaction and Reports Analysis Centre.
Rio Tinto Limited US holders are not normally liable to Australian withholding tax on must also deduct withholding tax from foreign remittances of dividends, dividends paid by Rio Tinto Limited because such dividends are to the extent that they are unfranked, and of interest payments.
normally fully franked under the Australian dividend imputation system, There are no limitations, either under the laws of Australia or under meaning that they are paid out of income that has borne Australian the constitution of Rio Tinto Limited, on the right of non residents, other income tax.
Any unfranked dividends would suffer Australian withholding than the Foreign Acquisitions and Takeovers Act 1975 the Takeovers tax which under the Australian income tax convention is limited to 15 Act.
The Takeovers Act may affect the right of non Australian residents, per cent of the gross dividend.
including US residents, to acquire or hold Rio Tinto Limited shares but does not affect the right to vote, or any other right associated with any Capital gains Rio Tinto Limited shares held in compliance with its provisions.
US holders are not normally subject to any Australian tax on the disposal of Under the Takeovers Act, a foreign person must notify the Treasurer Rio Tinto Limited ADSs or shares unless they have been used in carrying of the Commonwealth of Australia of a proposal to acquire a on a trade or business wholly or partly through a permanent establishment substantial shareholding in an Australian corporation, which involves a in Australia, or the gain is in the nature of income sourced in Australia.
person, together with associates, holding 15 per cent or more of the issued shares or voting power of the corporation.
In addition, acquisition Gift, estate and inheritance tax or issue of shares, including an option to acquire shares, in a Australia does not impose any gift, estate or inheritance taxes in relation corporation that carries on an Australian business, such as Rio Tinto to gifts of shares or upon the death of a shareholder.
Limited, which would result in foreign persons controlling the corporation, or a change in the foreign persons controlling it, is also Stamp duty subject to prior notification to, and review and approval by, the Treasurer, An issue or transfer of Rio Tinto Limited ADSs or a transfer of Rio Tinto who may refuse approval if satisfied that the result would be contrary to Limited shares does not require the payment of Australian stamp duty.
A foreign person will control a corporation if it, together with associates, holds 15 per cent or more of US Federal income tax the issued shares or voting power, and the Treasurer is satisfied that it is Dividends in a position to determine the policy of the corporation, and a number of Dividends on the Groups ADSs and shares will generally be treated as foreign persons will control a corporation if it, together with associates, dividend income for purposes of US Federal income tax.
In the case of holds 40 per cent or more of the issued shares or voting power, and the Rio Tinto Limited, the income will be the net dividend plus, in the event Treasurer is satisfied that it is in a position to determine the policy of the of a dividend not being fully franked, the withholding tax.
Dividend income will not be eligible for the dividends received In the context of the Takeovers Act, a foreign person is: deduction allowed to US corporations.
a an individual not ordinarily resident in Australia: and Dividends paid by Qualified Foreign Corporations QFCs are b any corporation or trust in which there is a substantial foreign subject to a maximum rate of income tax of 15 per cent.
rate applies to taxable years beginning after 31 December 2002 and Unless the Treasurer in the particular circumstances deems otherwise, a ending before 1 January 2009.
Both Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited substantial foreign interest in a corporation is an interest of 15 per cent expect to be QFCs throughout this period.
To qualify for the 15 per cent or more in the ownership of voting power by a single foreign interest maximum income tax rate on dividends the stock of the QFC must be either alone or together with associates, or an interest of 40 per cent or held for more than 61 days during the 121 day period beginning on the more in aggregate in the ownership or voting power by more than one date which is 60 days before the ex-dividend date.
foreign interest and the associates of any of them.
If a single foreign interest, either alone or together with associates, EXCHANGE CONTROLS holds a beneficial interest in 15 per cent or more of the capital or income Rio Tinto plc of a trust, or if two or more foreign interests and any associates together At present, there are no UK foreign exchange controls or other hold 40 per cent or more, there will be a substantial foreign interest in restrictions on the export or import of capital or on the payment of the trust.
A beneficiary under a discretionary trust is deemed, for this dividends to non resident holders of Rio Tinto plc shares or the conduct purpose, to hold a beneficial interest in the maximum percentage that of Rio Tinto plcs operations.
The Bank of England, however, upholds could be distributed to the beneficiary.
international law and maintains financial sanctions against specified 80 Rio Tinto 2004 Annual report and financial statements SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
