16 Rotork Board of Directors Annual Report 2004 BOARD OF DIRECTORS RE Slater right Bob 53 joined Rotork in 1989 as Finance Director of the Actuation Division, and was appointed to the Board of Rotork p. l. c. as Group Finance Director in 1998.
He has previously held finance positions in mining, building controls and the engineering industry.
WH Whiteley Chief Executive above Bill 56 joined Rotork in 1974 and was President of Rotorks North American operations from 1979 until he became Managing Director of Rotork Actuation in 1988.
He has been a member of the Rotork p. l. c. Board since 1984 and was appointed Group Chief Executive in 1996.
He is a member of the Nomination Committee.
Bill is a non-executive director of Roxboro Group plc and Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc.
GE Malcolm above RH Arnold above Since joining Rotork in 1984, George 59 had been Bob 53, who became a member of the Rotork p. l. c. Engineering Director of the Actuation Division prior Board in 2001, is a graduate engineer.
Previously with to becoming a member of the Rotork p. l. c. Board in Westinghouse in the USA, he joined Rotork Controls 1997.
He is currently Operations Director of the Inc. as Engineering Manager subsequently becoming Actuation Division.
His previous appointments were Vice President, Engineering and since 1988 President in industrial controls, aerospace and shipbuilding of Rotork Controls Inc. Bob has responsibility for all companies.
Rotorks interests in the Americas.
RC Lockwood Chairman above Roger 59 has been a non-executive director of Rotork since joining the Board in 1988 and became non-executive Chairman in November 1998.
He is Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
He is Chairman of Colston Manufacturing Engineering Co Ltd and Hydro International plc and has previously held CEO roles in automotive and engineering businesses.
JW Matthews above A Walker above John 60 has been a non-executive director of Alex 58, who joined the Board as a non-executive Rotork since joining the Board in November 1998.
He director in January 2001, has been Chief Executive is Chairman of Crest Nicholson plc and Regus plc.
of Yule Catto & Co. plc since 1986.
He is a member He has previously held senior positions in banking of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination and industrial companies.
He is Chairman of the Committees.
Audit and Remuneration Committees and a member of the Nomination Committee, and is the senior independent non-executive director.
New Directors in 2005 not pictured GM Ogden IG King Graham 48, holds a Phd and 1st class honours Ian 48 joined the Board in February 2005 degree in electronic engineering from Bristol as a non-executive director.
He is currently Group University and has been with Rotork since 1985.
Managing Director, Customer Solutions and Support, Since joining Graham has been closely involved in BAe Systems plc and is a member of that companys product development including our award winning Executive Committee.
Ian has previously held senior IQ series.
He was appointed to the Actuation financial and general management positions at Division operating board in 1997 as Research and Marconi.
He is a member of the Audit, Development Director and joined the Board of Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
