Report of the Directors Rotork 17 Annual Report 2004 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS The directors submit their report and the audited Figures given below are for the total material and IG King will both offer themselves for accounts for the year ended 31 December 2004 and non-material interests of these election it being their first opportunity since as set out on pages 32 to 59. shareholders.
% The Senior Independent Director, JW Matthews Rotork p. l. c. is a holding Company.
The Aviva plc 6,336,659 7.39 has, following a formal performance evaluation principal activities of the Rotork Group are Legal & General plc 3,541,090 4.13 of the Chairman, confirmed to the Board that the design, manufacture and support of Prudential plc 3,033,373 3.53 RC Lockwood continues to be effective in actuators, systems and related products Scottish Widows Investment and committed to his role as Chairman.
Partnership Ltd. 3,030,351 3.53 A letter to similar effect has been circulated to shareholders ahead of the AGM.
Rotork Actuation provides a range of products, Research and development systems and services for the motorisation and Total Group expenditure on research and Statement of directors responsibility for manual operation of and adaption to industrial development in the year was 2,424,000 preparing the financial statements valves and dampers for isolation duty and 2003: 2,071,000 further details of which The following statement, which should process control applications.
It does this through are contained in the Operating and Financial be read in conjunction with the auditors its Electric Actuator, Gears and Fluid System Review on pages 4 to 15.
Statement of Auditors Responsibilities, operations.
Actuated valves are major control included in the audit report, is made with elements in refineries, pipelines, power stations, Charitable donations a view to distinguishing for shareholders the water distribution systems and effluent During the year the Group made charitable respective responsibilities of the directors and treatment plants and in all industries in donations of 35,000 2003: 30,000. of the auditors in relation to the financial which liquids or gases are transported statements.
There were no political donations made in the year or the prior year.
Company law requires the directors to prepare Reviews of the Groups activities and business financial statements for each financial year development including future development of Directors which give a true and fair view of the state the business and research and development The names of the directors in office throughout of affairs of the Company and the Group as are set out in the Operating and Financial the year and their biographical and other at the end of the financial year and of the Review on pages 4 to 15. details including the other significant profit or loss for that period.
commitments of the Chairman are as shown Dividends on page 16.
Post year end, on 1 January 2005, The directors consider that in preparing the The directors recommend a final dividend of GM Ogden was appointed an executive financial statements on pages 32 to 59, the 8,303,000 for the year, payable on 27 May director and on 17 February 2005, IG King Company has selected suitable accounting 2005 to shareholders on the register on was appointed a non-executive director.
The policies which have been consistently applied 6 May 2005.
This represents 9.70p per share Company has consented to GE Malcolms early and supported by reasonable and prudent 2003: 9.50p which, with the interim retirement on 8 April 2005.
The interests of judgements and estimates, and that all dividend of 5.35p per share 2003: 5.25p the directors in office at the end of the accounting standards which they consider and the additional interim dividend of 5.85p financial year in the shares of the Company to be applicable have been followed subject per share will produce a total dividend per are as shown in note 9 to the financial to any explanations and any material ordinary share of 20.90p 2003: 14.75p.
departures disclosed in the notes to the financial statements.
The directors are Shares issued or purchased WH Whiteley, GE Malcolm, RE Slater, RH Arnold required to use a going concern basis in Details of the ordinary shares issued and the and GM Ogden have service agreements and preparing the financial statements unless this preference shares purchased during 2004 are details of these are contained in the is inappropriate.
After making enquiries, the given in notes 19 and 20.
Remuneration Report on pages 24 to 30. directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate Substantial shareholdings At the Annual General Meeting AGM, in resources to continue in operational existence As at 1 February 2005 the Company had accordance with the Articles of Association, for the foreseeable future.
For this reason been formally notified that the following RH Arnold, RC Lockwood and RE Slater will they continue to adopt the going concern have material interests in 3% or more of the retire by rotation and, being eligible, will basis in preparing the financial statements.
issued ordinary share capital of the Company.
GM Ogden 18 Rotork Report of the Directors Annual Report 2004 continued The directors have responsibility for ensuring Auditors that the Company keeps accounting records Resolutions to re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc which disclose with reasonable accuracy the as auditors and to authorise the directors financial position of the Company and which to determine their remuneration are to be enable them to ensure that the financial proposed at the forthcoming Annual General statements comply with the Companies Meeting.
Annual General Meeting The directors have general responsibility for The Annual General Meeting of the Company taking such steps as are reasonably open to will be held at the Companys offices at Rotork them to safeguard the assets of the Group House, Brassmill Lane, Bath BA1 3JQ on Friday, and to prevent and detect fraud and other 22 April 2005 at 12 noon.
containing the Notice of the Meeting is sent to shareholders with this Annual Report.
Creditor payment policy While there is no formal code or standard, it On behalf of the Board is Company and Group policy to settle terms of payment with creditors when agreeing the terms of each transaction and to abide by creditors terms of payment provided that the supplier is also complying with all relevant terms and conditions.
There are no creditors subject to special arrangements outside suppliers terms and conditions.
The Company Stephen Rhys Jones does not have any trade suppliers so that a Secretary creditor day payment period is not appropriate.
