SABMiller plc 11 REVIEW OF OPERATIONS North America Domestic US industry shipment volumes 2004 2003 Financial summary US$m US$m increased by approximately 1% for the Turnover 4,778 3,408 fiscal year despite the influence of the EBITA 424 250 continuing Iraq conflict and higher fuel EBITA margin % 8.9 7.3 prices.
Millers US domestic sales to Sales volumes hls 000s retailers STRs fell by 1.5% versus Lager excluding proforma fiscal 2003, but in the second contract brewing 47,258 33,852 six months STRs grew by 2% compared contract brewing 10,593 8,172 with the prior year.
Carbonated soft drinks Total turnover declined by 0.8% on CSDs 70 55 1 2003: nine months only.
a proforma basis, impacted by declines Before exceptional items of US$14 million being restructuring costs of US$13 million, Tumwater brewery closure cost reversal in contract brewing and international of US$4 million and asset impairment of US$5 million 2003: integration costs of US$17 million and Tumwater brewery closure revenues.
US domestic turnover costs of US$35 million.
excluding contract brewing increased 2003 turnover has been restated downward by US$65 million to reflect the adoption of FRS5 Reporting the substance of by 0.3% on a proforma basis, reflecting transactions, application note G revenue recognition.
growth in beer revenues largely offset by a decline in FMBs.
Industry pricing Total Miller shipment volumes, comprising throughout the year was solid, especially domestic US and international sales, fell in the fourth quarter of the fiscal year.
by 0.8% for the full year versus proforma Miller Lite sales increases had a positive fiscal 2003, as compared to a decline impact on brand mix.
However, this was of 5.7% during the first half of the year.
partially offset by adverse geographic This improved full year performance and pack mix.
Costs of goods sold was driven by more robust sales in the increased at approximately the prevailing second half when total shipment volumes inflation rate.
EBITA for the year, before exceptional Millers US domestic shipments fell items of US$14 million, was US$424 million, by just 0.4% for the year, again reflecting an increase of 5.0% over the proforma better second half volumes, which 1 adjusted prior year of US$404 million.
Strong growth in EBITA for the second half increased by Miller Lite sales in the second half was 18% to US$175 million reflecting the the prime contributor to this improved stronger performance described above.
performance, offsetting declines in In the past year, we have driven Miller Genuine Draft, certain economy productivity across all functions of the brands and the flavoured malt beverage business realising savings in excess of FMB brands.
1 Proforma adjusted prior year turnover was US$4,815 million, consisting of US$3,408 million as shown above plus US$1,407 million under the ownership of Altria during the period April June 2002.
Proforma adjusted prior year EBITA was US$404 million, consisting of US$250 million as shown above plus US$16 million of one time costs associated with the launch of FMBs, plus US$138 million under the ownership of Altria during the period April June 2002.
12 SABMiller plc North America our original US$50 million target.
This has been achieved by improving the operation of our breweries, better procurement, more effective marketing spend and a reduced overall headcount.
The expected cost benefits from the closure of the Tumwater brewery have also been realised during the year.
The current cost base of Miller reflects these changes and although incremental improvement is possible further large oneoff savings are not expected.
The costs of pensions, healthcare and labour increased above the prevailing inflation rate offsetting some of the benefits achieved through productivity improvement.
Capital expenditure was maintained at previous years levels.
Projects included information systems upgrades, warehouse automation at the Albany and Eden breweries, fridge pack packaging capability as well as a number of qualityfocused investments.
Our more disciplined approach to brand marketing, focused on the attributes of our beers, began to deliver benefits in the second half.
Our new advertising and Top: Miller Lite packaging: Middle: Miller High Life delivery in Milwaukee, USA: Bottom: promotions around the Miller name began Miller Genuine Draft bottling line, Trenton in November 2003 and were followed by Brewery, Ohio, USA.
specific brand campaigns, first for Miller Lite beginning in December 2003 and subsequently for Miller Genuine Draft, in March 2004.
New packaging linking Miller be completed for the remaining Lite and Miller Genuine Draft has also markets in the current year, and we been launched to maximise the impact will continue to refine and improve the of the Miller name.
The effect of these process.
Furthermore, a marketing and activities has been to cause consumers sales integration project is under way to reconsider Miller products and allowed to drive further improvement.
us to engage with them about choice and Good progress had been made taste.
Revitalised campaigns will follow for towards improving the Miller organisations our economy and worthmore brands.
The organisation was During the year, we segmented the restructured in August and approximately US market into 88 market areas and 200 new people have also been have developed detailed local market recruited, primarily in marketing and plans in each of our 33 high focus sales, while maintaining the overall net markets.
These plans allow our sales reduction in salaried staffing levels.
efforts to be more appropriately directed, Performance management processes better supporting our wholesalers.
We are now entrenched across Miller, have deployed additional sales people and work continues on upgrading our and marketing funds at a local level to talent through ongoing development further enhance this process.
