26 SABMiller plc CORPORATE ACCOUNTABILITY Managing accountability In SABMiller, we are committed to achieving sustained commercial success and growing our shareholder value.
We do this not just by meeting the aspirations of our customers through quality products and services, but also by operating in a socially responsible manner and by sharing the wealth and opportunities that the business generates among our stakeholders.
As we move forward with our Our approach to social responsibility in Our aim is a business that has a longaccountability activities, in consultation alcohol has three elements: term viable future, contributing to a world with those who take an interest in our To promote responsibility in the use of that has achieved a sustainable balance progress, we are increasingly focusing on beverage alcohol, as part of a healthy between the needs of the economy, a select group of key issues where our lifestyle, while at the same time society and the natural environment.
impacts are most apparent and our endeavouring to prevent alcohol Ultimately there can be no choice responsibility to act is greatest.
Our misuse and abuse between doing the right thing for the activities in these focus areas are In our commercial communications, company and the right thing for society, summarised below.
to promote our own brands among if we are to retain our licence to operate, those who have made the decision reduce our operating risks and profit Promoting alcohol responsibility to consume alcohol beverages from commercial opportunities over the In many different cultures around the To ensure that the commitment to long term.
world, alcohol has long played an responsibility remains seamless across Group companies manage the important part in social life and the company, while at the same time practical challenges that inevitably arise community celebrations.
Alcoholic acknowledging cultural differences and by seeking to live out our corporate beverages, consumed responsibly, can differences in approach dependent values and apply our business principles make a positive contribution to the quality on the nature of the companys and policies.
SABMiller is operationally of life for those who choose to consume investment in a particular country.
very decentralised, so these core them.
As a practical matter, however, a In addition to our own activities, we also statements guide our local companies as small minority of individuals are at risk and play an active role alongside others in our they run their businesses in the light of should abstain.
In recognition of the need industry, through bodies such as the their own circumstances and the needs to promote alcohol responsibility, we have International Center for Alcohol Policies, and views of their own stakeholders.
reviewed our group-wide alcohol policy, to help inform public debate.
To provide greater detail about how and in May 2004 issued a revised policy Challenge has been made to we are living up to these commitments, setting clear standards that all group SABMillers commitment in this area we have again this year published a companies must meet or exceed.
through class action litigation recently filed separate corporate accountability report, We have also adopted a new Code of in the US alleging the illegal marketing of which is distributed alongside this Commercial Communication to ensure Miller products to underage consumers.
annual report and is also available at a consistent worldwide approach.
We believe that, if required to do so, www.
SABMiller plc 27 Supporting young entrepreneurs through the KickStart programme Boy Zakew Nzimande, owner of Nzimande Hygiene Maintenance, is just one of 22,000 young people who have benefited from skills training and business advice provided by Beer South Africas Kick-Start entrepreneurial development programme since 1995.
To date, SAB Ltd has invested over R31 million approx US$4.4 million in the project and supported the launch of 2,000 new businesses.
As winner of the 2002 National Kick-Start competition, Mr Nzimandes story demonstrates how effective the 18-month Kick-Start programme can be.
Originally from rural Mpumalanga, Mr Nzimande came to Johannesburg as a migrant worker, eventually getting a job with an industrial cleaning services company.
When this company failed in 1999, he was inspired to start his own cleaning business.
Showing true entrepreneurial spirit, he went home to Mpumalanga and sold his three cows to raise R7,000 approx US$1,000 for use as start-up capital.
Four years on, having received support from the Kick-Start programme, the business is thriving.
Nzimande Hygiene Maintenance now employs 14 people and turnover has grown by 380% since 2001 to reach R1.44 million approx US$0.2 million in 2003.
With a new R2 million approx US$0.3 million contract with Chamdor Brewery now in place and a growing Kick-Start programme member network of clients the future looks bright Boy Zakew Nzimande, Johannesburg, South Africa.
The same is true for many other young black entrepreneurs who have completed Kick-Start.
SABMiller and Miller will be successful in have achieved significant reductions in our Tackling HIV AIDS demonstrating that they have acted water usage with our worldwide average The HIV AIDS epidemic is a crisis of tragic properly and responsibly.
performance for the amount of water used proportions.
Around the world some 40 for a unit of finished beer meeting million people are living with HIV AIDS, Reducing our environmental impact international benchmarks for good according to December 2003 estimates Drinkable water is becoming a scarce practice.
We seek to continue to improve by UNAIDS.
Sub-Saharan Africa infection commodity in some areas of the world.
our management of water usage.
rates vary considerably within the region, The United Nations Food and Agriculture In addition, we also measure and showing that concerted action can make Organisation estimates that one in five report on our other significant an impact.
developing countries will face water environmental impacts including energy We have adopted a comprehensive shortages by 2030.
While not at present a efficiency, global warming emissions approach for employees to tackling business or environmental constraint in our and waste streams and on our progress HIV AIDS comprising a proactive countries of operation, water conservation in extending our environmental intervention strategy to reduce the number is of central importance in our long-term management systems to additional sites of new infections through effective early sustainability efforts.
In recent years we and operations.
action and a programme to manage 28 SABMiller plc trend to consolidate the purchasing of In the period under review, countries as supplies, the majority of our spending diverse as the Canary Islands, USA and Corporate remains in the countries where our Poland have done so and this is a trend operations are located.
In South Africa we intend to encourage.
accountability and the USA, we monitor and try to An essential part of our commitment increase the business we do with to community engagement is corporate commercial equity and minority social investment, namely cash and enterprises respectively.
sometimes in-kind contributions to a wide One measure of how all stakeholders range of projects in the communities where benefit from the wealth generated by we operate.
These address pressing local existing infections through comprehensive the business is the cash value-added needs and are chosen in consultation lifestyle management and treatment.
worth more than US$5,600 million in the with those affected.
Many of the most In parallel, we seek to work with year under review, up by more than 40% significant activities have been running for governments and non-profit agencies on on the previous period.
Governments five or more years, especially in our most outreach projects and programmes.
gain the largest share of the value we established businesses in South Africa and Where the programme is being create, approaching half 43%, due the USA.
The value of these contributions implemented, we conduct detailed to the high level of excise duties and last year amounted to US$12.9 million, knowledge, attitude and practice KAP other taxes levied on the group.
Our equivalent to approximately 1% of group surveys to provide insights into existing 39,500 employees are the next largest pre-tax profits.
This is followed by a beneficiaries, receiving nearly a quarter.
vigorous ACT campaign awareness, Providers of capital, both investors and Managing our partnerships counselling and testing.
The aim is to lenders, received 12%.
We seek to apply our business principles achieve high levels of voluntary testing We also recognise the wider economic when working with partners.
For example, among employees, as this is the key impact that a beverage company has SABMiller has extensive beverage that unlocks effective action, whether through its product distribution network to interests in both fruit juices and continued prevention or practical wholesalers, shops, bars, restaurants and carbonated soft drinks and operates as assistance for those infected.
If tested hotels, and also to many informal retailers.
a bottler for The Coca-Cola Company positive, employees can register for We estimate that around 1.6 million jobs TCCC.
In this business partnership, managed healthcare.
Fully funded by the are sustained in our forward and TCCC owns the brands, decides on the company, it is operated independently backward linkages.
products contents and promotes them to maintain confidentiality and includes through advertising in the market place.
lifestyle management and anti-retroviral Engaging with local communities Our role is to source ingredients and ARV therapies for the individual SABMiller companies aspire to be good packaging, to run the bottling lines and and dependants.
corporate citizens in the many local distribute the final products.
communities where we operate around We take into account TCCCs Creating and sharing wealth the world.
Each of those communities approach to responsible marketing, SABMiller in the year ended 31 March has its own needs and concerns, so our and share a joint commitment to the 2004, received over US$11,000 million approach is to consult and then respond conservation and preservation of scarce excluding associates in sales from its according to local priorities.
How that income is used The range of local engagement activity we play the lead role in water in the business determines our total is very wide, involving regular dialogue conservation, energy efficiency and waste economic impact.
More than half with interested parties and support for management.
Much of our production US$5,700 million was spent outside the community organisations.
Increasingly, is in re-usable glass bottles and our business with suppliers of raw materials, our companies are producing their own businesses also support a range of packaging and other goods and services, corporate accountability reports or community recycling initiatives.
thereby sustaining many thousands of expanding alternative networks to jobs in the wider economy.
Despite the communicate with local stakeholders.
Managing accountability Primary responsibility for managing these key issues and broader social, environmental and economic performance rests with the individual business We are increasingly focusing on a select group of managers.
To support them, we formalised a specialist corporate key issues where our impacts are most apparent accountability function some seven years ago.
This is integrated into the companys and our responsibility to act is the greatest.
governance structure, set out later in this report and detailed in the corporate accountability report CAR.
The process starts at board-level, where the corporate accountability and risk assurance committee CARAC chaired SABMiller plc 29 Left: As a partner with Coca-Cola, we follow their approach and commitment to responsible marketing, conservation and preservation of scarce natural resources.
Right: An HIV AIDS counsellor talking to an individual.
Part of our approach to HIV AIDS is to provide counselling and lifestyle advice, as well as ARV therapies for the individuals and their dependants.
by the senior non-executive director, Sustainability Index is based on the and ethical matters on the companys Lord Fellowes assists the board in the premise that  short and long-term value.
SABMillers discharge of its duties relating to corporate companies create long-term shareholder cash value added statement refer to accountability in the light of identified risks value by harnessing the potential for pages 29 and 31 in the CAR has found and opportunities.
The committee also sustainability products, while avoiding or an innovative way to demonstrate in provides independent and objective reducing sustainability costs and risks.
economic terms how shareholders and oversight, and reviews accountability The Johannesburg Securities other stakeholders have benefited from information presented by management.
Exchange, South Africa has included the companys activities.
The committee is supported by SABMiller in its new Socially Responsible The accompanying CAR describes the group corporate accountability Investment Index, based on an the companys policies and procedures department which reports to the director assessment of our policies, performance for managing risks to SABMillers short of corporate affairs, who is a member and reporting on environmental, economic and long-term value arising from social, of the executive committee and so and social sustainability.
SABMiller also environmental and ethical matters and provides the management link to continues to be included in the FTSE4Good the extent of its compliance with these.
A new Index series having been assessed as Verification is achieved through our corporate accountability steering group meeting globally recognised corporate internal audit procedures, the annual of senior executives from business units responsibility standards.
management letter of internal is being formed in the current year to representation from individual operations increase representation and participation ABI Guidelines: Corporate and external assurance as presented in from across the group in the work of the Accountability the CAR.
The Association of British Insurers Each SABMiller operation is regularly Guidelines recommend that certain social, assessed on how it is giving practical environmental and ethical matters be effect to the business principles we addressed in the annual report and espouse.
Every three months a range of accounts.
They are amplified in the CAR.
their economic, environmental and social The board addresses accounting for impacts are reported and presented for these matters by reviewing them and consideration by the board.
At the yearreports thereupon by assigning these end, a thorough review is conducted, issues to CARAC for development and with sign-off provided by local managing policy recommendation alongside the directors.
In addition each managing examination of business and strategic risk director and finance director provides an through the audit committees internal annual letter of internal representation control process.
certifying their operations compliance SABMiller addresses social, with SABMiller systems of control.
environmental and ethical matters in the training of its directors in terms of impacts Investor ratings of key risks such as reputation, and Our performance as a socially responsible in the development of CARAC and company and a sustainable business has the CAR.
been reviewed by several investor rating The remuneration committee is aware agencies.
Dow Jones has assessed of emerging views that the effect of social, SABMiller as being among the top 10% environmental and ethical performance of  companies in the should be included in the design and world.
Following a systematic corporate implementation of its performance-related sustainability assessment in 2003, we remuneration schemes.
were rated as the leading company in SABMillers reports include information the beverage sector.
The Dow Jones about the effect of social, environmental
