20 SABMiller plc REVIEW OF OPERATIONS Beer 2004 2003 % US$m US$m change Turnover 1,964 1,270 55 EBITA 522 338 54 EBITA margin % 26.6 26.6 Sales volumes hls 000s South Lager 25,261 24,428 3 Africa Consumers are seeing Hansa Pilsener as a brand that is on the way up.
Rethinking brand promotion to breathe new life into Hansa Pilsener A decision to rethink the way Hansa Pilsener is marketed in South Africa has re-ignited consumer interest in a brand that is positioned as refreshingly different.
A year or more ago things were very different for Hansa.
Annual sales volumes were down compared with 2001, despite a national promotion during 2002.
This lack of success prompted the Hansa brand team to do things differently.
They made the decision to move away utilised local radio advertising, flyer from conventional promotions, typically campaigns, word of mouth and pointbased around scratchcards concluding of-sale promotions to target the key 18 to that this approach was now commonplace 34-year-old consumer segment.
The Hansa throughout the market and was unlikely Night Among the Stars event itself was a to have a positive impact on volume or dramatic experience a red carpet event at brand image.
Instead, they adopted a which invited consumers not only sampled new programme philosophy based on Hansa products, but were also entertained the concept of ongoing, one-to-one by a virtual DJ, dazzled by a firework display engagement with target consumers.
and treated to a free screening of a A new campaign, rolled out as a recent movie.
road show across 19 urban centres, The Hansa road show successfully aimed to ensure that targeted Hansa raised the brands profile and helped the consumers were activated at least four team test consumer reaction and build times over a concentrated time period, up a database of potential brand and that non-users were given the ambassadors.
Follow-up events help opportunity to try the brand in sustain momentum and build word of Hansa-created environments.
mouth support for the brand.
Hansa is The Night Among the Stars road show being talked about again.
Consumers see was a dramatic break with the past, a it as different and unique a brand that through-the-line brand experience that is on the way up.
