40 SABMiller plc Executive committee 123 4 56 7 8 Executive committee excom Sue Clark 3 BSc hons, MBA Mark Sherrington 7 BSc Corporate affairs director Marketing director The excom is appointed by the chief executive.
40 Sue Clark joined SABMiller plc in 2003, when she 48 Mark Sherrington was appointed marketing It comprises the chief financial officer, divisional was appointed corporate affairs director.
Prior to this, director in 2002.
He joined SABMiller plc from the managing directors and directors of group functions.
she held a number of senior roles in UK companies, marketing consultancy The Added Value Group, Its mandate is to support the chief executive in including director of corporate affairs for Railtrack which he co-founded in 1988.
Prior to this he worked carrying out the duties delegated to him by the board.
Group, and director of corporate affairs for Scottish at Unilever for 11 years, holding a number of senior Excom, in that context, co-ordinates brand and Power plc.
marketing positions in Europe and internationally.
operational execution and delivers strategic plans and budgets for the boards consideration.
It also ensures Tony van Kralingen 4 BA hons Andrew Tonkinson 8 BA, B Juris that regular financial reports are presented to the Managing director, The South African Group company secretary board, that effective internal controls are in place Breweries Ltd 59 Andrew Tonkinson was appointed group company and functioning, and that there is an effective risk 46 Tony van Kralingen was appointed managing secretary of The South African Breweries Ltd SAB Ltd management process in operation throughout director of The South African Breweries Ltd SAB Ltd in 1992 after 16 years service at The Lion Match the group.
Mr van Kralingen joined SAB in 1982 and has Company, then a group subsidiary.
He became group subsequently held a number of senior posts within the company secretary of SABMiller plc then known as Norman Adami 1 BBusSc hons, MBA SABMiller group.
These include managing director of South African Breweries plc upon the groups UK President and chief executive officer, Plzen sky Prazdroj A. S. marketing director for SAB Ltd listing in 1999.
Miller Brewing Company and operations director Northern Regions for SAB Ltd.
Prior to joining SABMiller, Mr Tonkinson worked for 49 Norman Adami was appointed president and chief Syfrets Trust Ltd in South Africa for eight years.
executive officer of Miller Brewing Company in 2003.
Johann Nel 5 BA hons Before this appointment he spent nine years as Human resources director managing director of The South African Breweries Ltd 48 Johann Nel became director of human resources SAB Ltd, and from 2000 to 2003 held the positions for the group in 2002.
He joined SABMiller plcs South of managing director and chairman.
African subsidiary, The South African Breweries Ltd Mr Adami began his career with the group in 1979 SAB Ltd in 1997, being appointed human resources and has held a number of senior positions within SAB director in 1998.
Ltd, including regional and operations director, before Mr Nel previously owned a consulting organisation, his appointment to managing director in 1994. and worked with SAB Ltd on various major strategy, organisational development and human resources Alan Clark 2 MA, DLitt et Phil projects since 1988.
He has co-authored a book on Managing director, SABMiller Europe managing productive change in organisations and 44 Alan Clark has served as managing director of was involved in initiatives to encourage business SABMiller Europe since 2003.
He joined SABMiller involvement in the democratisation of South Africa plcs subsidiary, The South African Breweries Ltd in the 1980s and 1990s.
SAB Ltd, in 1990 as a training and development manager.
He has since held a number of senior posts Andr Parker 6 B Econ hons in the group, including marketing director of SAB Ltd, Managing director, SABMiller Africa and Asia managing director of Amalgamated Beverage 53 Andr Parker was appointed to his current Industries Ltd and chairman of Appletiser South position in 1994.
He joined the group in 1975, and has Africa Pty Ltd. held a number of senior positions in marketing and Before joining SABMiller, Dr Clark practised as a general management within its African operations.
clinical psychologist and lectured in psychology at These have included general manager, The South Vista University in South Africa.
African Breweries Central Region, and managing director, South African Breweries International Africa.
