16 SABMiller plc 2004 2003 % principally by steep declines in Zimbabwe.
US$m US$m change Lager brand growth was 2%, and Building a winning Turnover 1,555 1,209 29 across the continent there have been a EBITA 306 233 31 brand in Ghana number of successful brand rejuvenation EBITA margin % 19.7 19.2 projects, particularly Safari in Tanzania, Sales volumes hls 000s Market research, consumer testing and Laurentina in Mozambique and Nile and Lager 32,492 31,332 4 an inspired brand relaunch have helped Club in Uganda.
Lager comparable 31,915 30,917 3 turn Castle Milk Stout into a best-selling Our African business delivered Carbonated Ghanaian brand, and transformed the a strong pre-exceptional EBITA soft drinks CSDs 3,879 4,206 8 fortunes of Accra Breweries Ltd ABL.
Other beverages 10,166 9,920 2 performance reflecting volume Things were different in 1998 when Before exceptional items being US$6 million share of associates developments in key markets, improved SABMiller acquired a majority share in profit on disposal of the CSD business and brands in Morocco and US$1 million share of associates profit on disposal of a productivity and operating performance ABL.
The company was struggling, with brand in Angola 2003: US$Nil.
Castel volumes of 12,049 hls 000s 2003: 10,680 hls 000s and currency strength principally in attempts to cut costs and boost efficiency lager, 9,221 hls 000s 2003: 8,925 hls 000s carbonated soft making little impact on bottom line Botswana, Lesotho and Swaziland.
drinks, and 3,326 hls 000s 2003: 804 hls 000s other beverages are not included.
A driver for growth was In addition, the group recorded market needed urgently.
share gains in Uganda and Ghana, the On first inspection, Castle Milk Africa former including the benefits of new Stout was an unlikely candidate.
In a Our portfolio of businesses in Africa product development.
We continue to mature West African stout market, long combined with our Castel alliance benefit from last years East African dominated by Guinness stout, Castle Milk diversifies country risk across the consolidation in Tanzania and Kenya, Stout, introduced in 1999, scored low on continent and the benefits of this can be and Angola is proving to be an exciting taste and richness in market testing.
seen in the fiscal 2004 results.
Overall, market with strong growth in our CSD The ABL brand team realised that our African businesses continued the business as the economy normalises these perceived weaknesses were potentially the brands greatest strengths.
solid performance reported at the half after years of civil war.
Botswana A milder, smoother taste experience year, delivering strong results for the delivered strong earnings growth despite appealed to consumers, testing full year.
Lager volume growth was the marginal drop in volumes following particularly well against lager brands.
recorded in Uganda, Ghana, Tanzania, the introduction of VAT.
In 2001 the brand was relaunched Zambia and Swaziland, but this was Our alliance partner, Castel, enjoyed through a radio and TV campaign targeted more than offset by a modest decline an excellent year with strong organic on the mainstream wind-down segment.
in Botswana and a significant reduction growth in its key markets of Cameroon, Packaging and pricing strategy were in Zimbabwe where the depressed Ivory Coast and Gabon, augmented rethought too.
Breaking with the economy impacted sales.
A similar by a number of strategic acquisitions convention that says stout comes in pattern was evident in carbonated soft and currency strength.
We recently 330 ml bottles, a distinctive 625 ml bottle was introduced.
Consumers loved the drinks, where exceptionally strong announced our 40% participation in joint larger size, nicknaming it The Boss.
volume gains in Angola were also offset ventures in Algeria and Morocco.
An equally bold move saw the team pitch Castle Milk Stout pricing structures against mainstream lagers.
The reinvention of Castle Milk Stout has changed a beer market traditionally dominated by lager into one in which stout now accounts for 55% of total sales.
The 625 ml bottle is responsible for 75% of Castle Milk Stout sales while the brand holds a price premium over mainstream lagers and has achieved 1,648% growth since 1999.
ABLs total market share has climbed from 18% to 32% in two years, helping this once loss-making company record a healthy profit for the 2004 financial year.
REVIEW OF OPERATIONS Africa & Asia Clockwise from top: Market testing, Ghana: Castle Milk Stout bottling line: Castle Milk Stout distribution in Accra: Consumers enjoying a glass of Castle Milk Stout.
18 SABMiller plc province and in north east China.
Building a national In Tianjins crowded mainstream beer market, Snow has historically achieved brand in China a single-digit market share, and this was During 2003, China Resources Breweries, certainly the case at the end of 2002, with Ltd CRB, in which SABMiller has a 49% the brand accounting for a market share share as a joint venture partner, has of 7.5%.
transformed the fortunes of its Snow CRB brand teams took the decision brand often called Snowflake in the to develop Snow.
Market research Beijing and the Tianjin regions.
reinforced their conviction that the brand Snow had previously been successfully was a sleeping giant with the potential to marketed by CRB in Chinas Sichuan grow market share in Tianjin.
The key was Asia joint venture company, whereby CRB Our Chinese associate, China Resources will have a 70% equity interest in the Africa & Asia Breweries, Ltd CRB, performed well, company and the shareholders of recovering from the SARS epidemic at Qianjiang will have the remaining 30% the beginning of the year to record 7.5% interest.
Further, in May 2004 CRB lager volume growth for the year, of announced that it had acquired a 90% which 5% was organic.
The Chinese interest in two breweries in Anhui beer market is estimated to be the Province.
The two breweries in biggest in the world by volume, with Shucheng and Liuan produce the CRB enjoying the number two position Longjin brand.
The development of a In June 2003 we announced the national brand remains a key focus area acquisition of a 29.6% stake in Harbin in the business, with the Snow brand Brewery Group Ltd Harbin, which we achieving volumes of 7 million hectolitres have accounted for as a fixed asset during the current year.
The volume investment for the period of the growth during the year contributed to ownership.
We have recently announced an increase in EBITA.
our intention to sell this interest into an In March 2004, CRB announced offer being made for the shares of that it had entered into a conditional Harbin, at a substantial profit.
agreement with the majority shareholder In India, we announced the formation of Zhejiang Qianpi Group Company Ltd of a 50:50 joint venture with the Shaw Qianjiang, the largest brewery in Wallace group to achieve a strong Zhejiang Province, to co-operate to number two position in this populous reorganise Qianjiang and establish a countrys developing beer industry.
SABMiller plc 19 rapid investment: in new technology to It also put pressure on distributors to meet improve quality: in new packaging and increasing consumer demand.
The figures bottle and can formats, to extend choice: speak for themselves.
Management and in the distribution process to estimates that during 2003 Snows market guarantee supply.
At the same time, Snow share in Tianjin rose from 7.5% to reach was actively promoted through a range of 41% with volumes rising equally rapidly.
lifestyle marketing techniques, including Now Snow is ideally positioned for further road shows, consumer testing and other development towards becoming a national promotional events.
brand in a market that is already the Far left: Consumers at a restaurant CRBs energy, and willingness to work worlds largest by volume and still growing.
in Beijing enjoying Snow: at pace, produced impressive results.
Right: Snow bottling line, Jinzhou Brewery, China.
The operational integration of our The Chinese beer market is estimated to be the businesses has been completed ahead of expectation and we have a solid biggest in the world by volume, with CRB enjoying foundation to capture ongoing volume the number two position in the market.
growth as the beer industry develops.
Certain conditions are in the process of being completed, and until the transaction becomes unconditional the business will be accounted for as a fixed asset investment.
Left: Quality control at Jinzhou Brewery, China: Right: Consumer enjoying Snow, China.
