14 SABMiller plc REVIEW OF OPERATIONS Europe 2004 2003 % on-premise channel started yielding In Russia, our business, which is clearly US$m US$m change results.
The Zubr and Debowe brands focused in the premium segment, had a Turnover 2,420 1,583 53 showed particularly strong growth, with very strong year with volumes up 70% EBITA 383 275 39 Zubr now at a 4% national share and and continuing growth in segment share.
EBITA margin % 15.8 17.4 the flagship Tyskie brand exceeding Miller Genuine Draft grew by 90% and Sales volume hls 000s 5.6 million hectolitres.
Improved our Czech brand, Kozel, more than Lager 30,925 24,472 26 production standards and continuing doubled volume.
We are continuing to Lager comparable 26,309 24,472 8 good cost productivity contributed to expand our market coverage and our Other beverages 97 137 29 Before exceptional items being water plant closure costs of continued growth in EBITA.
presence in the on-premise channel, US$6 million 2003: US$Nil.
In the Czech Republic a strong and this contributed to strong growth in 2003 turnover has been restated downward by US$63 million to reflect the adoption of FRS5 Reporting the substance of domestic volume improvement of 4% in EBITA and cash flow.
A further expansion transactions, application note G revenue recognition.
a market that grew by 2% reflects the hot is being planned at the Kaluga plant.
Lager volumes grew 26% 8% on an summer as well as share gains.
Increases Our business in Hungary enjoyed 6% organic basis, influenced by the good in marketing spend helped boost growth volume growth against a market growth European summer of 2003 and a very to 6% in the higher value on-premise of 4% and we retained our market strong performance in Russia.
The channel and this, together with increased leadership in value share.
The premium division produced a third consecutive average prices of 4%, improved overall Dreher brand volume grew by 3%, and year of excellent profit growth with premargins.
Our international premium together with initiatives to improve exceptional EBITA up 39%.
In constant brand Pilsner Urquell grew some 11% margin this led to strong profit growth.
currency terms, organic EBITA growth domestically and 7% globally.
Favourable In Romania, the market expanded by was 22%.
The rate of EBITA increase procurement contracts and operating approximately 15% with our volume against prior year was lower in the efficiencies contributed to a substantial growth being in line.
However, our share second half than in the first, reflecting profit improvement, which was further of value increased and margins improved, the increased seasonality in the division enhanced by the firm Czech currency.
while the broader market growth was following the Peroni acquisition.
In May 2003, SABMiller acquired driven by lower-priced volumes in PET Improved sales mix within most markets, 60% of Birra Peroni SpA for 246 million packages.
In May 2004, SABMiller pricing ahead of local cost increases and US$299 million, including acquisition announced its agreement to acquire improved productivity resulted in organic, costs.
Industry volumes in Italy grew 81.1% of Aurora SA.
This will consolidate constant currency EBITA margin strongly during the summer and the full our position as number two in the enhancement.
However, the reported years growth rate was approximately country and will add a strong new sales margin was impacted by the lower 6%, with Peroni volumes in line with the platform in the central region.
current margins of Peroni and Dojlidy.
Both key brands, Peroni and Our volume in Slovakia grew by 6%, The Polish beer market expanded by Nastro Azzurro, performed satisfactorily, while the market was held back by a around 6%, with disproportionate growth with Peroni retaining its position as the significant increase in excise.
The in the lower priced segments.
The Miller business moved to direct distribution Piwowarskas total volumes increased by Genuine Draft brand was introduced in during the year and this change should over 8%, while organic volumes were November 2003 and is now produced improve market penetration and marginally ahead of prior year.
The Dojlidy in the Padova brewery.
The integration profitability in the medium term.
The business, which we acquired during the process within Peroni remains on plan Canary Islands enjoyed renewed growth, year, grew 10% on a proforma basis although the companys profitability for influenced by the hot summer and an against prior year.
The rate of Kompania the period was impacted by integration increase in immigration, with our beer Piwowarskas volume growth improved costs and significant marketing and volumes increasing by 6%.
We closed during the second half as distributors promotional investment behind our the Pinalito water business at an responded to an improved incentive brands, together with the first beer exceptional cost of some US$6 million.
programme, and increased focus in the excise increase for 13 years.
Consumers enjoying MGD sponsored club nights in Moscow, Russia.
mouth promotion rather than conventional Rather more low key, but equally Delivering TV spots.
impressive, has been Transmarks success In-depth market research underpinned in building support in the Russian market explosive sales the whole awareness raising and for Pilsner Urquell, the Czech Republics in a tough market promotional campaign.
It proved to the leading brand.
Traditionally imported into companys team in Russia that a key the country and given minimal market In Russia, the fifth largest beer market consumer segment socially active, support, the decision to start brewing in the world, Miller Genuine Draft MGD upwardly mobile and urban-centred people Pilsner Urquell at Kaluga, our brewery has achieved phenomenal sales growth could not be activated through traditional close to Moscow, and to launch a forceful of over 90% in the past year.
So instead, the marketing drive targeting consumers, How has Transmark, SABMillers wholly team concentrated on connecting with retailers and distributors alike, has pushed owned subsidiary in Russia, succeeded consumers through local MGD branded sales up and established the brand in in a market that boasts more than 510 events and personal contact.
Russias crowded premium lager segment.
By investing time and resources Its an approach that worked from day to really understand the market: and by one, catapulting MGD sales beyond raising brand visibility through sponsored expectations and building strong events, consumer testing and word-ofmomentum for the brand.
