SABMiller plc 13 REVIEW OF OPERATIONS than price-based competition.
Further brand portfolio enhancement utilising the Fanta and Tropical brands is also a focus for fiscal 2005.
Turnover grew by 3%, as virtually unchanged total beverage sales volumes Central were accompanied by both price increases for beer in Honduras and CSDs throughout and the favourable mix impact of beers greater contribution to sales.
This favourable impact was partly offset by strong growth in bottled water sales in the second half that, while contributing attractive gross margins, have lower price America points.
CSD prices rose by between 5% and 8% near the beginning of the fiscal year, while Honduran beer pricing 2004 2003 % alongside new premium offerings Bahia increased by some 10% in March 2004.
Financial summary US$m US$m change and Miller Genuine Draft and enhanced These increases have been accompanied Turnover 531 514 3 lower-mainstream brands Regia Extra by the positive impact of both pricing EBITA 76 56 36 and Imperial designed to compete standardisation within channels and EBITA margin % 14.2 10.8 Sales volumes hls 000s more effectively with low-priced spirits.
Lager 1,839 1,747 5 Resulting recent volume trends are Pre-exceptional EBITA more than Carbonated particularly encouraging in El Salvador, doubled in the second half and grew soft drinks CSDs 6,031 6,257 4 whilst further trade marketing and sales by 36% for the full year as a result of Other beverages 2,643 2,499 6 effectiveness initiatives are now under way operating cost reductions, improved Before exceptional reorganisation costs of US$6 million 2003: US$12 million.
operating leverage on rising beer sales, CSD volumes fell by 1% in the second favourable product mix trends, positive Progress was made throughout the year half compared to a 6% fall in the first pricing, and unit cost savings through in improving our brand portfolios, market half, reflecting an improving trend procurement synergies.
Following our focus and the operating efficiency of towards stabilisation following the regional wide-ranging business restructuring, the business.
weakness and increased competitive which resulted in a headcount reduction of Beer volumes rose by 7% in the intensity in El Salvador, both of which 1,600, we are now realising the synergies second half up from 4% in the first half, began in the latter half of 2002.
Our between countries and from combining resulting in an increase of 5% for the year.
market share has stabilised in El Salvador beer and CSD categories.
EBITA margin Our beer brand segmentation and and increased slightly in Honduras where rose in the second half compared to the portfolio management was improved as volumes grew modestly in the second prior year, driving the full year margin to we executed refocused advertising and half.
Strengthened brand positioning and 14.2% against last years 10.8%.
new product and sales initiatives.
Our marketing execution for Coke and Sprite leading brand franchises Pilsener and are well under way, supporting our sector Salva Vida have been strengthened, leadership in focusing on attribute rather studies, consumer focus groups and was relaunched in distinctive 750 ml and Revitalising local quantitative research to good use 355 ml formats.
effectively repositioning three brands, Market research revealed a gap in brands in Central and introducing a new one, in under the portfolio.
consumers wanted a more contemporary America Pilsener, a national institution after 98 brand to match their lifestyle.
Bahia, years on the market, was refreshed first.
packaged in stylish clear bottles and Marketing expertise developed on four A marketing campaign linked the brand to launched through a series of vibrant continents has helped SABMiller revitalise national pride via the engaging Salvadoran beach parties, connected powerfully its brand portfolios in El Salvador and character: a respectful redesign updated with this need.
In El Salvador the market was the famous Ace of Hearts motif.
A similar In El Salvador, the revitalisation nascent, choice was virtually non-existent, repositioning exercise followed for Golden process has resulted in annual market and while local brands were held in great Light, and then Regia Extra, a brand in growth of 6%.
A similar exercise in affection, none were equipped to compete decline.
Regia Extra packaging was Honduras has seen the market grow with international brands.
renewed with a revised surface design, by 3% during 2003.
The local team put knowledge the flavour was enhanced and the brand gained through detailed segmentation Leading Central American brands: Pilsener, Regia Extra and Bahia.
