16 Directors Report The directors present their report and the Directors and their interests Annual General Meeting In accordance with the Companys Articles of audited financial statements for the year A list of directors, their interests in the Notice of the seventeenth Annual General Association Mr L C N Bury, Professor C J ended 30 September 2004. ordinary share capital of the Company and Meeting of The Sage Group plc to be held Constable, Mr K C Howe, Mr D H Clayton, details of their options over the ordinary on Thursday 3 March 2005 is set out on Mr A J Hobson and Ms T Ingram will be Principal activities share capital of the Company are given in pages 63 and 64.
A form of proxy is retiring at the Annual General Meeting and, The Groups principal activities during the Remuneration Report on pages 25 to enclosed for members who wish to use one.
being eligible, Mr Bury, Mr Clayton, Mr the year continued to be the development, 31.
No director had a material interest in It should be returned so as to be with the Hobson and Ms Ingram will offer themselves distribution and support of business any significant contract, other than a service Companys registrars no later than 10.00am for re-election.
Having joined the Board in management software and related contract or contract for services, with the on Tuesday 1 March 2005.
Shareholders 1991 and 1996 respectively, Mr Howe and products and services for medium-sized Company or any of its subsidiaries at any with internet access may register their voting Professor Constable have decided not to seek and smaller businesses.
instructions online for the forthcoming re-election at the Annual General Meeting in Review of business Annual General Meeting.
They may register 2005 and will retire from the Board at the end Creditor payment policy The Group achieved a profit on ordinary their vote electronically by going to of that meeting.
The Board wishes to place on Given the international nature of its activities before taxation of 181,144,000 on www.
They will be required record its thanks for their assistance and operations, the Group does not operate a a turnover of 687,585,000.
A review of to key in the three security numbers printed commitment over the many years that they standard code in respect of payments to operations of the Group during the year and on the form of proxy to access the voting have been members of the Board.
Subsidiary operating companies an indication of future prospects are site.
CREST members may appoint their are responsible for agreeing the terms and Resolution 3 relates to Mr L C N Bury.
contained in the Chairmans Statement and proxy or proxies electronically via Lloyds conditions under which business Mr Bury has a contract for services with the the Chief Executives Review on pages 2 to 7.
transactions with their suppliers are Company for a fixed period of two years Results and dividends conducted, including the terms of payment.
The Resolutions to be put at the Annual ending on 30 September 2005 terminable The trading results for the year, dividends paid It is the Groups policy that payments to General Meeting are in the notice of Annual by either the Company or Mr Bury within and proposed, and the amount transferred to suppliers are made promptly in accordance General Meeting set out on pages 63 and 64. that two year period by six months or one reserves are set out on page 32. with these terms.
Creditor days for the months notice respectively.
Resolution 1 is to receive and consider the Group have been calculated at 40 days The Board proposes a final dividend of audited accounts for the year ended 30 Mr Bury joined the Board in January 1996.
1.719p per share 2003: 1.095p per share September 2004 together with the reports At the Annual General Meeting he will, taking the proposed full year dividend to Substantial shareholdings of the directors and auditors.
The directors therefore, have served on the Board for 2.330p per share 2003: 1.650p per share.
At 22 December 2004, the Company had are required to present to the meeting the more than nine years.
The Board has been notified, in accordance with sections Research and development accounts together with these reports which considered the independence of Mr Bury 198 to 208 of the Companies Act 1985, of are contained in this Annual Report.
with particular care and, in the absence of During the year, the Group invested the following interests in the ordinary share 74,386,000 in research and development any other relevant factors and following the Resolution 2 recommends a final dividend capital of the Company: formal directors evaluation referred to 2003: 57,979,000.
This has resulted in a of 1.719 pence per ordinary share be number of new products and features as below, continues to regard him as an The Capital Group declared.
The final dividend declared cannot independent non-executive director.
Mr referred to in the Chief Executives Review Companies, Inc. 5.05% exceed the amount recommended by the on pages 4 to 7.
Bury has demonstrated his independent directors.
The proposed final dividend, Scottish Widows approach to the Board on numerous Charitable contributions which will be payable on 11 March 2005 to Investment Partnership Limited 3.23% occasions.
This is further recognised by his During the year, the Group made charitable holders of ordinary shares registered at the appointment as the senior independent contributions totalling 101,500.
Of this close of business on 11 February 2005 will Aviva plc and Morley director of the Company.
The continued role sum 100,000 was paid to the Tyne and Fund Management Limited 3.05% bring the total dividend for the year to 2.330 of Mr Bury as an independent nonWear Community Foundation and 1,500 pence.
Last year the total dividend was Legal & General Investment executive director of the Company and his was paid to St Oswalds Hospice.
Management Limited 3.00% undertaking of the role of senior political donations were made in the year.
Resolutions 3 to 6 relate to the re-appointment independent director maintains continuity of certain directors to the Board.
for the Board and its Committees at a time of a number of changes in membership.
Resolution 5 relates to the re-appointment Further biographical details of Messrs Bury, Company up to an aggregate nominal Recognising his lengthy service, his of Mr A J Hobson.
Mr Hobson has a Clayton, Hobson and Ms Ingram are set out amount of 4,272,671 representing one appointment will be subject to the approval contract for services with the Company on page 13. third of the nominal value of the Companys of shareholders at the annual general for a fixed period of three years ending on issued share capital and to allot equity The appointment of Mr Hobson, Mr Clayton meeting each year.
Mr Bury is Chairman of 23 June 2007 terminable by either the securities for cash up to an aggregate and Ms Ingram to the Board followed a Electric and General Investment Trust plc Company or Mr Hobson within that three nominal amount of 640,900 representing lengthy process in which executive search and a director of a number of private year period by six months or one months 5% of the issued ordinary share capital of consultants were used to identify and software companies.
He has wide and notice respectively.
The directors do not have contact appropriate candidates.
The detailed experience of the software industry independent non-executive director, brings any present intention of exercising these process as a whole was under the review and with no full time executive commitment, great expertise to the Board, particularly in authorities other than in connection with the of the Nominations Committee which is the has the capacity to devote the appropriate the financial area, following his 14 years as Groups employee share schemes.
Committee of the Board which considers time to his role as an independent nonGroup Finance Director of Legal and the balance of the Board and the mix of Resolution 11 set out in the Notice of executive director and as the senior General Group plc and his current nonskills, knowledge and experience of its Meeting will be proposed to enable the independent director of the Company.
He executive directorship role at HBOS plc, members and these appointments are Company to purchase its own shares in also chairs the Remuneration Committee of where he chairs the Audit Committee.
consistent with its policies on Board accordance with section 166 of the the Board, although Mr Bury intends to Although Mr Hobson has a number of nondevelopment.
Bury, Hobson and Companies Act 1985 on such terms and relinquish this role and retire from the executive directorships, he has no full time Clayton have been subject to a formal in such manner as the directors determine, Committee at the Annual General Meeting executive role and thus has the capacity to evaluation procedure in the last 12 months subject to the following: of the Company in 2006. devote substantial time to the Company.
and following that procedure the Chairman the price which may be paid for each Resolution 4 relates to the re-appointment Resolution 6 relates to the re-appointment has confirmed their continuing commitment ordinary share will not be less than the of Mr D H Clayton.
Mr Clayton has a of Ms T Ingram.
Ms Ingram has a contract and contribution to their roles.
Having only nominal value of the share and will not contract for services with the Company for for services with the Company for a fixed joined the Board on 21 December 2004, exceed 5% above the average of the mida fixed period of three years ending on period of three years ending on 21 Ms Ingram has not yet been subject to the market price of the ordinary shares of the 23 June 2007 terminable by either the December 2007 terminable by either the formal evaluation procedure.
Company as derived from the London Company or Mr Clayton within that three Company or Ms Ingram within that three Resolution 7 relates to the re-appointment Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the year period by six months or one months year period by six months or one months of the auditors.
 five business days before the purchase is notice respectively.
Prior to joining the Board notice respectively.
Ms Ingram joined the LLP have indicated their willingness to made, in each case exclusive of any as an independent non-executive director in Board on 21 December 2004.
She is continue in office.
expenses payable by the Company.
June 2004, Mr Clayton established an currently President, Marketing Businesses, Resolution 8 is to approve the the maximum aggregate number of shares understanding and knowledge of the Group WPP plc.
Ms Ingram is also chairman of Remuneration Report on pages 25 to 31. that may be purchased pursuant to this through his role as Managing Director and Visit London, previously known as the The Directors Remuneration Report authority will be limited to 128,180,153 Head of European Technology Research at London Tourist Board.
Ms Ingram brings Regulations 2002 the Regulations require shares which is equivalent to approximately CSFB.
He therefore brings to the Company considerable experience in marketing that a report, prepared in accordance with 10% of the Companys issued share capital a particular awareness of the key issues for issues to the Board, together with wide the Regulations, is put to a vote of as at 30 September 2004. shareholders.
He has no other nonmanagement experience.
This is Ms shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
executive directorships of listed companies Ingrams first appointment as a nonthe authority will remain in force until the at present and is able, therefore, to devote executive director to a listed company.
As well as the ordinary business of the conclusion of the next annual general substantial time to the Company.
She is not related to Mr T C W Ingram, meeting, Resolutions 9 and 10 will also be meeting of the Company but will terminate on her fellow Board member.
proposed to enable the directors to the date falling 12 months from the date that continue to use their existing power to allot this resolution is passed if the annual general unissued shares in the capital of the meeting has not been held by that date.
1 Overview 21 Corporate Governance Statement 36 Consolidated Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses 2 Chairmans Statement 25 Remuneration Report 36 Reconciliation of Movements in Equity Shareholders Funds 4 Chief Executives Review 32 Consolidated Profit and Loss Account 37 Notes to the Accounts 8 Corporate Social Responsibility 33 Consolidated Balance Sheet 62 Independent Auditors Report 12 Directors and Advisers 34 Company Balance Sheet 63 Notice of Meeting 17 14 Financial Review 35 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 65 Financial Calendar 16 Directors Report 18 Directors Report continued The Company may agree before the authority resale by the Company or may be transferred amount of those fees and other remuneration The amendment should also be viewed in the terminates to purchase ordinary shares where for the purpose of or in accordance with an to 500,000 to reflect changes since the context of another amendment which the the purchase will or may be executed after employees share scheme.
Accordingly, if the current limit was introduced.
At the same time Remuneration Committee has made, again to the authority terminates either in whole or Directors exercise the authority conferred by the Company is taking the opportunity to bring the Scheme into line with current in part.
The Company may complete such Resolution 11, the Company will have the update the Articles of Association to take into market practice.
In summary the effect of this a purchase even though the authority option of holding those shares in treasury, account current electronic voting and proxy amendment, which does not require has ended.
Your Board will practices and the introduction of treasury shareholder approval, is that if an option have regard to any guidelines published by shares.
Copies of the existing articles and the becomes exercisable following a participant The Company has not, in the past, taken any of the investor groups in force at the time proposed new articles are available for ceasing to be employed by the Group in such an authority but the introduction of of any such purchase, holding or re-sale of inspection at the addresses specified in the circumstances such as death, redundancy, treasury shares in recent legislation suggests treasury shares.
Resolution 12, if passed, retirement, transfer or sale out of the Group to the Company that it is appropriate to take will implement these proposed changes.
or a change of control of the Company, the such authority at this time.
The Company has The total number of options to subscribe for performance target will not be automatically no present intention to exercise this authority.
ordinary shares that were outstanding at 22 Under Resolution 13 it is proposed to amend waived: an option will only be exercisable to In any event, the power given by the December 2004 being the latest practicable the Sage Group 1999 Executive Share Option the extent that the performance target has resolution will only be exercised if the date prior to publication of this report under Scheme the Scheme so that the current been met at the relevant time unless the Directors are satisfied that any purchase will all share option schemes of the Group, individual limit, which is that the value of Remuneration Committee, in exceptional increase the earnings per share of the including all-employee schemes, was ordinary shares of the Company issued or to circumstances, decides otherwise.
This ordinary share capital in issue after the 52,689,479.
The proportion of issued share be issued in respect of a participants options amendment cannot apply to options granted purchase and, accordingly, that the purchase capital that they represented at that time was in the last ten years, is limited to eight times before the amendment was made, but will is in the interests of shareholders.
and the proportion of issued his or her earnings, be replaced by an annual apply to options granted from 22 December Directors will also give careful consideration share capital that they will represent if the full limit on grant of 300% of the participants 2004.
It is subject to Inland Revenue approval to gearing levels of the Company and its authority to purchase shares being sought is basic salary.
This amendment, which in respect of that part of the Scheme which is general financial position.
The purchase price used is 4.57 per cent.
shareholders are being asked to approve, approved by the Inland Revenue.
would be paid out of distributable profits.
would bring the Scheme more into line with The Articles of Association of the Company current market practice, by providing an Resolution 14 set out in the Notice of Under recent legislation, a listed company are reviewed annually.
As a result of this annual limit in respect of individual grants of Meeting proposes the adoption of a may hold shares in treasury, as an alternative review, the Company proposes to amend options.
Generally, annual grants will be performance share plan for directors and to cancelling them, following a purchase of the articles relating to the fees and other limited to 100% of basic salary, with grants in senior executives of the Group.
Details of the own shares by the Company in accordance remuneration payable to non-executive excess of 100% of basic salary only being proposed plan are set out below.
Shares held in directors including the Chairman to clarify made in exceptional circumstances.
treasury in this manner will be available for their terms and to increase the maximum Performance Share Plan the Plan Grant of awards Performance period The vesting schedule will be as follows: Generally, awards can be granted at any An award may not generally vest before the TSR ranking Vesting percentage Introduction time, but not during a close period of the third anniversary of its date of grant nor unless The Sage Group Performance Share Plan Below median 0% Company.
The first grant of awards is the specified performance targets have been provides for the grant of performance share Median 30% intended to be made as soon as practicable met at the end of a three year period.
following approval of the Plan at the Annual Upper quintile top 20% 100% Individual limits Objectives of the Plan General Meeting.
Thereafter, awards are likely Between median Pro rata The maximum market value determined at Currently, executive share options are the to be made within the period of forty two and upper quintile the date of grant of an award of shares sole form of long-term incentive.
Following days following the announcement of the which may be put under award on an annual the Remuneration Committees recent review Companys preliminary results.
No payment To alleviate any short-term volatility, the basis for an employee will be 150 per cent.
of executive remuneration and feedback from is required for the grant of awards.
All shares return index will be averaged in the TSR of that employees basic salary.
The first two certain investors, the Remuneration allotted under the Plan will carry the same calculations for each company over the three operations of the plan are likely to be made Committee has decided to propose a longrights as all other issued ordinary shares in months prior to the start and end of the within less than 12 months of each other see term share performance plan, so that longthe Company and application will be made performance period.
Grant of awards above but the 150 per cent.
term incentives are more effectively linked to for the shares to be listed on the London limit will apply in each case.
The Remuneration Committee may vary or the achievement of long-term performance Stock Exchange.
If there is a variation in the waive the performance target applying to targets and shareholder value creation.
Performance targets share capital of the Company, the awards an award to take account of events which For the initial award to be made after the may be adjusted to reflect that variation.
Nature of awards lead the Remuneration Committee, acting Plan has been approved by shareholders, Awards will be in respect of ordinary shares in Limits on the issue of shares under fairly and reasonably, to believe that the the performance target will be the Companys the Company and, subject to the exceptional the Plan performance target is no longer appropriate.
Total Shareholder Return TSR compared circumstances referred to below, their vesting Under the terms of the Plan, in any 10 year Any variation to the performance target to a selected group of comparable software is contingent on the satisfaction of specified period the use of new issue or treasury made by the Remuneration Committee will companies listed on the London Stock performance targets and continued shares under the Plan and any other not result in the varied performance target Exchange and elsewhere, as at the beginning employment with the Group.
Awards are not employees share scheme established by being, in the opinion of the Remuneration of the financial year.
Currently these pensionable and may not be assigned or the Company is limited to 10 per cent.
of the Committee, more difficult or easier to satisfy companies are: transferred except on a participants death, issued share capital of the Company from than the initial performance target.
when they may be assigned to the time to time, of which not more than 7.5 per Blackbaud Microsoft participants personal representatives.
may be used for the Plan and those Business Objects Misys employees share schemes operated on a Cap Gemini MYOB Who is eligible to participate?
The Remuneration Committee will have Cegid Northgate Information Systems responsibility for agreeing any awards under Salesforce.
com To the extent that shares to satisfy awards Oracle the Plan and for setting the policy for the Exact under the Plan are purchased, this may be SAP way in which the Plan should be operated, Geac done through the Sage Group Employee including agreeing performance targets and Systems Union Benefit Trust the Trust which is being Intuit which employees should be invited to established at the same time as the Plan.
ISoft participate in the Plan.
Whilst all employees The Trust will be resident in Jersey and its of the Company and its subsidiaries, trustee will be an independent professional including executive directors, are eligible to trustee company.
participate, the Plan is designed for directors and senior executives.
1 Overview 21 Corporate Governance Statement 36 Consolidated Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses 2 Chairmans Statement 25 Remuneration Report 36 Reconciliation of Movements in Equity Shareholders Funds 4 Chief Executives Review 32 Consolidated Profit and Loss Account 37 Notes to the Accounts 8 Corporate Social Responsibility 33 Consolidated Balance Sheet 62 Independent Auditors Report 12 Directors and Advisers 34 Company Balance Sheet 63 Notice of Meeting 19 14 Financial Review 35 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 65 Financial Calendar 16 Directors Report 20 Directors Report continued Rights attaching to shares prior to the basis.
Finally, the Remuneration Committee Remuneration Committee will, in addition, if minor and made to benefit the vesting of awards has discretion to vest or preserve all or it believes that exceptional circumstances administration of the Plan, to take account A participant has no rights in relation to the part of his or her award s if a participant warrant this, have discretion to take into of a change in legislation or to obtain or award or to the shares which are the ceases to be employed by the Company for account any other factors it believes to be maintain favourable tax, exchange control subject of the award until it has vested.
an exceptional reason other than those set relevant in determining the extent to which or regulatory treatment.
Any award of a participant awards will vest in these circumstances.
Cessation of employment before an Additional schedules to the rules can be whose employment has been terminated award has vested Duration of the Plan incorporated to operate the Plan outside for gross misconduct will lapse immediately If a participant ceases employment with the No award may be granted after ten years the UK.
These schedules can vary the rules on termination.
Group before an award has vested at the from the date of shareholder approval of of the Plan to take account of any end of the relevant period, his or her Payment on account of dividends when the Plan.
securities, exchange control or taxation award s will generally lapse.
However, if a an award has vested laws or regulations.
The shares issued for The Remuneration Committee intends to participant dies or leaves employment in To the extent that a participants award has these purposes will count towards the consider, on a regular basis, whether the certain circumstances such as ill-health, vested, the participant will receive an overall limit of shares issued under the Plan.
Plan continues to meet its objectives and injury, disability, retirement, redundancy or amount in cash or shares equal to the total will undertake a more wide-ranging review his or her employing business being sold or dividends paid or payable in respect of the not later than the fifth anniversary of its By Order of the Board transferred outside the Group, the award shares in relation to which the award has approval by shareholders.
M J Robinson will vest pro rata to the time elapsed vested, by reference to record dates from Amending the rules of the Plan Secretary between the date of the grant of the award the date of grant until the award has vested.
The Company acting through the Board or 22 December 2004 and the date of cessation of employment at Transfer or issue of shares once the the Remuneration Committee will have the end of the relevant performance period, award has vested authority to amend the rules of the Plan, subject to the satisfaction of the Once a participants award has vested, provided that no amendment to the performance targets measured over the the relevant number of shares will be advantage of participants may be made to relevant performance period.
However, the transferred or issued to the participant as provisions relating to: Remuneration Committee may permit the soon as practicable.
award to vest pro rata to the time elapsed who can be a participant: General offer or scheme of between the date of the grant of the award the limits on the number of shares which arrangement and the date of cessation of employment can be issued under the Plan: If there is a change of control of the immediately on cessation of employment Company, shares will vest on the change of provided the performance target has been the basis for determining a participants control pro rata to the time elapsed met, measured on pro rata basis from the entitlement to shares and the terms on between the date of grant of the award and date of grant to the date of cessation of which they can be acquired: and the change of control, to the extent that the employment.
If the Remuneration any adjustment in the event of a variation performance targets have been met up to Committee believes that exceptional in the Companys share capital, the date of the change of control or the circumstances warrant this, it may exercise most practicable earlier date having regard without the prior approval of shareholders in its discretion to vest the award on another to the relevant performance target s. The general meeting unless the amendment is
