8 Scottish & Newcastle plc 2004 DRIVING GROWTH BEER VOLUMES IN RUSSIA GREW BY 18% IN 2004 Scottish & Newcastle plc 2004 9 FOSTERS SUPER CHILLED ROLLED OUT TO 11,000 OUTLETS 10 Scottish & Newcastle plc 2004 DRIVING GROWTH Brand growth S&N is focusing on its key brands 4.5% to drive volume and value growth.
Organic growth In 2004 beer volumes grew by 4.5%.
in beer volumes Furthermore, our premium brands grew volumes by 5% and we increased spend on advertising and promotion 17% by 17% overall.
Increase in spend on advertising and promotion Investing in brands Investing in our brands is critical to developing revenues in the future: it We will grow volume and drives consumer demand, builds value market share by focusing and is an important aid in extending our resources on the branddistribution.
In 2004 S&N increased market combinations that spend on advertising and promotion deliver the best results and by 17% overall.
by accelerating the innovation of new products with superior In the UK there were successful new margins for ourselves and campaigns for Fosters, Kronenbourg our customers.
1664 and Strongbow and two more Gary Guthrie, of the award-winning advertisements Group Marketing Director for John Smiths were released.
In Portugal Sagres sponsored the Portuguese Euro 2004 team and had a very successful year, growing volumes by 4.5% and gaining share on its main competitor.
In Russia there was increased investment in advertising, point of sale including chillers and new packaging for Baltika No.
Baltika volumes grew by 13% overall and by 25% in the second half of the year.
Scottish & Newcastle plc 2004 11 Euro 2004 Volume grew by 4.5% following the sponsorship of the Portuguese team during the Euro 2004 championship.
The top four brands in the UK benefited from an increase in marketing spend and grew volumes 4.5%.
Growth potential Innovation New product successes High growth markets S&N operates in four of the top five markets forecast to grow fastest in terms of absolute volume by 2010 Russia, the Ukraine, the USA and China.
In Russia the market grew by 11% in 2004 and in the Ukraine the market grew 13%.
BBH gained share in both markets.
In the USA Newcastle Brown Ale grew at 10%, well ahead of the import sector.
In 2004 S&N acquired 19.5% of New Phillippe Starck packaging.
Fosters Super Chilled: an extra cold Chongqing Beer Company in China, standard lager.
the largest beer market in the world.
S&N also announced plans to increase S&N substantially increased spend on Fosters Super Chilled is taking the its investment in India by taking a 37.5% innovation in 2004.
Eight projects have lead in the most exciting on trade stake and joint management control in been identified each of which has a sector in the UK: extra cold standard United Breweries, the market leader.
significant potential for incremental lager.
These are now being prioritised fount that chills the beer to 3C, an Venture markets and include brand extensions, new integrated marketing campaign and Under the new management structure categories and innovation in dispense the power of our route to market, introduced in July 2004 there is now a and packaging.
standard lager is now growing faster greater focus on Spain, Italy, Germany, than premium lager and ready-to-drink Switzerland and Sweden.
These are During the year there were significant spirits in the UK for the first time in markets where we have no brewing investments in dispense and packaging.
assets but we believe there is potential As well as the new Fosters Super to grow sales of our premium Chilled condensation fount, there was a Kronenbourg Blanc, the citrus international brands.
In 2004 total new Phillipe Starck design initiative for flavoured white beer introduced in volumes in these markets grew 12%.
Kronenbourg 1664 in France and bottle 2003, continued to perform strongly and pack updates for Sagres in Portugal.
in test bars and is set to expand distribution further in 2005.
