32 Scottish & Newcastle plc 2004 Board of Directors Dr Neville Bain 64 John Dunsmore 46 Sir Brian Stewart 59 Henrik Therman 67 Non-executive director Chairman and Managing Director, Chairman Non-executive director S&N UK Neville was appointed to the Board Sir Brian was appointed to the Board Henrik was appointed to the Board in 1997.
He qualified as a Chartered John was appointed to the Board in in 1988.
Having qualified as a in May 2002 following the Hartwall Accountant in New Zealand and 2002.
He began his career as a chartered accountant, he joined S&N merger.
With a degree in chemical worked as a Finance Director before graduate trainee in sales and marketing in 1976 and has worked in a variety of engineering, he has held various moving into sales and marketing, and at S&N, but then spent 13 years in the finance and management positions, managerial posts within the Hartwall then general management.
He spent City, starting as a drinks analyst, becoming Finance Director in 1988, Group since 1964.
He was a driving 27 years at Cadbury Schweppes subsequently rising to become Head and Chief Executive in 1991.
He was force behind the inception and working in New Zealand, Australia, of UK Equities at Natwest Securities.
appointed Deputy Chairman in 1997 development of BBH, leading the South Africa and the UK, finally as In 1996 he rejoined S&N as Director and Chairman in 2000.
He is Chairman business successively as Chief Group Deputy Chief Executive, before of Corporate Development before of Standard Life Assurance Company Executive, Deputy Chairman and then becoming Chief Executive of Coates becoming Head of UK on trade in and Vice President of the British Beer Chairman during the period from 1993 Viyella plc, the worldwide clothing 1997 and moving to his current & Pub Association.
His presence on the Board fashion and textile group.
He is Vice therefore gives us a major insight into Drink of choice: McEwans 80 Chairman of Hogg Robinson plc.
Chairman of the British Beer & Pub the businesses and markets of a major Dr Bains wide financial and business Association and a Trustee of the part of our Group.
He is also Chairman background enable him to make Portman Group and of the Scottish of Nokia Tyres plc.
an important contribution to the Board, Community Foundation.
Drink of choice: Karjala particularly in his role as Chairman Drink of choice: Fosters of the Audit Committee.
Drink of choice: Fosters John Nicolson 51 Erik Hartwall 63 Tony Froggatt 56 Dr Iain Anderson 66 Chairman, Greater Europe USA Non-executive director Chief Executive Non-executive director John was appointed to the Board in Erik joined the Group Board in May Tony was appointed Chief Executive Iain was appointed to the Board in July 2000 as Chairman, International 2002 after the merger with Hartwall.
His principal career was with Beer and took up his current position He has spent his career with Hartwall with the Gillette Company, and has Unilever, where he held a variety of in June 2004, with responsibility for since 1971, working both in Finland held a wide range of sales, marketing posts, finally as Strategy and our businesses in Belgium, Portugal, and internationally, finally being and management positions in many Technology Director and member Finland and Greece as well as our appointed Managing Director and countries, with major consumer goods of Unilevers Executive Committee.
venture markets, the USA and BBH.
then Deputy Chairman of Hartwall.
companies including Heinz and IDV.
Iains wide understanding of the With a background in marketing, with His extensive experience in the brewing His last appointment before joining challenges facing an international ICI, Brooke Bond Group and Unilever, and beverage industry, both in Finland S&N, was as President Europe, consumer business, and his particular he joined Courage, then part of the and internationally, is a major asset Middle East and Africa for Seagram enthusiasm for the rigorous review of Fosters Brewing Group as Managing to the Board.
strategy and the use of technology Director, Off Trade in 1993.
Following make a major contribution to the Drink of choice: Lapin Kulta Drink of choice: Newcastle Brown Ale S&Ns acquisition of Courage in 1995, Board as S&N develops as an he became Marketing Director, international brewer.
Scottish Courage and then Group Drink of choice: Newcastle Brown Ale Corporate Development Director.
Drink of choice: Kronenbourg 1664 Scottish & Newcastle plc 2004 33 Committee Members Nominations Committee Sir Brian Stewart Chairman, Dr Iain Anderson, Sir Angus Grossart, Erik Hartwall, Ian McAllister Remuneration Committee Ian McAllister Chairman, Dr Iain Anderson, Dr Neville Bain Audit Committee Dr Neville Bain Chairman, Sir Angus Grossart, Ian McAllister Sir Ian Robinson 62 Sir Angus Grossart 67 Ian McAllister 61 Non-executive director Non-executive director Non-executive director Treasury Committee Sir Ian was appointed to the Board in Sir Angus was appointed to the Ian was appointed to the Board in Ian McHoul Chairman, September 2004.
After qualifying as Board in May 1998.
He is the senior non-executive Dr Neville Bain, Sir Angus Grossart, a Chemical Engineer, he had a 30-year Accountant and practised at the director and Chairman of the John Laurie, Alan Dick career in the global engineering and Scottish Bar.
He is Chairman and Remuneration Committee.
Ian has construction industry, including posts Managing Director of Noble Grossart spent most of his career within the as Chief Executive of John Brown Limited, the Scottish merchant bank.
Ford Motor Company, holding various and Chairman of Davy Group, both He is Vice-Chairman of the Royal Bank positions in Germany, Britain and parts of Trafalgar House Group.
of Scotland plc, a director of Trinity the USA, and finally as Chairman He spent six years as Chief Executive Mirror plc and a trustee and Deputy and Managing Director of Ford of Scottish Power plc and has held a Chairman of the National Heritage Britain.
He is currently Chairman of number of non-executive and advisory Memorial Fund.
Having acted as Network Rail.
In addition to his wide appointments within industry.
He financial or strategic adviser to, and international industrial experience, is currently Chairman of the Hilton served on the boards of many public he adds a further social perspective Group plc, a member of the Takeover and private companies and other to the Board through his membership Panel and a director of Siemens bodies, he brings extensive financial of the Carbon Trust, past Deputy Holdings plc.
We expect the Board and banking experience to the Board.
Chairmanship of the Qualifications to benefit, in particular, from his deep and Curriculum Authority Drink of choice: Strongbow knowledge of building and developing and past membership of the Advisory international businesses.
Committee on Business and the Environment.
Drink of choice: Kronenbourg 1664 Drink of choice: Fosters Note Henry Fairweather, formerly Group HR Director, served as an executive director during 2004, retiring on 29 July 2004.
Neville Isdell also served on the Board as a non-executive director, resigning on 31 May 2004.
Ian McHoul 45 Peter Kennerley 48 Group Finance Director Company Secretary and General Counsel Ian joined the Board in 2001.
He qualified as a Chartered Accountant Peter joined the Group as Company Secretary in May 1999.
He qualified with KPMG and then held a number of finance and strategy posts in the as a Solicitor with the London law firm, Simmons & Simmons, and the beer industry, first with Fosters Brewing Group and its subsidiary, main part of his career was spent as a partner advising international Courage, and then with Inntrepreneur Pub Company.
In 1998 he joined S&N businesses in the areas of corporate finance, mergers and acquisitions.
as the Finance Director for Scottish Courage, before being appointed to He also spent two years as Secretary to the Takeover Panel.
Drink of choice: Grimbergen Drink of choice: Sagres
