34 Scottish & Newcastle plc 2004 Report of the Directors Group results Payment of suppliers Employee relations and involvement A detailed analysis of the results for the The Company agrees terms and conditions The Company is rmly committed to period is provided in note 2 to the accounts.
with suppliers before business takes place.
the principles of employee involvement.
The Companys policy and practice is to A full range of brieng, consultation Dividends pay agreed invoices in accordance with and bargaining arrangements have been The directors are recommending a final the terms of payment.
At the year end developed in all parts of the Group and dividend of 13.75p per share to be paid the amount owed to trade creditors by these are subject to continuous review on 4 May 2005 to ordinary shareholders the Company was equivalent to 16 days and improvement.
on the register at close of business on of purchases from suppliers.
This would make a total Disabled persons ordinary dividend for the year of 20.62p Notiable interests Full and fair consideration has been given per share.
As at 23 February 2005, the Company to applications for employment made by has been notied of the following interests disabled persons and appropriate training, Business review and future representing 3% or more of the issued career development and promotion have developments ordinary share capital of the Company: been provided in all cases.
The Report of the Directors should be read in conjunction with the earlier Hartwall Bolagen ab 10.7% Political and charitable contributions pages of this document, including in Prudential plc 4.0% During the financial year the Group particular, the Operating and Financial Trevor Hemmings family interests 4.0% made charitable contributions totalling Review on pages 17 to 30, which Legal & General Group Plc 3.1% 452,450 December 2003 contain details of the Groups trading 370,000 further details of which are Directors during the year and an indication of likely given in the Groups Corporate Social The names of the current directors of future developments.
Responsibility Report which will be the Company are set out on pages 32 posted on the Groups website.
The AGM special business and 33.
Group made no political contributions Details of the special business to be Dr Neville Bain and Henrik Therman during the year or in the previous proposed at the AGM are contained financial period.
retire by rotation and, being eligible, in the Circular Letter to shareholders offer themselves for re-appointment.
accompanying the Companys Report Auditors Sir Ian Robinson has been appointed and Accounts.
Special business comprises A resolution to re-appoint Ernst & Young a director since the last AGM and as the renewal of the directors allotment LLP as the Companys auditors and required by the Companys articles of authority, permission to make non to authorise the Board to set their association, retires and offers himself pre-emptive issues of ordinary shares remuneration will be put to the forthcoming for re-appointment.
Dr Neville Bain, in limited circumstances and renewal Annual General Meeting.
Henrik Therman and Sir Ian Robinson of the authority for the market purchase do not have service contracts.
By Order of the Board of Company shares.
Peter Kennerley Erik Hartwall and Henrik Therman are Share capital Secretary former shareholders of Oy Hartwall Ab, Details of share movements during 23 February 2005 which the Company acquired in May 2002 the year, including shares issued and pursuant to agreements dated 14 February options granted under the employee share 2002.
Otherwise, no director had, during schemes and options held by the Scottish or at the end of the year, any material & Newcastle employee share trusts are interest in any contract of signicance contained in note 26 to the accounts.
in relation to the Groups business.
The interests of the directors in the ordinary shares of the Company are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 41 to 50.
