12 Scottish & Newcastle plc 2004 DRIVING VALUE EFFICIENCY HAS INCREASED RIGHT ACROSS OUR OPERATIONS Scottish & Newcastle plc 2004 13 BULMER ENHANCED EARNINGS AND ECONOMIC PROFIT IN 2004 14 Scottish & Newcastle plc 2004 DRIVING VALUE Return on invested capital ROIC ROIC improved to S&N is taking significant steps to reduce its cost base, ensure better utilisation of 6.5% assets and improve operational efficiency.
These should help to drive increased basis points value and returns on invested capital in 45 the future.
In 2004 improved efficiency Increase in net margin throughout the business contributed to an increase in net margin of 45 basis points and our ROIC improved to 6.5%.
Best operations Operational efficiency Integrating IS In 2004 in the UK we announced Following the rapid expansion of S&N There is a huge opportunity a programme of initiatives to improve across Europe much needs to be done for us to invest the existing operational efficiency.
So far we have to integrate our information systems.
IS budget in smarter ways to already put in place a series of cost Simon Ricketts, our new Group IS ensure everyone has the right savings and reductions in nonDirector, has set up a new Systems tools and information to drive performing assets that will save 45m Leadership Team to streamline and the business forward.
In total we expect to initiate improve the use of technology both Simon Ricketts, cost savings of 60m per annum by at Group and national company level.
Group IS Director the end of 2006 an increase from Until recently each business has our original target of 45m.
been operating independently, using The initiatives announced in 2004 different IT systems, different business include the closure of the Fountain and processes and different software.
Tyne breweries, the sale of our technical The new team is working on a number service assets to a joint venture with of projects including: Carlsberg UK, the merger of Waverley, Re-defining business process our wine and spirits distributor with The implementation across the Group.
Beer Seller and the sale of 76m of Converging our current SAP trade loans to HBOS.
the bottling line at Hereford and three Rationalising and setting common distribution depots and rationalised our standards for S&Ns IS infrastructure.
Ensuring the Group has the best products and applications to enable its Through our new Group Operations employees to work smarter and faster.
function we are also making savings Setting new standards on IT in global procurement and expect to measurement and service delivery.
improve operational efficiency by extending best practice across Europe.
Scottish & Newcastle plc 2004 15 Premium brands Fosters, John Smiths and Strongbow all trade at a premium to their immediate competitors in the UK.
We have made an excellent start in our programme to improve operational efficiency across the Group, especially in the UK.
I am sure we can make further progress in 2005.
Stephen Glancey, Group Operations Director The major new multi-beverage production and logistics plan at Lahti is now fully operational with high service levels and competitive costs.
Economic profit Acquisition of Bulmer S&Ns ambition is to be the best S&N acquired the Bulmer business European beer-led drinks company in the UK in July 2003.
At the time with sustained revenue growth and we forecast annualised cost savings consistently improving returns on of 16m of which 10m related to capital.
In order to achieve this we the integration of the Bulmer business need to find the right balance between within S&N UK.
operating profit and cash generation Those synergies have now been fully and between the long and short term.
realised and the business is providing Investments need to cover their cost good opportunities for long term growth.
of capital and it is important that future Distribution and logistics have been growth is not sacrificed for short successfully integrated into S&N UK term gain.
and glass bottle packaging has been In 2004 Strongbow volumes increased 11%.
Economic profit is an important internal transferred to a highly efficient new measure of S&Ns performance.
Key bottling line at our Tadcaster brewery.
performance indicators and objectives In addition, The Beer Seller, Bulmers We also acted to positively influence are being set that balance short and wholesaling operation, was merged the marketing and image of cider, long term investment horizons and with Waverley, our wine and spirits which had been damaged by the senior and middle managers are being distributor, to form the largest drinks sectors permanent promotion of high bonused on economic profit generation.
alcoholic volume for a low price, by ending 50% Extra Free promotions.
In 2004 a major communications But Bulmer has not only performed in programme took place across senior terms of cost savings and synergies, Through the Bulmer acquisition we and middle managers in the Group it has also demonstrated commercial have enhanced revenue growth and to ensure the principles of economic leadership of the cider sector.
In 2004 increased the operational efficiency profit were well understood.
As a result, S&N UK invested in a major new of our UK business.
We are pleased there is now a much greater emphasis advertising campaign what your taste to say that in the first full year of on better utilisation of assets and buds would order and Strongbow acquisition Bulmer not only enhanced cash generation.
volumes increased by 11% overall Group earnings but also added to during the year.
