Board of Directors and Executive Team Iraq, as Chairman of the Advisory Board with oversight of the oard of Directors and Executive Team Iraqi Oil Ministry.
Following completion of this assignment, he Chairman was re-appointed to the Board on 20 October 2003.
He was B Charles Miller Smith 64 joined the Board as Deputy formerly Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Fluor Chairman in August 1999 and was appointed Chairman in April Corporation, a California-based international engineering, 2000.
Following a career with Unilever for some 30 years, during construction and services company, until his retirement in the last five of which he was Director of Finance and latterly of February 2002.
Previously, he was with Shell Oil for over 35 the Food Executive, he was appointed Chief Executive of ICI in years, serving as President and Chief Executive Officer from 1995 and then served as Chairman from 1999 to 2001.
He is an honorary life member of the Board of the international adviser to Goldman Sachs, a member of the Board American Petroleum Institute and holds various posts with the of the Indian company, ICICI One Source plc, and a member of James A Baker III Institute for Public Policy of Rice University the Ministry of Defence Management Board.
He is also a and the University of Houston.
His current term of office, Governor of the Henley Management College.
During the year, subject to his election in 2004, will expire at the AGM in 2005. he served on the committee chaired by Professor Laura Tyson of London Business School which considered, in the light of the Sir Peter Gregson GCB 67 joined the Board in December recommendations of the Higgs Review, ways of broadening the 1996 and is the companys senior independent non-executive pool of non-executive directors.
director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
He was formerly a career civil servant, having served latterly as Non-Executive Directors Permanent Secretary of the Department of Energy from 1985 to Euan Baird 66 joined the Board in January 2001.
He served as 1989 and Permanent Secretary of the Department of Trade and Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Schlumberger Limited Industry until his retirement in June 1996.
He was previously from 1986 to 2003.
He is now non-executive Chairman of RollsDeputy Chairman of the Board of Companions of the Chartered Royce plc and a non-executive director of Socit Gnrale, Management Institute and a non-executive director of Woolwich Areva and the New York Stock Exchange.
He will retire from the Board after the AGM in 2004.
Tocqueville Alexis Trust and Carnegie Institution of Washington, and a member of the Advisory Committee of Banque fide France.
Nolan Karras 59 joined the Board in November 1999.
He His current term of office, subject to his re-election in 2004, will continues as a non-executive director of PacifiCorp, having expire at the AGM in 2007. previously until the merger in November 1999 served as Chairman of the PacifiCorp Personnel Committee.
He is Mair Barnes 59 joined the Board in April 1998.
She is a nonPresident of The Karras Company, Inc. and a Registered executive director of GWR Group plc, Patientline plc and the Principal for Raymond James Financial Services.
He is Chief South African company, Woolworths Holdings Limited.
She is a Executive Officer of Western Hay Company, Inc. and a nonmember of the Department of Trade and Industrys Strategy executive director of Beneficial Life Insurance Company.
He is Board and the Services Group Board.
She was previously Chairman of the Utah State Higher Education Board of Regents Managing Director of Woolworths plc in the UK until 1994, and and a member of the board of Ogden-Weber Applied Technology subsequently became Chairman of Vantios plc until 1998.
He also served as a member of the Utah House of was also formerly a non-executive director of Abbey National Representatives from 1981 to 1990, and as Speaker of the Utah plc, Littlewoods plc and George Wimpey plc.
She will retire House of Representatives from 1989 to 1990.
His current term from the Board after the AGM in 2004. of office will expire at the AGM in 2006.
Donald Brydon 59 joined the Board on 30 May 2003.
Nick Rose 46 joined the Board in February 2003: he is Following a 20-year career with Barclays Group plc, he joined Chairman of the Audit Committee and is the Committees AXA Group in 1997 and is now Chairman of AXA Investment designated financial expert.
He is Finance Director of Diageo Managers.
He is a non-executive director of Allied Domecq plc plc, having been appointed to this position in July 1999. and of Smiths Group plc where he is also Chairman designate.
Previously he held senior finance positions with GrandMet and He is Chairman of the London Metal Exchange.
He is Deputy was latterly Finance Director of International Distillers & Chairman of the Financial Services Practitioner Panel and Vintners in 1996 and then of United Distillers & Vintners in Chairman of the Code Committee of the Panel on Takeovers and 1997.
He is also a director of Mot Hennessy.
His current term of Mergers.
His current term of office, following his election in office will expire at the AGM in 2006.
Philip Carroll 66 first joined the Board in January 2002.
He resigned his position on 15 May 2003 following his appointment, in connection with the reconstruction of post-war 62 ScottishPower Annual Report and Accounts 2003 04 Executive Directors Simon Lowth 42 is Director, Corporate Strategy and Ian Russell 51 is Chief Executive, having been appointed to Development, having been appointed to the Board in this this position in April 2001.
He joined ScottishPower as Finance position on 1 September 2003.
He is responsible in this role for Director in April 1994, and became Deputy Chief Executive in leading the formulation, presentation and delivery of corporate November 1998.
He is a member of the Institute of Chartered strategy.
He was formerly a Director with McKinsey and Accountants of Scotland, having trained with Thomson Company, leading its UK industrial practice, serving clients in McLintock, and has held senior finance positions with HSBC.
the energy and utilities, manufacturing and transport sectors.
He He serves on the Council of Edinburgh International Festival holds an MA in Engineering from Cambridge University and an and the Scottish Council of the Princes Trust, and is leading a MBA from London Business School.
UK Government Commission investigating the development of a National Youth Volunteering Strategy.
Executive Team The Executive Team is constituted as a committee of the Board David Nish 44 is Finance Director, having joined and includes not only the Executive Directors of the Board but ScottishPower in September 1997 as Deputy Finance Director also the following key Executives and Officers from the group.
and then being appointed to the Board as Finance Director in For US reporting purposes the members of the Executive Team December 1999.
In this capacity, he also has responsibility at are regarded as officers of the company.
Board level for performance and risk management.
He is a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland, Dominic Fry 44 joined ScottishPower in September 2000 as the Scottish Council of the CBI, the UK Governments Group Director, Corporate Communications.
He is responsible Employer Task Force on Pensions, and the Accounting for investor and media relations, communications with Standards Boards Urgent Issues Task Force, and a nonemployees, corporate social responsibility and management of executive director of The Royal Scottish National Orchestra.
He has held appointments as Prior to joining ScottishPower, he was a partner with Price Communications Director with J Sainsbury plc and Eurotunnel Waterhouse.
He has a BAcc from the University of Glasgow.
He chairs the Trading Board of the Glasgow Science Centre and is a communications adviser to the Royal Shakespeare Charles Berry 52 is Executive Director UK, responsible in this Company and Business in the Community.
He is also a director capacity for the UK energy businesses of Generation, Energy of Scottish Business in the Community.
He was educated at the Management and Supply.
He joined ScottishPower in November Universit Paul Valry III in Montpellier and the University of 1991 and was appointed to the Board in April 1999.
member of the Board of the Energy Saving Trust.
Prior to joining ScottishPower, he was Group Development Director of Norwest Terry Hudgens 49 was appointed Chief Executive Officer of Holst, a subsidiary of Compagnie Gnrale des Eaux, and prior ScottishPowers competitive US energy business, PPM, in May to that held management positions within subsidiaries of 2001 and joined the Executive Team in December 2001.
He holds a BSc First Class Hons in Electrical joined PacifiCorp as Senior Vice President of Power Supply in Engineering from the University of Glasgow and a Masters April 2000, having previously spent 25 years with Texaco, Inc.
Degree in Management from the Massachusetts Institute of He was formerly President of Texaco Natural Gas and served as Technology.
Texacos senior representative and elected officer in the Natural Gas Supply Association.
He is a member of the Board of Judi Johansen 45 is President and Chief Executive Officer of Trustees of The Nature Conservancy in Oregon.
He has a PacifiCorp: she was appointed to this position in June 2001 and bachelors degree in civil engineering from the University of joined the Board on 1 October 2003.
She joined PacifiCorp as Houston.
Executive Vice President of Regulation and External Affairs in December 2000, having held senior positions with the Ronnie Mercer 60 was appointed Group Director, Bonneville Power Administration and Washington Water Power.
Infrastructure in April 2001 and is responsible in this role for the She is a member of the Boards of the Portland Branch of the US UK wires businesses.
He joined the ScottishPower Generation Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, the Port of Portland, Business in 1994 and was appointed Generation Director in The Haven Project for Disadvantaged Youth, the Oregon 1996 and then Managing Director of Southern Water in 1998. Business Council and Northwestern School of Law at Lewis & Previous career positions include Scottish Director and Clark College.
She has a bachelors degree in political science Managing Director roles in British Steel.
He was educated at from Colorado State University and a law degree from Paisley College of Technology.
Northwestern School of Law at Lewis & Clark College in Portland, Oregon, and is a member of the Oregon and Andrew Mitchell 52 was appointed Group Company Secretary Washington State Bar Associations.
in July 1993 and is responsible in this role for Board and shareholder services, corporate governance and compliance, and ScottishPower Annual Report and Accounts 2003 04 63 Board of Directors and Executive Team group security.
He also serves as Chairman of the trustees of the Board and Executive Team changes groups UK pension schemes and as the companys e7 Ewen Macpherson retired from the Board following the representative.
Prior to joining ScottishPower, he held a number conclusion of last years AGM on 25 July 2003.
Donald Brydon of company secretarial appointments, latterly as Company was appointed to the Board on 30 May 2003: his appointment Secretary of The Laird Group plc and then Stakis plc, now part was confirmed by his election at the AGM in 2003.
Philip of the Hilton Group.
He is a graduate in law from the University Carroll resigned from the Board on 15 May 2003 following his of Edinburgh LLB Hons and the London School of Economics appointment, in connection with the reconstruction of post-war LLM and is a member of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries Iraq, as Chairman of the Advisory Board with oversight of the and Administrators.
Iraqi Oil Ministry: following completion of this assignment, he was re-appointed to the Board on 20 October 2003.
Simon Michael Pittman 51 was appointed Group Director, Human Lowth and Judi Johansen were appointed to the Board on 1 Resources in November 2001.
He has groupwide responsibility September 2003 and 1 October 2003 respectively.
for human resources, leading the focus on talent management, one of the groups main strategic thrusts.
He joined PacifiCorp in The company has appointed two new non-executive directors December 1979 and was appointed to the PacifiCorp Board in who will join the Board with effect from 1 June 2004.
He chairs the PacifiCorp Foundation for Learning Board and is involved in numerous civic activities, including Vicky Bailey 52 who is based in Washington DC, is a former chairing the Board of Directors for the Oregon Public Assistant Secretary for Policy and International Affairs at the US Employees Retirement System.
He has held several positions Department of Energy and ex-member of the Federal Energy within PacifiCorp, including safety and health, risk management Regulatory Commission FERC.
She has also served as an and operations.
He holds an advanced degree in environmental Indiana state regulator.
health from the University of Washington.
Nancy Wilgenbusch 56 is a distinguished community James Stanley 49 was appointed Group Director, Commercial administrator and President of Marylhurst University in and Legal in March 1996.
He is responsible in this role for legal Portland, Oregon.
She also serves on the Regional Advisory compliance and reporting together with the provision of all Board of PacifiCorp.
legal, commercial and associated services throughout the group and particularly the negotiation, structuring and delivery of M&A In accordance with the Articles of Association, Vicky Bailey, and similar projects.
In his early career he specialised in Philip Carroll, Judi Johansen, Simon Lowth and Nancy commercial litigation in private practice.
In 1986 he moved Wilgenbusch will retire from office at the Annual General to the Trafalgar House Group and subsequently became both Meeting and, being eligible, offer themselves for election.
In Commercial Director of John Brown plc and General Counsel to addition, Euan Baird, Mair Barnes, Sir Peter Gregson and Ian the Global Engineering Division of the Group.
He is a graduate Russell retire by rotation at the Annual General Meeting.
Euan in law from Nottingham University and the College of Law in Baird and Ian Russell, being eligible, offer themselves for reChester where he qualified as a solicitor in 1980. election.
Mair Barnes and Sir Peter Gregson will retire from the Board and accordingly do not seek re-election.
Ian Russell has a Members of the Nomination Committee service contract terminable by either party upon twelve months Charles Miller Smith, Chairman notice.
Mair Barnes Sir Peter Gregson Nolan Karras Ian Russell Members of the Remuneration Committee Sir Peter Gregson, Chairman Euan Baird Mair Barnes Donald Brydon Philip Carroll Nolan Karras Members of the Audit Committee Nick Rose, Chairman Donald Brydon Philip Carroll Sir Peter Gregson Nolan Karras 64 ScottishPower Annual Report and Accounts 2003 04
