Directors Responsibility for the Accounts Auditors The directors are required by law to prepare Accounts for each  LLP, the companys auditors, have financial year and to present them annually to the companys expressed their willingness to continue in office and a resolution members at the Annual General Meeting.
The Accounts, of for their re-appointment will be proposed at the Annual General which the form and content are prescribed by the Companies Meeting.
Act 1985 and applicable accounting standards, must give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and of the Report of the Directors group as at the end of the financial year, and of the groups profit The Report of the Directors, comprising the statements and or loss for the period.
reports on pages 2 to 84 of this Annual Report and Accounts, The directors confirm that suitable Accounting Policies has been approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by have been used and applied consistently, and that reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates have been made in the preparation of the Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2004.
The directors also confirm that applicable accounting standards have been followed and that the Accounts have been prepared on the going concern basis.
The directors are responsible for maintaining proper accounting records and sufficient internal controls to safeguard Andrew Mitchell, Secretary the assets of the company and of the group and to prevent and 25 May 2004 detect fraud or any other irregularities.
Cautionary Statement for Purposes of the Safe Harbor statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date Provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 hereof.
Important factors that may cause results to differ from Some statements made in this Annual Report and Accounts are expectations include, for example: forward-looking statements within the meaning of the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform any regulatory changes including changes in environmental Act of 1995.
All statements with respect to us, our corporate regulations that may increase the operating costs of the plans, future financial condition, future results of operations, group, may require the group to make unforeseen capital future business plans, strategies, objectives and beliefs and other expenditures or may prevent the regulated business of the statements that are not historical facts are forward looking.
group from achieving acceptable returns: Statements containing the words may, will, expect, anticipate, intend, estimate, continue, plan, project, future levels of industry generation and supply, demand and target, on track to, strategy, aim, seek, will meet or pricing, political stability, competition and economic growth other similar words are also forward looking.
These statements in the relevant areas in which the group has operations: are based on our managements assumptions and beliefs in light of the information available to us.
These assumptions involve the availability of acceptable fuel at favorable prices: risks and uncertainties which may cause the actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any the availability of operational capacity of plants: future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements.
weather and weather related impacts: ScottishPower wishes to caution readers, and others to whom forward-looking statements are addressed, that any such the success of reorganizational and cost-saving efforts: and forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and that actual results may differ materially from development and use of technology, the actions of estimates in the forward-looking statements.
ScottishPower competitors, natural disasters and other changes to business undertakes no obligation to revise these forward-looking conditions.
84 ScottishPower Annual Report and Accounts 2003 04
