our business As one of the worlds leading service companies, Serco is dedicated to bringing service to life.
Around the world, we provide quality services that make a difference to peoples lives.
More than 90% of our activities support the public sector, and our people demonstrate a strong public service ethos.
Both governments and commercial organisations continue to seek new and innovative ways of improving service delivery.
This drive to improve service quality and value offers our employees, customers and shareholders excellent opportunities for continued growth.
Civil government Transport Home affairs Education Health Rail Road Air Regional and local government services Income: 547m Income: 362m % of Group turnover: 33% % of Group turnover: 22% No.
of employees excluding JVs : 7,617 No.
of employees excluding JVs : 4,600 We have over 25 years experience in We have strong positions in the rail, road and air delivering public services, across activities markets.
In light rail we operate the Manchester that now span home affairs, education, health Metrolink, the Copenhagen Metro and the and local government.
We are at the forefront award-winning Docklands Light Railway.
Our of the global trend towards improving the heavy rail portfolio in the UK includes Merseyrail provision of public service through ever more plus the Northern Rail franchise which weve sophisticated service oriented contracts.
operated since December 2004, and in Australia For many years we provided services we run the recently extended Great Southern predominantly in the UK and Asia Pacific.
In road, we are a UK market leader in More recently weve won a growing number traffic management systems and operate the of contracts in mainland Europe notably Highways Agencys new National Traffic Control Germany and Italy and North America, Centre for England.
We are the leading provider where the outsourcing of public services of air traffic control ATC and airport technical represents a vast potential market.
With services in the Middle East, are a leading provider consulting groups operating in health, of ATC services in the US, and have a very education, home affairs, defence, transport successful airport services business in South and central government, we are helping Africa.
Our acquisition of RCI will strengthen our shape the future of public service delivery.
capability in air traffic control and engineering.
6 7 Defence Science Private sector Land Sea Air Income: 487m Income: 116m Income: 125m % of Group turnover: 30% % of Group turnover: 7% % of Group turnover: 8% No.
of employees excluding JVs : 9,958 No.
of employees excluding JVs : 2,676 No.
of employees excluding JVs : 2,755 Since winning our first defence contract in Our science business began in the 1970s Our work with the private sector consists the 1960s weve developed a broadly based with our work for the European Space mainly of multi-service facilities management business of more than 120 contracts in the Agency which is still a major client for blue-chip clients.
We operate a shared UK, ranging from supporting secure military and we have built a leading position in the services centre for Microsofts European communications systems to managing, sector.
We run the UKs National Physical subsidiaries for example, and we have with our partners, the Atomic Weapons Laboratory, which has a wide-ranging a growing business in the US, providing Establishment.
We are a leading supplier programme of world-class science projects, maintenance and management of vehicles of services to the armed forces in Australia, and have just signed our first contract to and infrastructure for utility companies.
and provide more than 33% of Australias run a regional technology and innovation The acquisition of ITNET considerably garrison support services.
We provide safety advice to nuclear broadens our role in the private sector, we have developed a growing portfolio power generators and the Royal Navys bringing a range of consultancy, business of defence contracts in Germany.
The nuclear submarine fleet, and work with the process management and IT services work acquisition of RCI, when completed, will Geneva-based European Particle Physics with medium to large organisations.
give us a substantial portfolio of business Laboratory, CERN.
with the US Department of Defense in the fields of human resource solutions, technology and supply chain management.
