18 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 BOARD OF DIRECTORS David Arculus MA MSc Chairman Martin Bettington BSc MechEng 58 MBA 51 Mr Arculus joined the Board in May Mr Bettington joined the Board in 1996 as a non-executive Director and November 1994.
He is the Managing was appointed Chairman on 29 July Director of Severn Trents waste 1998.
He is a non-executive Director management business, Biffa Waste of Barclays PLC and was recently Services Ltd. Mr Bettington was appointed as a non-executive previously employed by BET Plc, Director of mmO.
From 2002 to May Biffas former holding company.
He 2 2004 he was Chairman of Earls Court holds an MBA from Manchester & Olympia Group Ltd and from 1998 Business School.
to October 2001 he was Chairman of IPC Group Ltd. Until 1997 he was Marisa Cassoni BSc ACA 52 Group Managing Director of Emap Ms Cassoni joined the Board on 1 Board Committees Remuneration Committee Membership of Board Committees is as M C Flower Chairman Plc, the international media September 2001.
She is currently detailed below: M L Cassoni company, where he played a Group Finance Director of Royal Mail J D G McAdam significant role in the growth of that plc, having previously been Group Audit Committee Secretary P P Davies company.
Mr Arculus was formerly a Finance Director at Britannic J B Smith Chairman M L Cassoni Nominations Committee journalist and a producer at the BBC.
F A Osborn T D G Arculus Chairman In April 2002, he was appointed by Ms Cassoni qualified as an Secretary P P Davies M C Flower the Government to chair its Better accountant with Deloittes where she J D G McAdam Regulation Task Force.
rose to be Corporate Finance Charitable Contributions Committee F A Osborn B Duckworth Chairman Secretary P P Davies Manager.
She later moved to the R M Walker John Banyard BScEng FREng FICE Prudential Corporation, becoming Secretary P P Davies Treasury Committee FCIWEM 59 Group Finance Director of the M L Cassoni Chairman Mr Banyard joined the Board in Prudentials UK Division in 1994.
Corporate Responsibility Committee T D G Arculus R M Walker Chairman T E Jack January 1998.
He is an executive T D G Arculus A S Perelman Director of Severn Trent Water Ltd Brian Duckworth BA FCCA FCIWEM M J Bettington J B Smith with responsibility for asset FIWO 55 R S Brydon Jannetta R M Walker management.
He is also a Director of Mr Duckworth joined the Board in B Duckworth M R Wilson L F Graziano Secretary P P Davies UK Water Industry Research Ltd, a November 1994.
He has worked in J W Oatridge member of the Court of Cranfield various roles since joining Severn F A Osborn Senior independent non-executive Director University and the Royal Academy of Trent in 1974 and was appointed Secretary P P Davies M C Flower Engineering Visiting Professor of Managing Director of Severn Trent Executive Committee Group General Counsel and Company Water Engineering at Loughborough Water Ltd on 1 April 1995.
Mr R M Walker Chairman Secretary University.
Mr Banyard is a Chartered Duckworth was appointed as a nonT D G Arculus P P Davies, LL.
Solicitor Civil Engineer and has worked in a executive Director of Avon Rubber plc J K Banyard number of engineering roles within and Redrow Plc in 2002.
He has M J Bettington P P Davies and Secretary the group since joining Severn Trent served as the President of the B Duckworth in 1974.
He was elected a Fellow of Institution of Water Officers and P J Gavan the Royal Academy of Engineering in Chairman of Water UK, the water J W Oatridge 1997.
He is currently President of the industrys trade association.
A S Perelman P K Tandon Pipeline Industries Guild.
19 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Martin Flower BA 57 Colin Matthews MA CEng 48 Derek Osborn CB 63 John Smith FCCA, Hon.
FRIBA 46 Mr Flower joined the Board in June Mr Matthews joined the Board on 17 Mr Osborn joined the Board on Mr Smith joined the Board on 3 1996 and is the senior independent October 2003.
He is a Chartered 21 September 1998 and is a leading November 2003.
He is a member of non-executive Director.
At the end of Engineer who has worked in Japan, figure in the environmental world.
the H M Treasurys Public Services May 2004 he retired as Chairman of France, Canada, and the UK.
He He was Chairman of the UK Round Productivity Panel, the Accounting Coats Ltd, where he had previously worked for the American General Table on Sustainable Development Standards Board and the 100 Group been Group Chief Executive.
Electric Company for nine years and from 1999 to 2000 and is now a of Finance Directors.
He is a Fellow of subsequently spent five years at member of the UK Commission on the Chartered Association of Certified Martin Houston BSc MSc DIC 46 British Airways, first as Director of Sustainable Development.
After training with a Mr Houston joined the Board on Engineering then as Director of been Chairman of UNED UK since firm of accountants, Mr Smith joined 1 September 2003.
He is currently Technical Operations, responsible for 1996 and was Chairman of the the British Railways Board, moving Executive Vice President and all aircraft maintenance, IT and International Institute for Environment up over a period of 14 years to head Managing Director of BG Groups procurement.
He then joined the and Development from 1998 to up their corporate demerger team.
North American, Caribbean and Board of Lattice Group Plc as Group 2002.
He is Chairman of Jupiter In 1989 he moved to the BBC, Global Liquefied Natural Gas Managing Director of Transco until its Global Green Investment Trust and becoming Director of Finance, business and a member of the Group merger with the National Grid.
He of the international advisory board Property and Business Affairs in Executive Committee.
He joined BG has held his current position as CEO of ERM CVS.
Mr Smith has held a nonGroup in 1983 and has held a of Hays Plc since November 2002.
General of Environment Protection in executive directorship with Vickers number of technical and commercial Mr Matthews holds a first class the Department of the Environment Plc, was a member of the advisory roles with a predominantly degree in Engineering from from 1990 to 1995 and Chairman board of Zurich Financial Services international focus.
He has a BSc in Cambridge University.
of the Management Board of the UK and was a Director of the Royal Geology from Newcastle University European Environment Agency from Television Society.
and an MSc in Petroleum Geology John McAdam BSc PhD 56 1995 to 1999. from Imperial College, London.
He is Dr McAdam joined the Board on 18 Robert Walker MA 59 a fellow of the Geological Society of September 2000.
He is Chief Alan Perelman MA MSc 56 Mr Walker joined the Board in May London and sits on the board of Executive and a member of the Mr Perelman joined the Board in 1996 as a non-executive Director.
SIGTTO Society of International Gas Board of ICI PLC.
He joined ICI in October 2001 and was appointed He was appointed Deputy Chief Tanker & Terminal Operators Ltd. 1997 following the acquisition of the Group Finance Director in December Executive in July 1999 and became Specialty Chemical Businesses from 2001.
Prior to this he was Group Group Chief Executive in August Unilever where he held a number of Finance Director at Whitbread from 2000.
He has previously worked for senior positions in Birds Eye Walls 1990 to 2001.
Previous positions Procter & Gamble, McKinsey & Ltd, Unichema International and held were Group Finance Director at Company and PepsiCo Inc. where he Quest International.
He was The Gateway Corporation and various was a Division President.
Mr Walker appointed Executive Vice President positions at Rio Tinto both in the UK is also a non-executive Director of Coatings and Chief Executive of ICI and overseas.
Paints in 1998, and joined the Board of ICI PLC soon after when he also Non-executive Director became responsible for Corporate Research & Technology.
He took over as Chief Executive of ICI PLC in April 2003.
He is a member of the University of Surrey Business Advisory Group.
Top row Bottom row David Arculus Martin Flower Robert Walker Marisa Cassoni Alan Perelman Derek Osborn Brian Duckworth John Smith Martin Bettington John Banyard Colin Matthews Martin Houston John McAdam
