20 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors present their report, together with the audited financial In accordance with the companys Articles of Association Messrs statements of the group for the year ended 31 March 2004.
J K Banyard, B Duckworth, M J Houston, C S Matthews, F A Osborn, J B Smith and Dr J D G McAdam retire at the AGM and, being Principal activities eligible, offer themselves for reappointment.
The Nominations The principal activities of the group continued to be the supply of Committee supports and recommends the proposed water and sewerage services, waste management and the provision reappointments.
These are described in more detail, together with a review of the groups business and future The company has recently announced a number of changes developments, on pages 8 to 14 which should be read in regarding its Directors.
It has been agreed that Mr T D G Arculus will conjunction with this report.
Details of the principal joint venture, step down as Chairman of the Board as he will soon be appointed associated and subsidiary undertakings of the group at 31 March Chairman of mmO.
However, in order to provide continuity to the 2 2004 appear in notes 12 and 25 to the financial statements on Board during a time of change and also assist in the finalisation of pages 48, 49, 65 and 66.
Severn Trent Waters AMP4 determination, it was considered to be in the best interests of the company for him to remain in post until 31 Dividend and reserves December 2004.
Mr R M Walker will retire as Group Chief Executive Details of dividends paid, payable and proposed are set out in note on 2 February 2005 and will be succeeded by Mr C S Matthews.
8 to the financial statements on page 46.
Subject to approval at the Mr A S Perelman will retire as Group Finance Director on 31 August Annual General Meeting, the recommended final dividend of 29.27p 2004 and will be replaced by Mr M R Wilson.
Mr B Duckworth will 2003: 28.56p net for each ordinary share will be paid on step down from the Board at the end of August 2004.
Mrs R S 1 October 2004 to shareholders on the register at the close of Brydon Jannetta will join the Board, as an executive Director, in business on 18 June 2004.
This, together with the interim dividend September 2004. of 17.77p 2003: 17.34p per share, which was paid on 6 April 2004, brings the total for the year to 47.04p 2003: 45.90p.
Corporate governance Proposed transfers to from reserves are set out in note 20 to the The company attaches great significance to the maintenance of financial statements on page 56. good corporate governance procedures and adherence to best practice recognising that they play their part in creating a framework Share capital which can provide increased benefits for shareholders.
Details of movements in share capital are shown in note 19 to the financial statements on page 55.
Following the issue of a revised Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Revised Code in July 2003, which incorporated Resolutions will be proposed at this years Annual General Meeting recommendations from the reports on the Role and Effectiveness of AGM to renew the Directors authority to: non-executive Directors the Higgs Report and Audit Committees allot relevant securities within the meaning of Section 80 of the the Smith Report, the company has carried out a review of its Companies Act 1985 : corporate governance arrangements and made changes as issue equity securities for cash without first having to offer these necessary and appropriate.
securities to existing shareholders: and make market purchases of the companys own ordinary shares.
As the Revised Code became effective for accounting periods starting on or after 1 November 2003, this report has been Full details of these resolutions are included in the Notice of the prepared on the basis of the previous Combined Code on AGM which is circulated to all shareholders.
However it is anticipated that the company will be compliant with virtually all provisions of the Substantial shareholdings Revised Code for the new financial year.
As at 7 June 2004 the company had been notified of the following substantial shareholding: Throughout the year ended 31 March 2004 the company has been Number of ordinary in compliance with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Code 5 shares of 65 19p each % and applied its principles as follows: Legal & General Investment Management Limited 11,259,833 3.26 The Board The Board currently consists of five executive Directors and eight non-executive Directors.
The Board has reviewed the status of the Directors non-executive Directors and has confirmed that, with the exception A list of Directors and their background details appear on pages of Mr C S Matthews as Group Chief Executive Designate, it regards 18 and 19.
Full details of their service contracts, emoluments them as being independent.
At the time of his appointment as and share interests can be found in the Remuneration Report on Chairman of the company Mr T D G Arculus was considered to pages 25 to 31.
No Director had an interest in the shares of any be independent.
However, in accordance with the Revised Code, subsidiary undertaking.
No contract significant to the companys he is now deemed not to be independent.
business in which a Director had a material interest was entered into during the year.
The Board meets ten times each year and convenes additional meetings as and when required.
The Board has established a formal Mr M J Houston, Mr C S Matthews and Mr J B Smith joined the schedule of matters which are specifically reserved to it for decision Board as non-executive Directors on 1 September 2003, 17 October thereby ensuring that it maintains control over strategies and 2003 and 3 November 2003 respectively.
financial and key operational issues.
It has also put in place an organisational structure with clearly defined lines of responsibility Mrs C Tritton and Mr E E Anstee retired from the Board on 30 July and delegations of authority, which are reviewed from time to time.
21 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Attendance at the regular meetings of the Board during the year Nominations Committee by the current-serving Directors was 97%.
The Nominations Committee comprises all non-executive Directors the majority of whom are independent.
It makes recommendations In addition to the Board meetings, the non-executive Directors, to the Board on the appointment and, where applicable, including the Chairman, meet separately on a regular basis and also re-appointment to the Board of both executive and non-executive have an annual meeting at which time there is an opportunity for Directors, considers succession planning and related issues.
During the non-executive Directors to meet without the Chairman.
the year the Nominations Committee met on four occasions.
Attendance at those meetings by the current-serving Directors A rigorous and formal review of the effectiveness of the Board was was 100%.
undertaken by the Chairman and the Company Secretary.
The results of the review were reported to the Board and a number of Treasury Committee resultant changes have been introduced to improve the Boards The Treasury Committee determines matters of treasury policy and effectiveness.
its approval is required for certain treasury transactions.
The groups treasury affairs are managed centrally and in accordance with its All non-executive Directors who joined the Board during the year Board approved Terms of Reference, its Policy Statement and the have undertaken a course of induction.
Furthermore, the training Treasury Procedures Manual.
Compliance with these policies and needs of all Directors have been reviewed and appropriate training procedures is monitored by management, by the groups internal identified as part of a continuing process.
auditors and, to the extent necessary to support their audit report, by the external auditors.
Board Committees The Board has delegated certain powers and duties to the Board Corporate Responsibility Committee committees all of which operate within clearly defined terms of The Corporate Responsibility Committees principal terms of reference and in accordance with the Code, where applicable.
reference are to help further develop both the companys All the committees meet regularly throughout the year except for environmental leadership, strategy and objectives and address the Nominations Committee which meets when required, but in matters relating to corporate social responsibility.
any event, at least twice a year.
The membership of the committees is set out on page 18.
The companys corporate vision is to be at the forefront of the environmental services industry.
The company has a policy The terms of reference and membership of the Audit, Remuneration statement that defines how the vision is incorporated into its and Nominations Committees the Principal Committees have activities in relation to the environment, corporate social been reviewed in line with the Revised Code and Smith Report, responsibility and sustainable development.
The terms of reference for each of the Principal Committees are available on the companys website The company complies with the guidelines issued by the Association www.
com or on written request to the Company of British Insurers on socially responsible investment and reporting Secretary at the address given on the back cover.
on social, ethical and environmental matters.
The most recent annual Stewardship Report may be obtained from the companys Each of the Principal Committees has reviewed its effectiveness website www.
com or by sending a request for a free and any necessary actions have been identified and reported to copy to the address given on the back cover.
In the case of the Remuneration Committee the review process is continuing.
Charitable Contributions Committee The Charitable Contributions Committee meets as required Audit Committee throughout the year to award donations to charities from a budget Membership of the Audit Committee now consists entirely of approved each year by the Board.
Appointments to the Audit Committee are made by the Board.
By invitation of the Audit Executive Committee Committee other individuals such as the Chairman, Group Chief The Severn Trent Executive Committee has delegated authority Executive, Group Finance Director, head of Internal Audit and to approve capital and other expenditure within defined limits.
representatives of the external auditors  The Executive Committee is responsible for reviewing the financial LLP will normally be in attendance for all or part of the Audit and operational performance of all companies within the group and Committees meetings.
The Audit Committee also meets privately in establishing, or supporting the Board in establishing, policies with both the external and internal auditors.
During the year the covering organisational and employment matters.
Audit Committee met five times and attendance by the currentserving Directors was 93%.
A statement by the Directors covering their responsibilities in relation to the groups system of internal control is set out on pages Remuneration Committee 22 and 23.
A statement regarding the adoption of the going concern The Remuneration Committee also consists entirely of independent basis for the preparation of the financial statements is set out on non-executive Directors.
It determines, on behalf of the Board, the page 24. companys policy on the remuneration of executive Directors, the Chairman of the Board and a number of the companys senior Auditors executives.
Further details on remuneration issues are given in the As of 1 April 2003 the Board has instituted formal policies Remuneration Report on pages 25 to 31.
During the year the and procedures so as to minimise the risk of the independence Remuneration Committee had seven meetings.
Attendance by the and objectivity of the groups external auditors the Auditors current-serving Directors was 95%.
The primary policies in place include the following safeguards: 22 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED In their assessment of the independence of the groups Auditors, the 100,000 would be the subject of a competitive selection process.
Audit Committee receives annually in writing details of relationships Further, any projects for other advisory services where fees payable between the Auditors and the group, which may bear on the Auditors to the Auditors would exceed 500,000 must be approved by the independence and receives confirmation that they are independent Audit Committee.
of the group as required by auditing standard SAS 610.
The level of non-audit services provided by the Auditors and the The Audit Committee meets with the Auditors three times a year, associated fees are considered annually by the Audit Committee in with executive management in attendance by invitation.
The Audit the context of the Auditors independence, as part of the Audit Committee and the Auditors also hold separate meetings on these Committees review of the adequacy and objectivity of the audit occasions without the attendance of executive management and at process.
An analysis of fees payable to the Auditors in respect of any other time at the sole discretion of either the Audit Committee audit and non-audit services is provided on page 44. or the Auditors.
It is the groups policy to seek rotation of the Auditors principal The Audit Committee annually reviews the level of the Auditors fees engagement partner as a matter of course every five years and, in respect of the audit of the financial statements of the group and where deemed appropriate by the Audit Committee, of other key its subsidiaries at the same time as considering the adequacy of members of the audit team.
the Auditors proposed audit plan.
The adequacy of both the Auditors and Internal Audit has recently In addition to the annual appointment of Auditors by the been reviewed by the Audit Committee.
shareholders, the Audit Committee reviews the Auditors performance on an on-going basis.
Due to the longevity of the Reappointment of Auditors incumbent Auditors appointment, the Audit Committee has decided A resolution proposing the reappointment of to commence a formal selection process.
It is intended that the  LLP as Auditors will be put to the AGM.
Auditors selected, using a competitive process, should be in place in time for the audit review of the groups 2005 2006 interim Internal control results.
 LLP, the groups current Auditors, The Board has overall responsibility for the groups system of have been asked to participate in this process.
internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Board has formally established policies and processes for identifying and The Board has instituted the following policies in relation to the evaluating the significant risks faced by the group.
There are performance by the Auditors of services for the group: established procedures for managing these risks, of which the key elements are: an organisation structure with clear lines of Audit-related services including reporting on regulatory accountability: regular, structured reviews of business risk by senior accounts and other regulatory matters, covenants and other management: a scheme of delegated authority: pre-approval of borrowing related matters and Stock Exchange circulars plans, budgets and significant investments: and monthly reporting Subject to conflict of interest or other pertinent issues impacting of financial results and other key business monitors.
delivery of services, the Auditors are used to perform such work on behalf of the group.
The executive Directors and senior management teams of each of the principal subsidiary companies have identified the risks facing Tax compliance and tax advisory services their businesses and have made an assessment of the impact of Given their knowledge of the group, subject to conflict of interest those risks.
The controls that are in place to manage each of the or other pertinent issues impacting delivery of the services, the more significant risks in each unit have been identified within a Auditors are used to undertake tax compliance and general tax comprehensive control framework and an assessment has been advisory services.
Specific projects are assessed on a case by case made of the effectiveness of these controls.
basis, depending on who is best suited to perform the work.
The Directors of each of the principal subsidiary companies Internal audit services regularly consider new risks and threats and control weaknesses The group has its own internally resourced Internal Audit that may have become apparent and report at six-monthly intervals Department Internal Audit with a direct and independent to the Group Chief Executive.
They also conduct an annual review reporting line to the Audit Committee.
It is the intention that no such of the risks facing their businesses and report on this review in one services should be provided by the Auditors, except on rare of the six-monthly reports.
occasions in relation to standalone projects, where specialist skills are required and then only with the express, prior authorisation of The Board reviews risk management and the effectiveness of the the Audit Committee Chairman.
system of internal control through the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee meets at least three times a year and both the head of Transaction related services Internal Audit and the Auditors have direct access to the Chairman Historically the Auditors have generally been used for such work.
The Audit Committee receives reports on a A competitive selection process has been undertaken to decide who six-monthly frequency from the Group Chief Executive on the should undertake transaction related services for the group, which significant risks faced by the group, an assessment of the concluded that the Auditors would generally be used to supply effectiveness of controls over each of those risks and an action plan these services.
to improve controls where this has been assessed as necessary.
Any significant control weaknesses that have been identified are also Other advisory services excludes services for the above reported to the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee also receives four categories reports from Internal Audit and from management on specific Each project is assessed on a case by case basis, depending on who control issues, agrees audit strategies and reviews reports from is best suited to perform the work.
Any material project for other management on the financial results of the group.
In addition, the advisory services where fees payable to the Auditors exceed Auditors present their audit strategy to the Audit Committee and 23 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 report on significant control issues upon completion of their audit.
These activities are all complemented at senior manager level by The Chairman of the Audit Committee reports to the Board.
the Leadership Development programme which covers the top 120 managers.
The aim of the programme is to produce a stream of The Directors confirm that there is an ongoing process for the technically and managerially competent managers who are able identification, evaluation and management of the significant risks to put into action the groups future business plans.
This process has been in place throughout the year ended 31 March 2004 and up to the date of approval of the Several group companies participate in external accreditation Annual Report and Accounts.
It accords with the guidance in the schemes such as Investors in People and it is particularly pleasing report on Guidance on internal control The Turnbull Guidance.
when these accreditations are retained following periodic A sound system of internal control is designed to manage risks but reassessment such as in Metering Services.
cannot eliminate them and therefore provides reasonable but not absolute assurance against a company failing to meet its business Group companies continue to meet legislative requirements of the objectives or against material errors, losses or fraud or breaches of countries in which they operate.
In addition, they further operate laws or regulations.
in compliance with the groups Code of Business Principles and Conduct.
Disclosure whistle-blowing procedures are in place in all Employees group companies to deal with allegations of breaches of that code The group employed 15,973 people as at 31 March 2004 2003: and supporting values including bullying, harassment and fraud.
Of these 5,099 32% were employed in the water business, 5,241 33% in the Biffa waste business and 4,781 30% in the These procedures have recently been reviewed by the Audit Severn Trent Services businesses.
The numbers in Biffa have Committee along with the groups Code of Business Principles and increased as a result of the acquisition of Hales Waste in 2003.
Conduct and the formalising of the Fraud Policy.
Approximately 29% of employees continue to be based outside the UK, mainly in the USA, Belgium and Italy.
The proportions of Diversity employees in each of the major business units continue to reflect Diversity policies are in place in each company in the group that the diversity of the groups activities.
reflect the requirements of the locations in which they operate and that also meet the aims of the companys Code of Business The larger group companies now each have their own intranets Principles and Conduct.
which form a major communication channel with their employees in addition to in-house magazines and tool-box talks.
The company continues to monitor the data on the diversity of the current and potential workforce.
The US businesses continue Group companies continue to maintain positive relationships with to demonstrate their lead in the group with the gender and ethnic the recognised trade unions and with other elected representatives.
A number of training initiatives have The groups annual meetings of the European Consultative Council been undertaken to communicate and reinforce the groups diversity are a further opportunity to develop a dialogue with employee policy, including workshops using the forum theatre concept.
representatives and promote their better understanding of the future issues facing our businesses in Europe.
On an ongoing basis, the company benchmarks its policies and practices in this area by taking guidance from best practice The group has undertaken a major review of its pension strategy advisors such as the Employers Forum on Disability and Race with the objectives of reducing risk, maintaining affordability and for Opportunity.
Progress is regularly monitored by the Corporate demonstrating equity.
As a result of this review three new pension Responsibility Committee.
options were made available to new employees from 1 April 2004, namely a defined contribution scheme, an average salary scheme Health and safety and a revised final salary scheme.
Details of these revised options This year the company has continued to develop a safety culture have been circulated to employees.
fully integrated into all aspects of the way the business is managed.
To help ensure that the actions taken are consistent with best The groups Lifestyle flexible benefits scheme continues to expand practice the main companies in the group have partnered with amongst UK based employees and with its introduction to Biffa staff external experts to develop behavioural safety initiatives involving in October 2004 will cover over 8,000 employees.
The group continues to focus on the development of employees Work also continued on over-arching group standards which apply to at all levels.
In Biffa there has been a significant effort in all group companies wherever they operate and these standards will harmonising the driver training programme to incorporate the best address all key risk areas.
from the Biffa and the Hales driver training schemes.
This has been further extended by the launch of an NVQ scheme which underpins The Group Health and Safety Committee, chaired by the Group the in-house scheme by linking it to a national standard.
Chief Executive, has continued with its work of monitoring the performance and progress of safety programmes within group Three of the training programmes in Severn Trent Water received companies throughout the year.
The Committee receives quarterly awards: The Institute of Leadership and Management Award for reports on the five key action plans on which companies have Excellence in Supervisory Management: and the Sector Skills agreed to focus, as well as summaries of new legislation in this area.
Council award for both the BSc in Water and Environmental The managing directors of the operating companies also take the Management and the partnership with Warwick Business School.
opportunity to share learning points and new initiatives with each other at these meetings.
All companies have the goal of making learning opportunities available and accessible to all employees.
To this end many The company is keen to map its actions against external standards companies are making learning resource centres available in and as part of this work a number of sites have been awarded five e-learning by intranet and internet providers.
stars following British Safety Council audits.
This is the fourth 24 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED consecutive year that this has been achieved and it provides Contributions for political and charitable purposes assurance that the companys management system is aligned with Donations to charitable organisations during the year amounted best practice in Health and Safety.
The Charitable Contributions every Board meeting.
In addition, the Board receives six-monthly Committee is responsible for ensuring that the money donated by reviews and other periodic reports from the managing directors of the company is used in the most effective way.
It focuses on the the operating companies.
development of long term partnerships with charities close to the companys major sites and which reflect the companys value of Research and development environmental leadership.
Their work focuses on environmental Research and development expenditure, including the amounts that education, the preservation and enhancement of the natural have been capitalised, amounted to 4.2 million 2003: 4.9 million environment or addressing social exclusion issues in the built environment.
The company is also committed to supporting Severn Trent Water has continued to develop the Sorb 33 process.
WaterAid, the UKs only major charity dedicated to providing safe The process has been extensively developed in the UK to meet the domestic water and sanitation to the Worlds poorest people.
new standards for arsenic in drinking water and has also been adopted for 50% of the Environmental Protection Agency No political donations were made during the year.
It is the demonstration sites in the USA.
A service reservoir management companys policy not to make any donations to political parties and system has also been developed which stabilises the disinfection the Board does not intend to change that policy.
However, as in process used in drinking water treatment to improve the taste and previous years and on a precautionary basis, resolutions will be quality of stored water.
In addition, research has continued into the proposed at this years AGM in relation to political expenditure as removal of endocrine disrupting chemicals, pharmaceuticals and defined by The Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act persistent organic pollutants and nutrients from wastewater.
Full details of those resolutions are given in the Notice of the AGM which is circulated to all shareholders.
Through Biffaward, its Landfill Tax Credit Scheme, Biffa has supported the publication of a series of studies in resource flow Supplier payment policy mass balance.
These studies are themed around the concept that Individual operating companies within the group are responsible for matter can neither be created nor destroyed and that the establishing appropriate policies with regard to the payment of their measurement of input output streams provides indicators of suppliers.
The companies agree terms and conditions under which pollution.
Other funding through the scheme has been directed at business transactions with suppliers are conducted.
It is group scientific evaluation of recovered materials particularly rubber, policy that, provided a supplier is complying with the relevant terms plastic and glass and their performance in reuse applications.
and conditions, including the prompt and complete submission of Most notably these have applied in the construction and civil all specified documentation, payment will be made in accordance engineering sectors working with cross sectoral partners.
It is also group policy to ensure that suppliers know the terms on which payment will take place when business Severn Trent Laboratories, in the USA, has been developing new is agreed.
Details of supplier payment policies can be obtained from analytical methods for detecting low levels of emerging toxic the individual companies at the addresses shown in note 25. contaminants such as flame retardants, fire fighting foam and Trade creditors for the group and company at the year-end are perchlorate which is used in rocket fuel, fireworks and air bags.
estimated as representing no greater than 30 days purchases The main focus in the UK has been to improve the efficiency of 2003: no greater than 30 days.
legionella testing, detection and ways to inactivate legionella.
Other work includes projects to evaluate microorganisms indicative of Economic and Monetary Union sewage contamination.
The group maintains its preparedness for conversion to the euro, should the UK enter the EMU.
The experience gained from the Key developments by Severn Trent Services include: a global water conversion of our subsidiary and associated companies located meter incorporating fluidic oscillation meter technology in a low cost in the euro area countries has been a useful input into the design: a series of MicroChem 4000 analysers for measuring pH, conversion planning.
chlorine and ORP Oxidation Reduction Potential : a fluoride monitor developed for the US market: and a lightweight, portable electro Accounts of Severn Trent Water Limited chlorination unit for the marine market.
Separate accounts for Severn Trent Water Limited are prepared and sent to the Director General of Water Services.
A copy of these Communications with shareholders and the AGM accounts will be available from the website of Severn Trent Water The company attaches considerable importance to the effectiveness Limited www.
co. uk or on written request to the Company of its communications with shareholders.
Prior to the AGM, private Secretary at the address given on the back cover.
There is no investors are given the opportunity to meet the Board and also to charge for this publication.
question them during the AGM itself.
They are encouraged to participate in the AGM.
Photographic displays and literature are Going concern available to shareholders at the AGM to demonstrate the nature The Board has a reasonable expectation that the group and the and extent of the groups environmental services.
The company company have adequate resources to continue in operational will, on request, provide a summary of the proceedings of the AGM.
existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly the financial The company also responds to enquiries from shareholders as statements set out on pages 34 to 66 have been prepared on the they arise throughout the year.
Further information relevant to going concern basis.
shareholders is provided on the companys website www.
Regular communication is maintained with By order of the Board institutional shareholders and fund managers through meetings and P P Davies LL.
Such communications are sensitive to the need not Group General Counsel and Company Secretary to disclose potentially price-sensitive information in breach of any 7 June 2004 regulatory regime.
