14 SIG plc Annual Report & Accounts 2004 COMMERCIAL INTERIORS DIVISION Product Manager Dirk Rombach demonstrates the functionality of a new ceiling & lighting system, supplied through SIGs German business WeGo, for the recently refurbished InterContinental Hotel in Frankfurt.
This system has several novel features which enhance and alter the ambience of the hotel depending on customer requirements.
15 SIG plc Annual Report & Accounts 2004 DELIVERING SPECIALIST ADVICE The market for commercial interiors has become more demanding and more sophisticated in recent years.
The emphasis is on achieving the optimum balance between the efficient utilisation of space and the quality and comfort provided for people who use that space as a working environment.
The added requirement for a flexible and adaptable interior, to change with the usage of the building, is increasingly important.
16 SIG plc Annual Report & Accounts 2004 COMMERCIAL INTERIORS DIVISION SIG is the largest supplier of commercial interior products in the UK & Republic of Ireland, as well as having very significant market The Group supplies a wide range of products, backed presence in France, Germany, by high levels of technical expertise and service, to Benelux and Poland.
The Group contractors working on both new and refurbishment projects.
These projects range across the spectrum supplies interior solutions to a from office and retail, through manufacturing and whole range of buildings and is able pharmaceutical, to educational and public sector.
to tailor products to meet the The product range is similarly broad, covering the full clients requirements.
spectrum of requirements from budget to top-end Understanding these requirements boardroom systems.
and providing a specialist response Effective distribution of commercial interiors products to them is key to SIGs success in is vital and the Group achieves this using a highly this area.
specialised fleet of vehicles, with mechanical offload facilities.
These range from lorry mounted forklifts to high level cranes, able to deliver product straight from the vehicle into the building several floors up.
This Case Study: dedication to delivery is one of the aspects of service Cleanroom technology that sets SIG apart when it comes to meeting the needs of contracting customers.
MRSA, the hospital superbug that is killing hundreds of patients every year, highlights the importance of hygiene throughout a hospital and not just in the theatre environment.
SIG has developed a range of interiors specifically for the hygiene requirements demanded by the health As well as distributing ceiling and wall authorities in their fight against the superbugs.
All surfaces must be easily reached and readily sterilised, products, lighting and storage including walls, ceilings & floors, extending to radiators, solutions, the Group also designs and storage systems and even the hinges that hang the doors.
produces demountable partitioning Active product and system development is at the core of systems and internal architectural business success and within the Commercial Interiors market there are many niche areas where SIG is able to glazing systems.
These offer the bring know-how, skills and good supplier relationships designer the flexibility to tailor the to bear to resolve issues faced by increasingly demanding clients.
internal environment to their clients needs, while maintaining a tight control over the performance of the systems.
Recent development work has also brought a range of steel partitioning to the market, including cleanroom products, which offer superior, microbe-free performance to the end-user.
17 SIG plc Annual Report & Accounts 2004 Above: Herv fide Bonneville, ceiling and partitioning manager, proud of the large range of tools and accessories displayed at the counter in Caen.
Top right: CPD Trade Counter staff such as Alan Jones, Sales Office Supervisor at Manchester, provide customers with an efficient collection service and one-stop shop experience, vital in todays fast paced business environment.
Above right: Sam Crossland, CPDs Telesales Supervisor, reviews the latest selection of ironmongery designed to complement the Tenon Partition Systems range.
Below left: An architect choosing ceiling tiles amongst the wide range of products in the branch showroom.
Below middle: Staff product training is ongoing at CPD, as demonstrated here by Victoria Hart, Sales Coordinator and Tenon Partition specialist at Luton branch, examining a new Column Encasement System.
Right: One of the 300 German WeGo lorries with its 21m crane delivers to our customers in Darmstadt, Hesse.
