34 SIG plc Annual Report & Accounts 2004 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS The Directors present their Annual Report and the audited Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2004.
Principal Activities and Business Review The principal activity of the Group is the supply of building materials to construction and related markets.
The main products supplied are insulation, roofing and commercial interior products.
The Chairmans Statement, Chief Executives Review of Operations and Finance Directors Review on pages 18 to 27 contain a review of these activities and comments on the future outlook.
Details of the Groups policies in relation to employees and information on charitable and political donations are disclosed on page 31.
Details of the Groups policies in relation to Corporate Governance are disclosed on pages 36 to 40.
Group Results The Consolidated Profit and Loss Account for the year ended 31 December 2004 is shown on page 50.
The movement in the Group reserves during the year is shown in note 18 on page 69.
Segmental information is set out in note 1 on page 57.
Dividends The Board is recommending a final dividend of 9.4p per share 2003 : 8.3p which, together with the interim dividend of 4.6p 2003 : 4.1p per share, makes a total for the year ended 31 December 2004 of 14.0p 2003 : 12.4p per share.
Payment of the final dividend, if approved at the Annual General Meeting, will be made on 23 May 2005 to shareholders registered at the close of business on 15 April 2005.
Directors The names of the Directors as at the date of this report together with biographical notes are set out on page 32.
They comprised the Board for the whole of the year except as stated below.
Mr. M J C Borlenghi was appointed a Non-Executive Director on 2 April 2004 and Mr. B Cottingham resigned as a Non-Executive Director and Chairman on 30 April 2004.
The Directors standing for re-election at the Annual General Meeting are Mr. P H Blackburn and Mr. L O Tench.
Each Director being eligible, offers himself for re-election.
Neither Messrs. Blackburn or Tench have service contracts with the Company.
Full details of Directors remuneration, interests in the share capital of the Company and of their share options are set out on pages 44 to 46 in the Directors Remuneration Report.
Acquisitions Details of acquisitions made in the year are covered in note 10 on page 62.
Share Capital Details of the share capital and allotments during the year, which arose solely from the exercise of options under Employee and Executive share schemes are set out in note 17 on page 68.
Details of outstanding options under the Groups Employee and Executive schemes are also set out in note 17 on page 68.
Substantial Shareholdings As at 7 March 2005, the Company had been notified of the following substantial interests of 3 per cent or more in its ordinary issued share capital.
% of issued share capital FMR Corporation Fidelity International Limited 10.95 Barclays PLC 5.00 Standard Life Investments 4.41 Payment to Suppliers The Group follows the CBIs prompt payment code and operates and abides by a clearly defined policy, which has been agreed with all major suppliers.
As at 31 December 2004 the Company had no trade creditors as it does not trade in its own right.
The Groups average number of days outstanding as at 31 December 2004 in respect of trade creditors was 39 2003 : 34.
35 SIG plc Annual Report & Accounts 2004 Fixed Assets In the opinion of the Directors, the market value of the Groups properties is not materially different from the value included in the Group Financial Statements.
Directors and Officers Liability Insurance The Company purchases liability insurance cover for Directors and Officers of the Company and its subsidiaries.
Statement of Directors Responsibilities United Kingdom company law requires the Directors to prepare Financial Statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and Group as at the end of the financial year and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing those Financial Statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, and prepare the Financial Statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records, which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and Group and enable them to ensure that the Financial Statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Auditors In accordance with Section 384 of the Companies Act 1985 a resolution re-appointing Deloitte & Touche LLP as Auditors of the Company for the ensuing year will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Annual General Meeting The Notice convening the Annual General Meeting to be held at the Whitley Hall Hotel, Grenoside, Sheffield at 12 noon on Wednesday 4 May 2005, together with explanatory notes on the resolutions to be proposed, is contained in a circular to be sent to shareholders with this report.
By order of the Board Richard Monro Company Secretary 7 March 2005
