6 SIG plc Annual Report & Accounts 2004 INSULATION DIVISION Lee Warren 2 Lee shows off the new 58000ft warehouse in Cardiff which was opened in April 2004 as part of an ongoing branch development plan.
This has the largest stockholding of insulation and related materials in the South West, supplying the growing city of Cardiff and its surrounding area with a fast, efficient service immediately from stock.
7 SIG plc Annual Report & Accounts 2004 DELIVERING QUALITY & CHOICE FOR OUR CLIENTS Insulation materials are used across all areas of industry and construction.
Traditionally, insulation materials have been used to resist the transfer of Heat or Fire but the management of Noise is now an increasingly important issue for the building industry.
8 SIG plc Annual Report & Accounts 2004 INSULATION DIVISION SIG is the leading distributor of insulation materials in Europe.
It has over 200 branches in 7 Insulation products are used in a wide range of countries.
Traditionally strong in applications from residential, to commercial to industrial uses.
As well as supplying the full range of the UK, SIG is also the leader in insulants into these markets, SIG also supplies the widest choice of associated products for fixing, sealing, Germany and holds strong applying and retaining the insulation.
As the market positions in France, Poland, continues to grow, with the increasing costs of energy and the tightening of regulations, SIG is at the forefront Benelux and the USA.
of providing a wide range of solutions that allow its customers to meet the demands of the market with a mix of new and existing products To be able to meet the diverse demands for insulation materials, SIG has developed its branch network to be able to cope with an increasingly wide and complex product range.
This ability requires expertise on the part of its staff and specialist storage and handling requirement for each of its branches.
Case Study: Acoustics Sound transmissions and the reduction of noise Branches must work closely with a wide range of between rooms and between dwellings is an increasingly customers.
Each branch has a specialist sales team important issue.
In the UK and across Europe, attached to it which includes an Area Sales Executive to regulations are being tightened to reflect the handle relationships with specialist contractors, a increasingly compact and congested world in which Business Development Manager to work with national we live.
contractors and specifiers and a Telesales operation to manage smaller accounts.
Noise management calls for considerable expertise as sound and vibration can travel through, around, under and over dividing walls.
Indeed, sound can travel through the building fabric and it calls for considerable expertise to be able to advise clients on suitable building techniques to mitigate noise transmission.
The tightening of regulations within the UK & Republic of Ireland, together with new European requirements, has increased the complexity of the market for thermal and acoustic insulation, which has increased the need for a diverse range of products.
SIGs ability to stock these, and support them with appropriate technical advice and timely delivery, continues to underpin its market-leading position.
9 SIG plc Annual Report & Accounts 2004 Left: Alain Brugieregarde, in Ouest Isol Rouen branch, organising his stock of air ducting products.
Below left: Already the leading supplier to H&V contractors throughout France, Ouest Isol is developing a comprehensive range of specialist commercial ventilation products.
Below: In the UK Sheffield Insulations supplies more than 50,000 products via the largest UK branch network in the Insulation industry.
Bottom: Jamie Davies, an Area Sales Executive, advises customers on which materials will help meet the Insulation standards required by the latest Building Regulations.
Bottom right: On the spot technical advice and product selection is available at all branches.
