10 SIG plc Annual Report & Accounts 2004 ROOFING DIVISION John Macphee John is a key member of the team in the South Coast Roofing Supplies business - part of the SIG network of branches throughout the UK & Republic of Ireland, which together make the Group the largest supplier to the roofing industry.
The type of materials does vary from region to region, and our staff have the essential local knowledge to ensure we have the right products for customers in every area, for immediate use.
11 SIG plc Annual Report & Accounts 2004 DELIVERING EXPERIENCE & EXPERTISE The roof of any building is the most critical part it protects the whole of the building and its contents from the elements and is subject to the full forces of the rain, wind, snow, ice and sun.
These forces mean that repairs, maintenance and improvement of existing buildings is a significant driver of demand for SIGs products.
12 SIG plc Annual Report & Accounts 2004 ROOFING DIVISION SIG is the largest supplier of roofing products in the UK and a leading specialist in the Republic SIG supplies products from the leading manufacturers of Ireland.
The demands of this into the flat, pitched, industrial and agricultural sectors of the roofing market.
As well as the core roofing market are for a local supply products, it supplies a wide variety of accessories ranging from nails to tools.
A growing part of the of materials, which the Group service is the supply of reclaimed materials, which supports with a national supply allow existing properties to be re-roofed or repaired sympathetically, or new roofs to assume a more network.
The ongoing needs for the refurbishment or replacement of existing roofs, whether as a result of natural wear and tear, or as a result of storm damage, creates a resilient market for roofing materials.
The emergency nature of some of these repairs requires that materials are available immediately, from stock.
SIGs roofing operations respond to this demand by stocking a wide range of products which can be made available immediately, either by collection or delivery.
Specialist off-load equipment on delivery vehicles means that roofing materials can be delivered to site without the need for external assistance, giving speed, Case Study: Bolt-on acquisitions efficiency and safe handling.
Acquisitions have proved to be an important strategy for increasingly Shareholder value in this sector.
The local SIG operates its roofing division in the UK & Republic of nature of the market means that distributors serve a fairly Ireland from over 130 locations and continues to deliver small geographic area and there is ample opportunity for SIG to further increase the density of its branch network.
the service demanded by the roofing industry.
Its operation in the Republic of Ireland is well established As each new branch comes on-line, it is able to take in a number of major cities and towns.
advantage of Group buying prices in the industry and utilise centralised back office services.
Recognising the importance of particular demands of roofing contractors, SIG has developed the Roof Shop concept within the UK.
Roof Shop outlets offer a range of specialist tools and fixings to roofing contractors.
Safety equipment is supplied by SIGs safety products business.
13 SIG plc Annual Report & Accounts 2004 Above left: The Roof Shop at Asphaltic Roofing Supplies Derby branch displays hundreds of products to give roofing contractors everything they need to complete the job.
Top and above: A thorough knowledge of product lines and their suitable applications is an essential part of the service we provide.
Above right: Adam Knight, Warehouse Manager at Armour Building Products in Nottingham demonstrates roofing finishing panels.
Left: Our branches carry a wide range of stock, with staff able to give advice on the appropriate product.
Bottom: Loading our fleet of delivery trucks at our Lewes branch.
