2004 SkyePharma Annual Report 03 Our Pipeline Our oral delivery technology is based on the proprietary Geomatrix system which controls the amount, timing and location of drug release in the digestive tract.
This is achieved by a tablet composed of several layers, each with a different release profile for the drug.
Inert barrier layers further control the drug release out of the tablet to achieve early or delayed release as desired.
It is even possible to deliver more than one drug, with different release profiles, from a single tablet.
SkyePharma is one of the leading independent providers of inhaled pharmaceutical delivery technology.
We can deliver pulmonary drugs either though our own breathactuated multidose dry powder inhaler or by metered dose aerosol inhalers powered by  hydrofluoroalkane HFA propellants.
These propellants replace the widely-used chlorofluorocarbons CFCs, now being phased out because of their potential to damage the ozone layer.
Our formulation technologies ensure consistent and accurate dose delivery, even for hard-to-formulate materials.
SkyePharma has two complementary sustained-release technologies for injectable drugs.
These technologies can encapsulate a wide variety of drugs, from small molecules to proteins, peptides and nucleic acids, and drugs can be released over a period ranging from hours to weeks, thereby reducing the frequency of injections.
The DepoFoam system is based on tiny particles containing the drug dissolved in water in discrete compartments distributed throughout a lipid honeycomb matrix.
In our Biosphere system, the drug is dispersed in dry starch within particles coated with an inert barrier layer and the drug is protected from moisture until the particles gradually break down in the body after injection.
We have five basic technologies to support topical drug delivery.
Two of these involve hyaluronic acid, a naturally-occurring substance, to hold drug substances in the outer layers of the skin.
The others enhance the stability of drugs or modify their uptake through the skin.
In 2004, we licensed our topical delivery technologies and new product pipeline to Trigenesis now part of Dr Reddys Laboratories although we retain all existing product licenses and the right to use these technologies with new products.
Our patented approach to solubilisation of highly insoluble drugs is based on the formation of sub-micron sized, water-insoluble drug cores stabilised with phospholipid surface modifiers.
The drug core can either be solid or liquid and the reformulated drug can be delivered in many ways, including orally, intravenously or topically.
The IDD technology can be used to formulate drugs in a wide range of therapeutic categories.
