DIRECTORS REPORT PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES DIRECTORS AND THEIR INTERESTS Committee and Stuart Chambers will AND BUSINESS REVIEW The names of the directors as at the date replace Derek Sach as Chairman of the The principal activities of the group of this report, together with details of their Remuneration Committee.
comprise the provision of port facilities backgrounds and abilities, are set out in and related services to shipowners and the directors biographies on pages 74 to The board considers that Chris Clark, other users of seaports in the UK and 75.
Details of the independence of nonAndrew Simon and Aubrey Adams are all USA.
The group owns and operates executive directors are set out in the report independent of management, free from 21 ports within the UK and provides on corporate governance on pages 80 to any business or other relationship that vehicle-processing services at five port 85.
All of the directors served throughout could interfere materially with their locations in the USA.
It also provides the period, except as noted below: independent judgement and bring wide value-added transport-related services and varied commercial experience to its in the UK and generates income from Ross Sayers, who joined the board in deliberations.
the ownership and development of October 2001 and became Chairman in properties at port locations within the April 2002, retired on 21 April 2004 Details of directors service contracts, UK and the USA.
remuneration, interests in the shares of Chris Clark joined the board as nonthe company and options over shares are The progress of business during the year executive Chairman on 1 August 2004. disclosed in the remuneration report on and anticipated future developments are pages 86 to 92. discussed in the Group Chief Executives The companys Articles of Association review on pages 22 to 23 and the require that all directors are subject to No director has, or had at any time during operating and financial review on pages election by shareholders at the first the year, held a material interest in any 26 to 39. opportunity after appointment and to contract or arrangement of significance re-election every three years.
to which any group undertaking was or is RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS a party.
Group pre-tax profit on ordinary activities Bo Lerenius, who joined the board in for the year was 83.0m 2003 : 134.3m.
February 1999, retires as a director by INVESTMENT PROPERTY See the consolidated profit and loss rotation at the forthcoming AGM.
As he The groups tangible property assets as account on page 42 for further information.
continues to be eligible under the at 31 December 2004 were valued at company's Articles of Association, he 566.3m 2003: 570.3m on an open The company paid an interim dividend of offers himself for re-election.
As a result, the group 7.0 pence per share on 29 October 2004. service contract that may be terminated increased its revaluation reserve by 3.4m.
The directors recommend a final dividend by giving one years notice.
of 9.0 pence per share, making a total for PAYMENT OF SUPPLIERS the year of 16.0 pence per share.
This is Chris Clark was appointed to the board as The groups policy is to establish a fair an increase of 4.9 per cent on the 2003 non-executive Chairman on 1 August and transparent relationship with total dividend of 15.25 pence per share.
2004 and, being eligible, also offers suppliers based on mutual trust.
This If approved at the forthcoming Annual himself for re-election.
Chris does not includes agreeing reasonable terms and General Meeting AGM, the company will have a service contract.
conditions before business takes place.
pay the final dividend on 29 April 2005 to The groups policy and practice is to settle ordinary shareholders on the register at Andrew Simon, who has been a noninvoices on the terms agreed.
close of business on 1 April 2005. executive director since November 1994, became the Senior Independent Director At year end, the group owed the DISPOSALS SID in April 2003.
He will step down as equivalent of 34 days of purchases On 17 May 2004, the group sold its SID at the forthcoming AGM, but continue 2003: 38 days to trade creditors based 45 per cent interest in The Cardiff Bay as a director, subject to the passing of an on the average daily amount invoiced by Partnership to Norwich Union Life and ordinary resolution.
Andrew does not suppliers during the year.
Pensions Limited for a cash consideration have a service contract with the group.
PURCHASE OF OWN SHARES Aubrey Adams, who has been a nonDuring 2004, the company purchased executive director since October 1996, and subsequently cancelled 21.2m shares, will become the SID following the 2005 or 6.4 per cent of the share capital as at AGM, subject to the passing of an 31 December 2003.
The total cost was ordinary resolution.
Aubrey does not have 95.5m, which has been charged to the a service contract with the group.
At this profit and loss account reserve.
The Restated for the effects of FRS 17 Retirement time, Derek Sach will replace Aubrey company purchased these shares as part Benefits and UITF Abstract 38 Accounting for ESOP Trusts.
Adams as Chairman of the Audit of its share repurchase programme and to 78 ASSOCIATED BRITISH PORTS HOLDINGS PLC PERFORMANCE RESULTS GOVERNANCE offset most of the new shares issued intends to grant options under the SRSOS approximately five per cent of the issued during the financial year following the and make further offers under the SIP equity share capital of the company as at exercise of options by employees under its and ESOS, the latter being at the full, 16 February 2005, without offering them various share schemes.
The company undiscounted market price of the shares first to existing shareholders.
The obtained approval to buy up to 10 per cent at the date of the grant.
The company authority would expire at the AGM in 2006. of its issued equity share capital at its AGM also made offers to employees under the The directors believe it is in the best in 2004 and intends to seek approval for USA and Californian Stock Purchase interests of the company that, as the renewal of this authority at its Plans in 2004: further offers are permitted by the Companies Act 1985, forthcoming AGM in April 2005. scheduled for 2005. they should be in possession of a relatively small number of shares to enable them to SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDINGS The group is committed to giving full and take advantage of any appropriate An analysis of substantial shareholdings fair consideration to applicants for opportunities that may arise.
is provided on page 93. employment who are disabled.
If an employee becomes disabled during The directors further request permission CHARITABLE AND employment, the group makes every for the company to buy up to 31.0m of its POLITICAL DONATIONS effort to ensure that, wherever possible, own shares, equivalent to approximately The group donated 84,000 2003: 78,000 the person can either continue in their 10 per cent of the issued equity share to charities during the year.
It did not make present role or retrain for a different role.
capital, in the open market.
The authority any contributions for political purposes Further details of the groups would again expire at the AGM in 2006.
management of its employees are Before buying any shares, the directors provided in the annual corporate social commit to take into account the group's EMPLOYEES AND responsibility report.
cash resources, capital requirements and EMPLOYMENT POLICIES the effect of any purchase on earnings The groups policy is to apply ethical SPECIAL BUSINESS AT THE per share.
The purpose of the authority is practices that respect employees as ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING AGM to enable the company to execute its individuals and allow them to participate The remuneration report set out on pages share repurchase programme and to in the business.
It provides opportunities 86 to 92 will be put to the AGM as an mitigate the market impact of share for active participation and personal ordinary resolution.
issues from employee share schemes.
development with the twin goals of motivating individuals and helping them At the AGM of 21 April 2004, shareholders AUDITORS to enhance their skills.
approved an ordinary resolution to permit  LLP have the directors to distribute shares to the expressed their willingness to continue in It is committed to: value of the lesser of i the unissued office as auditors of the company.
ordinary share capital of the company and Resolutions will be put to the AGM Providing equality of opportunity for ii one-third of the issued equity share proposing their reappointment as all existing and potential employees capital of the company, for one year auditors and authorising the directors to ending on the date of the 2005 AGM.
Ensuring that employees have access At the forthcoming AGM, the directors to information that enables them wish to renew that permission for a By order of the board to contribute to and participate further year in respect of an amount fully in the groups achievement of equivalent to one-third of the issued its objectives equity share capital.
The authorised share capital of the company is 125,000,000 Providing employees with clear and divided into 500,000,000 ordinary shares fair terms of employment and of 25 pence each.
As at 16 February 2005, competitive remuneration packages.
one-third of the issued equity share HYWEL REES capital equalled 25,909,643 or COMPANY SECRETARY The company uses share schemes to give 103,638,572 ordinary shares.
The 16 FEBRUARY 2005 employees a direct stake in the business directors have no present intention of and align their interests with those of exercising such authority other than to other shareholders.
During 2004, it made issue shares pursuant to the company's an offer under the Share Incentive Plan employee share schemes.
SIP and granted options under both the Savings-Related Share Option Scheme The directors also request power to SRSOS and the Executive Share Option distribute shares worth up to 3,886,446 Scheme ESOS.
In 2005, it currently 15,545,784 ordinary shares, representing ASSOCIATED BRITISH PORTS HOLDINGS PLC 79
