2004 SkyePharma Annual Report 23 Report of the Directors The Directors present their report on the affairs of the Group, together with Mansford, having respectively reached the ages of 75 and 73, will offer the consolidated financial statements and auditors report for the year ended themselves for re-election to be appointed under a resolution of which special 31 December 2004. notice has been given.
Subject to the overriding approval of the shareholders, Non-executive Directors hold their appointments for a period of three years except for those aged over 70.
In the opinion of the Board Sir Michael Beavis Principal activities and business review A review of the Operating and Financial business and future developments and Dr Keith Mansford have been key in the successful development of the of the Group is set out in the Chairmans Statement, Review of Operations Company and continue to provide a worthwhile contribution to its future growth.
Details of Directors interests in the share capital of the Company together The principal activities of the Group are the research and development, with details of the share incentives granted to them are disclosed in the manufacture and sale of prescription pharmaceutical products.
Remuneration Report on pages 27 to 39 of this Report and Accounts.
Results and dividends As at the date of this report, the Directors of the Company had an interest, The Group made a loss for the year to 31 December 2004 of 24.3 million beneficially and non-beneficially, in an aggregate of 7,999,701 Ordinary Shares, 2003: 43.2 million.
The Directors do not propose to pay a dividend.
representing 1.3% of the Companys issued share capital.
Research and development Directors and officers liability insurance The Group incurred research and development costs of 28.0 million During the period under review, the Company and the Group maintained an 2003: 30.5 million during the year which have been written off to the insurance policy for its Directors and officers in respect of liabilities which profit and loss account in accordance with the Groups accounting policy.
could arise in the discharge of their duties in the ordinary course of business.
Environmental policy Substantial shareholdings The Company is conscious of its responsibilities in respect of the environment In addition to Directors interests as disclosed in the Remuneration Report and has produced a group wide environmental policy.
on pages 27 to 39 the Company has been advised or is aware of the following individual interests which at 31 May 2005 exceeded 3% of the Companys Payment of creditors issued share capital: The Groups policy is to pay its suppliers within 30 days from receipt of invoice unless otherwise agreed with suppliers prior to goods or services being Fidelity Investments 13.4% ordered.
Suppliers are made aware of the terms of payment and it is the Dr J Gonella 6.7% Companys policy to abide by the agreed terms, subject to the terms and HBOS plc & subsidiaries 4.9% conditions being fulfilled by the supplier.
At 31 December 2004, creditor days Kowa Company Limited 4.8% outstanding in respect of the Company amounted to 27 days 2003: 26 days.
Legal & General Investment Management Limited 3.5% Cantor Fitzgerald Europe 3.2% Directors The membership of the Board on 31 May 2005 was as follows: Authority to make market purchases of Ordinary Shares Ian Gowrie-Smith As at 31 December 2004 authority given by the shareholders at the 2004 Michael Ashton Annual General Meeting for the Company to make market purchases of Air Chief Marshal Sir Michael Beavis up to 6,186,699 nominal value of its Ordinary Shares at a price of not more Alan Bray than 105% of the current market price was still in force.
Dr David Ebsworth Stephen Harris Employees and disabled persons Dr Argeris Jerry Karabelas The Group is committed to a policy of promoting employees awareness of Dr Keith Mansford its activities, encouraging employees participation in the growth of the Group Donald Nicholson and welcomes staff input at all levels.
Torao Yamamoto Company Secretary : Douglas Parkhill It is recognised that by far the most important form of involvement and information regarding the progress, performance and plans of the Group Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee take place during informal daily discussions between management and other employees.
Consultations occur to allow employee opinions to be In June 2004 Ian Gowrie-Smith stepped down as Executive Chairman and was heard when making decisions affecting their interests.
It is Group policy appointed Non-executive Chairman.
Mr Torao Yamamoto will retire from the to offer the same opportunity to disabled people as to all others in matters Board at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting.
The Directors retiring of recruitment and career advancement, provided they have the ability to by rotation at the Annual General Meeting are Michael Ashton, Steve Harris perform the tasks required, with training where appropriate, and to institute and Dr Jerry Karabelas who, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
retraining where practical in cases where disability is incurred during In accordance with the Companies Act 1985, Sir Michael Beavis and Dr Keith employment with the Group.
