BOARD OF DIRECTORS RICHARD ADAM TIM BOWDLER GROUP FINANCE NON-EXECUTIVE, 57 DIRECTOR, 47 Tim joined the board in 2001.
He is a member of the Audit, Nomination and Since joining the group in 1999, Richard Remuneration Committees.
In advising has pioneered the groups proactive the board, Tim draws on his experience communications with investors and AUBREY ADAMS STUART CHAMBERS of running an expanding and successful stakeholders, strengthened its financial public company.
He has more than NON-EXECUTIVE, 55 NON-EXECUTIVE, 48 management and overseen the doubled the size of Johnston Press plc, successful disposal of non-core assets.
one of the UKs major regional He is the chairman of the risk Aubrey has been a member of the Stuart joined the board in 2002 and is a newspaper publishers, since becoming management working group, CSR board since 1996 and is chairman of member of the Audit, Nomination and Chief Executive in 1997.
He joined management committee and the main the Audit Committee and a member of Remuneration Committees.
As an Johnston Press as Group Managing defined-benefit pension scheme.
the Nomination and Remuneration experienced chief executive of a public Director in 1994 from Cape plcs Richard qualified as a chartered Committees.
Through his extensive, company, he shares with the board his building and architectural products accountant with KPMG in 1982 before first-hand knowledge of property expertise on many business matters.
companies, where he was managing gaining broad experience in a variety of matters, he has contributed greatly to He has been Group Chief Executive of director of a division.
Tims career senior financial posts, predominantly the success of the groups estate Pilkington plc, one of the worlds began in manufacturing: he trained as within the media sector.
By the age of management activities and non-core leading glass manufacturers, since a production engineer before rising 30, he was Group Finance Director of property disposal programme.
Stuart joined Pilkington in 1996 through a variety of managerial TVS Entertainment plc, which then held has spent the majority of his career as the group vice-president responsible positions to general management.
the ITV franchise for the south and within the property sector and is Group for marketing and business Starting out as a graduate south-east of England.
In this role, he Chief Executive of Savills, the development of Building Products.
In management trainee at GKN Sankey raised 300m for the acquisition of new international property consultants.
He 1998, he was promoted to managing Ltd, he went on to work for Tyzack & businesses.
In 1993, he was Chief was previously Managing Director and director of Primary Products Europe, Partners Ltd, Chloride Group plc, Financial Officer at International Family Finance Director of the company.
Prior and then to president of Building Sandvik Ltd and RHP Bearings Ltd. Tim Entertainment UK and a key figure in to joining Savills, Aubrey was Financial Products Worldwide.
Stuart began his is a Fellow of the RSA, a past president the launch of its Family Channel on Director at Peachey Property Corp plc.
career by using his academic of the Newspaper Society and a satellite television.
Between 1996 and He was instrumental in reorganising background in applied physics as a member of its Council, a director of the 1999, he was Group Finance Director of the group and increasing its market chemical engineer for Shell.
He worked Press Standards Board of Finance and Hodder Headline plc, the book capitalisation from 20m to 300m by in a number of Shells divisions, a non-executive director of The Press publishing business acquired by 1988.
He joined Peachey from including Shell Oil UK and Deutsche Association Ltd and Miller Group Ltd. WH Smith in 1999.
A Fellow of Shell AG, before becoming Shell Oil by 64 per cent during his time at the Institute of Chartered Accountants, UKs regional manager for retail in Hodder and he is credited with Aubrey is also a non-executive director 1986.
He joined Mars as a national improving the groups financial of the Wigmore Hall and sits on the account manager in 1988, becoming controls.
Richard is a non-executive General Council of the British Property European sales director four years director and the chairman of the Audit Federation, where he chairs the later and then vice-president for sales Committee of global healthcare Accounting Committee.
and marketing of Mars Electronics organisation SSL International plc.
74 ASSOCIATED BRITISH PORTS HOLDINGS PLC PERFORMANCE RESULTS GOVERNANCE CHRIS CLARK DEREK SACH NON-EXECUTIVE NON-EXECUTIVE, 56 CHAIRMAN, 63 Derek has been a member of the board since 1998.
He is the chairman of the Chris became non-executive Chairman Remuneration Committee and a on 1 August 2004 and brings extensive member of the Audit and Nomination business knowledge and commercial BO LERENIUS ANDREW SIMON, OBE Committees.
Derek is suitably experience to the board.
He is the equipped to advise the board on GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE, 58 NON-EXECUTIVE, 59 chairman of the Nomination strategic financial matters due to his Committee.
Before taking on his career in investment management and Since becoming Group Chief Executive current role, Chris spent his entire Andrew joined the board in 1994.
He is the managing director of in May 1999, Bo has developed the executive career at Johnson Matthey a member of the Audit, Nomination and Specialised Lending Services SLS and management team, refocused the plc, the speciality chemicals company.
The a board member of Corporate Banking group on its core ports and transport He joined Johnson Matthey as a considerable international experience and Financial Markets at the Royal business and instigated a programme metallurgist in their research that he contributes to the board is Bank of Scotland RBS.
He joined RBS to dispose of non-core assets.
He is a laboratories before moving into sales bolstered by his experience in strategy in 1992 to establish SLS, which member of the Nomination Committee.
and marketing, where he held a process and development.
Andrew provides businesses in trouble or Prior to joining the group, Bo gained an number of marketing management has been involved in more than showing signs of difficulty with understanding of ports and port users roles and spent five years in the USA.
20 businesses as chairman or nonstrategic advice.
He has since held a requirements from his experience as He was promoted to the board of executive director.
He spent 23 years at number of posts.
As RBSs director of President, Chief Executive and ViceJohnson Matthey as an executive Evode Group as Managing Director, group risk, Derek was responsible for Chairman of Stena Line, one of director in March 1990, was appointed Chief Executive Officer and Chairman, the effective control and monitoring of Swedens largest companies and the Chief Operating Officer in July 1996 and during which he developed the 10m risk within the group, including market owner and operator of ships and a became Chief Executive in June 1998. adhesives and sealants business into a and operational risk management.
In number of smaller UK ports.
During Under his leadership, the company 300m international speciality 1997, he was seconded to the Tesco his time with Stena, he managed the joined the FTSE 100 and now has a chemicals and materials group and Personal Finance joint venture for a merger of its cross-Channel ferry market capitalisation of more than achieved a number of market year as Chief Executive.
Chris is also Deputy Chairman of leadership positions.
Since Evodes Derek was a director of the 3i Group, this, Bo was Group President of Rexam plc, the worldwide consumer takeover, Andrew has accumulated a where he was UK managing director Ernstromgruppen, a building materials packaging group, and a non-executive diversified portfolio of non-executive and the chairman of its property group, and a director of both Tarkett director of FKI plc, the international and chairman positions in UK, companies and investment committee.
He is also a nonengineering group.
European and North American He is President and Chairman of the executive director of Group 4 Securicor companies across many sectors.
He is London Chamber of Commerce and plc and Land Securities Group plc, an Chairman of Kaffee Partner, Deputy Industry.
executive committee member and Chairman of Dalkia plc, a nonDeputy Chairman of the Swedish executive director of Brake Bros and Chamber of Commerce, a member of Finning International and sits on the the CBI London Council, a director of supervisory board of SGL Carbon.
International Association of Ports & Harbors and President of the Sea and Water Advisory Board.
ASSOCIATED BRITISH PORTS HOLDINGS PLC 75 STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES IN RESPECT OF THE PREPARATION OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Company law requires the directors to The directors confirm that the financial prepare financial statements for each statements comply with these financial year which give a true and fair requirements.
The directors are view of the state of affairs of the company responsible for keeping proper and the group and of the profit or loss of accounting records that disclose with the group for that period.
In preparing reasonable accuracy at any time the those financial statements, the directors financial position of the company and the are required to: group and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Select suitable accounting policies and Companies Act 1985.
They are also then apply them consistently responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company and the group and, hence, Make judgements and estimates that for taking reasonable steps for the are reasonable and prudent prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
State whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, The directors are responsible for the subject to any material departures maintenance and integrity of the groups disclosed and explained in the website where the groups Annual Report financial statements & Accounts is available.
Information published on the Internet is accessible in Prepare the financial statements on many countries where legal requirements the going concern basis unless it is may differ from the United Kingdoms inappropriate to presume that the legislation relating to the preparation and group and the company will continue dissemination of financial statements.
76 ASSOCIATED BRITISH PORTS HOLDINGS PLC PERFORMANCE RESULTS GOVERNANCE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ASSOCIATED BRITISH PORTS HOLDINGS PLC We have audited the financial statements or if information specified by law remuneration report are free from which comprise the group profit and loss regarding directors remuneration and material misstatement, whether caused account, the balance sheets, the group transactions is not disclosed.
by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In cash flow statement, the statement of forming our opinion, we also evaluated group total recognised gains and losses We read the other information contained the overall adequacy of the presentation and the related notes, except note 28B.
in the annual report and consider the of information in the financial statements.
We have also audited the disclosures implications for our report if we become required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the aware of any apparent misstatements or OPINION Companies Act 1985 contained in the material inconsistencies with the financial In our opinion: directors remuneration report the statements.
The other information auditable part.
comprises only the directors report, the The financial statements give a true unaudited part of the directors and fair view of the state of affairs RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES remuneration report, the Chairmans of the company and the group at OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS statement, the Chief Executives review, 31 December 2004 and of the profit The directors responsibilities for the operating and financial review, the and cash flows of the group for the preparing the annual report and the corporate governance statement and the year then ended: financial statements in accordance corporate social responsibility report.
with applicable United Kingdom law The financial statements have been and accounting standards are set We review whether the corporate properly prepared in accordance with out in the statement of directors governance statement reflects the the Companies Act 1985: responsibilities.
The directors are also companys compliance with the nine responsible for preparing the directors provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined And those parts of the directors remuneration report.
Code specified for our review by the remuneration report required by Listing Rules of the Financial Services Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Our responsibility is to audit the financial Authority, and we report if it does not.
We Companies Act 1985 have been statements and the auditable part of the are not required to consider whether the properly prepared in accordance with directors remuneration report in boards statements on internal control the Companies Act 1985. accordance with relevant legal and cover all risks and controls, or form an regulatory requirements and United opinion on the effectiveness of the groups Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by corporate governance procedures or its the Auditing Practices Board.
This report, risk and control procedures.
including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the companys members BASIS OF AUDIT OPINION as a body in accordance with Section 235 We conducted our audit in accordance  LLP of the Companies Act 1985 and for no with auditing standards issued by the Chartered Accountants and other purpose.
We do not, in giving this Auditing Practices Board.
An audit Registered Auditors opinion, accept or assume responsibility includes examination, on a test basis, London for any other purpose or to any other of evidence relevant to the amounts and 16 February 2005 person to whom this report is shown or disclosures in the financial statements into whose hands it may come save and the auditable part of the directors where expressly agreed by our prior remuneration report.
It also includes an consent in writing.
assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in We report to you our opinion as to the preparation of the financial whether the financial statements give a statements, and of whether the true and fair view and whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the financial statements and the auditable companys circumstances, consistently part of the directors remuneration report applied and adequately disclosed.
have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We planned and performed our audit so We also report to you if, in our opinion, as to obtain all the information and the directors report is not consistent with explanations which we considered the financial statements, if the company necessary in order to provide us with has not kept proper accounting records, if sufficient evidence to give reasonable we have not received all the information assurance that the financial statements and explanations we require for our audit, and the auditable part of the directors ASSOCIATED BRITISH PORTS HOLDINGS PLC 77
