ABPS OPERATIONAL MANAGEMENT JOHN FITZGERALD, 42 PORT DIRECTOR, SHORTSEA PORTS IAN SCHOFIELD, 43 GROUP ENGINEERING DIRECTOR Ian became Group Engineering Director and joined the operational board in 2002.
In addition to overseeing engineering matters at the ports, he leads on health and safety policy across the group and is also Vice-Chairman of Port Skills and Safety Ltd.
He is working consistently to improve the groups safety culture and reduce work-related accidents and cases of work-related ill-health.
Ian joined ABP in 1991 as Assistant Port Engineer for Goole: he then worked at Hull and the groups north-east ports, before he was appointed Port Manager for Kings Lynn in 1999.
He worked in the mining industry prior to joining ABP.
DAVID TWIDLE, 56 ASSISTANT TO GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE 24 ASSOCIATED BRITISH PORTS HOLDINGS PLC NICK PALMER, 45 DOUG MORRISON, 53 JOHN COPPING, 57 STEPHEN WALSH, 40 PORT DIRECTOR, GRIMSBY & IMMINGHAM PORT DIRECTOR, HULL & GOOLE PORT DIRECTOR, SOUTH WALES PORTS GENERAL COUNSEL CHAIRMANS Doug has worked at ABP for Nick was appointed Port Since joining ABP in 1985, Stephen was appointed to the his entire career: he joined Director of Grimsby & John has held a number of new role of General Counsel the company from school in Immingham in May 2004, senior management in May 2002.
Doug worked in ports since when contracts have positions.
This is Johns responsible for providing the administration for 11 years been secured for the 27.5m second term as Director of group with legal support.
As before moving to the docks development of South Wales Ports.
ABP had no in-house legal side of the business as a Imminghams Outer Harbour Previously, he was representation for several trainee supervisor.
Within 10 years, he was and the 44.5m extension to Humber instrumental in the consolidation of Barry, years before his arrival, he had to learn quickly responsible for all port operations at Ayr & International Terminal.
Nick became a member Cardiff, Newport, Port Talbot and Swansea into a about the unique legal circumstances of each Troon.
He became Port Manager in 1998 and the of the operational board in 2002, when he was single, cohesive business unit, following his ABP port.
Before joining ABP, Stephen worked port grew significantly and won considerable appointed Port Director of Shortsea Ports.
He has promotion to Port Director, South Wales Ports, for British Airways for more than 10 years: he volumes of new business under his leadership.
held a number of management positions since and the operational board in 1999.
Subsequently, was Legal Director by the time he left that Since taking control of Hull & Goole and joining joining ABP as a graduate trainee in 1980.
He he was appointed Port Director for Grimsby & company.
the operational board in 2003, Doug has was Assistant Port Manager for Kings Lynn, Immingham, where he initiated a number of overseen considerable investment in new before moving to ABP subsidiary the Red Funnel programmes to increase operational capacity, facilities at the ports.
Group as General Manager for Ferries.
In 1997, Once again, our underlying UK ports Goodwill amortisation of 0.9m was the including Humber International Terminal and the he returned to ABP as Deputy Port Manager for Immingham Outer Harbour development.
Before Chris Clark and transport business performed same as the previous year 2003: 0.9m.
Grimsby & Immingham and played a leading role returning to South Wales in September 2004, well and continued to grow.
Underlying There was a 0.4m profit from the sale in the development of Humber International John also served briefly as Port Director of the Chairman Terminal.
pre-tax profit for the group increased by of fixed assets 2003: 4.8m.
With 4 per cent to 135.4m 2003 : 130.4m exceptional costs of 44.9m written off in and underlying earnings per share relation to the governments rejection of increased by 6 per cent to 30.3 pence the Dibden Terminal development and 2003 : 28.6 pence.
7.0m incurred in relation to costPHILLIP WILLIAMS, 47 reduction initiatives aimed at mitigating GROUP PROPERTY DIRECTOR RESULTS the effect of the loss of a major customer Our core UK ports and transport from the Port of Immingham, pre-tax Phillip has worked for ABP since 1994 and joined the business contributed 142.2m to profit declined by 38 per cent to 83.0m operational board in 2002. underlying operating profit in 2004, an 2003 : 134.3m and basic earnings HYWEL REES, 46 He is responsible for the COMPANY SECRETARY & groups entire property improvement of 3 per cent on the per share decreased by 39 per cent to HEAD OF GROUP PERSONNEL portfolio, including previous year 2003 : 138.1m.
Since much smaller ports and transport Hywel joined ABP in 1984 as assuming the role, he has developed the groups Secretariat Clerk.
By 1987, long-term property strategy, identified profitable business in the USA increased its BUSINESS HIGHLIGHTS he had been promoted to land disposal opportunities, increased the contribution by 48 per cent to 3.7m During 2004, we contracted strategic Secretary of ABP and he efficiency of the estate management functions became Company Secretary ANDREW KENT, 57 In my first statement 2003: 2.5m.
Profit from property revenue-related investments with quality and directed land assembly for ongoing major two years later.
He was PORT DIRECTOR, SOUTHAMPTON infrastructure projects.
Having originally joined investment activities decreased to customers that totalled more than 80m.
additionally appointed Head as Chairman, I am the company as Development Manager for 5.6m 2003: 6.6m, reflecting sales We are especially pleased with the Andrew was appointed Port of Group Personnel in 1999.
Hywels ABPs property subsidiary, Phillip went on to Director in 1989 and has accomplishments include modernising ABPs become Head of ABP Group Property before pleased to report made in 2003 and during the course of progress of our operations on the been an operational board personnel policies and launching a number of he was promoted to his current position.
He 2004, while the conclusion of a number Humber Estuary.
In February, we signed member since 1999.
He has employee share schemes.
Other initiatives joined ABP from the Port of Pembroke.
good progress and worked in the ports and of disposals during the second half of the a 25-year agreement with DFDS Tor Line introduced under his leadership include an transport industry for more employee-assistance programme and employee a number of exciting year increased profit from property for a 27.5m investment in a roll-on rollthan 30 years.
Hywel has also worked to extend development to 4.0m 2003: 3.2m.
off riverside terminal at the Director, Andrew has overseen the growth in employee choice by reactivating ABPs future developments Southamptons container business, which now relationship with the Transport and General Port of Immingham.
Also at Immingham, handles 50 per cent of the UKs entire trade with Workers Union.
The groups share of operating profit we signed customer contracts to support the Far East.
Under his leadership, Southampton from its two remaining associated the development of a new 44.5m has also become the UKs premier cruise port and the UKs principal port for importing and undertakings increased by 4 per cent to riverside terminal for coal imports with exporting vehicles.
Andrew has held a number of 9.9m 2003 : 9.5m, following a strong BHP Billiton, Drax Power, EDF Energy senior management roles within ABP, including Marketing Manager and Operations Manager at performance by Southampton Container and International Power.
Construction STEPHEN BURGESS, 52 Southampton and Port Manager at Kings Lynn.
MANAGING DIRECTOR, ABP CONNECT Terminals.
The Cardiff Bay Partnership of these facilities is under way and we He is also a director of ABPs associated contributed 0.8m 2003: 2.3m to expect them to become operational Stephen was promoted to companies Southampton Container Terminals Managing Director of ABP and Tilbury Container Services.
operating profit before its disposal in during 2006.
Net interest and other finance services division, in July 2004, when he also joined the income decreased by 3 per cent to operational board.
He joined 30.8m 2003 : 31.8m, as the impact of AMPORTS UK as Managing increased interest rates was more than Director, following its acquisition by ABP in 2000 and was subsequently appointed Head of Cargo offset by an increase in finance income Services for ABP Connect.
Stephen is a qualified associated with the groups pension mechanical engineer and has spent much of his surplus.
Underlying pre-tax profit career in the automotive sector, working in both engineering and operational management.
He is increased by 4 per cent to 135.4m now responsible for the development of the 2003 : 130.4m as a result.
Since becoming Managing Director, he has implemented a significant restructuring programme to reduce the cost base of the business.
His current focus is on expanding the divisions stevedoring activities, rail terminal and vehicle-processing andhandling operations.
Restated for the effects of FRS 17 Retirement Benefits and UITF Abstract 38 Accounting for ESOP Trusts.
20 ASSOCIATED BRITISH PORTS HOLDINGS PLC
