16 SkyePharma Annual Report 2004 Directors and Officers 01 Ian Gowrie-Smith aged 56 05 Dr David Ebsworth aged 50 08 Dr Keith Mansford aged 73 Non-executive Chairman since 23 June 2004, Non-executive Director, appointed in April 2002.
Non-executive Director appointed in March 1996. previously Executive Chairman from January 1995.
Dr Ebsworth has over 20 years of pharmaceutical He has over 45 years of experience in the Mr Gowrie-Smith has more than 18 years of industry experience.
He provides consultancy pharmaceutical and biotechnology sectors management experience in the pharmaceutical services to a variety of clients including venture principally with Beecham Group and SmithKline industry and was responsible for the founding and capital companies.
He was Chief Executive Officer Beecham.
From 1984 to 1992 Dr Mansford was subsequent flotation of Medeva plc.
He is a Nonof Oxford GlycoSciences PLC until May 2003.
Prior Chairman of Research and Development at executive Chairman of Tiberon Minerals Limited, to this he held the position of President and General Beecham Group and subsequently SmithKline Triple Plate Junction PLC and Micap PLC.
Manager of the Pharmaceutical Business Group Beecham PLC.
He is an External Director of for Bayer AG in Leverkusen, Germany, and has Sepracor Inc, Chairman of Protemix Inc. a biotech 02 Michael Ashton aged 59 also worked for Bayer AG in a series of global company based in New Zealand, and Professor Became Chief Executive Officer in November 1998, positions in Canada, Europe and the United States.
of Metabolic Biochemistry at the University of appointed to the Board in March 1997.
He has Dr Ebsworth is Non-executive Chairman of Wilex Buckingham.
over 32 years of experience in the pharmaceutical AG and a Non-executive Director of Intercell AG, industry having worked for Merck Inc. Pfizer Inc. Curacyte AG, Betapharm GmbH and CuraGen 09 Donald Nicholson aged 47 Purepac Inc. and prior to this appointment, Corporation and held the same office, until 1998, Finance Director, appointed in March 1997, joined Faulding Inc. where Mr Ashton was Chairman, with Schein Pharmaceuticals, Inc. now known the Company in February 1996.
He is a member of President and CEO.
He is a non-executive Director as Watson Pharmaceuticals, Inc.. the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland.
of Transition Therapeutics Inc. Astralis Limited He began his professional career with Deloitte and Vital Living Inc. 06 R Stephen Harris aged 62 Haskins & Sells and has spent over 19 years in Non-executive Director, appointed in November healthcare including Wellcome PLC and Corange 03 Air Chief Marshal Sir Michael Beavis aged 75 1995.
He has 40 years commercial experience Ltd, the holding company of Boehringer Mannheim Non-executive Director, appointed in May 1989 in the pharmaceutical industry, having worked and DePuy, where he was Corporate Strategy & and appointed Senior Independent Non-executive for ICI Pharmaceuticals, Merck, Eli Lilly, Boots, Finance Director.
He entered the Royal Air Reckitt & Colman and Gensia: and was Director Force in 1947 and retired in 1987, his last of Development and Licensing with Medeva plc.
10 Torao Yamamoto aged 62 appointment being Deputy Commander-in-Chief He is Non-executive Chairman of Proteome Non-executive Director, appointed in October 2002.
Allied Forces Central Europe, NATO.
He is a Sciences plc, Sinclair Pharma plc and Conve Ltd Mr Yamamoto is the Senior Managing Director of defence consultant with Burdeshaw Associates and Non-executive Director of Advanced Medical the Pharmaceutical Division of Kowa Company USA, a Companion of the Chartered Management Solutions Group plc, Prophilian plc, Premier Limited in Japan.
Mr Yamamoto has been with Institute, a Freeman of the City of London and a Research plc and GeneMedix plc.
Kowa, a Japanese conglomerate with interests in Liveryman in the Guild of Air Pilots and Navigators.
pharmaceuticals, textiles, electronics, optics and 07 Dr Jerry Karabelas aged 52 chemicals, since 1965.
He has held management 04 Alan Bray aged 61 Non-executive Director, appointed in November positions in Japan and the US, where he was Non-executive Director, appointed in 2000.
Dr Karabelas has more than 22 years General Manager of all Kowas operations for four September 2004.
Mr Bray is a chartered experience in the pharmaceutical industry years until June 1998.
He currently serves on the accountant having recently retired as a senior having spent most of his career with SmithKline Board of Directors of Kowa Company Limited, partner from Deloitte & Touche LLPs financial Beecham.
Dr Karabelas is a partner at Care Kowa Pharmaceutical Europe Ltd. Kowa Research services practice.
Mr Bray has worked with Capital LLC.
He was previously the CEO of Novartis Europe, Ltd. Kowa Research Inc and Nikken retail and investment banks, insurance Pharma AG where he had responsibility for Chemical Company.
companies and asset management firms pharmaceuticals, R&D, consumer products, and and was seconded for a time to the Department the generics business.
He is an External Director 11 Douglas Parkhill aged 54 of Trade and Industry.
He was responsible of Fox Chase Cancer Center and the International Company Secretary, appointed in September 2002. for Deloitte & Touche LLPs risk management Partnership for Microbicides and Chairman of Mr Parkhill is a graduate of Glasgow University and policies and procedures in its financial services Human Genome Sciences.
He is also a Director a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants practice and was a serving member on a DTI of NitroMed Inc. Acura Pharmaceuticals Inc. of Scotland.
Supervisory Board and Audit Committee.
Inotek Pharmaceuticals Corporation, Anadys Pharmaceuticals Inc. Renovo Ltd. and a member of the scientific advisory board of Epigenesis Pharmaceuticals LLC and CardioKine Inc.
