DIRECTORS REPORT PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES programmes to suit its own particular On 30 June 2004 the issued share capital The principal activities of the Company market and product needs.
Interchange of DHD Holding Company was acquired and its subsidiaries are the development, of technology and technical information for US$55m in cash.
manufacture, sale and support of: between Smiths manufacturing businesses integrated aerospace systems, including is centrally co-ordinated.
POST BALANCE SHEET EVENTS electronic and actuation systems and There have been no post balance sheet precision components, for civil and CHANGES IN THE COMPANY AND ITS events at the date of this report.
military aircraft: INTERESTS DURING THE YEAR advanced security equipment, using On 1 August 2003 a new division was created FUTURE DEVELOPMENTS the power of trace detection and x-ray to include Smiths Detection and Smiths The Company will pursue its existing imaging, to detect and identify explosives, Heimann.
The move reflected the recent international activities and continue to chemical and biological agents, weapons acquisition of Heimann and the potential seek business opportunities in both the and contraband: for growth of these two market-leading UK and overseas.
medical devices and critical care equipment businesses, both previously part of Smiths aligned to specific therapies, principally Aerospace.
At the same time, the Sealings CHARITABLE AND POLITICAL DONATIONS airway, pain and temperature management Solutions and Industrial divisions were merged During the year the Company made donations and infusion.
Also needle protection, critical in the new Specialty Engineering division.
of 602,000 for charitable purposes including care monitoring, womens healthcare and payments totalling 300,000 for the Portex vascular access: and Disposals Chair of Paediatric Anaesthesia.
mechanical seals used in industries On 29 August 2003, the sale of Matzen ranging from petrochemical processing & Timm to Masterflex AG was completed No political donations were made.
The to aerospace: interconnect products for 11.35m in cash.
Companys policy of not making contributions to connect and protect safety-critical to any political party will continue.
However, electrical and electronic equipment: air On 30 September 2003, the sale of the as a precautionary measure in the light of movement systems and components: Polymer Sealings business to Trelleborg AB the wide definitions in the Political Parties, navigational radar, marine electronics was completed for 493m in cash.
Elections and Referendums Act 2000, and charts: and rigid tubular and flexible a resolution to permit the Company to hose assemblies.
On 14 October 2003 the assets of Lapmaster make political donations and incur political International US and the issued share capital expenditure will be proposed at the Annual The main manufacturing operations are of Lapmaster International Limited were General Meeting.
This is explained in the in the UK, the Americas and continental sold for 1.5m in cash.
Chairmans letter and Notice of AGM.
A review of the development of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings On 5 January 2004 the business and assets of DIRECTORS during the 2003 04 financial year is on Icore International UK and the issued share The directors at the end of the financial year, pages 5 to 18 of the Annual Review 2004 capitals of Icore International, Inc. : Icore with the exception of Mr K Orrell-Jones who that accompanies this Directors Report International GmbH: and Icore International retired from the Board on 21 September 2004, and Financial Statements.
Limited were sold for 20m in cash.
are shown on page 25 of the accompanying Annual Review 2004.
Mr P J Jackson was RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS On 19 March 2004 the business and assets appointed as a non-executive director The results for the year to 31 July 2004 of Sodiamex were sold for 11.6m in cash.
on 1 December 2003: the Rt Hon Lord are set out in the Consolidated Profit and Robertson of Port Ellen was appointed as Loss Account on page 17.
Sales for the year Acquisitions a non-executive director on 15 February amounted to 2,733m, against 3,056m last On 2 February 2004 the issued share capital 2004: and Mr D H Brydon was appointed year.
The profit for the year after taxation of Cyrano Sciences, Inc. was acquired for as a non-executive director and Chairman and goodwill amortisation amounted to US$15m in cash.
succeeded Mr Orrell-Jones as Chairman Between December 2003 and March 2004 on 21 September 2004.
On the same day, An interim dividend of 8.75p per ordinary the minority interests in Smiths Medical Mr D J Challen was appointed as a nonshare of 25p was paid on 16 April 2004.
Japan Limited were acquired for a total executive director and Mr Jackson was The directors recommend for payment of 16m in cash.
appointed as the senior independent director.
on 19 November 2004 a final cash dividend on each ordinary share of 18.25p, making On 30 April 2004 the business and assets REAPPOINTMENT OF DIRECTORS a total dividend of 27p for the year.
of Dynamic Gunver Technologies, LLC and Messrs Brydon, Challen and Jackson and the issued share capital of DGT Europe, Lord Robertson will retire in accordance The retained profit of 61m was transferred LLC were acquired for US$102m in cash.
with Article 57, following their appointment to Reserves.
by the Board during the year, and, being On 28 May 2004 the issued share capital eligible, will seek reappointment at the AGM.
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT of Trak Holdings Corp was acquired for 260m was spent on research and US$111.5m in cash.
Sir Nigel Broomfield and Messrs Langston, development during the year, of which Lillycrop, Lindh and Thomson have all 137m was funded by the Company and On 14 June 2004 the business and assets served for more than 30 months since their the balance by customers.
Each business of SensIR Technologies, Inc. were acquired previous reappointments and will retire carries out research and development for US$75m in cash.
at the AGM, in accordance with Article 57.
SMITHS GROUP PLC DIRECTORS REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2004 1 DIRECTORS REPORT continued They are all eligible for and will seek GOING CONCERN pension scheme are likewise covered by reappointment at the AGM.
The Boards review of the accounts, budgets means of structured committees, including and forward plans, together with the internal representation from recognised trade Sir Colin Chandler will retire at the conclusion control system, lead the directors to believe unions.
A more detailed statement appears of the AGM and will not seek reappointment.
that the Company has ample resources to on pages 26 to 30 of the accompanying continue in operation for the foreseeable Annual Review 2004.
The accounts are therefore prepared The Directors Remuneration Report is on a going concern basis.
AUTHORITY TO ISSUE SHARES on pages 8 to 15.
An ordinary resolution At the AGM shareholders will be asked to approve the report will be put to POLICY ON PAYMENT OF CREDITORS to renew the authority, given to the shareholders at the AGM.
The Companys policy and practice is to pay directors at the last AGM, to allot relevant creditors promptly in accordance with agreed securities for the purposes of section 80 DIRECTORS INTERESTS IN CONTRACTS terms of business.
The average time taken of the Companies Act 1985, so as to reflect Details of the executive directors service to pay an invoice was 35 days 2003 37 days the increase in the Company's issued share contracts are as disclosed in the Service for the parent Company and 49 days 2003 capital since the last AGM.
The authority Contracts section of the Directors 50 days for the Group as a whole calculated proposed will expire on the fifth anniversary Remuneration Report on page 12.
Details in compliance with the Companies Act 1985 of the Meeting unless otherwise renewed.
of the interests of the executive directors Directors Report Statement of Payment The amount of relevant securities to which in the Companys share option schemes Practice Regulations 1997. this authority relates 46,811,832 nominal are shown in the Remuneration Report on of share capital represents one third of the pages 13 to 15.
ENVIRONMENT share capital in issue on 21 September 2004.
The Company seeks to minimise, as far as The directors have no present intention of Apart from the exceptions referred to above, is reasonably practicable, any detrimental exercising this authority except for allotments no director had an interest in any contract effects to the environment of its operations of shares pursuant to the Companys share to which the Company or its subsidiaries and products.
A senior corporate staff option schemes.
The ordinary resolution is was a party during the year.
director has responsibility for safety, set out in the Notice of AGM.
The INTERESTS IN SHARES Corporate Responsibility Review appears Also in the Notice is the special resolution As at 21 September 2004 the Company had on pages 26 to 30 of the accompanying to renew the power granted to directors been notified, pursuant to the Companies Annual Review 2004. under section 95 of the Companies Act Act 1985, of the following material or notifiable 1985.
The new authority sought will be interests in its issued share capital: EMPLOYMENT POLICIES on substantially similar terms to those It is the Companys policy to provide equal attaching to the existing authority and Percentage of issued opportunities for employment and to give will expire on the fifth anniversary of No.
of shares share capital the fullest consideration to employment the Meeting, unless otherwise renewed.
The Company It will permit the directors to allot equity The Capital Group continues to be actively involved in all securities for cash: Companies, Inc. 55.2m 9.8% aspects of the training and development in connection with a rights issue pro rata Franklin Resources, Inc. 61.7m 11.0% of young persons, including government to the rights of the existing shareholders: Janus Capital sponsored schemes and initiatives designed pursuant to the terms of any share scheme Management, LLC 22.9m 4.1% to ease the transition from school to work.
approved by the shareholders in General Legal & General Group plc 23.5m 4.2% Meeting: and Share option schemes enable employees for any other purpose including the sale includes the interests of Capital Guardian Trust Company in 7.9% of the issued share capital to acquire an interest in the Companys on a non pre-emptive basis of any shares percentage of share capital in issue on 21 September 2004 shares and to align their interests more the Company may hold in treasury for closely with those of the shareholders.
cash provided that the aggregate nominal The Company has not acquired or disposed value of such allotments does not exceed of any interests in its own shares.
Employees are regularly provided with 7,021,774 approximately 5% of the issued a wide range of information concerning share capital on 21 September 2004.
The interests of the directors, their families the performance and prospects of the and any connected persons in the issued business in which they are involved by The directors intend seeking renewal of share capital of the Company are shown means of Employee Councils, Works these authorities annually.
Councils and other consultative bodies that allow the views of personnel to be During the year ended 31 July 2004 the CORPORATE GOVERNANCE taken into account.
following ordinary shares in Smiths Group plc The report on Corporate Governance is on were issued: pages 4 to 7.
 LLP All matters concerning the environment, 582,889 shares pursuant to the terms have reviewed the Companys statements health and safety are regulated by a of the Companys shareholder-approved as to compliance with the Combined Code, newly established Group Environment, share option schemes: and as appended to the April 2002 edition of the Health & Safety Committee, which 1,511,978 shares pursuant to the terms Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority, to operates alongside the already established of TI Group share option schemes.
the extent required by the Listing Rules.
The preventative, investigatory and consultative results of their review are set out on page 16. systems: issues relevant to the Company 2 SMITHS GROUP PLC DIRECTORS REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2004 AUTHORITY TO PURCHASE SHARES published at the time of any such purchase ELECTRONIC PROXY VOTING At the AGM the Company will seek to renew regarding the merits of the cancellation of The Company has introduced electronic proxy the authority, granted at the last AGM to such shares as against holding them as voting for this years AGM.
Shareholders who the directors, to purchase the Companys treasury shares.
are not CREST members can vote on-line shares in the market.
The authority will be for or against or consciously not vote for limited to 10% of the share capital in issue ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING the resolutions to be proposed at the AGM on 21 September 2004 and will be renewed The 2004 AGM will be held at the offices by visiting www.
The maximum price that may be of JP Morgan Chase & Co. 60 Victoria members, CREST personal members and paid under the authority will be limited to Embankment, London EC4Y 0JP on CREST sponsored members should consult 105% of the average of the middle market Tuesday 16 November 2004 at 2.30 pm.
the CREST Manual or their sponsor or voting quotations of the Companys shares, as service provider for instructions on electronic derived from the London Stock Exchange In addition to the resolutions described proxy appointment and voting.
Paper proxy Daily Official List, for the five business days above, resolutions will be proposed to cards also have been distributed to all prior to any purchase.
On 21 September 2004 adopt a Performance Share Plan and a shareholders with the Notice of AGM as options over approximately 22m shares were Co-Investment Plan.
Shareholders who will not be able outstanding under the Companys share to attend the AGM on 16 November 2004 in option schemes, representing approximately The reasons for proposing these person are encouraged to vote their shares 3.9% of the then issued share capital.
If the resolutions are explained in the by appointing a proxy and issuing voting authority to purchase shares being sought Chairmans letter and Notice of AGM, instructions either electronically or by at the AGM were to be used in full and the sent to all registered shareholders, which completing and returning their poll cards.
purchased shares were cancelled, then may also be found on the Companys the outstanding options would represent website, www.
com approximately 4.3% of the reduced issued Electronic copies of the Annual Review share capital.
AUDITORS 2004, the Directors Report and Financial Resolutions will be proposed at the AGM Statements 2004 and the Chairmans letter The directors will exercise the authority to reappoint  LLP and Notice of AGM will be posted on the only if they are satisfied that any purchase as auditors and to authorise the directors Companys website, www.
will increase the earnings per share of the to determine the auditors remuneration.
The Companys announcements to the Stock ordinary share capital in issue and will be Exchange and press releases are available in the interests of the shareholders.
The SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT on-line through the website.
Shareholding directors will also give careful consideration The Company has produced the details and practical help on share transfers to the gearing levels of the Company and its Annual Review 2004 a summary and changes of address can be found at general financial position.
financial statement which, together www.
with this Directors Report and Financial No shares have ever been purchased or Statements 2004, forms the statutory By Order of the Board contracted for or the subject of any option Reports and Accounts for 2004.
Shareholders under the expiring or any prior authority.
will be automatically sent the Annual DAVID P LILLYCROP Review alone each year unless they elect DIRECTOR AND SECRETARY Under the Companies Acquisition of Own in writing to receive the statutory Reports Shares Treasury Shares Regulations and Accounts.
Shareholders who wish 765 Finchley Road 2003, any shares purchased under this to receive the statutory Reports and London NW11 8DS authority may be cancelled or held as Accounts free of charge in future years treasury shares.
Treasury shares may be should write to Lloyds TSB Registrars, 22 September 2004 subsequently cancelled, sold or used to The Causeway, Worthing, West Sussex satisfy applications under share schemes.
The publication of Annual Reviews results in The Board will have regard to any guidelines significant savings in the cost of producing issued by investor groups which may be the accounts each year.
SMITHS GROUP PLC DIRECTORS REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2004 3
