28156 annual 16 57 pe 7 12 04 11:57 AM Page 41 Report of the Directors The directors present their report and the consolidated financial statements of Somerfield plc Somerfield or the Company and its subsidiaries the Group for the 52 weeks ended 24 April 2004.
Principal activity and business review The Groups principal activity is food retailing in the United Kingdom.
Its principal operating subsidiary is Somerfield Stores Limited.
A detailed review of the Groups activities and of future developments is contained within the Chairmans Statement and Somerfield and Kwik Save Operating Reviews on pages 2 to 9 which are, accordingly, to be read as part of this report.
On 17 March 2004 Somerfield Stores Limited acquired the entire issued share capital of Aberness Limited, a convenience store business based in Aberdeen.
The value of the net assets as at 31 March 2003, the last published statutory accounts, was 4.8 million.
Results and dividends The Group profit attributable to the members of Somerfield for the year amounted to 55.8 million 2002 2003 39.8 million.
A final dividend of 1.6p per share is proposed, making a total dividend for the year of 2.2p 2002 2003 1.65p.
Share capital Details of movements in the Companys issued share capital during 2003 04 are shown in note 22 to the financial statements.
As at 29 June 2004, 501,662,201 ordinary 10p shares were in issue and fully paid with an aggregate nominal value of 50,166,220.10.
Substantial interests At the date of this report, the following substantial interests 3% or more in the Companys share capital had been notified to the Company: Shareholder Ordinary shares % holdings Prudential plc 53,870,786 10.74 Schroder Investment Management Limited 39,760,822 8.02 Baugur Group h. f. 17,925,000 3.57 Legal and General Investment Management Limited 17,401,438 3.51 Aviva plc and its subsidiaries 15,065,924 3.00 Directors and directors interests The current directors of the Company, all of whom served throughout the year, are listed on pages 39 and 40, with brief biographies.
Bill Williams resigned as a director on 11 March 2004, although his service agreement did not terminate until 24 April 2004.
The directors interests in the Company are shown in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 48 to 55.
Corporate governance statement A new combined code on corporate governance the Combined Code was published by the Financial Reporting Council FRC on 23 July 2003.
The Combined Code does not apply to the Company until its next reporting year, 2004 05, but this statement reports on compliance both with the Combined Code and the original code on corporate governance appended to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority the Original Code.
The Company has, throughout the year, complied with the provisions of Section 1 of the Original Code.
The roles of chairman and chief executive were combined in October 2002 and remained combined throughout the year.
The Nominations Committee reviewed this arrangement at three meetings during the year and a new board structure was agreed on 29 June 2004.
Steve Back takes over as chief executive with effect from 1 September 2004 allowing John von Spreckelsen to concentrate on his role as chairman.
The Company confirms that it has had procedures in place throughout the year which accord with the Internal Control Guidance for directors in the Original Code published by the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England & Wales in September 1999 the Turnbull Guidance.
Save as noted in the following paragraphs, which describe how the Company has implemented both the main and supporting principles of the Combined Code, the Company has also complied, since its publication, with the provisions of the Combined Code.
The Board At the date of this report, the Board comprises an executive chairman, four other executive directors and four independent non-executive directors.
The wide range of experience of both executive and non-executive directors means that the Board can call not just on food and general retailing expertise but on general business experience and strong personal skills.
The non-executive directors add independence of thought and perspective.
All non-executive directors are considered to be independent of management under the more stringent test of independence contained in the Combined Code and free from any business or other relationship which could interfere with their exercise of independent judgement.
Alan Giles has been a non-executive director of the Company and its predecessor, the privately owned Somerfield Holdings Limited, since 1993 but will be retiring from the Board after the annual general meeting on 8 September 2004.
Somerfield plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 2004 41 28156 annual 16 57 pe 7 12 04 11:57 AM Page 42 Report of the Directors Continued Since Bill Williams retirement from the Board on 11 March 2004, but recognising that the chairman is a full time executive, the Company has met the requirement in Code provision A.
3.2 for half of the Board, excluding the chairman, to comprise non-executive directors determined by the Board to be independent.
When Barry Gibson joins the Board on 1 July 2004 the number of independent non-executive directors will increase to five, reverting to four on Alan Giles retirement from the Board on 8 September 2004.
The appointment of two additional executive directors with effect from 1 September 2004 will reduce the proportion of independent non-executive directors to below 50%, but it is the Boards intention to appoint an additional non-executive director to redress the balance and ultimately to move to full compliance with Code provision A.
Louise Patten, as senior non-executive director, is available to shareholders to raise matters of concern which normal channels cannot resolve.
There were ten formal Board meetings during the year and two separate strategy review meetings.
Alan Giles, Louise Patten and Bill Williams each missed one meeting.
All other directors attended every meeting.
All directors are provided with full information to enable the Board to discharge its function of leading and controlling the Company and non-executive directors spend time with individual executive directors and their teams to ensure proper understanding of the key business functions.
Although all directors are equally accountable for the business performance, the non-executive directors recognise their particular role in ensuring that strategies proposed by the executive directors are fully discussed and examined.
The Board recognises and supports the need for high standards of corporate governance to ensure that its principal goal of driving shareholder value is balanced against broader stakeholder interests.
There is a schedule of matters reserved to the full Board for decision which includes the following:  approval of the Companys financial statements and dividend decisions  removal and appointment of directors or the company secretary  approval of the Companys strategy, annual management plan and operating budget  major capital projects and material contracts  treasury policy  internal control systems and risk management including insurance  Pension Scheme provision  conduct of material litigation  charitable donations over 5,000 and all political donations  setting the terms of reference for the Board Committees and appointing Committee members The senior non-executive director, Louise Patten, led a meeting of non-executive directors to appraise the performance of the executive chairman.
The executive chairman and the non-executive directors meet regularly with no other executives present.
All directors participated in a formal process of assessing the performance of the Board and its principal committees designed to reflect the guidance on performance evaluation suggested in the Higgs Report which was reviewed both by the Nominations Committee and by the Board as a whole.
Directors were asked to score performance against a range of criteria e. g. clarity of objectives for the Board and its Committees and performance against them: quality of information provided for meetings: independence of non-executives: individual skills and expertise and any gaps to be filled with responses being collated for review, first by the Nominations Committee and then by the Board as a whole.
The company secretary facilitated a formal presentation by the companys corporate lawyers describing the obligations of directors of listed companies under relevant primary and secondary legislation, the Listing Rules and codes of practice.
The Company has not complied with Main Principle A2 of the Combined Code or Code provision A.
2.1 separation of roles of chairman and chief executive, but will do so once Steve Back takes over as Chief Executive on 1 September 2004.
The company secretary acts as secretary to the Board and all directors have access to him for advice as well as to other independent professional advice provided at the Companys expense.
Every director receives a full briefing pack on appointment.
The chairman monitors, with the assistance of the company secretary, the information provided to the Board to ensure that it is sufficient, accurate, timely and clear.
Appropriate insurance cover is in place for legal action against directors and other officers of the Company.
All directors are required to submit themselves for re-election at least once every three years.
Principal Board Committees The Board has established the following Board Committees: Group Executive Committee, Group Capital Expenditure Committee, Audit Committee, Nominations Committee and Remuneration Committee.
No person who is not a committee member is entitled to attend meetings of these committees, save by invitation.
Group Executive Committee John von Spreckelsen chairs the Group Executive Committee, which consists of all executive directors, the Heads of Somerfield and Convenience Business and the company secretary who also acts as secretary to the Committee.
This Committee is responsible for developing the Groups strategy and, once approved by the Board, for overseeing its implementation.
It meets six times a year to focus exclusively on medium and long term business developments.
The Committee normally meets every two weeks to review current trading performance and reviews detailed management accounts for the Group and its Somerfield, Kwik Save and Convenience store portfolios every four weeks.
The Committee also prepares annual operating and capital expenditure plans and budgets before their submission to the Board for final approval.
42 Somerfield plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 2004 28156 annual 16 57 pe 7 12 04 11:57 AM Page 43 Group Capital Expenditure Committee Steve Back chairs this Committee, which, within limits set by the Board, is the focal point of control over capital expenditure and receipts within the Group and meets every two weeks.
Whilst the Group Executive Committee is responsible for ensuring that capital projects are consistent with the Groups broad strategic objectives, it is the Group Capital Expenditure Committee which sets hurdle rates for investment proposals and monitors returns from investments against those hurdle rates.
The Committee also sets the policy and procedures for ensuring that capital expenditure remains within budget and is only committed to approved projects and in accordance with prescribed authority limits.
The assistant company secretary acts as secretary to the Group Capital Expenditure Committee.
Nominations Committee The Nominations Committee is chaired by Peter Wilson, who served throughout the year.
Alan Giles, Louise Patten and John von Spreckelsen were also members throughout the year.
Mike Firth was appointed to the Committee on 8 October 2003.
The Committee met four times during the year.
All members of the Committee attended all of its meetings.
The company secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
The Committees terms of reference are published on the Companys web site www.
uk under the heading Corporate Social Responsibility.
Its primary functions are:  to review the structure, size, and composition of the Board and its committees  to identify and nominate to the Board candidates to fill vacancies  to review succession planning for the Board and other senior executives  to lead the process of annual evaluation of the Board, its committees and individual directors Meetings held during the year focused on Board and Committee structures and composition including the Committees own terms of reference : implementing a new process for evaluating Board, Committee and individual director performance: and implementing a programme for compliance with the new Combined Code.
The Committee employed external search consultants to assist it in the search for a new nonexecutive director to replace Alan Giles.
Candidates are interviewed by the chairman of the committee and one or more other members, as well as by the chairman of the Board and one or more executive directors, in order to maximise information available to the Committee in considering its recommendations and to the Board in acting on those recommendations.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee is chaired by the senior independent non-executive director, Louise Patten, who served throughout the year.
It is composed entirely of independent non-executive directors.
The other members of the Committee, all of whom also served throughout the year, are Mike Firth, Alan Giles and Peter Wilson.
The Committee met seven times during the year.
One of these meetings was a purely formal meeting to award share options in accordance with a decision taken in principle at an earlier meeting.
That was attended by Alan Giles and Peter Wilson only.
All members of the Committee apart from Alan Giles attended the other six meetings.
Alan Giles missed one meeting.
The Committees terms of reference are published on the Companys website www.
Its primary functions are:  to determine and agree with the Board the broad policy for remuneration of the Board and designated senior executives, taking account of relevant internal and external factors, including individual performance  to design performance related pay and share incentive schemes  to determine pensions policy for the Board and designated senior executives  to agree severance terms for Board directors  to prepare an annual report on remuneration in the form required by the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002  to select its own remuneration advisers and agree their terms of reference Meetings held during the year focused on the executive deferred bonus scheme approved by shareholders at the annual general meeting in September 2003, consideration of the first Directors Remuneration Report under the 2002 Regulations, remuneration policy and individual pay reviews, the objectives for the executive deferred bonus scheme in 2004 05 and revision of the Committees own terms of reference.
Further details on the Committees responsibilities are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report at pages 48 to 55.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee is chaired by Mike Firth who served throughout the year.
Mike Firth was appointed to the Audit Committee on joining the Board in June 2002, becoming chairman on 4 September 2002.
He has wide experience of financial reporting and accounting standards from his previous role as head of corporate banking at HSBC Bank plc.
The Committees other members, who also served throughout the year, are Alan Giles, Louise Patten and Peter Wilson.
Alan Giles has been a member of the Audit Committee since 17 June 1996, Louise Patten since 3 June 1998 and Peter Wilson since 15 May 2002.
The executive chairman, group finance director, representatives from internal audit and other senior managers attend meetings by invitation.
The Committee met three times during the year.
The Committee normally meets four times a year, but the separate meeting to consider the management letter in which management responds to any major issues arising from the annual audit was not required as there were few such issues.
Part of one meeting was set aside for a discussion with the external auditors at which no member of the executive management team was present.
Somerfield plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 2004 43 28156 annual 16 57 pe 7 12 04 11:57 AM Page 44 Report of the Directors Continued The chairman of the Audit Committee also meets separately with representatives from internal audit to discuss any internal audit concerns again with no other member of the executive management team present.
Time will be set aside in 2004 05 for the Audit Committee as a whole to conduct that discussion.
Its primary functions are:  to review managements judgements in relation to the Companys financial statements, operating and financial review, interim reports, preliminary announcements and related formal statements before submission to the Board for approval.
 to review critical accounting policies and practices and any proposed changes.
 to review the going concern statement.
 to review the Companys internal control and risk management procedures and lead the process of assessing the effectiveness of those procedures in practice.
 to receive and review periodic reports on the work of internal audit.
 to review and challenge the internal audit programme and managements responsiveness to internal audit findings and recommendations.
 to oversee the Companys relations with the external auditor and consider and make recommendations for any change.
 to approve the external auditors terms of engagement and remuneration.
 to review the effectiveness, independence and robustness of the external auditor.
 to develop and maintain a policy on independence of the external auditor.
 to review the external auditors report on the audit process and assess managements response to findings in that report.
 to prepare an annual report to the Board.
Meetings held during the year focused on the Companys policy on auditor independence described in more detail below : Ernst & Youngs Audit Reports on the financial statements for 2002 03 and interim financial statements for 2003 04: the management letter dealing with audit issues: new accounting standards for Pensions FRS 17 and revenue recognition FRS 5 : changes in corporate governance introduced by the Combined Code: reports from the Companys internal audit department: the risk assessment process led by the Corporate Social Responsibility Group: and the Committees own terms of reference and annual report to the Board.
As part of its remit the Audit Committee keeps the nature and extent of non-audit services provided to the Group by the auditors under review, seeking to maintain the auditors objectivity and independence whilst achieving value for shareholders.
To reinforce the confidence of investors in the independence of the auditors, the Committee introduced a policy adopted by the Board at its meeting on 25 June 2003 which governs the scope of services provided by the auditors.
In summary, services offered by the auditors are classified as: audit: work undertaken to provide an audit or review opinion on the Groups financial statements.
audit related: work of an assurance nature, including reviews required by regulatory bodies, reviews of public documents and the audit of pension and share schemes.
non-audit: includes tax advice and consultancy services.
prohibited: any work involving an evident threat to independence including, in particular, advice on any business decision or on changes in infrastructure.
Executive management has the discretion to use the auditors for audit and audit related work without prior reference to the Audit Committee.
The Committee must be informed of the nature of the work and of all fees.
Any contract for non-audit services involving a fee exceeding 100,000 requires the Committees prior approval.
A full statement of the fees payable to Ernst & Young in 2003 04 is set out below: 2003 04 2002 03 000 000 Audit 215 300 Audit Related 22 64 Non-audit 256 87 Total 493 451 Mainly comprises non-audit fees for tax and acquisitions.
44 Somerfield plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 2004 28156 annual 16 57 pe 7 13 04 9:16 AM Page 45 Internal control and risk management The directors recognise that the Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for ensuring that the system in place is designed to meet the Groups particular needs and the risks to which it is exposed.
The board conducts, on an annual basis, a review of the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control and did so during the year.
No system of control can eliminate risk entirely the goal is to identify and manage it.
The principal processes for managing risk in the Group are:  An annual budget is prepared, and adopted by the Board, to facilitate monitoring of the Companys financial performance.
Forecasts are regularly updated during the year to measure progress against the budget.
The four weekly management accounts are issued both to the Group Executive Committee and to the Board.
Significant variances from budgets and forecasts are investigated and explained.
There is a comprehensive system of reporting financial performance to all levels of management.
 The Board and the Group Executive Committee regularly review the Companys strategic direction as well as key financial indicators of performance against both budget and forecast.
 The Group Executive Committee normally meets approximately every two weeks to review key business issues and initiatives.
It reviews detailed management accounts for the Group and its individual businesses every four weeks.
 The heads of Somerfield and Kwik Save Katie Bickerstaffe Somerfield: Robin Whitbread Kwik Save also chair their own weekly reviews of business performance at which all of the principal central support departments Buying, Logistics and IT are represented.
David Cheyne conducts a similar, though less formal, review of business performance in Convenience Business.
 The Company has an internal audit department whose programme is focused on areas considered highest risk.
The departments programme of work is reviewed annually in advance by the Audit Committee, which also reviews major findings of investigations and managements response.
 The Company has prepared detailed Business Continuity and Incident Management Plans covering major systems failures as well as incidents such as fire, flood or explosion.
IT systems are supported by an agreement with a third party specialist disaster recovery company providing offsite facilities in case of emergency.
 The Companys Corporate Social Responsibility Group leads a process of review and certification by executive directors and other senior executives of key business risks and controls.
This process has now been in place for seven years and is accepted as an integral part of the Groups system of internal control.
With their managers and the internal audit department, the executive directors and other senior executives identify the business risks most important to their sector of the business, consider the financial and other business critical implications and assess the effectiveness of the control processes in place to mitigate those risks.
The results of that process are considered in detail by the Audit Committee in reviewing the interim and full year results.
In addition, the Corporate Social Responsibility Group compiles a quarterly report to the Board on overriding risks material to the business as a whole.
Those quarterly reports cover key risks in the field of Corporate Social Responsibility.
These processes have been in place for the whole of the accounting period under review and for the period since then to the date of this report.
Their effectiveness in managing risk is underpinned by the Groups policy to recruit and develop management and staff of high calibre and integrity and with appropriate skills.
High standards of business ethics and compliance with laws, regulations and internal policies are demanded from staff at all levels.
Corporate Social Responsibility A summary of key initiatives in the field of Corporate Social Responsibility CSR is set out in the review on pages 10 to 13.
The Board regards CSR as an integral part of the total corporate governance framework which is fully integrated into existing risk management structures and systems.
The Corporate Social Responsibility Group, in particular, includes an assessment of the management of social, ethical and environmental risks within its brief and has developed terms of reference which ensure a corporate focus on the management of non-financial as well as financial risk.
The formal processes for managing CSR within the Group are: a Customers: the heads of Somerfield, Kwik Save and Convenience Business Katie Bickerstaffe, Robin Whitbread and David Cheyne are the customer champions whose role it is to ensure that the needs of the customer take priority in all business decisions.
b Employees: Jan Maggs, Head of HR, and Karan Paige, Head of Retail HR, are jointly responsible for managing the Groups equal opportunities and diversity policies and for leading the Groups training and development programme.
c Health & Safety: Gordon Wotherspoon, group property director, is the director responsible for Health and Safety.
Gordon and John von Spreckelsen, Executive Chairman, are joint signatories of the Health & Safety Policy issued in January 2003 and available on the Group website at www.
Gordon chairs the Health and Safety Forum which is charged with overseeing the effectiveness of the Groups approach to managing health and safety.
The Forum identifies key problem areas, sets targets for improvement and monitors progress against those targets.
It also has the objective of ensuring that management of health and safety is given equal prominence to other areas of business performance.
It reports quarterly to the Group Executive Committee and to the Board.
Somerfield plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 2004 45 28156 annual 16 57 pe 7 12 04 11:57 AM Page 46 Report of the Directors Continued d Suppliers: Robin Whitbread, group buying and marketing director, is responsible for that element of the Groups social responsibility programme which arises from its relations with suppliers.
One aspect of that programme concerns the fair treatment of suppliers, the Groups policy on which is set out on its website.
In essence, the Group is committed to principles of fair dealing which reflect those in the OFTs formal Code of Practice for the major multiples.
The broader human rights aspects of the supply chain are covered in the Ethical Trading Initiative Report for 2003 which, again, is available on the Group website at www.
e Environment: Martin Oakes, group logistics and business systems director, is the director responsible for the environment.
The existing policy statement available on the Group website at www.
uk is currently undergoing review.
The Group recognises the 2 need to establish externally validated benchmarks against which to measure progress on key measures including CO emissions, energy consumption, waste recycling, water consumption and noise.
Consultants were appointed to help with that process during 2003 and an Environment Group has been established to respond to their recommendations.
f Ethics: The Group has issued detailed policies on whistleblowing and the receipt and provision of gifts, services and entertainment.
It has also issued policies on compliance with competition and data protection laws.
Relations with shareholders There is a regular programme of meetings with major institutional shareholders to consider the Groups performance and prospects as well as general presentations after the interim and full year results are announced.
The senior non-executive director, Louise Patten, is also available as an alternative point of contact should that be necessary.
At each Board meeting there is a report on movements in major shareholdings and on contact programmes between the executive directors and institutional shareholders.
Reports on the Company by financial analysts are circulated to Board members.
These summaries and reports enable the directors to gain an understanding of the views and opinions of those with an interest in the Company.
Individual shareholders are given the opportunity to question the executive chairman and other directors at the annual general meeting and all directors make themselves available for informal discussion with shareholders after the meeting.
Presentation of the interim and full year results to analysts are made available by webcast transmission to all those with access to the web.
Proxy voting details are given at each annual general meeting and are published on the Group website, where we also summarise the principal issues arising from the question and answer session.
We publish our results and all important announcements on the website immediately after their release to the Stock Exchange.
The site also contains general information for shareholders, including details on electronic communication and the low cost dealing service established with Stocktrade.
The Board has resolved to establish a dividend reinvestment plan which will be available on payment of the next interim dividend.
Employee involvement There is a continuing commitment throughout the Group to provide employees with information and to consult on matters of concern with a view to ensuring an awareness of the financial and economic factors affecting the performance of the Group.
Regular meetings are held involving directors, managers and supervisors to convey information about the business.
The Group regularly organises presentations and distributes newsletters to keep employees informed.
The Group provides pension and other retirement benefits through two pension schemes: the Somerfield Kwik Save Pension Scheme and the Kwik Save Group plc Lump Sum Retirement and Death Benefits Scheme.
The Somerfield Kwik Save Pension Scheme has a defined benefits section now closed to new members and a defined contribution section open to all employees immediately on starting employment.
The Kwik Save Group plc Lump Sum Retirement and Death Benefits Scheme is a defined benefits scheme which is now closed to new members.
The assets of each scheme are managed separately from those of the Group by their respective trustees.
The Company operates a savings related share option scheme SRSO which is approved by the Inland Revenue for which all employees of the Group with six months service are eligible.
1,045 employees were awarded a total of 2,435,941 SRSO scheme options following the invitation in September 2003.
319 employees also participate in the Buy As You Earn Scheme established in October 2002.
Equal opportunities The Group is committed to an active equal opportunities policy in all matters affecting recruitment, development, training and promotion.
The objective of the policy is to ensure that all decisions relating to employment practices will be objective, free from bias and based solely upon work criteria and individual merit irrespective of gender, colour, ethnic or national origin, disability, age, marital status, sexual orientation or religion.
46 Somerfield plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 2004 28156 annual 16 57 pe 7 12 04 11:57 AM Page 47 Disabled employees The Group gives every consideration to applications for employment from disabled persons.
Disabled employees and those who become disabled during their employment are employed under normal terms and conditions wherever possible and are provided with training and career development opportunities.
Past performance In relation to any reference in this annual report and accounts to the price at which the Companys shares have been bought or sold, it should be noted that past performance cannot be relied on as a guide to future performance.
Political and charitable contributions No political contributions were made by the Group during the year 2002 2003 nil.
The Group made various charitable contributions totalling 2,050 2002 2003 6,350.
The Group assisted in raising a total of 1,661,201 in the year 2002 2003 119,116 for charitable causes.
Supplier payments The Groups policy is to agree payment terms during initial discussions with prospective suppliers to the business.
The Group endeavours to keep within those payment terms at all times.
Somerfield plc, the Company, has no trade creditors in its balance sheet.
The average number of days credit taken by the Group for trade purchases at 24 April 2004 was 37 days 26 April 2003 37 days.
Statement of directors responsibilities in relation to the financial statements The directors are required by the Companies Act 1985 to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group as at the end of the financial year and of the profit or loss of the Group for the financial year.
The directors consider that in preparing the financial statements on pages 16 to 37 the Group has used appropriate accounting policies, consistently applied on a going concern basis and supported by reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates, and that all accounting standards which they consider to be applicable have been followed.
The directors have responsibility for ensuring that the Group keeps accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy the financial position of the Group and which enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
The directors have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
The directors confirm that, after making appropriate enquiries, they have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Group Accounts.
Auditors A resolution to re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditors to the Company will be put to the annual general meeting on 8 September 2004.
By Order of the Board Stephen Grant Secretary 29 June 2004 Somerfield plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 2004 47
