10 Spectris plc Annual report 2004 Our strategy Three interlocking strands So, weve explained how we help Each member of the family can rely our customers to visibly improve on knowledge, expertise, advice and their performance.
But what are the financial support from the parent, drivers for our own performance?
whilst behaving as an individual with its own name, brand and Our strategy has remained distinct personality.
The benefit essentially the same over the of this at, results-driven structure past ten years.
It comprises is that each business is given a three fundamental strands, high degree of ownership and developed over time and proven responsibility, with the result that to be successful.
We add value for management can react quickly our customers.
We develop and to changing customer and maintain strong market positions.
We focus on profitable business growth.
Although our fundamental The family has homes all around strategy has remained unchanged, the world, and so our role as parent we do regularly review and adapt it is to provide the infrastructure as market conditions dictate.
and support which enables each business to improve their ability to The way we are organised offers the meet their customers needs and best structure to deliver against our deliver against their commitments.
strategy within our chosen markets.
We act as a parent company, The diagram opposite shows how nurturing autonomous businesses our strategy works in practice.
with a common set of values to help them succeed in their markets.
I n t e l l e c t u a l p r o p e r t y S a l e s c o v e r a t g c e a p m M i a r t k c e e t r l i e D a d e d r s n e p A s p w p o l i l c, a n t r Our strategy Spectris plc Annual report 2004 11 We add value for our customers Our unique understanding of our customers processes enables us to develop specic solutions which are tailored to their individual requirements.
Our products typically involve low capital outlay but provide a significant and rapid payback.
Customer benets include improving production efficiency, reducing downtime, eliminating wastage, enhancing product quality, and most importantly, peace of mind built on trust.
Adding customer value Strong profitable market business positions growth We develop strong competitive positions We focus on growing profits and profitability All of our businesses are strong players in niche markets We have continued to invest around 6% of sales each year where there are significant barriers to entry.
Experienced in the development of new products and applications.
engineers develop applications which are tailored to the This, combined with our 1,950-strong customer eld staff, customers specic requirements designing solutions, has enabled our businesses to maintain their market based on standard product platforms, which are difficult positions and gross margins.
Our emphasis is on quality in for competitors to copy.
In addition, much of our all that we do, from the products we develop to the nature technology is proprietary.
We can quickly replicate our of the bolt-on or stand-alone businesses we acquire.
This, innovations around the world and have expanded our together with the sustainability of the demand drivers in presence in growing markets such as Asia in order to offer our markets, ensures that our businesses can progress sales and applications support to the increasing number of profitably and at the same time deliver good cash returns.
