02 Spectris plc Annual report 2004 Focusing on improving productivity with rapid payback takes us into many manufacturing environments.
In some, we help producers to make components smaller and more powerful.
In others, we make sure the nished product sounds good.
Making laptops faster Our laser-based instruments monitor the particles that could damage semiconductor wafers manufactured in cleanroom environments.
This helps manufacturers to achieve more cost-effective production of the smaller, more powerful microchips that are used in todays electronic devices.
Our instrumentation is also used for vibration testing in the design of increasingly smaller and faster hard disk drives.
We also make smart cameras that read 2D bar codes to identify components and achieve 100% traceability throughout the manufacturing process.
Making washing machines quieter We make the sound and vibration testing equipment used in the development of washing machines.
In this way we help product designers create the sound levels that customers expect.
Manufacturers also use our instruments to analyse the thin lm powders used to coat the machines.
This cuts costs without sacrificing aesthetics and durability.
From laptops to laundry Visibly improving performance Spectris plc Annual report 2004 03 04 Spectris plc Annual report 2004 Visibly improving performance Spectris plc Annual report 2004 05 Greater innovation.
From at screens to food Its not just about productivity.
We also help customers to develop products they wouldnt be able to make without our input.
In many industries, particularly food and medicines, we help to improve quality and safety.
Making at screens atter The excellent screen quality of at panel displays is made possible by applying an ultraviolet-coated lm to the screen.
Curing the lm with our UV lamps saves time and allows thinner and more uniform coatings to be applied.
Our X-ray analysis is also used to test the LEDs Light Emitting Diodes which make the screen sharper.
Making food taste better Our instruments are used to measure the amount of moisture, fat, oil, protein and caffeine in food.
In this way we make the quality of food more consistent and cut production costs.
Our technology can also detect pieces of glass, metal or bone in fresh or processed foods.
In another innovation for the food industry, weve developed a fast, accurate and hygienic method of lling bottles by weight.
06 Spectris plc Annual report 2004 Less waste.
From petfood to papers Cutting waste means increasing profitability.
Our monitoring equipment is used to keep production lines running efficiently.
Our instrumentation can also be used to enhance the nished product, adding to its customer appeal.
Cutting paper costs Our technology is used in paper production to control the consistency of the pulp, preventing breaks in the web which would lead to costly wastage.
Our instruments also monitor the condition of critical papermaking machinery.
Using sophisticated software, they measure vibration to diagnose and predict faults, reducing the risk of machine failure.
Making cat food more appealing Our ultraviolet technology is frequently used in printing the glossy foil packaging that makes products stand out on supermarket shelves.
UV curing is quick and cuts energy costs.
In another application, our thermal imaging cameras reduce waste in the packaging process by verifying the packs heat seal and identifying faults.
Food manufacturers also use our instruments to monitor the contents and temperature of tanks during the production process.
Visibly improving performance Spectris plc Annual report 2004 07 08 Spectris plc Annual report 2004 Visibly improving performance Spectris plc Annual report 2004 09 Our instrumentation is used to help customers to develop products which offer improved performance or are inherently safer.
Test and measurement during development also helps to bring new products to market faster.
Driving vehicle performance Our instrumentation is used to measure sound and vibration in vehicles, reducing environmental impact, particularly from exhaust and tyre noise.
We also help to make cars lighter, smarter and safer by optimising the weight and performance of the several kilometres of wire and cable which the electronic systems in todays vehicles require.
In another application, our processor boards have played a key role in tracking the position of cars using satellite navigation systems.
Making medicines safer Our instrumentation is used to analyse the particle size and shape of the ingredients during the development of a drug to ensure they will interact together safely.
We also supply analysers which are used to measure oxygen and carbon dioxide during bio-reactions in pharmaceutical laboratories.
Our X-ray systems analyse the drug during the manufacturing process to ensure the state of the ingredients has not changed as a result of, for example, a change in temperature, which would influence its effectiveness.
