22 Spectris plc Annual report 2004 Board of directors John Poulter, Chairman Hans Nilsson, Chief Executive John Poulter joined Spectris in 1988 and was Chief Hans Nilsson joined Spectris in 1997.
Previously Chief Executive from 1992 until he became non-executive Operating officer, he was appointed Chief Executive Chairman in 2001.
He is a non-executive director in 2001.
He has a masters degree in electrical of RAC plc, Smaller Companies Value Trust plc and engineering and an MBA from Stanford University.
He was previously the European managing director of Flextronics, prior to which he held positions at Chairman of the nomination committee.
He is a non-executive director of Novar plc.
Andrew Given, non-executive director Martin Lamb, non-executive director Andrew Given was appointed to the Board in 2001.
Martin Lamb was appointed to the Board in 1999.
From 1990 to 2002 he was with Logica plc, initially An engineer, he has considerable business and as group finance director and latterly as deputy technical experience both in the UK and North chief executive.
Prior to that he held senior financial America.
Much of his career has been spent with positions with Plessey Company plc and with IMI plc, where he is Chief Executive.
Northern Telecom Limited, mainly in North America.
Chairman of the remuneration committee.
He is a non-executive director of VT Group plc and Spirent plc.
Chairman of the audit committee and senior independent director.
Board of directors Spectris plc Annual report 2004 23 Steve Hare, Group Finance Director Stephen Harris, Business Group Director Jim Webster, Business Group Director Steve Hare, a Batchelor of Commerce and chartered Stephen Harris joined Spectris in 2003.
He is Jim Webster, a metallurgy graduate, accountant, joined Spectris in December 2004. responsible for the operational supervision of a joined Spectris in 1993.
He is responsible Previously a co-founder of consultancy hba partners, number of the groups trading companies.
Prior to for the operational supervision of a he was before that chief financial officer and a board joining Spectris he was executive director at Powell number of the groups trading companies.
member of Marconi PLC, where he was instrumental Duffryn responsible for a number of subsidiaries He was previously general manager of the in achieving agreement for the successful financial and, before that, held several positions within APV European Wire and Cable Division of Raychem.
Prior to joining Marconi, in North America.
He has a degree in engineering Age 54.
Steve was group finance director at GPT Limited, from Cambridge and an MBA from the University a joint venture between GEC and Siemens.
Professor Leo Murray, non-executive director Anthony Reading MBE, non-executive director Roger Stephens, Head of Commercial Professor Murray was appointed to the Board Anthony Reading was appointed to the Board and Company Secretary in 2003.
He is a graduate of Glasgow University in 2004.
He was a director of Tomkins plc and Roger Stephens is an economics graduate and was for 17 years director of the Craneld chairman of Tomkins Corporation for 11 years until and chartered company secretary.
Prior to School of Management.
Before joining Craneld, he retired at the end of 2003.
Prior to that he held joining Spectris in 1997, he worked in engineering he had a successful international business career senior positions with a number of international project management, specialising in commercial including management positions with BP, Courtaulds, companies including group chief executive of the negotiations and claims resolution, and then AT Kearney Management Consultants and Rothmans manufacturing and engineering division of BTR plc.
as director of administration in a commercial International.
He is now chair of the National Centre He is a non-executive director of The Laird Group PLC law rm.
Age 44. for Languages and a board member of and consultant and e2v technologies plc.
Age 61 to a number of organisations.
