24 Spectris plc Annual report 2004 Directors report The directors present their report and accounts for the year ended Research and development 31 December 2004.
Expenditure committed to research and development is focused on new product development and to a lesser extent applications Principal activities engineering and process integration.
Costs are expensed as Spectris is engaged in the development and marketing of precision incurred except to the extent funded by customers and totalled instrumentation and controls.
For 2004 reporting purposes, the 34.9 million in the year to 31 December 2004 2003: 34.1 million.
businesses were grouped into three sectors: electronic controls, in-line instrumentation and process technology.
Further details of Fixed assets the trading companies can be found in the Chief Executives review Whilst the market values of some properties differ from book page 14.
Developments in the groups business activities are values, the directors believe that the differences are not material.
discussed in the Chairmans statement page 12, Chief Executives review page 14 and financial review page 18.
Payment of suppliers The groups policy on payment of suppliers is to ensure that Acquisitions terms of payment accord with contractual and legal obligations.
During the year, a number of small, bolt-on acquisitions were The company had 0.2 million of trade creditors at the year end made for which the consideration was 10.4 million, including 2003: nil.
Directors Disposals The directors at 31 December 2004 are named on pages 22 and 23.
There were no disposals during the year.
Anthony Reading was appointed to the Board on 10 March 2004 and Steve Hare was appointed to the Board on 1 December 2004.
Share capital Graham Zacharias resigned from the Board on 13 September 2004 The issued share capital at the year end consisted of 124,301,513 and Paul Boughton resigned from the Board on 4 October 2004.
Andrew Given, Leo Murray and Hans Nilsson retire from the At the 2005 Annual General Meeting resolutions will be Board by rotation in accordance with the Articles of Association proposed for the renewal of the authorities granted to the directors and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
Steve Hare, to allot shares, to allot shares on a non pre-emptive basis for cash having been appointed since the last AGM, retires from the Board and to purchase the companys own shares either to be cancelled under the terms of the Articles of Association and, being eligible, or to be held in treasury, all within specified limits.
The directors total remuneration for the year and their interests At 14 March 2005 interests notied to the company in accordance in the shares of the company and its subsidiaries at 31 December with Part VI of the Companies Act 1985 comprised: 2004 are disclosed in the directors remuneration report on Legal & General Investment Management Limited pages 28 to 34.
8,728,413 shares 7.02% material interest Auditors Aegon Asset Management UK Separate resolutions to re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors 5,234,182 shares 4.21% material interest and to authorise the directors to agree their remuneration will Liberty Wanger Asset Management LP be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
4,910,500 shares 3.95% material interest Annual General Meeting Prudential plc The Notice of Annual General Meeting to be held at the companys 3,989,203 shares 3.21% material interest ofces on Wednesday 11 May 2005 at 11.30 a. m. is contained in a Morley Fund Management Limited separate letter from the Chairman accompanying this report.
4,564,444 shares 3.67% material interest Corporate governance Dividends Combined Code statement of compliance Spectris plc is subject to Results for the group are set out in the profit and loss account on the Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Combined page 39 and in the supporting notes.
A final dividend of 10.25p Code that is appended to the Listing Rules of the UK Listing per ordinary share is proposed for the year to 31 December 2004 Authority.
The Combined Code sets out principles and provisions 2003: 9.3p.
With the interim dividend, this makes a total for the relating to the good governance of companies.
The final dividend will be paid on The Combined Code has been subject to review, resulting in 10 June 2005 to shareholders on the register on 20 May 2005. the publication of a new Combined Code applicable to the 2004 The terms of the Spectris plc Employee benefit Trust provide financial year.
that dividends payable on shares held within the Trust are waived to 0.01p.
Directors report Spectris plc Annual report 2004 25 Corporate governance has been and remains the responsibility There are procedures for individual Board members to receive of the whole Board.
This statement describes how the company induction and training as appropriate and to solicit independent applied the principles and complied with the provisions of the professional advice at the groups expense where specic expertise is Combined Code during 2004. required in the course of exercising their duties.
All Board directors The Board considers that it was throughout the year and have access to the company secretary, who is responsible for continues to be in full compliance with the provisions set out in ensuring compliance with appropriate statutes and regulations.
section 1 of the Combined Code, save that: All directors are subject to re-election by shareholders at the first opportunity after their appointment and thereafter at intervals a majority of the members of the nomination committee are not of no more than three years, with one third of directors being independent non-executive directors, as required by provision required to submit for re-election by rotation each year.
The committee consists of the Chairman, the senior the proposed new Articles of Association of the company, will independent director and the Chief Executive and the Board simply require all directors to submit themselves for election by considers this to be the most appropriate composition for the shareholders at the first Annual General Meeting after their sensitive issues addressed by the committee: appointment and for re-election thereafter at intervals of no more the audit committee does not consist exclusively of independent than three years.
non-executive directors, as required by provision C3.1.
The Board delegates specic responsibilities to Board The Chairman, John Poulter, continues to serve as a member of committees, notably the nomination, remuneration and audit the committee and the Board believes this to be essential both to committees.
The terms of reference of these committees are enable the Chairman properly to discharge his responsibilities published on the companys website and the following additional and to assist the work of the committee given the Chairmans documents are available to shareholders on application to the extensive knowledge of the groups operations: and company secretary: until 13 September 2004, at least half the Board, excluding schedule of matters reserved for decision by the Board: the Chairman, did not comprise independent non-executive responsibilities of the Chairman, the Chief Executive and the directors, as required by provision A3.2.
non-executive directors: Board composition and procedures The Board meets formally relations with shareholders: nine times each year to consider developments in relation to the performance evaluation: companys strategy and long-term objectives and to review trading procedure for taking independent professional advice.
results and operational and business issues.
In particular it deals with those matters reserved to it for decision, including the Board and committee meeting attendance 2004 acquisition and disposal of businesses, major capital expenditure, Remuneration Audit Nomination the appointment and, where necessary, removal of directors and Board committee committee committee Board and senior management succession planning.
Usually, two Total meetings during year9542 meetings each year are held at operating locations and encompass a detailed review of the relevant business.
Operational decisions are JW Poulter Chairman 9 N A 4 2 delegated by the Board to senior management at trading company AF Given level over which the Business Group Directors exercise supervision.
senior independent director 7542 All directors receive detailed progress reports one week prior to MJ Lamb 8 5 4 N A each Board meeting.
LG Murray 8 4 4 N A The Board currently comprises the Chairman, four executive AJ Reading 6 3 2 N A directors and four non-executive directors.
The Board considers HD Nilsson Chief Executive 9 N A N A 2 all its non-executive directors Andrew Given, Martin Lamb, Leo Murray and Anthony Reading to be independent.
S Hare 1 N A N A N A The positions of Chairman, Chief Executive and senior SC Harris 9 N A N A N A independent director are held by separate individuals and the Board JCWebster 9 N A N A N A has adopted written proles for each of the positions of Chairman, PV Boughton 5 N A N A N A Chief Executive and non-executive director.
The non-executive directors have all had senior experience in other organisations and JG Zacharias 6 N A N A N A offer independent judgement on Board matters.
The Chairmans S Hare, A J Reading, P V Boughton and J G Zacharias held ofce for part of other significant interests are as a non-executive director of the year only.
S Hare attended the sole Board meeting which he was eligible RAC plc, Smaller Companies Value Trust plc and certain private to attend.
A J Reading attended six of the seven Board meetings which he was companies.
The Board believes that the Chairmans obligations eligible to attend.
P V Boughton attended five of the seven Board meetings to the company are unaffected by these directorships.
which he was eligible to attend.
J G Zacharias attended six of the seven Board meetings which he was eligible to attend.
26 Spectris plc Annual report 2004 Board appointments and performance evaluation The Audit committee The audit committee comprises the nomination committee consists of the Chairman, the senior non-executive directors and the Chairman.
It is chaired by independent director and the Chief Executive and is chaired by the Andrew Given, who has recent and relevant financial experience as Chairman, save in the event of discussions relating to his succession the former group finance director of Logica plc.
The committee when the senior independent director would take the chair.
meets at least three times each year to consider the effectiveness of Following a decision of the Board that the appointment of a the groups internal controls, policies and procedures, the process of new director is appropriate, the duty of the committee is to present internal audit and the outcome of the external audit.
Its meetings for Board consideration suitably qualied candidate s. In making are normally attended by the Chief Executive, the group finance such recommendations, the committee evaluates the balance of director, the company secretary and the external auditor.
skills, knowledge and experience on the Board and develops a The committee regularly confers with the auditor without the description of the role and required capabilities.
Candidates are attendance of executive directors.
Its terms of reference can be then identied for interview through the appointment of an found on the companys website.
The committee also makes The committee is responsible for making recommendations to recommendations to the Board regarding the re-election and or the Board in relation to the appointment of the external auditor re-appointment of any director.
Similar selection processes would and then for approving the external auditors remuneration, terms apply for the appointment of a successor chairman.
of engagement and scope of work.
The nomination committee meets as the need arises.
Its terms The committee has also adopted procedures governing and of reference can be found on the companys website.
restricting the appointment of the external auditor for non-audit The operation of the Board and its committees is evaluated services.
The following services are precluded: by the Board as a whole annually.
The executive directors and book-keeping or other services related to the accounting records company secretarys performances are appraised annually against or financial statements of Spectris plc: objectives established for the prior year.
The contributions of the financial information systems design and implementation: Chairman and non-executive directors are reviewed in advance of the conclusion of the initial three-year term, by the senior appraisal or valuation services, fairness opinions or contribution independent director and the Chairman respectively, prior to their in kind reports: being proposed to shareholders for re-election.
Additionally, the actuarial services: Chairman holds periodic meetings with the non-executive directors only and, led by the senior independent director, the non-executives internal audit outsourcing services: meet at least annually without the Chairman present.
management functions or human resources: The Board has appointed an external moderator to assist in broker or dealer, investment adviser or investment the evaluation of its operation and performance, scheduled to be banking services: completed during the first half year in 2005. legal services and expert services unrelated to the audit.
Shareholder relations Spectris conducts regular dialogue with A cumulative annual cap of 200,000 is established for all other institutional shareholders and divulges such information as is non-audit services save for acquisition due diligence and taxation permitted within the guidelines of the Listing Rules.
The content of services above which all engagements are subject to prior approval presentations made after results announcements may be accessed by the audit committee.
by individual investors on the group website, www.
The group employs an internal control and risk manager who All shareholders are invited to participate in the Annual General performs internal control reviews across the group according to a Meeting, where the Chairman, the Chief Executive and the work programme agreed by the committee.
The group internal chairmen of the audit, remuneration and nomination committees control and risk manager is assisted in this by other group finance will be available to answer questions.
The results of proxy votes personnel.
The nature and scope of the groups internal control are declared at the Annual General Meeting after each resolution review resources is reviewed by the audit committee annually.
has been dealt with on a show of hands.
The audit committee receives reports twice a year on the results of The Board is kept informed of the views of major shareholders internal control reviews.
The group internal control and risk through periodic reports from the Chief Executive, the companys manager has direct access to the chairman of the audit committee broker Merrill Lynch and the companys shareholder relations and may meet with him in the absence of executive management.
The Chairman and non-executive directors have the opportunity to attend the bi-annual Internal controls The Board is ultimately responsible for analyst presentations.
the groups system of internal controls and for reviewing its Shareholders representing in excess of 3% of the companys effectiveness.
However, such a system is designed to manage rather issued share capital receive a standing invitation to meet with the than eliminate risk of failure to meet business objectives and can Chairman, the senior independent director or new non-executive provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material directors.
Such meetings would supplement if necessary, but not misstatement or loss.
replace, the regular meetings with the Chief Executive and group finance director.
Directors report Spectris plc Annual report 2004 27 Following publication of the guidance for directors on Directors responsibilities internal control Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements Combined Code, the Board confirms that there is an ongoing for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of process for identifying, evaluating and managing any significant affairs of the company and of the group and of the profit or loss for risks faced by the group, that this has been in place for the year that period.
In preparing those financial statements, the directors under review and up to the date of approval of the annual report are required to: and accounts, that this process has been reviewed by the Board select suitable accounting policies and then apply during the year and that the group accords with the guidance.
them consistently: The processes which the Board and the audit committee have make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: applied in reviewing the effectiveness of the groups system of internal controls are summarised below: state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and risk assessment and evaluation for each business unit takes explained in the financial statements: place as an integral part of the annual strategic planning cycle.
Having identied the principal risks to achievement of their prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis strategic business objectives, each business unit is required to unless it is inappropriate to presume that the company and document the management and mitigating actions in place the group will continue in business.
and proposed: The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records the principal risks identied during the annual strategic planning which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial cycle and the effectiveness of the management and mitigating position of the company and to enable them to ensure that actions in place are reviewed regularly by the executive directors the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985. and twice yearly by the audit committee: They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the group additionally, the executive directors consider those risks to the and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
groups strategic objectives which are not addressed within the business units and develop appropriate approaches to managing By order of the Board and mitigating these risks: annual financial plans for each business unit, significant capital investments or contractual commitments and major acquisitions or divestments are all subject to review and approval by the Board: there is a Group Accounting and Policies Manual which sets Roger Stephens Secretary out the minimum standards and procedures to be applied in 15 March 2005 relation to those risk areas which are regarded as significant in a group context: a process of self assessment of compliance with the Manual and reporting thereon has been established, providing for a documented trail of accountability from business unit presidents and finance directors to the audit committee.
Planned corrective actions are monitored for timely completion: the executive directors report to the Board on changes in the business and external environment which present significant risks.
The group finance director provides the Board with monthly financial information which includes key performance and risk indicators.
Regular reports on significant legal issues and insurance matters are received from the company secretary.
Going concern Having reviewed the groups plans and available financial facilities, the Board has a reasonable expectation that the group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason it continues to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the groups accounts.
