Directors Report for the year ended 31 December 2004 The directors present their annual report on the affairs of Abbot Group Substantial shareholdings plc the Company and its subsidiary undertakings together the At 10 March 2005 the Company had been notified, in accordance Group, together with the consolidated accounts and auditors report, with sections 198 to 208 of the Companies Act 1985, of the following for the year ended 31 December 2004. interests of 3% or more in the ordinary share capital of the Company: Principal activities Number of Percentage The Groups principal activities are the provision of drilling and related ordinary shares held % well and facilities engineering services on a worldwide basis to the A. J. D. Locke 30,000,000 17.06 energy industry.
Aberforth Partners 14,831,103 8.43 Fidelity International Limited 7,069,532 4.02 The subsidiary undertakings principally affecting the results or net assets Morley Fund Management Limited 5,327,433 3.03 of the Group in the year are set out in note 14 to the accounts.
Supplier payment policy Business review The Group policy is to agree terms of payment with suppliers prior to A review of the Groups performance and comments on the financial entering into contractual relationships and to abide by those terms of results and outlook for the future are contained in the Chairmans payment.
As the Company is principally a holding company it has no Statement and the Operating and Financial Reviews.
trade creditors and accordingly no disclosure is made of the year end creditor days.
Results and dividends The Group made a profit on ordinary activities before taxation Employees of 21.9 million 2003: 20.6 million.
The audited accounts for the year The Group is committed to involving employees in the business through ended 31 December 2004 are set out on pages 33 to 64. a policy of communication and consultation.
Arrangements have been established for the regular provision of information to all employees The directors recommend a final dividend of 3.2p 2003: 3.1p per through briefings and well-established formal consultation procedures.
ordinary share to be paid on 3 June 2005 to ordinary shareholders on the register at the close of business on 6 May 2005, which, together Applications for employment by disabled persons are always fully with the interim dividend of 1.6p 2003: 1.4p paid on 5 November 2004, considered, bearing in mind the aptitudes and abilities of the applicant.
makes a total of 4.8p per ordinary share for the year 2003: 4.5p.
If employees become disabled every effort is made to ensure that their employment with the Group continues and that appropriate training Share capital is arranged.
It is the policy of the Group that the training, career There were no movements in share capital during the year.
development and promotion of a disabled person should, as far as possible, be identical to that of a person who does not suffer from Directors and their interests a disability.
The directors who served during the year were as follows: Health and safety at work A. J. D. Locke executive chairman The well-being of the employees is given the highest priority throughout M. J. L. Salter chief operating officer the Group and it is the Groups policy not only to comply with health P. J. Milne finance director and safety measures, as required by law, but to act positively to prevent M. A.
White executive director injury and ill health, and damage to the environment arising from its - drilling operations operations.
Further information is contained in the Corporate Social R. A. Duncan non-executive director Responsibility Statement set out on pages 12 to 14.
J. W. Hollis non-executive director M. A. McDowell non-executive director resigned 31st March 2004 G. M. Philipps non-executive director G. E. Watkins non-executive director The interests of the directors in the ordinary shares of the Company are disclosed within the Directors Remuneration Report set out on pages 28 to 31.
24 Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Directors responsibilities The effect of such purchases would either be to cancel the number Company law requires the directors to prepare accounts for each of shares in issue and the directors would accordingly only make such financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of purchases after considering the effect on earnings per share and the the Company and the Group, and of the profit or loss of the Group for benefit for longer term shareholders, or the directors may elect to hold that year.
In preparing those accounts, the directors are required to: them in treasury pursuant to The Companies Acquisition of Own Shares Treasury Shares Regulations 2003 the Regulations.
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently with the exception of the changes arising on the adoption of a new Shares held in treasury may subsequently be cancelled, sold for cash accounting policy as explained in note 1b to the accounts: or used to satisfy share options and share awards under a companys employees share scheme.
Once held in treasury, a company is not entitled make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: to exercise any rights, including the right to attend and vote at meetings state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, in respect of the shares.
Further, no dividend or other distribution of the subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Companys assets may be made to the Company in respect of the accounts: and treasury shares.
prepare the accounts on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue in business.
If the directors exercise the authority conferred by Resolution 10 they will consider holding those shares in treasury, rather than cancelling The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records them.
The directors believe that holding shares in treasury may provide which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial the Company with greater flexibility in the management of its share position of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure capital.
The directors will also consider using the treasury shares to satisfy that the accounts comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also any share awards under any employees share schemes.
responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection There were no options to subscribe for ordinary shares of 15p each of fraud and other irregularities.
in the Company as at 11 March 2005.
Annual general meeting Auditors The notice convening the Annual General Meeting to be held on 17 May The directors will place a resolution before the Annual General Meeting 2005, which can be found on page 66, contains details of a special to reappoint  LLP, who were first appointed in resolution empowering the directors to allot relevant securities for cash 2001 as auditors of the Company, to hold office until the conclusion of up to a maximum nominal amount of 1,318,771, without first offering the next general meeting at which accounts are laid before the Company.
them to shareholders in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
Going concern Purchase of own shares After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that The Company is taking this opportunity to seek authority to purchase the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in its own ordinary shares of 15p each.
operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
The directors now propose that the Company be authorised to purchase a maximum of 17,583,624 ordinary shares of 15p each representing just Re-election of directors under 10% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital as at 11 March In accordance with the Articles, Messrs Milne and White retire by 2005 within the limits described in Resolution 10 contained in the notice rotation and offer themselves for re-election, their service agreements of the Annual General Meeting.
It is intended that purchases will only are subject to twelve months notice by the Company.
be made on the London Stock Exchange plc.
This should not be taken to imply that shares will be purchased.
The directors will only exercise By order of the Board the authority to purchase its own shares if to do so would result in Alec W. J. Banyard Company Secretary an increase in earnings per share and is in the best interests of its shareholders generally.
