Group Overview Abbot Group is the largest offshore platform drilling contractor in the UK sector of the North Sea, one of the largest international land drilling contractors outside the Americas, and a world leader in engineering, rig design, construction and operation.
Its activities are centred around its main operating subsidiary, KCA DEUTAG.
The Group employs over 3,800 people worldwide and has operations in Europe, Russia, the Middle East, Caspian Region, North and West Africa and Asia.
KCA DEUTAGs primary role is as a drilling contractor, and in addition it offers world-class, in-house conceptual design, drilling facility engineering, drilling engineering and well services, ensuring clients are provided with innovative, cost effective and fit for purpose solutions.
The Groups commitment to safety, the environment and robust management systems is fundamental to the successful execution of our contracts.
Abbot Groups headquarters are in Aberdeen, Scotland.
Its main subsidiary KCA DEUTAG operates through three global Business Units, with centres of excellence for Offshore and Onshore Drilling in Aberdeen and Bad Bentheim, Germany respectively.
There are also regional offices in Houston, Dubai, Baku and Moscow.
Europe Caspian Region Russia Africa Middle East and Asia KCA DEUTAG was the first drilling KCA DEUTAG is the leading Russia is a key area of focus for KCA DEUTAG has a long and KCA DEUTAG has an excellent contractor to carry out platform platform drilling contractor in the KCA DEUTAG, and the Group distinguished track record of track record of successful drilling operations in the UK Caspian Region.
The Group has continues to successfully develop operations in North and West operations in the Middle East, sector of the North Sea in 1973 operations in Baku, Azerbaijan, both onshore and offshore Africa, including continuous and is currently working in UAE, following the award of a contract and Atyrau, Kazakhstan, and has operations from its bases in operations in Libya for over Bahrain, Oman, Iran and Qatar.
by BP for the Forties field.
KCA over 8 years continuous operating Moscow and Sakhalin Island.
45 years, and Nigeria for In 2004 the Group celebrated DEUTAG has been operating experience on the BP AIOC In Q2 2005 KCA DEUTAG will 15 years.
The Group is also 40 years continuous operations in Western Europe since the Azeri field.
open new regional offices due to start drilling operations in Oman.
The Group has recently inception of DEUTAG in 1888 in Tyumen Province.
offshore Angola in 2005. been carrying out drilling and continues to be the dominant operations in Brunei, Pakistan land drilling contractor.
4 Annual Report and Accounts 2004 acquisition In 2004 KCA DEUTAG acquired the assets of Rig Design Services, and together they now form one of the worlds biggest companies for offshore platform drilling engineering 45 years continuous operations in Libya 750,000 hours without a Lost Time Incident on the Benguela Belize rig fabrication Awards In 2004 KCA DEUTAG won the Outstanding Achievement Award, the Export Award, and a special commendation for HSE at the Scottish Offshore Achievement Awards At the IADC International Association of Drilling Contractors Annual North Sea Safety Awards KCA DEUTAG won the best performance for platform drilling contractors Abbot Group achieved the distinction of being runner up to one of the worlds largest banks Royal Bank of Scotland in the prestigious Scotland plc Awards 2,000,000 man hours completed free of Lost Time Incidents in Oman 40th year of continuous operations in Oman celebrated in 2004 $200m investment in land drilling fleet in 2004 2005 over85% land rig utilisation throughout the year ABBOT GROUP plc 5
