A R 2004 9 3 05 03:52 pm Page 16 investing in product and service development To maintain our position in the market it is important for us to invest in the development of new products and services.
Through a combination of research, development and acquisition we have added to our existing product ranges, and introduced higher levels of service around the Group.
Watson-Marlow has designed an entirely new generation of peristaltic pumps.
This innovative design has enabled production costs to be reduced and pump capabilities to be increased.
Improvements in quality and reliability have resulted in reduced warranty costs.
The new range has allowed product rationalisation to take place with the benefit of reduced lead times.
Spirax Sarco Brazil has developed a new automatic rotary strainer that incorporates a rotating helical scraper plate for continuous cleaning of the strainer surface.
The design provides constantly high standards of filtration, reducing the risk of product contamination.
The automatic operation allows increases in productivity to be made and the strainer complies with international health and safety requirements.
The Spirax Sarco Group information centre website has been developed as a source of steam engineering expertise.
It contains technical information on our product range and distance learning material.
Currently there are over 8,500 pages of information available.
Spirax Sarco has continued to introduce steam system services around the world.
Each level of service provides the customer with an appropriate level of support, from straightforward steam system audits to more comprehensive contracts.
increasing capabilities innovative design exacting performance sharing expertise As part of an ongoing development both to grow our controls product range and to respond better to the needs of our customers, Spirax Sarco has developed the new SteriTrol hygienic valve.
This is a two-port, stainless steel control valve for a wide range of clean service applications in the pharmaceutical, biotechnology, food, beverage and brewing industries.
It is suitable for a range of fluids including various grades of clean steam and purified water.
Our close relationships with customers in these industries gives us a unique knowledge of their special requirements.
This allows us to develop products with highly marketable features, such as the ability to open, clean and inspect valves quickly and easily.
14 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc A R 2004 10 3 05 12:8 pm Page 17 gas meter success Spirax Sarco has been working closely with a major supplier of gas in SE Asia on the development of a meter for use on natural gas for small 2,000 kg h boilers.
Spirax Sarco entered into discussions regarding the company's requirements at an early stage.
The product requirement from the gas company was such that they agreed to work with us and be actively involved with the development of the product.
As the development had to be fast tracked we based the new product on existing technology.
We established a winning combination that used one of our existing meter bodies with our latest design of electronics.
'The release of Flowin has given us a very good cost effective meter for gas, as well as the basis for a meter to measure compressed air flow. '
Flowin meter Field trials were conducted in conjunction with the gas company during the latter part of 2003 and early 2004, resulting in the release of the Flowin meter.
The Flowin meter provides the accuracy of flow measurement across a wide range of flowrates as originally specified by our customer.
The product is targeted at boiler manufacturers and companies using gas fired industrial boilers.
The release of Flowin has given us a very good cost effective meter for gas, as well as the basis for a meter to measure compressed air flow.
