A R 2004 9 3 05 03:51 pm Page 14 investing in manufacturing With major manufacturing facilities in the UK, France, USA, Italy and Argentina, Spirax Sarco is committed to a programme of continuous improvement in its manufacturing processes.
It is essential that products are made to the highest quality standards in an efficient and productive environment ensuring that cost targets are met.
Manufacturing costs have been reduced at the controls and metering product unit, with the recent installation of robot spraying for the pressure reducing valves and safety valves.
The robot automatically senses the product identification on the conveyor line, selects the robotic program and the appropriate paint colour is applied.
The new paint booths have reduced solvent emissions and improved working conditions.
The booths are certified to operate within strict emission regulations, which means over 99% of all over-spray is contained and not emitted to atmosphere.
The water-based paint is designed to give excellent levels of adhesion and colour retention, whilst offering good temperature resistance.
In order to meet increased demand for our safety valve business, investment has been made in a new valve test facility.
This is used to set large safety valves on air and steam as well as providing a dedicated test facility for the development of new products.
Reduced costs and increased productivity have been achieved in the USA through investment in new machinery.
Global sourcing of raw materials, including China and India, has allowed us to take advantage of the lower costs in those countries.
reduced manufacturing costs increased productivity labour saving reduced emissions The ball valve product unit, based in Argentina, recently underwent an expansion project to increase the factory space 2 by 1,220 m. This extra space allowed the factory layout to be modified, reducing the movement of parts and improving efficiency.
New CNC machine tools have been installed and automatic testing machines are to be incorporated in the assembly process.
Part of the new area is now allocated to the production of EasiHeat heat exchanger units and engineered systems, which will allow us to meet increased demand.
The ball valve product unit, Argentina.
12 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc A R 2004 9 3 05 03:52 pm Page 15 engineered systems In response to sales growth in the packaged system business, Spirax Sarco has invested in a substantial new manufacturing and engineering facility.
The well-equipped UK-based factory offers a flexible approach to the design and fabrication of a wide range of engineered systems.
These include heat exchange packages, condensate return systems, reducing valve stations, humidifiers and manifold units, all of which incorporate many individual Spirax Sarco products.
The units are designed to comply with international standards.
This investment has enabled quicker responses to quotation enquiries and shorter order lead-times.
2 The new 2,000 m factory has facilities to house a fully integrated team including design, material procurement and manufacturing.
Engineered system, The extra space and material handling manufactured in the UK.
equipment will allow larger and more complex packages to be built.
This coupled with in-house control of quality and conformity to international standards from a flexible and competent team, means there is now great potential to gain further business.
A similar production facility has also been developed at our Italian manufacturing plant.
