14 Spirent plc Annual Report 2004 Report of the directors The directors present their Report and the audited consolidated accounts Chief Executive and as a director of the Company on 1 August 2004, for the year to 31 December 2004. and Kurt Hellstrm, who was appointed as a non-executive director on 9 December 2004.
Nicholas Brookes retired as Chief Executive and Principal activities, business review and results as a director of the Company on 30 June 2004.
My Chung resigned The principal activities, review and results for the year inclusive of financial as a director on 3 September 2004.
Richard Moley will retire from the performance, likely future developments and prospects are set out on Board with effect from the date of the 2005 Annual General Meeting.
Principal divisions, subsidiaries and associates are listed on page 68.
Retirement and election of directors Pursuant to the Companys Articles of Association and the revised Dividends Combined Code on Corporate Governance see the Directors statement No interim dividend was paid during the year 2003 nil and the directors on corporate governance on pages 16 to 18, Marcus Beresford and Eric do not recommend the payment of a final dividend 2003 nil.
Hutchinson will retire by rotation at the Annual General Meeting AGM on 4 May 2005 and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
Research and development James Wyness, having served more than nine years on the Board, also Product development and innovation are considered key strategies to offers himself for re-election.
Having been appointed since the last AGM, maintain and improve the Groups competitive position and therefore Anders Gustafsson and Kurt Hellstrm will also retire at the forthcoming continue to receive high priority.
This commitment is highlighted by the AGM and, being eligible, offer themselves for election.
Anders Gustafsson 67.3 million research and development spend during the year, equivalent and Eric Hutchinson are the only two directors subject to election or to 14 per cent of turnover 2003 66.0 million and 14 per cent.
The re-election who have service contracts with the Company.
Company will continue to commit resources as appropriate to research and development.
Directors interests Gran Ennerfelt has a connected notiable interest in the Spirent Major transactions Ordinary shares held by Lexa BV see Substantial shareholdings on In August 2004 the Company divested its aerospace maintenance, repair this page which, for statutory purposes, is also deemed to be an and overhaul software business from within its Systems group for net interest of the director.
During 2004 the Company acquired the The directors interests including those of their immediate families and minority shareholdings in two Network Products subsidiaries for a cash any connected persons in the share capital of the Company are set out consideration of 1.1 million.
Further details of these transactions are in the Report on directors remuneration on pages 19 to 26. set out in notes 32 and 33 to the Accounts.
Save as disclosed, no contracts or arrangements have been entered into Share capital during the year or subsisted at the year end in which any director had, Changes in the Companys share capital during the period are given in directly or indirectly, a material interest which was significant in relation note 31 to the Accounts.
Substantial shareholdings Employees At the date of this Report, the Company had been notied of the following The Groups employment policies regarding disabled persons and further interests in 3 per cent or more of its issued share capital: information on employee training, development and involvement is explained in the Corporate social responsibility statement on pages 12 and 13.
% held Lexa BV 12.40 Employee share schemes Barclays plc 12.04 The Company operates a number of share incentive schemes, details of Fidelity International Limited 6.99 which can be found in note 31 to the Accounts.
The Company operates Legal & General Group plc 3.13 all employee share plans in the UK, the US and Canada.
Additional shareholder information, including a prole of shareholdings, Social responsibility and donations appears on page 72.
The Groups Corporate social responsibility statement appears on pages 12 and 13.
Charitable donations of 63,000 were made in the year Share listings 2003 63,000.
This amount excludes operating units support and The primary listing for the Companys Ordinary shares is on the London participation in local community activities.
No political donations were Stock Exchange.
The Companys Ordinary shares are also traded on the made in the year 2003 nil.
New York Stock Exchange in the form of American Depositary Shares and these are evidenced by American Depositary Receipts ADRs, each Creditor payment policy one of which represents four Ordinary shares.
The Bank of New York is Group operating companies are responsible for agreeing the terms and the authorised Depositary bank for the Companys ADR programme.
conditions under which business transactions with their suppliers are conducted and it is Group policy to comply with those terms and to Directors make suppliers aware of them.
The names and brief biographical details of the current directors are shown At 31 December 2004 the Company had an average of 54 days purchases on page 11.
All held ofce throughout the year and up to the date of this outstanding in trade creditors 2003 52 days.
Report with the exception of Anders Gustafsson, who was appointed as
