Spirent plc Annual Report 2004 11 Board of directors 12 3 4 8 5 6 7 Audit Committee Further biographical details 9 10 Remuneration Committee of the directors can be found Nomination Committee on the Companys website at All the directors are considered www.
The executive independent of the management of directors are supported by a team the Company with the exception of of senior management and their Anders Gustafsson, Eric Hutchinson biographies can also be found and Gran Ennerfelt.
Anders Gustafsson, Chief Executive 44 Frederick DAlessio was appointed to the Board in January 2004.
He was Anders Gustafsson was appointed Chief Executive in August 2004.
Prior previously President of Advanced Services at Verizon Communications Inc. to joining the Company he was the Senior Executive Vice President He is a general partner and founder of Capitol Management Partners and Global Business Operations of Tellabs, Inc. sits on the boards of SS8 Networks, Inc.
Aware, Inc. Hatteras Networks, Inc. and Network Equipment Technologies, Inc. 2.
Eric Hutchinson, Finance Director 49 Eric Hutchinson was appointed Finance Director in 2000, having previously 7.
Gran Ennerfelt 64 been responsible for all financial reporting and control within the Group.
Gran Ennerfelt was appointed to the Board in 2000.
He is President and He is also a non-executive director and Chairman of the audit committee Chief Executive officer of Axel Johnson AB, a member of the Axel Johnson of Trifast plc.
He is also Chairman of the Swedish Federation of Trade and Vice Chairman of the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, as well as a director Non-executive directors of Svenska Handelsbanken and the Swedish National Committee of the 3.
John Weston CBE, Chairman 53 International Chamber of Commerce.
John Weston CBE was appointed non-executive Chairman in 2002 and 8.
Andrew Given 57 is Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
He was Chief Executive Andrew Given was appointed to the Board in 2003 and is Chairman of the of BAE SYSTEMS plc from 1998 to 2002.
He is also Chairman of Acra Audit Committee.
He was formerly Deputy Chief Executive of Logica plc.
Controls, Inbis plc and learndirect the University for Industry.
He is also the senior independent non-executive director and Chairman 4.
James Wyness 67 of the audit committees of both VT Group plc and Spectris plc.
James Wyness was appointed to the Board in 1979 and is the senior 9.
Kurt Hellstrm 61 independent non-executive director.
He was previously Managing Partner Kurt Hellstrm was appointed to the Board in December 2004.
He was then Senior Partner of Linklaters.
He is a non-executive director and was formerly President and Chief Executive officer of Ericsson.
He is also a previously Chairman of Saracens Limited.
member of the board of directors of Atlas Copco AB, Bharti Tele-Ventures 5.
Marcus Beresford CBE 62 Limited, Kineto Wireless and Gemplus International S. A. Marcus Beresford CBE was appointed to the Board in 1999 and is 10.
Richard Moley 65 Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
He was previously Chief Richard Moley was appointed to the Board in 2000.
He was previously a Executive of GKN plc.
He is also non-executive Chairman of Ricardo plc director and Senior Vice President of Cisco Systems, Inc.
He is also a nonand a non-executive director of Cobham plc.
executive director of Linear Technologies Corporation, Echelon Corporation, Calient Systems Inc. and Polaris Networks, Inc.
He will retire from the Board with effect from the date of the 2005 Annual General Meeting.
