Directors Report Principal Activities Share Capital Scottish and Southern Energy plc is a holding company.
Details of the companys authorised and issued share capital Its subsidiaries are organised into the main businesses at 31 March 2004, which includes shares re-purchased and of: generation, transmission, distribution, and supply of subsequently cancelled, and of options granted under the electricity: energy trading: storage and supply of gas: Groups employee share option schemes, are detailed in notes electrical, environmental and utility contracting: domestic 21 and 25 to the Accounts.
A review of the years operations and future developments is contained in the Chief Annual General Meeting Special Business Executives, Financial, Operating and Corporate Responsibility Authority to Allot Shares Resolution 10 and Governance Statements on pages 2 to 21 which form part This resolution continues the Directors authority under section of this report.
80 of the Companies Act 1985, to allot shares.
The authority to allot is limited to shares with nominal value of Directors 142,917,261 representing one-third of the issued share The Directors at the date of this report are: capital as at 18 May, the latest practicable date before the printing of the Notice of Meeting.
This authority was last Executive Non-Executive renewed at the Annual General Meeting in 1999 although the Gregor Alexander Bruce Farmer Chairman Directors have now decided to seek annual renewal in line with Colin Hood Henry Casley the authority to disapply pre-emption rights resolution 11.
Ian Marchant David Payne The authority, if renewed, will terminate at the conclusion of Alistair Phillips-Davies Ren Mdori the 2005 Annual General Meeting.
The Directors have no David Sigsworth Susan Rice present intention of issuing any shares other than pursuant Sir Robert Smith to existing rights under employee share schemes.
Any allotment of shares would be offered to existing shareholders On 26 June 2003 Sir Robert Smith and Ren Mdori were first subject to the limited disapplication covered in resolution appointed as non-Executive Directors, on 24 July 2003 11.
The authority is in line with current institutional Susan Rice was appointed as a non-Executive Director shareholder guidelines.
and on 18 May 2004 it was agreed to appoint Kevin Smith as a non-Executive Director with effect from 24 June 2004.
Authority to Disapply Pre-emption Rights Special Resolution 11 Nick Timpson retired as a non-Executive Director on 26 June Resolution 11 proposes as a special resolution to continue the 2003, Ian Grant retired as a non-Executive Director on Directors authority under section 89 of the Companies Act 31 October 2003 and Sir Graeme Odgers retired as a 1985, to allot shares for cash in certain circumstances non-Executive Director on 18 May 2004. otherwise than pro rata to all the shareholders.
This authority, which was last renewed at the Annual General Meeting in In accordance with the Articles of Association, the 2003, provides greater flexibility in respect of the companys appointment of Kevin Smith continues until the forthcoming financing arrangements.
Annual General Meeting when he is required to stand for election.
This resolution deals with the allotment of shares for cash under a rights issue with power to make adjustments to deal Henry Casley, Ian Marchant and Alistair Phillips-Davies, with overseas shareholders, fractions of shares and other retire by rotation at the Annual General Meeting and, being such matters.
It also permits the Directors to make additional eligible and in accordance with the Articles of Association, issues of shares for cash up to 21,436,740 nominal of offer themselves for re-election.
share capital, representing five per cent of the issued share capital.
This limit is in line with current institutional Biographical details for all Directors are set out on page 22 shareholder guidelines.
There is no present intention of and further details relating to Henry Casleys re-election and exercising this authority.
Kevin Smiths election are set out on page 17.
Details of the service contracts for the Directors standing for re-election are For the purposes of this resolution, allotment of shares set out in the Remuneration Report on page 27.
The interests includes the sale of treasury shares see the note to of the Directors in the ordinary shares of the company are set resolutions 12 to 14 for further details.
out in the Remuneration Report on page 30.
Purchase of Own Shares and Treasury Shares Resolution 2 to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting Resolutions 12 14 seeks shareholders approval of the Remuneration Report.
The Companies Acquisition of Own Shares Treasury Shares Regulation 2003 the Regulations became effective in Results and Dividends December 2003.
A company that acquires its own shares by The Group profit attributable to shareholders for the financial way of market purchase can hold up to 10 per cent of the year amounted to 447.9m.
The Directors recommend a final nominal value of any class of share as treasury stock.
These dividend of 26.4p per ordinary share which, subject to shares can be cancelled at a later date, re-sold for cash or approval at the Annual General Meeting, will be payable on transferred from treasury to satisfy awards made under 24 September 2004 to shareholders on the register at close employee share schemes.
Under the rules of the UK Listing of business on 27 August 2004.
With the interim dividend of Authority, treasury shares must not generally be sold for less 11.3p per ordinary share paid on 24 March 2004, this makes than 90% of their market value at the time of sale.
The a total dividend of 37.7p per ordinary share.
company seeks the ability to re-issue treasury shares quickly and cost-effectively which could provide the company with greater flexibility in the management of its capital base.
Whilst in treasury shares are treated as if cancelled and no dividends are payable or voting rights attached to them.
Scottish and Southern Energy plc 24 Annual Report and Accounts 2004 The following resolutions are being put to shareholders: Special Share Redemption Special Resolution 15 On 5 May 2004 the Special Share which Her Majestys a Purchase of own shares Special Resolution 12 Government held in the company was redeemed by the Each year the Directors seek authority from shareholders government at its par value of 1.
As a consequence of to purchase the companys own shares.
The Directors the redemption of the Special Share, and to comply with recommend that shareholders renew this authority.
Save listing rules requirements that listed securities should be to the extent purchased pursuant to the Regulations, freely transferable, resolution 15 proposes that the 15% any shares purchased pursuant to the authority will be limitation on the holding of voting shares in the company automatically cancelled.
The Regulations permit treasury be removed from the companys Articles of Association.
shares to be dealt with as outlined above.
The resolution specifies the maximum number of shares that may be Substantial Shareholdings acquired and the maximum and minimum prices at which As at the date of this report the company had received they may be bought.
Purchases will only be made if the the following notifications of beneficial interests of three Directors expect them to result in an increase in the per cent or more in the companys issued share capital.
Groups earnings per share and to be in the best interests of shareholders generally.
Number of shares Percentage FMR Corp and Fidelity During the year the company purchased and cancelled International Limited 26,714,302 3.12% 1,760,000 ordinary shares at 50p each, representing 0.2% Legal & General Group plc 29,217,716 3.41% of the called-up share capital of the company, at an Prudential plc 31,109,893 3.63% aggregate consideration of 11.2m.
The Directors considered that the share purchases were advantageous for the Group and would enhance earnings per share.
The Creditor Payment Policy company does not currently hold any treasury shares.
The company complies with the CBI Prompt Payment Code.
The main features of the Code are that payment terms are The total number of options to subscribe for equity shares agreed at the outset of a transaction and are adhered to: that outstanding at the date of this report is 6.9m.
This there is a clear and consistent policy that bills are paid in represents 0.8% of the issued share capital.
If the company accordance with the contract: and that there are no alterations bought back the maximum number of shares permitted to payment terms without prior agreement.
The numbers pursuant to the passing of this resolution and cancelled of suppliers days represented by trade creditors was 30 at them then the total number of options to subscribe for 31 March 2004. equity shares outstanding would represent 0.9% of the issued share capital as reduced following those repurchases.
Auditors Resolutions to re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors, and b Amendment to the Articles of Association to authorise the Directors to fix their remuneration, will be Special Resolution 13 proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
This resolution will, if passed, make various minor consequential amendments to the Articles of Association Annual General Meeting of the company, to exclude treasury shares from a number The 15th Annual General Meeting of the company will be held of references to issued share capital and voting rights.
on 29 July 2004 at 12 noon at the Bournemouth International Centre, Exeter Road, Bournemouth, BH2 5BH.
The Notice of c Share Incentive Plan and Sharesave Scheme Meeting is set out on pages 56 to 58.
Resolution 14 Resolution 14 seeks to amend the companys two allemployee share schemes the Share Incentive Plan and By Order of the Board the Sharesave Scheme to allow the use of shares held in Vincent Donnelly treasury to satisfy awards and share options under those Company Secretary schemes.
Historically, when dealing with the exercise of 18 May 2004 options and making of awards under its employee share schemes, the company has had the choice of either issuing new shares or funding an employee share ownership trust to acquire shares in the market.
Treasury shares would provide a third way of sourcing shares for the schemes.
As well as allowing the use of treasury shares in connection with the two schemes, the resolution will amend the limit on the number of new issue shares which can be allocated under the schemes, by providing that the use of treasury shares will count against the limit.
Scottish and Southern Energy plc 25 Annual Report and Accounts 2004
