Directors Biographies Bruce Farmer CBE 67 Chairman David Payne 61 Remuneration Committee Chairman Bruce became Chairman of Scottish and Southern Energy in David joined the Board as a non-Executive Director of November 2000.
He was Chairman of Southern Electric from Scottish Hydro Electric in June 1998.
He held a number of April 1998 until the merger forming Scottish and Southern senior positions with the BP Group and was Deputy Chief Energy in December 1998.
Bruce has also previously been Executive of BP Oil.
He is Chairman of the Remuneration Chairman of Bodycote plc, Allied Colloids and Devro plc, and Committee and a member of the Nomination Committee.
Chief Executive of Wellworthy, Brico Engineering and The Morgan Crucible Company plc.
He retired as Chairman of the Alistair Phillips-Davies 36 Energy Supply Director Morgan Crucible Company plc during the year.
Bruce was Alistair joined the Board in January 2002.
He was previously President of the Institute of Materials and a Council Member Director of Energy Supply Operations, overseeing the of the CBI.
He is Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
introduction of the New Electricity Trading Arrangements.
He joined Southern Electric in February 1997 from the Ian Marchant 43 Chief Executive National Westminster Bank where he was Corporate Finance Ian was appointed Chief Executive in October 2002 having Development Manager.
He is Chairman of the Risk Committee been Finance Director since 1998.
He joined Southern and has Board level responsibility for energy trading, Electric in 1992 and joined the Board on becoming Finance electricity and gas supply, marketing and retail.
Previously he worked for Coopers & Lybrand now PwC, including a two year secondment to the Susan Rice 58 Non-Executive Director Department of Energy working on electricity privatisation.
Susan joined the Board as a non-Executive Director in July Ian is Deputy Chairman of the United Kingdom Business 2003.
She is Chief Executive of Lloyds TSB Scotland plc, Council for Sustainable Energy, and a member of the Forum having previously been Managing Director, Personal Banking, for Renewable Energy Development in Scotland and Ofgems for the Bank of Scotland.
Susan is a member of the Audit, Environmental Advisory Group.
He is a member of the Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
Nominations Committee and is lead Director for Corporate Responsibility.
David Sigsworth 57 Generation Director David is a Director and immediate past Chairman of the Gregor Alexander 41 Finance Director Combined Heat and Power Association.
He was appointed as Gregor joined the Board of Scottish and Southern Energy Commercial Director of Scottish Hydro Electric in January as Finance Director in October 2002.
He was appointed 1995, becoming Energy Trading Director in 1998, Energy Group Treasurer and Tax Manager in 1998 having held Supply Director in April 2000 and Generation Director in a number of senior positions within the Finance team.
He held several appointments in the Yorkshire He worked with accountants Arthur Andersen for five years Electricity Board before joining the North of Scotland before joining Scottish Hydro Electric in 1990, six months Hydro Electric Board in 1987.
David is the lead Director before privatisation.
for the Environment and has Board level responsibility for all generation activities.
Henry Casley 66 Non-Executive Director Henry was previously a non-Executive Director of Southern Kevin Smith CBE 50 Non-Executive Director Electric, after retiring as Chief Executive, the post he held Kevin will join the Board as a non-Executive Director on from 1993 to 1996.
He joined the electricity industry in 24 June 2004.
He is Chief Executive of GKN having 1961.
Henry was a member of the Advisory Committee on previously been Managing Director, Aerospace.
Prior to GKN, Business and the Environment and was a non-Executive he held various positions in BAE Systems over a 20-year Director of Guernsey Electricity.
He is a member of the period, latterly as Group Managing Director New Business.
Safety and Environment Advisory Committee.
Kevin is a Director of The Society of Motor Manufacturers and Traders Ltd, and a Council Member of The Society of Colin Hood 49 Chief Operating Officer British Aerospace Companies Ltd. Colin joined the Board of Scottish and Southern Energy as Power Systems Director in January 2001, becoming Chief Sir Robert Smith 59 Deputy Chairman Operating Officer in October 2002.
Previously he was Director Sir Robert joined the Board as a non-Executive Director in of Distribution for Southern Electric, having joined the June 2003.
He is Chairman of The Weir Group plc, a industry with the North of Scotland Hydro Electric Board in Governor of the BBC and a Board Trustee of the British 1977.
He is a member of the Institute of Electrical Engineers Council.
He is a non-Executive Director of Standard Bank Membership Committee.
Colin is the lead Director for Health Group Limited and Aegon UK plc.
Sir Robert was formerly and Safety matters and has Board level responsibility for Chief Executive of Morgan Grenfell Asset Management power systems, customer service, human resources, I. T. Limited, a member of the Financial Services Authority and and contracting.
the Financial Reporting Council, and Chairman of Stakis plc.
He is the Senior Independent Director and is a member of Ren Mdori 46 Audit Committee Chairman the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
Ren joined the Board as a non-Executive Director in June 2003.
He is Group Finance Director of BOC Group plc, having previously been Chief Financial Officer of BOC Gases, Americas.
Previously he worked for Accenture and Schlumberger Limited.
He is Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Scottish and Southern Energy plc 22 Annual Report and Accounts 2004
