We are already seeing this on Durex.
The results on Challenge the cost base this brand over the past 12 months have been strong.
Notwithstanding the objective of growing brand We have provided the innovation in terms of products, value, we recognise that the level of overheads within marketing and distribution that has captured the the Group is inappropriate to the reduced scale of imagination of our consumers.
We have executed our activities.
We have completed a detailed internal well and we have been rewarded by improved brand review of the current cost base and have begun to contribution.
In the current year, we will do the same implement a restructuring programme to reduce for Scholl, inherently a more complicated brand.
overheads which is consistent with our primary goal of brand value creation.
It is intended that this There are literally thousands of different products programme will reduce the Groups overhead cost being sold around the world and the brand has lacked base, with particular emphasis on central costs and a consistent image and approach with consumers.
on those costs which have no direct contribution This is being addressed by the Colossus project which either to growth in sales or improvement in operating is halving the total number of individual items in the performance.
This programme has begun, but due to range and using the same design across the range, its nature, the full impact of the programme will not be a design that is much fresher and captures better the reflected in the Groups financial results before the year strength of Scholl as the foot specialist.
The programme ending 31 March 2006. will take up to 12 months to roll out, but coupled with our footcare innovations and improved footwear I am confident that the combination of growth in brand ranges, I expect to see increased brand contribution contribution, the release of the potential of our human in the current year.
resource and cost reduction will result in growth in the value of our brand portfolio and, over time, in the Our people recovery of operating margins towards the double SSL has been through enormous change in the last digit levels of the recent past.
six years and has had to deal with a range of issues yet we retain high levels of commitment.
We will 2004 5 will begin to show SSL in a new light: finally ensure that SSL employs highly motivated, well free of the distractions that have existed since the remunerated and success oriented people throughout Seton Scholl LIG merger in 1999, we will focus the organisation.
In part this will be achieved by setting the reinvigorated resources of the organisation and communicating clear objectives and by focusing on exploiting the considerable potential of our the organisation on some common operating brand assets.
These principles have been established under an A, B, C banner, representing Attitude, Garry Watts, Chief Executive and Finance Director Behaviour and Culture, and are a key part of my early 26 May 2004 presentations to our businesses around the world.
Attitude Healthcare companies and quality are synonymous Best products generally win Make the regulatory requirements work for us.
Behaviour Communication Teamwork Balanced risk assessment Culture Harness entrepreneurialism to professionalism Openness, honesty and frankness Win but not at all costs, avoid short-termism These are intended to underpin a culture change in SSL by building on strengths whilst highlighting recognised areas for improvement.
We are further underpinning the change by rebuilding the management structure with an emphasis on freshness of approach and recognition of talent from around the organisation.
SSL International plc Annual Report 2004 05 Chief Executives Review Garry Watts
