Group Board Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors Garry Watts Ian Adamson Ian Martin Chief Executive & Managing Director Europe Non-Executive Chairman Group Finance Director Joined Seton Healthcare plc in 1991 Chairman of SSL since September Appointed as Chief Executive on as Director of Marketing and has 2001, Ian is also Executive 1 April 2004 after joining as Group subsequently held a number of Chairman of Heath Lambert Finance Director in February 2001. senior sales and marketing positions Holdings Ltd and has held a number He was previously an Executive in the organisation, most recently of other Chairmanships including Director of Celltech plc and Finance as Managing Director of the UK Baxi Group plc and Uniq plc.
Ian Director of Medeva plc.
Garry is and Northern & Eastern Europe was Group Managing Director and Non-Executive Director of the businesses.
Ian previously held Deputy Chairman of Grand Medicines and Healthcare Products marketing positions at Johnson Metropolitan plc.
Regulatory Agency MHRA and & Johnson and W. L. Gore.
On his Tim Howden also of Protherics plc.
Age 47. appointment to the Board in April Senior Non-Executive Director 2004, Ian became Managing Appointed as a Non-Executive Director Europe.
Director of Scholl plc in 1994 and Mike Pilkington continued to hold this position Group Supply Chain Director throughout the subsequent Appointed as Executive Director in mergers.
Tim is Chairman of the February 2004, after joining SSL Remuneration Committee.
Previously, Mike was previously CEO of Albert Fisher was Head of European Distribution Europe and MD of Rank Hovis and Supply Chain Development McDougall plc.
Tim is currently and Director of Manufacturing at Non-Executive Director of Finning Kelloggs having previously worked International Inc Canada, Hyperion at Mars Inc. Age 43.
Insurance Group Ltd and NonExecutive Chairman of Benchmark Dental Laboratories Ltd. Age 67.
SSL International plc Annual Report 2004 20 Group Board Peter Read Bernd Beetz Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointed in March 2002, Peter Appointed in March 2001.
Bernd is Chairman of the Nomination is Executive Director and CEO of Committee.
He is a member of the Coty Inc based in New York.
He Board of the South East of England was previously President and CEO Development Agency and holds of Parfums Christian Dior and prior non-executive directorships in to that a Regional Vice-President Celltech Group plc, Vernalis Group of Proctor & Gamble plc.
Age 53. plc and Innogenetics SA.
Formerly a Company Secretary senior executive with Hoechst Jonathan Jowett and past President of ABPI.
Richard Adam Qualified as a solicitor in 1989, Non-Executive Director and has previously worked for Appointed Non-Executive Director Avon Cosmetics and Alumasc and Chairman of the Audit Group plc.
Committee of SSL in November 2003.
Richard is currently Group Finance Director of Associated British Ports Holdings plc.
He is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of England & Wales.
SSL International plc Annual Report 2004 21 Group Board
