S T IVES PLC ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2004 R EVIEW OF O PERATIONS B OOKS Demand within the UK monochrome book market remained strong for trade and general books.
Clays had another excellent year and once again attracted a high number of the bestselling titles through its reputation for quality and fast reliable service.
Titles included, for Prole Books, Eats, Shoots & Leaves Lynne Truss : for Harper Collins, David Beckham My Side: for Headline, Gazza: My Story Paul Gascoigne : for Orion, Nights of Rain and Stars Maeve Binchy : for Penguin, A Royal Duty Paul Burrell : for Random House, My Life Bill Clinton, The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night-Time Mark Haddon and Birds Without Wings Louis fide Bernieres : and for Bloomsbury, further reprints of JK Rowlings Harry Potter series of titles, including the paperback edition of Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix.
Further investments have been made in all areas of manufacturing as part of our commitment to improving and developing the services offered to our customers.
An increasingly important aspect of this has been the provision of storage facilities and direct delivery of titles to retailers and distribution points.
In addition, we continue to extend the scope of electronic trading and are able to offer customers online access to a full range of applications, from order receipt to final invoice.
D IRECT R ESPONSE For the third year in succession commercial markets remained AND C OMMERCIAL extremely competitive, with continuing pressures on margins and UK volumes.
Nevertheless, we were able to improve our year-on-year performance primarily by focusing increasingly on the more complex service demands of our major customers.
Market conditions for longer-run web offset printing were particularly poor.
Our other businesses, however, performed above expectations, with our graphics, contract management, sheet-fed and direct mail businesses individually benefiting from improvements and investments we have made during the past two years.
Our direct mail businesses in Leeds and Romford performed particularly strongly compared with the prior year.
During the year the division delivered a broad range of services to The Royal Bank of Scotland Group, HBOS, Co-op Group, Shopdirect, Vodafone, Tesco, Grattan and the government sector.
We anticipate that weak market conditions will prevail for the foreseeable future but we will continue to develop and improve our mix 6
