S T IVES PLC ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2004 D IRECTORS R EPORT The directors present their annual report and the audited financial statements for the fty two weeks ended 30 July 2004.
Activities The activities of the Group comprise offset magazine printing, book printing and binding, direct response and general commercial printing, corporate and financial security printing and printing for the multimedia and music industries.
2. Review of operations and future prospects A detailed review of the activities of the Group and its future prospects can be found in the Chairmans Statement and the Review of Operations.
Details of significant events since the balance sheet date are contained in note 31 to the financial statements.
Results and dividends The Group profit for the period before taxation amounted to 14,899,000 2003 34,589,000.
The directors propose a final dividend of 12.15p for each ordinary share payable on 3 December 2004 to holders on the register at 5 November 2004.
If approved, the final dividend will make total dividends for the year of 17.15p per ordinary share: 000 Equity dividends interim paid 5,146 proposed final 12,491 4.
Share capital Details of the Companys share capital are set out in note 22 to the financial statements.
Substantial interests As at 12 October 2004, the only notied share interests in excess of 3 per cent of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company were as follows: Number of ordinary shares % Silchester International Investors Limited 13,585,253 13.15 Deutsche Bank AG and its subsidiaries 11,956,567 11.57 Prudential plc and its subsidiaries 10,424,734 10.09 Legal & General Group Plc 3,113,874 3.01 6.
Directors The present membership of the board is set out on page 11.
The directors interests in shares of the Company are set out on pages 24 and 25 in the Directors Remuneration Report.
Employment policies The Group is an Equal Opportunities Employer and no job applicant or employee receives less favourable treatment on the grounds of age, sex, sexual orientation, marital status, race, colour or creed.
It is the policy of the Group that disabled people, whether registered disabled or not, should receive full and fair consideration for all job vacancies for which they are suitable applicants.
Employees who become disabled during their working life will be retained in employment wherever possible and will be given help with any necessary rehabilitation and retraining.
The Group is prepared to modify procedures or equipment, wherever this is practicable, so that full use can be made of an individuals ability.
12 S T IVES PLC ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2004 ORS R EPORT continued Employees of the Company and its subsidiaries are regularly consulted and kept informed of matters affecting them and the overall development of the Group.
Details of the Groups pension schemes are set out in note 4 to the financial statements: all of the schemes are independently managed.
The Groups principal UK pension scheme is now a dened contribution scheme which has been available to all eligible employees to join since it was established in 2002 on the closure of the dened benets scheme to new members.
The investments of the Groups closed dened benets scheme are managed separately, partly passively and partly actively under the direction of a trustee company the Trustee.
The fund managers of the actively managed portfolios are proscribed from holding any investment in the Group.
No fund manager is permitted by the Trustee to lend to the Group.
The number of directors of the Trustee is split equally between member-nominated and Company-nominated trustee directors.
Environmental policy The board has established an environmental policy which is implemented through the Groups existing management structure.
The policy concentrates on achieving a deliverable improvement in performance in consultation with suppliers, customers and employees.
Specic areas targeted for continuous attention include the adoption, where practicable, of processes which reduce the Groups emissions of volatile organic compounds, noise and dust, minimising and recycling of waste products, recycling of water and securing reductions in energy consumption.
The Group has made good progress towards improving its performance in the areas identied for attention.
The targets set for 2003 2004 to minimise the net financial impact on the Group of the Climate Change Levy have been met and new targets set for 2004 2005.
Copies of the Groups Environmental Statement and the Groups latest Environmental Report on the Groups performance are available, on request, from the Company Secretary.
Supplier payment policy It is the Groups normal practice to agree terms of trading, including payment terms, with all suppliers.
Provided suppliers perform in accordance with the agreed terms, it is the Groups policy that payment should be made accordingly.
The average creditor days outstanding at 30 July 2004 for the Group and the Company were 37 and 23 days, respectively 2003 37 and 18 days.
Political and charitable contributions The Group made charitable donations of 32,000 during the year 2003 11,000, principally to local charities serving the communities in which the group operates.
No political donations were made in either year.
Introduction of the euro The possibility of the UK participating in the euro at some stage continues to be monitored and the changes required to our systems and accounting procedures, were this to occur, have been identied.
The costs of making such changes will not be significant.
12. International Financial Reporting Standards The Group has commenced its review of the implications of International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS which the Group will be required to report under in the period ending July 2006.
This review is still at an early stage.
The key changes arising on adoption of IFRS are expected to relate to the accounting for goodwill, share based payments, pensions, deferred tax and financial instruments.
13 S T IVES PLC ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2004 D IRECTORS R EPORT continuedD IRECT 13.
Special business a Partial disapplication of pre-emption rights The Companies Act 1985 requires that pre-emption rights must be applied to any issue of shares for cash unless shareholders have given their consent to the waiver of such rights.
Resolution 10 set out in the Notice of the Annual General Meeting will therefore be proposed to enable the directors to issue shares for cash other than by way of a rights issue or pursuant to the Groups share option schemes up to a maximum of 5,150,000 ordinary shares, representing approximately 5 per cent of the issued ordinary share capital, without applying pre-emption rights.
Details of the Companys authorised and issued share capital are set out in note 22 to the financial statements.
b Authority for the Company to purchase its own ordinary shares At the Annual General Meeting of the Company held on 3 December 2003, the directors were authorised on behalf of the Company to purchase the Companys ordinary shares on the London Stock Exchange.
Resolution 11 set out in the Notice of the Annual General Meeting will be proposed to renew this authority to purchase up to 10,300,000 ordinary shares, being approximately 10 per cent of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company.
The directors will continue only to exercise such power if it is expected that it would result in an increase in the earnings per share attributable to the ordinary share capital of the Company and would be in the best interests of the shareholders generally.
Auditors A resolution to re-appoint Deloitte & Touche LLP as the Companys auditors will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Corporate governance The following describes how the principles of corporate governance set out in the Combined Code have been applied during the year.
Areas where the Company has not complied with the detail within the Combined Code are also commented on below.
Board of directors Throughout the year the board has consisted of five executive directors and between two and four non-executive directors.
Until December 2003 three non-executive directors served and, following the retirement of Graham Menzies, only two non-executive directors served on the board during December 2003.
The balance of executive to non-executive directors was restored on 1 January 2004 with the appointments of Simon Marquis and Dame Sue Tinson.
The board considers that this short period of imbalance between executive and non-executive directors did not adversely affect its control and direction of the business throughout the year.
It is the opinion of the board that, throughout the year, each of the Companys non-executive directors was independent for corporate governance purposes and free from any business or other relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of his or her judgement.
The board meets at regular intervals and is responsible for overall Group strategy, acquisitions and divestments, major capital projects and financial matters.
It reviews the strategic direction and annual budgets of individual trading subsidiaries, and approves major individual items of capital expenditure.
The board has carried out its annual review of matters reserved to it for decision.
The matters reserved to the board for consideration specifically include risks such as: matters likely to disrupt a subsidiarys ability to carry on business, or damage the reputation of the Group as a whole in the eyes of its shareholders or the general public, and matters which are likely to result in a substantial unplanned financial risk to any subsidiary.
14 S T IVES PLC ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2004 ORS R EPORT continued The directors consider themselves collectively responsible for ensuring that risks arising from social, environmental and ethical factors and the health and safety of the Groups employees are suitably managed and are referred to the board, as necessary.
The board has identied and assessed those financial, social, environmental and ethical issues which may present a potential significant risk to the business.
The roles of Chairman and Managing Director are separate and distinct and have been so since the Company first obtained a Listing on the London Stock Exchange in 1985.
The Companys Articles of Association require all directors to retire and offer themselves for re-appointment by shareholders at least once every three years.
All directors have full and timely access to all relevant information needed to enable them properly to discharge their responsibilities.
The procedure for directors to seek independent professional advice in the furtherance of their duties and to be reimbursed their reasonable legal fees was reconrmed during the year, as was the right of each to have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
All directors also have unrestricted access to other executives within the business to discuss any matter of concern to them.
Board committees Separate Audit and Remuneration Committees of the board exist, each with written terms of reference which were revised during the year.
From the beginning of the period under review until 3 December 2003 the Audit Committee consisted of three independent non-executive directors, David Wilbraham chairman of the committee, Lorraine Baldry and Graham Menzies, together with two executive directors, Miles Emley and Raymond Morley.
Graham Menzies retired from the board on 3 December 2003 and no meetings of the committee were held that month.
On 1 January 2004, Simon Marquis and Dame Sue Tinson joined the committee and on 31 March 2004 Miles Emley and Raymond Morley stepped down from serving on the committee.
Therefore, since 31 March 2004, the committee has consisted exclusively of independent nonexecutive directors, namely, David Wilbraham chairman of the committee, Lorraine Baldry, Simon Marquis and Dame Sue Tinson.
It is the policy of the board to continue in future to allow only independent non-executive directors to serve on the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee meets at least twice a year with the Groups external auditors to agree the scope of the audit and review the independence of the auditors, including the level of non-audit services and related fees, and to review the results of the audit prior to the approval by the board of the Groups financial statements.
The members of the Audit Committee have been given specic approval by the board to meet with the Groups auditors wherever they, or the auditors, consider it appropriate.
Throughout the year the Remuneration Committee has been made up solely of independent nonexecutive directors: David Wilbraham chairman of the committee, Lorraine Baldry, Simon Marquis January to date, Graham Menzies August to December and Dame Sue Tinson January to date.
The board has not formed a Nomination Committee.
In this respect, therefore, the Company does not comply with provision A.
The full board is involved in the process of appointing executive directors.
When appointing non-executive directors, the full board initially settles in each instance on a candidate prole.
The full board then forms a panel of directors, made up of those directors the board considers best suited to the circumstances.
This panel first selects a recruitment consultant and then agrees on a long listing of applicants, conducting initial interviews and agreeing a short list of prospective directors for further interview.
All directors then participate in interviewing prospective directors prior to selecting the preferred candidate.
15 S T IVES PLC ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2004 D IRECTORS R EPORT continuedD IRECT 15.
Corporate governance continued Internal control The board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management, and for reviewing its effectiveness.
A workable and realistic system can only be designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and, therefore, can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
During the year the directors reviewed the need for an internal audit function and concluded that the existing control environment, financial controls and the annual external audit of all trading subsidiaries are sufficient.
The board believes that its internal control procedures, outlined below, have enabled the directors to report full compliance with the Turnbull guidance on internal controls.
The board exercises these controls via ongoing monthly meetings of each divisions senior management with the Groups Chairman, Managing Director and Finance Director present.
All attendees receive agendas and papers in advance of each meeting: detailed minutes are recorded and actions followed up.
Regular items for discussion encompass any areas of significant risk to the businesses which are also raised at the next meeting of the board, when appropriate.
In addition, the executive directors meet at regular intervals with divisional managing directors, the Company Secretary, the Groups director of personnel and the Groups technical director, as an executive committee to review the Groups businesses world-wide as an integral part of the Groups internal control mechanism.
Annual internal control reviews are performed by all operating sites and any inconsistencies with the Groups established corporate governance and authority limits regimes are identied and disclosed to the Audit Committee.
The board has also carried out its annual review of the effectiveness of the system of internal control and the identication of and controls over key business risks which covers the year under review and the period up to the date of this annual report.
Compliance statement The board considers that the Company has complied with the provisions of Section 1 of the Combined Code throughout the period under review and up to the date of the approval of these financial statements, with the following exceptions: the absence of a Nomination Committee A.
5.1 and, in respect of the conduct of the Audit Committee, when, for a period in December 2003 the required number of independent non-executive directors was not maintained and, from 2 August 2003 to 31 March 2004, when two executive directors served on the Audit Committee D. 3.1.
The boards alternative arrangement to that of forming a standing Nomination Committee is referred to above under board committees.
The New Combined Code The board has evaluated the recent changes to the Combined Code and has made some modications to the Companys corporate governance procedures in readiness for being able to report on its compliance with the new Combined Code during 2004 2005.
The modications made include the change to the membership of the Audit Committee in March 2004 referred to above and the conduct of a review of the effectiveness of the board in September 2004.
Reviews of the boards Audit and Remuneration Committees and of individual directors will be completed during 2004 2005.
Major shareholders have been given the opportunity to meet with the non-executive directors.
The board considers that compliance with the remaining requirements of the new Combined Code will be achieved by continuing to apply the Companys existing corporate governance procedures.
16 S T IVES PLC ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2004 ORS R EPORT continued 16.
Shareholder relations The board attaches considerable importance to the maintenance of good relationships with shareholders.
Effective two-way communication with institutional shareholders and analysts is established through regular presentations, sometimes at production sites, involving the Chairman, Managing Director and Finance Director.
The Annual General Meeting is regarded as an opportunity to communicate directly with shareholders and the chairman of the Audit and Remuneration Committees is available at the Annual General Meeting to answer shareholders questions.
The Notice of this years Annual General Meeting has been circulated more than twenty working days prior to the meeting, in accordance with the Combined Code.
Going concern After making enquiries, the directors consider that the Group has adequate resources and borrowing facilities to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Consequently, they have continued to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Statement of directors responsibilities The following statement is made for the purpose of clarifying for shareholders the respective responsibilities of the directors and the auditors in the preparation of the accounts.
The auditors responsibilities are contained within their audit report on pages 26 and 27.
In accordance with the Companies Act 1985, the directors are required to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group at the end of the financial year and of the profit or loss of the Group for the year.
The directors consider that in preparing the financial statements, the Group has used appropriate accounting policies, consistently applied and supported by reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates, and that all applicable accounting standards have been followed.
The directors have responsibility for ensuring that the Group keeps accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy the financial position of the Company and the Group enabling them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
The directors are also responsible for the Groups systems of internal control and they have a general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Approved by the board of directors and signed on its behalf by Philip Harris Secretary 12 October 2004 17
