S T IVES PLC ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2004 R EVIEW OF O PERATIONS continued We maintained our market leadership in the production of annual reports and compliance documents for FTSE 100 companies.
New customers in the UK included BHP Billiton, Friends Provident, ITV and Wolseley.
In the USA we produced annual reports for Anadarko Petroleum, Applera, Archer Daniels Midland, Avon Products, DTE Energy, Ford Motor Company and Tellabs.
In the mutual funds sector we have grown our market share and added Fidelity Investments and Wilmington Trust to our client list during the year.
Our expansion in this area is in part attributable to the launch of our document compilation tool, smartapps, which assists companies in preparing their documents.
The printing requirements of our US customers are now better suited to short-run digital production.
This has led us to strengthen our digital capabilities and reduce our web offset capacity.
At the end of the financial year we took the decision to close our print plant in Marlton, New Jersey which, regrettably, resulted in a number of redundancies being made.
M AGAZINES Market conditions have shown little improvement in the UK and UK competitive pressures continued unabated, particularly in the web offset sector which remains over supplied.
Until recently there has been little sign of an increase in advertising levels in magazines, which has resulted in lower paginations and less volume to ll our available capacity.
Despite intense price competition we have not lost significant volumes of work to competitors.
We continue to reduce our costs of production and improve our efficiency wherever possible, investing in newer technology where it is considered prudent to do so.
We have recently installed a new high speed Ferag stitching line at St Ives Peterborough, to replace four of our older, more labour-intensive, stitching lines.
A new 72-page MAN Lithoman single web press has also been ordered to replace an existing 64-page machine.
The new press will be commissioned in April 2005.
These investments are well suited to meeting the demands of the time-sensitive weekly magazine market which St Ives Peterborough mainly serves.
During the year we transferred a high speed Muller Martini Corona perfect binding line from St Ives Caerphilly to St Ives Roche.
