S T IVES PLC ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2004 of sales and our competitive advantage by offering increasingly integrated services to our major customers in the retail, mail order, financial services and public sectors.
In addition to printing and mailing, our services have been developed to encompass data management, digital print graphics and design solutions, fullment and contract management.
The adverse economic conditions in Germany remained little G ERMANY changed and excess capacity continued to exert downward pressure on prices.
We have, however, made some progress in improving Johler Drucks results following the installation of the 6-unit web offset press and, more recently, the purchase of a poly-bagging and ink-jetting line to support the companys focus on more specialist markets.
Demand for our products in the USA was weak, reecting the USA depressed nature of the economy, and pricing pressure continued.
Against this backdrop we were nevertheless able to improve returns following the closure of our plant in Rochester and the retention of a proportion of its work for production at our other locations.
During the year we produced high quality printed products for Avon Products, AmericasMart, News America Marketing, Royal Caribbean International and Celebrity Cruises, and won over fty quality awards for our printing.
We have improved our fullment services and have begun to offer ondemand demographic print services to some customers.
A gradual improvement in US corporate finance markets enabled us F INANCIAL to make good progress in the USA, whilst in Europe market conditions in all sectors were overshadowed by continued over capacity, which offset the benefit of our cost reduction initiatives.
In spite of these challenging conditions we were engaged to produce documentation for a number of high prole deals.
In Europe these included the merger and listing of Group 4 Securicor, a global offer of shares for Japan Tobacco and the acquisition of Canary Wharf Group.
In the USA we completed transactions for General Cable, Genesis Health Ventures, Strategic Hotel Capital and American Business Financial Services.
