S T IVES PLC ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2004 reinforcement of our perfect binding resource within our West Country factories will assist in better meeting the needs of our customers.
A new 72-page MAN Lithoman single web press has also been ordered for St Ives Roche and will be commissioned in April 2005.
This machine will replace one of the existing 32-page Heidelberg M300 presses and provide additional printing capacity close to the perfect binding needed to nish the products.
We were successful in winning a number of new titles during the year including the weekly title, Money Marketing for Centaur Publishing: four monthly titles for Haymarket Publishing Home Cinema, Human Resources, Classic FM and IT Training: Constabulary for Swan Publishing: Mortgage Solutions for Incisive Media: Webactive for VNU: and three titles for The Guild of Master Craftsmen.
We also produced a significant number of one-off supplements for existing customers.
We expect a seasonal increase in volume during the autumn period.
The extent to which this will continue into the New Year is difficult to predict.
The US magazine market remained depressed with low demand and USA excess capacity resulting in continued pricing pressure.
Despite this, by consistently meeting their needs, we were able to consolidate our customer base, producing magazines for Cond Nast Americas, Editorial Televisa and Newsweek International, amongst others.
Both the Tunbridge Wells and Uden plants returned to profit during M ULTIMEDIA the year, reecting the actions taken in the prior year.
During the year DisplayCraft became part of the division and its business was later combined with the Tunbridge Wells business at Crayford, commencing trading as a single entity from August 2004.
The year saw a further increase in the demand for carton board and special packaging products from both existing and new customers as the quantity and variety of DVD products continued to increase.
significant amongst new accounts opened in this sector during the year were Universal Pictures, Electronic Arts and Contender.
To ensure that we have the necessary capabilities to meet our customers requirements for special packaging for their products, we 9 S T IVES PLC ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2004 R EVIEW OF O PERATIONS continued have made appropriate investments in specialist equipment at our UK and Dutch sites.
The effect of a general decline in demand for standard music CD products was partially offset by increasing our market share.
With the relocation of the Tunbridge Wells business to Crayford and its merger with DisplayCraft, the opportunity was taken to rename the division St Ives Print & Display with effect from August 2004.
