London UK BUS Our London bus business, which has around a 16.0% share of the bus Overview market in the capital, has had an excellent year.
It continues to grow and Turnover in our UK Bus division has increased by 8.7% to 650.2m win new business operated on behalf of Transport for London TfL with 2003: 598.4m, with turnover at our London bus business up 19.1% on reported turnover up 19.1% over the prior year.
Virtually all existing the prior year.
Operating profits were up 11.6% to 74.8m, compared to contracts tendered to start in 2004-05 were retained, as well as new 67.0m in the previous year.
Operating margins were 11.5% compared to contracts won from competitors.
This is a direct result of our focus on 11.2% in 2003.
The reported profits include the effects of a further competitive tendering, excellent operational performance, and a good increase in the use of operating leases to fund new vehicles.
Excluding the working relationship with TfL.
Around 200 new double and single-decker impact of this change in financing, operating margins increased from vehicles have entered service in London, making the entire fleet low-floor.
This is a very encouraging performance given that the Work has also started on the construction of a depot to initially house a reported profits have been achieved after taking account of increased new articulated bus operation.
National Insurance and pension costs.
Partnership Investment and innovation Stagecoach continues to work closely with a range of stakeholders at local This has been a year of innovation, investment and growth.
Our firm and national level to improve the quality of bus provision.
We firmly commitment to modernising our fleet is continuing to help drive organic believe this partnership approach, endorsed by the Government, will deliver passenger growth across our business.
Passenger volumes outwith London the best services and value for money to taxpayers.
In Scotland and Wales, were up 1.4%.
We have also introduced a number of products targeted at we are playing our part in the success of the free concessionary fares developing new markets to complement our traditional customer base.
schemes where we have invested in new vehicles and increased frequencies.
We are also closely involved in many smartcard and multiOur award-winning megabus.
com network, which offers low cost inter-city operator ticketing schemes, in places such as Manchester and south-west bus travel, combines the power of the Internet and our operational England, to make travel easier for passengers.
We are also working with expertise to deliver an attractive and cleverly marketed service.
A UK first, businesses and educational establishments to encourage travel by public megabus.
com now covers more than 20 routes in the UK.
Significantly, transport and in Oxford, for example, have established a new network in the service is also attracting commuters out of their cars, which can only partnership with Brookes University.
These partnerships are delivering be of benefit in the battle against road congestion.
results, such as in Corby where a reshaped network and 3.0m investment A second UK first is our Yellow Taxibus service, which combines the in new vehicles by Northamptonshire County Council has driven passenger flexibility of home pick-ups with a traditional bus service using new growth by over 70.0% during the year.
It is the first time a major transport operator has attempted to run this kind of operation commercially.
We have launched Kick Start an initial pilot scheme in Fife, Scotland and have plans for a further trial in Both the Department for Transport and the Scottish Executive are taking London linked to our South West Trains services.
forward our Kick Start proposal for targeted funding to support the introduction of new bus services.
In January 2004, the Department for Urban and provincial networks Transport included pilot schemes as part of its 40.0m Urban and Stagecoach views customer research as a key element in growing our Rural Bus Challenge funding programme.
Significant schemes are now provincial bus networks.
We have pioneered the use of geo-demographic being taken forward by Stagecoach and our partner local authorities.
research and sophisticated marketing in the bus industry and we are Following the success of the initial pilot project in Perth, Scotland, we are particularly encouraged by the resulting shift from the use of car to bus also planning some further projects which are to be funded entirely which has helped to drive further passenger growth in the past year.
Campaigns in Hartlepool and Grimsby have seen excellent growth in sales of our weekly Megarider tickets.
A telemarketing campaign and relaunch of the Cambridge-Haverhill corridor has boosted passenger volumes on the route.
The Cambridge citi network continues to expand and we have recently introduced the citi brand and a new network to Peterborough.
In Oxford, we have introduced dedicated route branding on our urban network and converted our city fleet to 100% low-floor buses.
Improvements to our Bedford network have reversed a 4% passenger decline and are now delivering 9% growth compared to the prior year.
Stagecoach is taking part in the development of core corridors in Newcastle and Sunderland as part of the Tyne and Wear Superoute network with Nexus Passenger Transport Executive.
In Manchester, we have achieved further passenger growth this year and expect additional benefits from new quality bus corridor measures, including real time information, later this year.
