Directors 1 Robert Speirs, Non-Executive Chairman 6 Iain Duffin, Non-Executive Director A non-executive director of the Group since March 1995.
In July 2002, he was Iain Duffin became a non-executive director of the Group in September 2001. appointed by the Board as Non-Executive Chairman.
A former Group Finance He was appointed Chairman of the Remuneration Committee on 1 May 2003.
Director of The Royal Bank of Scotland plc, Robert Speirs is also Chairman of He is a non-executive Chairman of Origo Services and Beattie Media Group.
He has The Miller Group Ltd.
Aged 67. previously held executive positions in the UK and the US with a number of organisations including Macfarlane Group plc, LucasVarity plc, ITT Corporation and Hughes Aircraft.
2 Brian Souter, Chief Executive A co-founder of Stagecoach, Brian Souter is architect of the companys strategy and 7 Ann Gloag OBE, Non-Executive Director philosophy.
He has extensive knowledge of the ground transportation industry around the world and is responsible for managing all of the Groups operations.
He Ann Gloag co-founded Stagecoach in 1980 and served as an executive director until is also Chairman of ScotAirways Group Ltd and until its disposal in January 2004, he May 2000.
She is a past winner of the Businesswoman of the Year Award and was a board member of Road King Infrastructure Ltd.
European Women in Achievement Award.
She is a trustee of the Princess Royal Aged 50.
Trust for Carers, an international Board member of Mercy Ships and a non-executive director of OPTOS.
In June 2004, she was awarded an OBE for services to charity.
3 Martin Griffiths, Finance Director Appointed Finance Director in April 2000, Martin Griffiths is responsible for the 8 Dr Janet Morgan, Non-Executive Director Groups overall financial policy, taxation and treasury management.
He also has responsibility for the overall management of the Groups property portfolio.
He won Dr Janet Morgan, Lady Balfour of Burleigh, became a non-executive director in April the Young Scottish Finance Director of the Year Award in 2004 and is a Chartered 2001.
She is Chairman of the Health, Safety & Environmental Committee.
Aged 38. also chairman of the Nuclear Generation Decommisioning Fund and a non-executive director of Cable & Wireless plc, BPB plc and other companies.
Dr Morgan is a Fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh, a Trustee of the Carnegie Trust for the 4 Graham Eccles, Executive Director Rail Universities of Scotland and Chairman of the Scottish Cultural Resources Access Graham Eccles has over 35 years experience in the rail industry and has held a Network.
She was a member of the Central Policy Review Staff of the Cabinet number of senior management posts.
He has been a member of the Board since Office.
September 2000 and prior to that was managing director of South West Trains from 1999.
He is responsible for the management of all the Groups rail operations 9 Russell Walls, Non-Executive Director and business development opportunities in the rail market.
In addition, he has main board responsibility for Group safety matters.
Graham Eccles is a director of Virgin Appointed as a non-executive director in June 2000.
Russell Walls is the current Rail Group Holdings Ltd and is an advisor to Network Rail.
Chairman of the Audit Committee and is the senior independent non-executive director.
He is a non-executive director of Signet Group plc and Aviva plc.
He was previously Group Finance Director of BAA plc and Wellcome PLC.
For many years he 5 Ewan Brown CBE, Non-Executive Director worked abroad with Coats Viyella plc where he was Group Finance Director from Ewan Brown has been a non-executive director of the Group since 1988.
He is a fellow of the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants.
appointed Chairman of the Nomination Committee in June 2004.
He is a former Aged 60. executive director and is currently a non-executive director of Noble Grossart Ltd. His other non-executive directorships include John Wood Group plc and Lloyds TSB Group plc.
He is also Chairman of Lloyds TSB Scotland plc and Transport Initiatives Edinburgh Ltd.
Key to photograph 483219567 Stagecoach Group plc page 17
