NEW ZEALAND RAIL Overview Overview Our New Zealand operations continue to generate good returns for the Stagecoach Group has a significant involvement in the passenger rail Group.
This year we have not benefited from the transport spin-off from market in the UK, including the countrys biggest commuter franchise at the Americas Cup yacht race as we did in 2002-03.
However, on a South West Trains.
Financial performance has benefited from continued like-for-like basis, and despite a challenging operating environment we cost control and a growth in passenger volumes at South West Trains of have seen further passenger growth overall in New Zealand.
from our New Zealand businesses increased from NZ$158.3m to Turnover for our wholly-owned rail subsidiaries in the year was 438.9m NZ$160.9m.
Operating profit fell from NZ$34.8m to NZ$29.5m.
Operating profit was up 15.4% to 44.1m 2003: Whilst the operating margin for the year was lower, we remain pleased 38.2m, representing an operating margin of 10.0% 2003: 9.2%.
Profit with the profits earned in New Zealand.
Converted to sterling, turnover exceeded original expectations due to a combination of higher revenue was 58.3m 2003: 51.0m and operating profit was 10.7m growth and continued cost control.
The prior year profit includes 2003: 11.2m.
liquidated damages of 8.5m in relation to the late delivery and reliability of Class 458 trains.
Rail profits are stated after taking account of the costs of bidding for new franchises.
Auckland The operating profit of 44.1m includes 1.1m in respect of Sheffield The majority of our contracted services in the Auckland region, apart from the North Shore sector, were re-tendered during the year and we retained Supertram compared to a small loss in the prior year which reflects the integration of the maintenance business and other management action to the majority of existing work.
During the year, more than 60 new air-conditioned triple-axle buses were As one of the countrys major train operators, we believe greater introduced into service, resulting in a significant upgrade to the Auckland integration is the key to resolving the problems of the countrys bus fleet and a strong visual impact on the streets of the city.
fragmented rail network, so that the interests of the train operating Development has also started on a new depot for up to 40 buses at companies TOCs and the infrastructure provider are aligned with those Panmure, which will cater for anticipated growth in the Auckland fleet.
We welcome the Governments comprehensive review of the railways and have presented detailed proposals to ministers that build Wellington on the ideas we outlined in our policy paper, A Platform for Change, Trading in the Wellington region remains satisfactory.
In Hutt Valley, we more than two years ago.
retained existing service contracts at re-tender.
Greater Wellington Regional While infrastructure issues still remain a significant concern, we believe we Council has specified a significantly increased level of service in the new are now starting to see the benefits of steps taken by Network Rail to contracts, and there are already indications that this is resulting in bring maintenance contracts in-house and performance is on an upward significant patronage growth.
The high profile Flyer express route linking trend.
We would still like to see improvements delivered more quickly, but Wellington International Airport with the Wellington and Lower Hutt the response to disruption on the rail network is getting better as a result central business districts has been extended by 20km to Upper Hutt, of TOCs working more closely with Network Rail.
tapping a significantly increased catchment area.
South West Trains Stagecoach New Zealand entered into a new Quality Partnership The new three-year franchise at South West Trains, which commenced in agreement with Greater Wellington Regional Council GWRC, Hutt City February 2004, has started well.
We had already improved services in line Council and Upper Hutt City Council during the year.
The existing with commitments made to the Strategic Rail Authority as part of the partnership with the GWRC and Wellington City Council, which has thirteen period extension to the original seven-year franchise.
The new delivered a number of successful bus priority measures in Wellington city franchise runs until February 2007 and the agreement includes an during the year, has been renewed for a further three years.
opportunity to negotiate a five-year extension to 2012.
New trains As at 30 April 2004, 42 of our 1billion order for 177 new state-of-theart Desiro trains had been delivered into passenger service.
This will increase by two new trains a week throughout the summer.
In January 2004, the first of the slam-door fleet was scrapped and Network Rail has been making good progress on the necessary work to upgrade the network power supply to facilitate further roll-out of the new trains.
Infrastructure issues We are delighted that South West Trains is the first TOC in the country to operate an integrated control centre in conjunction with Network Rail.
The Wessex Integrated Control Centre, which opened at London Waterloo station in February 2004, is the first of eight centres that will cover the entire UK rail network.
Equipped with the latest information technology, it will significantly improve our joint response to incidents and ensure delays and disruption to passengers are minimised.
Network Rail carried out major weekend track work on the South West Trains network between January and May 2004.
The maintenance, mainly between London Waterloo and Wimbledon, will improve infrastructure reliability.
Stagecoach Group plc page 7 Operating review and long-distance inter-city services.
We are also looking to strengthen our Punctuality and customer improvements position in the UK light rail market subject to being able to achieve The punctuality of all trains operated by South West Trains has improved sensible commercial terms.
The number of delay minutes attributed to South West Trains performance has reduced by 11.1% in the year.
The forthcoming introduction in Winter 2004 of the most significant timetable changes Heavy rail since 1967 will help considerably in reducing the effect of incidents and We have announced our intention to bid for the new inter-city franchises, promoting better timekeeping.
including the East Coast franchise, with Virgin and Deutsche Bahn DB.
Stagecoach has a 33.3% interest in the bidding consortium.
DB, which A new customer information system has now been fully implemented runs the largest vertically integrated railway in Western Europe, has across the South West Trains network.
Operated in partnership with unrivalled technical expertise in the area of high-speed operations, mixed Network Rail, it provides audible and visual information to customers traffic networks, infrastructure operations, and rolling stock specification about train running at our stations.
The initiative won a major national and maintenance.
passenger development award last year and the second phase of the system implementation, which includes summary main boards and In addition, we are bringing our UK operating experience to the Danish information points, was launched in April 2004.
This year we also State Railways DSB bid for the new Integrated Kent rail franchise.
launched the E-Motion customer magazine, which is published both in Stagecoach Group has taken a 29.9% stake in South Eastern Railways Ltd, print and on-line, and a recent Brand Tracking Study shows the South the company established by DSB to bid for the franchise.
The franchise West Trains brand is highly regarded by customers.
includes routes on the national rail network currently operated by South Eastern Trains throughout Kent, parts of Sussex and South East London.
Passenger and employee safety and security remain a top priority for It will also incorporate new domestic services on the Channel Tunnel Rail South West Trains and we compare favourably with the best in the UK rail Link CTRL.
DSB operates the majority of passenger rail services in industry.
We were delighted that a further five South West Trains stations Denmark, as well as franchise operations in other Scandinavian countries, have received the Secure Station award.
This brings the total number of and is one of the best performing operators in Europe.
stations on our network with this status to 36 the highest of any of the UKs TOCs.
Light rail Commercial activity We are partners in two separate consortia seeking to run light rail rapid transit systems in Manchester and South Hampshire.
Greater Manchester Marketing continues to be focused on developing leisure off-peak travel to Passenger Transport Executive shortlisted our Manchester consortium increase revenue and encourage the use of services among low frequency GMTL Ltd as one of two preferred bidders.
Full and final bids have been and non-users.
Our Apex and SuperAdvance ticket promotions have been submitted and we are currently awaiting a final decision on the award of particularly successful, as well as the 5 anywhere ticket promotion, the contract.
Our South Hampshire consortia SHSL Ltd was one of two which gained approximately 25,000 extra journeys.
South West Trains, in conjunction with other London and South East TOCs, launched a 2-for-1 consortia that submitted an initial proposal in relation to the South Hampshire Rapid Transit System and discussions with the client are promotion in October 2003, which has driven a three-fold increase in sales of off-peak tickets compared to October 2002.
In partnership with other ongoing.
TOCs, Transport for London, the Strategic Rail Authority and other interested passenger and consultative committees, this year also saw the Virgin Rail Group launch of the Overground Network brand in South London.
Our share of Virgin Rail Groups turnover for the year amounted to 288.4m 2003: 276.1m and our share of operating profits was Island Line 13.5m 2003: 7.2m.
Passenger volumes for the year were 2.5% above Island Line, the Isle of Wights rail franchise, is now operating on a new the prior year.
The profit for the year was a result of both revenues and three-year franchise that runs concurrently with the South West Trains costs being better than the budget set by the SRA.
The franchise is for the continued operation of the existing level of service.
Island Line remains Britains best performing Franchise negotiations railway in terms of punctuality and reliability and we are working with the SRA and local stakeholders to find a suitable solution for the long-term Both the West Coast and CrossCountry franchises continue to operate on future of public transport on the Island.
the basis of annual budgets set by the SRA as discussions progress on renegotiating the franchises on a long-term commercial basis through to Sheffield Supertram 2012.
This is a key strategic objective for the Group and we are pleased at the continuing progress that Virgin Rail Group is making.
Sheffield Supertram marked its 10th anniversary of operation earlier this year.
Under Stagecoach ownership, performance has improved dramatically and passenger volumes have grown to reach a record 12.3 million this New trains year as the business has moved into profit for the first time.
In the meantime, Virgin Rail Group is also making excellent progress with the introduction of the new Voyager and Pendolino trains to the Rail business development CrossCountry and West Coast franchises respectively.
The Voyager programme has now been completed and the new trains are having a Stagecoach Group continues to evaluate new opportunities in the heavy and light rail sectors.
Our strategy is focused on high-volume commuter positive impact on customer perception and operational performance.
