Operating review North Central NORTH AMERICA Sales in the North Central region have been particularly encouraging in the Overview second half of the year and bookings for the spring and summer periods Turnover of our North American business for the year of US$576.4m have been stronger than for the past two years.
2003: US$939.0m comprised US$382.6m 2003: US$377.3m from continuing operations and US$193.8m 2003: US$561.7m from Our growing Wisconsin school bus business has secured a number of new discontinued operations.
Operating profit increased from US$21.8m in contracts and contract renewals in the past year, worth over US$8.0m in 2003 to US$25.4m.
We have grown operating profit despite the annual revenue.
significant reduction in turnover arising from a number of business The University of Pittsburgh has renewed a five-year shuttle contract, while disposals.
This increased profit has been achieved by growth in our a three-year transit contract has been awarded to our Wisconsin company.
continuing businesses and a managed reduction in overheads.
Converted In addition, we have won new commuter contracts in Chicago.
to sterling, the turnover of our North American business for the year was 336.8m, compared to 603.0m in the previous year.
Operating profit A new scheduled service line-run from the Northwest of Chicago to the was 14.8m, compared to 14.0m in 2003.
This represents an operating ChicagoMidway Airport has proved extremely popular with customers.
Passenger volumes on our Chicago Airport scheduled service are running at 7% above the prior year following increased direct marketing, improved We have largely completed the restructuring of our operations in North journey times and customer promotions.
America, which has resulted in a business with a clearly defined geography and more predictable revenue streams.
Since 30 April 2003, we have More than 40 motor coaches and 10 trolley buses have recently been completed the sale of our New England, West, South Central and South replaced within the region, upgrading the fleet and enhancing our East regions, as well as the disposal of the Transit division and a number reputation within local communities as a high quality transportation of our taxi businesses, including the major Texas taxi operations.
the past few months we have completed the sale of taxi operations in West Palm Beach, Jacksonville and San Diego.
Canada Our North American operations are now centred on three areas: our The Coach Canada operations, located in the Provinces of Quebec and North East and North Central regions in the United States, and Canada.
Ontario, are now recovering following the impact of the SARS outbreak in Toronto last year.
Charter bookings for the first two months of the new North East financial year are up significantly over the prior year and there is evidence that tourists are returning to Toronto.
In the North East, our highly successful New York Sightseeing operation continues to expand.
We have added additional tours to our product offering and have ordered 20 new open-topped double decker buses and 6 trolleys to cater for expanding passenger volumes.
There has been further investment in around 50 new motorcoaches for the commuter, charter, and express services operated by our Suburban, Community Coach and Shortline businesses, as well as new low-floor buses for our parking lot shuttle contract at Newark Airport.
We received the last 26 motor coaches out of a 3 year delivery of 226 coaches funded by the State of New Jersey for use on commuter services.
Additionally, we received State funds to undertake a refurbishment programme which significantly upgraded the quality of our Staten Island commuter service.
We are targeting new business in the North East and our local teams continue to work in close partnership with local, county and state officials in the delivery of transport provision.
Our Community Coach business, for example, has secured a five-year contract with the State of New Jersey to operate 10 local transit routes in Passaic County.
Management has also focused on improving the charter service through the introduction of additional vehicles, more co-ordinated sales team activity and higher profile marketing, including fresh advertising and an improved charter quote request website.
New route branding and improved customer information has been introduced on routes serving the rapidly growing Jersey City and Bayonne communities just outside New York City.
We are continuing to maintain a strict control on our cost base and improve operating efficiency.
During the year we consolidated garage facilities.
In August 2003, the Newark garage closed and the fleet and staff were integrated into our Elizabeth facility, while in February 2004 employees and vehicles at the Passaic garage started to relocate to Paramus.
