Andrew Flanagan, Donald Emslie, He currently chairs the Scottish Chief Executive, age 49 Chief Executive, Television, age 47 Higher Education Funding Council Joined the Company and the Joined the Board in 1999. and the Festival City Theatres Trust.
Board in 1994 as Finance Director Donald initially joined Scottish Other directorships include British and became Chief Executive Television in 1985 working in their Assets Trust plc, Alliance Trust plc in 1996.
Prior to joining SMG, sales department and their sales and John Wood Group plc.
Andrew had worked predominantly companies, TVMM and Time Exchange.
in the computer services and In 1994 Donald took over the role Calum MacLeod, telecommunications industries.
of Commercial Director and in 1997 Deputy Chairman, age 69 1 From 1991 to 1994 he worked he was appointed Managing Director Appointed to the Board in 1997. for NYNEX Inc. as Group Finance of the broadcasting division where Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Director of their subsidiary, BIS.
he led the post acquisition merger Previously Chairman of Grampian He also worked for PA Consulting of Scottish TV and Grampian TV.
Also Chairman of Group 1986-1991 and ITT Inc. s In 1999 he was appointed Chief Aberdeen Development Capital PLC, telecommunications division 1981- Executive of the television business Vice Chairman of the UHI Millennium 1986.
He is also a director of ITV with responsibility for Scottish TV, Institute and Trustee of the Carnegie Network Limited and resigned from Grampian TV and network production.
Trust for the Universities of Scotland.
the board of Scottish Rugby Union He is currently chairman of the ITV Formerly Chairman of Britannia Building in 2005.
Andrew has a BAcc from Council and a non-executive director Society and Finance Convenor of the the University of Glasgow and is of Skillset UK.
He is also chairman of University of Aberdeen.
Awarded an a member of the Institute of Chartered the Royal Lyceum Theatre, Edinburgh Honorary LLD from the University of Accountants of Scotland.
and the Scottish Industry Skills Panel.
George Watt, Non-Executive Directors David Dunn, Group Finance Director, age 37 Non-Executive Director, age 60 1,2 Joined the Company in 1998 as Chris Masters, Appointed to the Board in September Group Financial Controller and Chairman, age 57 3 2003.
Member of Audit Committee Treasurer and joined the Board as Appointed to the Board in 2004. and Chairman of the Remuneration Group Finance Director in 2001.
Prior Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
A member of the Institute to joining SMG, George worked with Committee.
Chris took his doctorate of Chartered Accountants of Scotland.
KPMGs audit and assurance services in Chemistry at Leeds University and Current directorships include Chairman practice in the UK and also in the US.
worked for Shell Research BV in the of Brammer plc, non-executive George has a BAcc from the University Netherlands and then Shell Chemicals director of First Group plc and Croda of Glasgow and is a member of the in the UK.
He joined Christian International plc.
Formerly Chief Institute of Chartered Accountants Salvesen as business development Executive and subsequently Chairman of Scotland.
manager in 1979, becoming director of Scapa Group plc he has held a of planning for its US operation number of senior finance and general and then Chief Executive from 1989 management positions with UK listed to 1997.
He was then appointed companies during his career.
Executive Chairman of Aggreko PLC, a post he held until January 2002. board of directors 14 Steve Maine, Allan Shiach, Donald Waters, Non-Executive Director, age 53 1,2, 3 Non-Executive Director, age 62 2,3 Non-Executive Director, age 67 1 Appointed to the Board in 2000.
Appointed to the Board in 1993.
Appointed to the Board in 1997.
Member of Audit, Nomination and Member of the Nomination and Member of the Audit Committee.
After Other directorships include Aberdeen gained an MA in English and Classics graduating with a degree in English Asset Management PLC and James from Oxford.
Formerly Chief Executive Literature, Allan became a television Johnston & Company of Elgin Limited.
of Kingston Communications Hull writer and broadcaster in both Formerly Deputy Chairman and Chief PLC, director of Visual and Broadcast Canada and the UK before beginning Executive of Grampian Television plc.
Services and director of Global a career in feature films, which Communications India with BT.
included work with all the major Donald is currently Chairman of US studios as a writer, co-writer the Trustees of the Grampian and MT Mary Teresa Rainey, or producer and making over Scottish Television pension scheme Non-Executive Director, age 49 18 feature films.
and the Caledonian Publishing Appointed to the Board in April 2005. pension scheme.
He was previously Having recently stepped down as Chair During this time he became Chairman a member of the Council of CBI of Rainey Kelly Campbell Roalfe Y&R, and Chief Executive of MacallanScotland, ITV Council and Vice Chair the sixth largest advertising agency Glenlivet plc and also a director of The of BAFTA Scotland.
Donald has been in the UK and part of the WPP group, Scotch Whisky Association.
Besides involved in television for 28 years and MT brings a wealth of experience of directorships of several commercial was awarded an OBE in 1994 for his both the advertising industry and of companies, he has also served in services to the industry.
He is also brand management and promotion.
different capacities on a number of a qualified chartered accountant.
MT is currently a non-executive public bodies including the BBCs director of WH Smith plc, a founder Broadcasting Council for Scotland, and trustee of the volunteering charity as well as chairmanships of The Key Timebank and a trustee of the Scottish Film Council, The Writers 1 Audit Committee independent think tank, Demos.
Guild of Great Britain and of Scottish 2 Remuneration Committee She is also a visiting professor at Screen.
He is a former governor of 3 Nomination Committee the University of Glasgow Business the British Film Institute.
School and Chair of the Marketing Group of Great Britain.
