directors report Business review The principal activities of the Group are the production and broadcasting of television programmes, local and national radio production and broadcasting, the sale of advertising airtime and space in these media and in outdoor, cinema and internet services.
A review of the Groups business is contained in the reports of the Chairman, Chief Executive and Group Finance Director, on pages 2 to 20.
The Groups principal operating subsidiaries are listed in note 14 to the financial statements.
m Results and dividend The profit after taxation including exceptional items amounts to 24.1 An interim dividend of 1.0p per share was paid on 6 January 2005 which amounted to 3.1 and your directors are recommending a final dividend for the year of 1.5p per share which will amount to 4.7 Profit transferred to reserves 16.3 Shares and other interests As at 19 April 2005, the Company had been notified of the following interests of 3% or more in its ordinary shares: Total Shares % Granada Media 53,018,744 16.87 Fidelity Investments 35,530,755 11.30 Morgan Stanley 12,768,037 4.06 Mr Christopher Evans 9,962,840 3.17 Legal & General Investment Management 9,771,653 3.11 Change of auditors In accordance with Board policy to periodically review the provision of audit and tax services, the Audit Committee undertook a detailed review during 2004.
As a consequence of that review Deloitte & Touche LLP resigned on 3 September 2004 and  LLP were appointed.
A resolution to appoint  LLP as the Companys auditors is therefore being proposed at the AGM.
Statement of directors responsibilities The directors are required by law to prepare financial statements for each financial year and to present them annually to the Companys members at the AGM.
The financial statements, of which the form and content are prescribed by the Companies Act 1985 and applicable accounting standards, must give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the Group as at the end of the financial year, and of the Groups profit and loss for the period.
The directors confirm that suitable accounting policies have been used and applied consistently, and that reasonable and prudent judgments and estimates have been made in the preparation of the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2004.
The directors also confirm that applicable accounting standards have been followed.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and to enable that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Going concern After making appropriate enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
The financial statements are therefore prepared on a going concern basis.
28 directors report corporate governance SMG plc is committed to the highest standards of corporate governance.
This section, together with the report by the directors on remuneration, set out on pages 38 to 55, describes how, in respect to the financial year ended 31 December 2004, the Company has applied the principles of good corporate governance and has complied with the principles set out in the revised Combined Code.
Where the Company has been unable to comply with the revised Combined Code with respect to the independence of Allan Shiach, this has been highlighted in the report and reasons for the non-compliance explained.
The Board and its procedures The membership of the Board during the year was as follows: Chairman Chris Masters appointed 4 June 2004 Don Cruickshank resigned 4 June 2004 Chief Executive Independent non-executive directors Andrew Flanagan Calum MacLeod Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent director Executive directors David Dunn Donald Emslie Michael Grade resigned 2 April 2004 George Watt Steve Maine Donald Waters Non-executive director Allan Shiach The Board has considered the independence of the non-executive directors and has confirmed that they are of independent character, and other than Allan Shiach, independent as defined by the revised Combined Code.
Biographies of Board members, giving details of their experience and other main commitments, are set out on pages 14 and 15.
The wide ranging experience and backgrounds of the non-executive directors ensure that they can debate and constructively challenge management in relation to both the development of strategy and performance against the goals set by the Board.
The non-executive directors do not participate in any share option or pension scheme of the Company.
On 12 April 2005 MT Rainey was appointed as an independent non-executive director.
Calum MacLeod and Donald Waters have intimated their intention to step down from the Board immediately following the AGM, at which time David Dunn will become the Senior Independent director.
Attendance of Board members at Board and committee meetings is set out below: Chairman Audit Remuneration Nomination Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings held: 11 4 8 1 4 Number attended: Chris Masters appointed 4 June 2004 5 1 Don Cruickshank resigned 4 June 2004 6 4 Calum MacLeod 10 3 Andrew Flanagan 11 David Dunn 11 4 8 4 Donald Emslie 10 Michael Grade resigned 2 April 2004 4 4 Steve Maine 11 4 4 1 4 Allan Shiach 7 5 1 3 George Watt 11 Donald Waters 11 4 29 Non-executive directors are appointed for a specified period of three years and re-appointment is not automatic.
Directors also stand for election by shareholders at the first AGM following their appointment and subsequently every three years, with the exception of Allan Shiach who, because of the length of time he has served on the Board, is put forward to shareholders for re-election annually.
The report from the Nomination Committee contained in this report explains the process for selection of directors and succession planning.
There is a well-established division of authority and responsibility at the most senior level within the Company through the separation of the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive.
The Senior Independent director is available to shareholders for concerns, which cannot be resolved by contact with the Chairman or Chief Executive.
Directors and officers of the Company and its subsidiaries have the benefit of a directors and officers liability insurance policy.
The Companys Articles of Association also provide that every director and other officer of the Company is to be indemnified out of the assets of the Company against any liability he incurs in defending any proceedings brought against him provided that judgment is not given against him.
All directors have access to the advice and service of the Company Secretary and at the Companys expense, the Groups legal advisers.
The Company Secretary is an employee of the Company and attends all meetings of the Board and its committees and is responsible for ensuring that all Board procedures are observed and for advising the Board on corporate governance matters.
The Board meets regularly, at least nine times a year with additional meetings taking place as required.
In 2003 the Board also adopted a policy to include in its meeting programme provision for the non-executive directors to meet annually without the executive directors.
The Board has adopted a schedule of matters reserved for its decision, the principal matters being approval of: Financial statements and shareholder circulars: dividend policy: significant changes in accounting policies or practices.
Board and committee appointments and terms of reference: and terms and conditions of non-executive and executive directors.
The Groups long-term objectives and commercial strategy: annual operating and capital expenditure budgets.
Material contracts and significant variations in terms of the Groups borrowing facilities.
Corporate activity, which is subject to The City Code on Takeovers and Mergers or of a material nature.
Major changes to the Groups pension schemes, share schemes, and treasury policy.
Internal control and corporate governance arrangements and to act as a court of the last resort in relation to any investigations undertaken by the Audit Committee.
Board meetings involve reviews of financial and business performance against the plan and budgets approved by the Board, both at a Group and divisional level.
The Board also receives regular presentations from each of the divisions, enabling it to explore specific issues and developments in more detail.
Any matter requiring a decision by the Board is supported by a paper analysing all relevant aspects of the proposal including potential risks and proposed management action.
The Company also has an executive group, which includes the executive directors, the human resources director, the director of corporate affairs and the chief executives of the Groups Radio and Out of Home divisions.
The executive group meets at least eleven times a year and, combined with divisional performance reviews conducted by the Chief Executive and Group Finance Director with each of the divisions senior management, ensures executive focus on groupwide performance and risk management.
The Board operates a formal process of reviewing annually the performance of each of the executive directors.
In addition, following the publication of the revised Combined Code, the Board has adopted a formal process to evaluate the performance of the Chairman and each of the non-executive directors, as well as the performance of the Board as a whole and its committees.
The evaluation process includes annual meetings of the full Board, the Chairman and non-executive directors, and non-executive directors only.
The Board is supported by the Nomination, Remuneration and Audit Committees.
Reports from the Nomination and Audit Committees are contained within this report, on pages 31 and 32, respectively.
30 directors report Remuneration Committee The members of the committee during the year were: David Dunn Appointed Chairman 2 April 2004 Steve Maine Appointed 7 May 2004 Allan Shiach Michael Grade Resigned as Chairman and from the Committee 2 April 2004 David Dunn and Steve Maine are independent non-executive directors.
In addition, while the Code provides a presumption that Allan Shiach is not independent due to his 11 years of tenure on the Board from the date of his first appointment, the Board does consider him to be independent in character and judgment.
In addition, the Board considered it critical that during an extensive review of the Companys executive remuneration and share scheme policy that Allan Shiach remain on the Remuneration Committee to ensure continuity following the resignations of Fiona Harrison and Adam Singer in 2003 and Michael Grade in 2004.
Allan Shiach will resign from the Committee following the AGM on 3 June 2005.
The activities of the Remuneration Committee are described within the report by the directors on remuneration on pages 38 to 55.
Report from the Nomination Committee The members of the committee during the year were: Chris Masters Appointed to the Committee and Chairman 3 September 2004 Calum MacLeod Resigned as Chairman and from the Committee 3 September 2004 Steve Maine Allan Shiach Don Cruickshank Resigned 4 June 2004 The committee has written terms of reference.
Its principal duties are to: Regularly review the structure, size and composition of the Board and evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge and experience.
Regularly review plans for succession of executive and non-executive directors and make recommendations to the Board.
Identify and nominate candidates for approval of the Board using, if appropriate, external recruitment and search advisers employing objective and industry-recognised selection criteria.
Recommend to the Board membership of the Audit and Remuneration Committees, in consultation with the chairmen of those committees.
The Board conducts an annual review of the performance of both the Board and its committees.
Part of that review is an assessment of the Boards size, composition, diversity and balance of skills and the outcome of the review is used by the committee to determine the selection criteria and role specification of non-executive directors.
If appropriate, external selection consultants are retained to conduct searches.
The committee reviews the profiles of candidates and conducts interviews prior to making recommendations to the Board for approval.
All directors undergo a tailored induction programme on appointment, which incorporates matters of corporate governance, directors duties and an introduction to the Groups various businesses.
Each directors individual experience and background is taken into account in developing a programme tailored to their own requirements.
Continuing development is provided through briefing sessions in the course of regular Board meetings, covering business specific and broader regulatory issues.
Following Don Cruickshanks announcement that he wished to step down from the Board the following Nomination Committee was formed to deal with the appointment of a successor.
31 Calum MacLeod Chairman David Dunn Steve Maine Allan Shiach The committee, in conjunction with the Board, developed a role specification and selection criteria to identify potential candidates for the role of Chairman of the Company.
External consultants Whitehead Mann were retained to search for and identify potential candidates for consideration by the committee.
Following the identification of Chris Masters as the preferred candidate who most closely met the required selection criteria and, on the recommendation of the committee, the Board approved his appointment on 4 June 2004.
Both before and following his appointment Chris Masters has met with a number of the Groups major shareholders.
Report from the Audit Committee Calum MacLeod Chairman David Dunn Steve Maine Donald Waters The Audit Committee is authorised by the Board to investigate any activity within its terms of reference and to seek any information it requires from any employee.
All employees are directed to co-operate with any request made by the committee.
Amongst others, the duties of the committee are to: Assist the Board in ensuring that the Companys published financial statements comply with statute and all applicable accounting standards and good practice.
Review the effectiveness of the Companys internal financial controls and audit arrangements and investigate and advise on these or related matters which are referred to it or that it considers necessary.
Review the Companys statement on internal control systems prior to endorsement by the Board.
Consider the major findings of any internal investigations on control and managements response.
Discuss with the Companys auditors, matters arising from their work in the absence of management where necessary and encourage and monitor compliance with relevant codes of best practice in corporate governance.
Keep under review the scope and results of the annual audit, its cost-effectiveness and the independence and objectivity of the auditors.
Where the auditors also supply a substantial volume of non-audit services to the Company, the committee will keep the nature and extent of such services under review.
Consider the appointment of the external auditors, the audit fee, their independence and objectivity and any questions of resignation or dismissal of the external auditors.
To review the Companys arrangements for its employees to raise concerns, in confidence, about possible wrong doing in financial reporting or other matters.
Meetings of the committee are normally attended by the Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and representatives of the external auditors.
The committee also meets separately with senior management and the external auditors, and following the introduction of an internal audit function will in future also meet separately with the Groups Internal Auditor.
Both David Dunn and Donald Waters are qualified chartered accountants, and David Dunn currently serves on other listed company Audit Committees.
During the year the committee reviewed the Companys interim and full year results prior to publication and received reports on audits undertaken by internal audit.
They also received presentations from management on the Groups risk management procedures and risk register, incorporating relevant social, ethical and environmental risks: and progress reports on actions being taken by the Company to address new legal and regulatory developments, including the introduction of International Financial Reporting Standards.
32 directors report Internal control and control environment The directors of SMG plc have overall responsibility for establishing and maintaining an adequate system of internal controls and for reviewing the effectiveness of the system.
The system of internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate risk and in pursuing these objectives, internal control can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
In addition, to the external and internal audit, the following key controls are in place: A comprehensive financial review cycle, which includes annual budgeting approved by the Board, monthly reporting of trading results for review and where necessary, corrective action as well as detailed and regular reforecasting.
Defined organisational structures with appropriate delegation of authority.
Regular reviews of key performance indicators and business risks and consequent steps to manage any matters arising.
Provision to the Board and management of relevant, accurate, timely information based on solid management information systems which are continually being improved and updated.
During the year the Audit Committee and Board reviewed the need for an internal audit function and decided to introduce such a function.
In November 2004 the Committee considered the first internal audit reports and approved the 2005 internal audit plan.
The Committee Chairman met with the Internal Auditor, and will do so annually, without management being present.
The Internal Auditor has right of direct access to the Chairman of the Board and the Committee Chairman.
The executive group is responsible for implementing the risk management strategy: ensuring that an appropriate risk framework is operating effectively across the Group: embedding a risk culture throughout the Group: and providing the Board and Audit Committee with a consolidated view of the risk profile of the Company, identifying any major exposures and mitigating actions.
The risk management framework and internal controls system across the Group, which is subject to continuous development, provides the basis on which the Company has complied with the Combined Code provisions on internal control.
Relationship with shareholders The Chairman meets with major shareholders on a periodic basis and the Senior independent director is available for meetings on request.
In addition, institutions are offered the opportunity to meet new non-executive directors following their appointment to the Board, as part of their induction.
Furthermore, non-attributable feedback from major shareholders, which is independently sourced, is regularly sought and reviewed by the Board.
Communication with major shareholders, analysts and the financial press is maintained throughout the year with, in addition, detailed presentations made at the time of the interim and full year results.
Detailed reviews of the performance and financial position of each division are included in the Chairmans, Chief Executives and Group Finance Directors reviews, which the Board uses to present a balanced and understandable assessment of the Groups position and prospects.
Such communication is designed to establish a mutual understanding of objectives.
In addition, the Group has introduced an electronic communication facility to allow shareholders to receive information more quickly and in a manner more convenient for them.
The Board also welcomes and encourages the participation of all shareholders at the Companys AGM.
During the year there has also been an extensive review of the executive remuneration and share scheme policy as described in the shareholders circular distributed with this report.
The Company examined its remuneration policy for the executive team with the assistance of independent remuneration consultants, Halliwell Consulting, who also consulted extensively with the Companys principal shareholders on the detailed terms of the proposed remuneration policy and new share scheme arrangements prior to these being finalised.
33 corporate responsibility Social responsibility Media businesses like SMG are intrinsically and inextricably linked with the environments in which they operate.
SMGs presence in the communities and homes of the people it entertains and informs ensures that it is part and parcel of the fabric of these communities.
Amongst other initiatives, Scottish TV has collaborated with Modernityscotland, a modern studies website, to enhance the learning experience for school pupils in Scotland.
This is the first and only website dedicated exclusively to Higher Modern Studies and Scotland Today provides video footage from its news archive to allow pupils to learn interactively by downloading footage relevant to their studies.
Continuing on the educational theme, both Scottish TV and Grampian TV have a long-standing association with the Scottish Adult Learning Partnership and this year they sponsored the Scottish Adult Learners Awards event in May.
Scotland Today and North Tonight profiled the Adult Learners week, a UK wide annual festival of learning which brings together education, training providers and broadcasters, in an attempt to reach those who are traditionally under-represented in post-school education and training.
Virgin Radio built on its ongoing relationship with the Teenage Cancer Trust by promoting and broadcasting live from their week of gigs at the Royal Albert Hall.
The star studded shows raised the charitys profile and raised money via text to win mechanics.
The events have so far raised 2.5m to provide young people suffering from cancer with specialist teenage units in NHS hospitals.
In October Pearl & Dean went back to school to support Film Education, the organisation behind National Schools Film Week.
This unique event offered students a behind-the-scenes insight into the film industry with over 120,000 students visiting during the week.
Pearl & Dean has also maintained its close ties with The Cinema & Television Benevolent Fund CTBF and sits on the CTBF Fundraising and Summer Ball committees.
Income from the sale of Pearl & Dean archive material on DVDs is donated to the fund.
Charitable donations The following contributions were made during the year: 2004 2003 000 000 Charitable, arts and sciences 302 323 Other 5 23 307 346 The Companys policy is not to make donations which are of a political nature.
The Environment SMG recognises that its businesses affect the environment.
Its policy is to conduct those businesses responsibly and in a way that minimises the adverse affects on the environment and, where possible, reduces cost.
To this end SMG is working towards best practice in the following areas: Energy efficiency natural resources To design and construct new buildings which are energy efficient.
To monitor and control heating, lighting and ventilation to ensure their effective use.
To manage its vehicles to ensure energy efficiency.
Personnel environment To provide staff with an agreeable working environment.
To ensure that smoking is only permitted in designated areas.
34 directors report Suppliers staff To ensure that all suppliers and staff are fully informed of the Groups environmental policy.
To provide staff training in support of this policy.
Resource usage and waste management SMG has a number of measures in place to limit the effect of Group operations on the environment through recycling and reducing the use of energy.
During 2004 the Company continued to raise staff awareness and encourage participation in the Groups recycling schemes through the use of the intranet, email, posters and word of mouth.
There has been a number of new initiatives this year, including recycling of plastic cups, cans, and unused stationery.
Paper recycle bins are located throughout SMGs offices and average monthly recycling of 9% was achieved in 2004, compared with 11% in the last quarter of 2003, and the Group will continue to target a monthly average of 12% in 2005.
During the year SMG commenced a can recycling programme and now participates in Community Can Cycle, a charitable organisation that recycles the cans and sells them on to reprocessing companies.
The proceeds are invested in their bicycle repair and refurbishment workshop to provide a free bicycle repair service to local children, in Glasgow.
During the year we also introduced measures to record and monitor utility consumption.
As in previous years 20%, of our electricity is from renewable sources and there has been a 13% reduction in the use of gas and electricity.
Health and safety The Group recognises that proactive health and safety management systems contribute to business performance by reducing costs and liabilities, mitigating risks and enabling staff to be productive in a safe and healthy working environment.
A policy of risk assessment, the provision of adequate resources and information, instruction and training for employees on health and safety matters has resulted in a reduction of accidents within the Groups Television and Out of Home divisions from 23 in 2003 to 15 in 2004.
The Group remains committed to taking an active role in setting industry-wide health and safety good practice standards and is a member of the Broadcasting Industry Safety Group.
This groups objectives are to improve, standardise and communicate best working practices throughout the television broadcasting companies.
In addition the Groups Outdoor operation, SMG Primesight, is a member of the Outdoor Advertisers Association, whose objective is to introduce in 2005 a Health and Safety Passport scheme throughout the Outdoor advertising industry.
This results in improving employee health and safety competence and reduces the risk of accidents.
A formal internal health, safety, welfare and environmental audit is carried out at all individual Group premises annually to ensure that the required standards are achieved.
Where shortfalls are identified, the senior manager responsible for the premises is required to ensure necessary remedial action is taken.
An integral part of the Groups accident procedures and management of occupational road risk is to monitor vehicle accidents.
No employee was injured as a result of vehicle accidents while driving at work during the year, however the number of accidents due to driver error rose from 23 in 2003 to 30 in 2004.
As a result a number of initiatives have been introduced in 2005 to reduce the number of vehicle accidents, such as profiling data to identify drivers required to attend defensive driving theory courses and training.
In relation to safety regulations the Group has procedures in place for accident and incident reporting which comply with the reporting requirements under the Reporting of Injuries, Diseases & Dangerous Occurrences Regulations 1995 RIDDOR.
These regulations require employers to report serious injuries and also injuries that result in employees being off work for more than three days.
35 Group health and safety statistics 2004 2003 Accidents reportable under RIDDOR 2 2 Total of all accidents 15 46 The accident statistics above provide a retrospective but important benchmark for measuring the Groups health and safety performance.
During 2005 health and safety performance will continue to be monitored and reviewed in order to maintain and improve on the required standards.
The Chief Executive of each division is responsible for ensuring compliance with health and safety legislation.
In addition, the human resources director is the designated director responsible for health and safety matters, with support from the group safety officer.
Employees SMG is a people business and therefore is dependent on its management and staff for the Groups continued success.
The Group remains committed to encouraging staff involvement, development and ownership of the business in many different ways.
Communications Communication remains key to SMGs businesses.
More focus has been placed on internal communication with the design of a new two-way communication process launched early in 2005.
This will ensure that every member of staff has a regular and frequent opportunity to contribute ideas and raise issues.
A number of staff communication forums also take place within the various businesses to enhance local communication and these are supplemented by twice yearly presentations to all staff by the Chief Executive.
As part of the forthcoming move of Glasgow-based staff to a new building in 2006, Making it Happen sessions were launched in Glasgow to ensure staff involvement in every aspect of the move.
All Glasgow based staff attend workshops which provide them with the opportunity to input ideas, suggestions and recommendations on the project.
Performance management Throughout 2004 SMG has further developed its performance management system, moving to a formal process that looks at overall performance, whereby managers and staff are assessed against defined behavioural competencies and technical competencies and identifies key training and development needs.
Training The training forum, established in 2002, continues to develop creative solutions to meet training needs identified through the performance management system, utilising internal resources and skills.
In 2004 a total of 38 groupwide courses were delivered to over 454 attendees.
Each business is responsible for delivering job specific and technical training to staff, including on the job training.
Management development In 2004 the Group developed a more focused approach to management training and development to ensure its managers are equipped with the skills and techniques to manage their businesses, teams and people effectively.
The Groups initial approach was to introduce a training and development toolkit for managers to support them in key skills such as communications, team building, performance management and profit management, and responsibility for staff training and development.
This will be supported throughout the next few years by workshop-based training courses.
36 directors report Equal opportunities SMG continues to be committed to equal opportunities and diversity.
SMGs television business is a pro-active part of the television industrys Cultural Diversity Network.
In July 2004 SMG was awarded the Positive About Disability Symbol by Jobcentre Plus for the business positive attitude towards the employment of disabled people.
It is awarded to employers who have agreed to make five commitments regarding the employment and retention of disabled employees.
Suppliers Creditor payment policy The Companys policy for paying the majority of its trade creditors is to follow the Better Payment Practice Code copies are available from www.
For other suppliers the Companys policy is to settle the terms of payment with these suppliers when agreeing terms of payment by inclusion of the relevant terms in contracts: and to pay in accordance with its contractual and other legal obligations.
Trade creditors of the Company at 31 December 2004 were equivalent to 31 days of purchases 2003: 32 days.
The report of the directors on pages 28 to 37 has been approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by Sara Clarke Secretary 200 Renfield Street, Glasgow G2 3PR 19 April 2005 37
