Pharma and Fine Chemicals Pharma and The strategy to increase Fine Chemicals the number of generic active pharmaceutical ingredients registered continues apace.
Sales by our Pharma & Fine Chemicals Pharma and Fine Chemicals businesses fell by 13.5%, which was manufacture generic and ethical unsurprising given the significant changes pharmaceutical actives, pharmaceutical that took place in late 2003 in the intermediates and a range of fine omeprazole market in the USA.
Margins chemicals for use in flavours and were fairly consistent throughout the year, fragrances.
Together they form a delivering a healthy level of operating profit.
substantial base from which to grow rapidly in the pharmaceutical and fine The inevitable effect on selling prices of chemical sector.
omeprazole becoming fully generic in the USA was a key feature of 2004.
UQUIFA is now a major player in the Development of other territories, however, pharmaceutical sector through the enabled volume to be very close to the establishment of close partnerships exceptional shipments of 2002.
Zegerid, with many of the worlds leading a new patented immediate release version pharmaceutical companies to of this important proton pump inhibitor, manufacture ethical pharmaceuticals, was launched in October.
An exclusive actives and intermediates.
Projects and long-term supply contract is in place with product development are managed by our customer, Santarus.
Close to the end headquarters based in Barcelona with of the year a larger dose variant received manufacture located at sites in Spain, FDA approval, which should further Mexico and Italy.
Turnover 96.9 million 17.6% The flavours and fragrance business The fine chemical market for pharmaceuticals Divisional operating profitcomprises of two facilities, located is passing through an interesting period 16.2 million 33.5% in UK and the Netherlands.
They as major drug manufacturers face an supply speciality synthetic aroma and increasingly tough regulatory landscape.
fragrance chemicals to a global market.
The cornerstone of our strategy continues Customers include the major flavour and to be the development of an extensive fragrance companies as well as leading generic portfolio.
Last year, this advanced manufacturers of household products.
through the filing of eight drug master files in a range of therapeutic categories in the important US market.
Plans are in hand to continue this accelerated programme of filings in 2005.
Investment to support our strategy will come on stream in the coming months, with a new technology centre in Spain and the completion of a new pilot plant in Italy.
Eight drug master files registered in the USA 11 Annual Report 2004 Major contracts in the ethical market have Trading for our flavour and fragrance been secured, but uncertainties within our activities was stable.
Initiatives directed Pharma and customer base are lengthening approval towards improving the operating cost base Fine Chemicals times and delaying project start dates.
number of clinical phase projects were continued successfully manufactured and a potential Pharma anti-Parkinson product in phase 2b is The Uquifa operations in Spain continued scheduled to move to industrial quantities to enjoy the benefit of good volumes of in the coming year.
This was particularly true of sales of pelletised material, which grew by Challenges remain as ever, including the over 50%.
New equipment is at present effect of a weakening US currency on being installed at the Sant Celoni facility to margins of products sold from our meet the increased customer demand for European manufacturing base.
Looking this added value variant.
forward, however, we retain confidence in our development skills and the benefits of Margin erosion for ranitidine was concentration on cost efficient plants and significantly diminished, assisted by recent processes.
The outlook for product work on process efficiency and, pleasingly, approvals and regulatory permissions in substantial volume growth was achieved in the ethical sector may, in the near term, a competitive market.
Positions within the have an impact on the overall rate of antiviral, antibacterial and antidepressive progress achievable, but our generic sectors began to emerge with products development programme is gathering whose patent expiry was some years ago.
Recently announced changes to EU A product to the veterinary market also rules to bring them closer to those of the made good progress which, all in all, US regarding process development ahead added up to a strong year for volume.
of patent expiry, should further assist in the pursuit of this strategy.
01 50% growth in sales of pelletised omeprazole 12 Yule Catto & Co plc 02 04 03 01 Newly completed Pharma Research Centre at Sant Celoni in Spain.
Pilot 02 Substantial volume growth of ranitidine achieved in a competitive market.
03 plant Titration analysis at PFW, used to determine impurities in water.
busy in the 04 High impact Aroma Chemical applications months ahead from Oxford Chemicals.
New business gained in the ethical sector Flavour and Fragrances 04 stretched our development and The pace of consolidation within the engineering teams which successfully worlds flavour and fragrance market installed new facilities against a tight abated during the course of the year.
As well as long term contracts, Unit sales prices continued to come this equipment brings new technologies to under pressure from Far Eastern offer to our customer base.
The pilot plant competition, but the higher quality of our remains busy with good loadings in the products is showing signs of combating months ahead.
Following the decontamination of the Oxford Chemicals delivered a robust cephalosporins plant in Italy, a number of performance, with good profitability new products were introduced and re-established, assisted by the costcontracts received.
However, the control measures implemented the regulatory and technical approval process previous year.
The companys high level Sales from our Mexican facility were has taken much longer than anticipated.
In of expertise in sulphur chemistry is being strong, led by significant volumes of ethical response, products are in the process of deployed in support of Uquifa through intermediates to large pharmaceutical being moved from Spain and Mexico, the manufacture of pharmaceutical companies.
As anticipated, volumes of the where plant occupancy is at a high level, intermediates.
New technologies for antibacterial ciprofloxacine started well and a close control of operating costs and product manufacture are also being with patent expiry mid-year in the USA.
Validation explored through collaboration with Contribution was ahead of expectations, batches of new products using different universities and a priority is being given but far from that seen for other products technologies, only sited in our Italian plant, to identifying sources of starting material turning generic owing to the number of are scheduled in the early part of 2005. for natural flavours.
Sales of an antipsychotic, zolpidem, are progressing The PFW fragrance business had a good well and we are well placed with major year with new business secured in emerging generic houses in the USA where it is markets.
Good inter-group collaboration is scheduled to come off patent in 2006. seeing the larger scale facilities of PFW being used in support of Oxford Chemicals to reduce the manufactured cost of some key volume products.
