Performance Chemicals Performance Turnover for continuing Chemicals businesses was sustained at close to 2003 levels, despite these market conditions, demonstrating a successful defence of market share.
A mixture of adverse factors affected Performance Chemicals companies our Performance Chemicals businesses supply a wide range of speciality throughout the whole of 2004.
This chemicals including colorants, metal cumulatively resulted in a halving of salts, industrial cleaning products and operating profit from that achieved the engineering maintenance chemicals.
previous year, which was disappointing.
Other activities include aerosol filling In particular, the sharp fall in the US Dollar and automotive preparation services.
against Sterling and Euro hit margins in the second half.
Aggressive competition Colorants are a major focus of activity from overseas for sulphur derivatives including the manufacture of pigments, and uncertainty in the timber treatment and intermediate products.
Examples market were also a feature.
Production include hair colour intermediates, output for ultramarine has steadily ultramarine pigments, colour dispersions.
been re-established with the successful commissioning of a new flue gas Holliday Pigments is the worlds largest desulphurisation unit FGD in France, manufacturer of technical grade replacing the one that had been destroyed ultramarines and has over 65% market by fire.
Better fortunes were experienced share.
Ultramarines are used extensively with specialised intermediates directed at in the coloration of plastics, cosmetics the personal care, photographic and and surface coatings.
Turnover James Robinson is a leading supplier Turnover for continuing businesses 136.4 million 24.9% of hair dye intermediates, providing was sustained at close to 2003 levels, Divisional operating profitcustomers with technical solutions on despite these testing market conditions, 5.4 million 11.1% the development and formulation of new demonstrating a successful defence of hair colours.
Investment in India has market share.
In addition, the assault on extended the range of photographic operating costs continued, with substantial products whilst product innovation has restructuring charges once more incurred.
created market leadership in the Progress was achieved in the construction photochromic sector.
of new cost effective facilities in pursuit of restructuring to deliver further efficiencies.
136 million divisional turnover 15 Annual Report 2004 01 Performance Chemicals continued Inorganic Chemicals Organic Chemicals and Pigments Uncertainty over the direction of our James Robinson delivered a pleasing customer base in responding to the performance across all of its activities.
move away from copper chrome arsenate This result came from a combination of the 24% timber treatment to more environmentally benefits accruing from the restructuring acceptable systems impacted unfavourably.
of recent years and good demand in rise in sales of the Ways of addressing this issue are under the market for our speciality products.
photochromics development, using new approaches Opportunities arose for higher volumes of to providing copper-based products for our market-leading hair dye products from business supply throughout Europe.
High purity the merger of major customers.
Sales copper chromite for catalyst manufacture have been strong and changes to the has been added to the range, with good distribution network in key territories customer acceptance.
Colour developer sales experienced good growth Sales of tin products for use in non-toxic and our Indian joint venture moved into flame retardants, insulating glass systems decent profitability.
Investment is in and pharmaceutical manufacture showed progress in India to extend the range good growth.
The impact of a rising tin of intermediates manufactured.
The price was well managed.
Iodine sales also photochromics business saw sales rise delivered good results as the more by 24% as new products were introduced recently introduced products gained and our proprietary neutral molecules market penetration.
The alignment of the manufacturing facilities with market Sulphur dioxide derivatives saw needs is progressing, underpinning results considerable market instability, due to going forward.
Market share in the UK and Ireland has The successful commissioning of the been successfully defended by focusing state-of-the-art FGD unit at our ultramarine on good logistics and high level customer facility in France provided the opportunity service.
A new transport fleet is being to rebuild sales volume to the level seen in introduced through outsourcing to a highly 2002.
The unit is performing well and the experienced logistics company.
Changes investment has received accolades from were also instituted to the distribution the French environmental authorities.
network which will positively impact upon Over half of all ultramarine sales are made margins attainable.
in US Dollars and the weakening of that currency has a marked effect on operating To reflect the changed trading conditions, margins.
To combat this, selective price employee numbers have been reduced, increases have been introduced, as has with the result that William Blythe reported a review of the cost base.
Projects to a loss for the year as a whole.
The refine the manufacturing process have reorganisation of operations, coupled with also recently been implemented.
These product introductions and marketing are delivering improvements in quality initiatives, place the business in a better and yield.
The world demand for ultramarine pigment continues to grow, with China and the Far East being particularly strong.
In addition, the new application development programme of recent years is starting to see the number and quality of approvals increasing.
The re-establishment of production levels will now enable growth in volume from our global customer base to be fully supported.
16 Yule Catto & Co plc 02 Demand for ultramarine pigment continues to grow 01 03 Ultramarine developments from Holliday Pigments now offer new coating effects for cars where a unique colour is required.
02 William Blythe manufactures a range of products used in the formulation of a variety of timber treatment formulations.
03 James Robinson is a world leader in the manufacture and supply of dye intermediates for hair colouring products.
The product offer is supported by technical service and formulation expertise.
Other Activities The car preparation services offered by Demand from the industrial and retail Autoclenz experienced buoyant trading sectors for our consumer chemicals and the business delivered new records products was relatively flat holding back for performance.
This was assisted by efforts to grow sales.
Results improved, greater levels of efficiency and pleasing but less than was anticipated from growth in new development areas.
reductions implemented in the operating cost base.
Brencliffe was impacted by some changes in its retail customer base in Holliday Dispersions saw a difficult year, the early months of 2004.
As the year particularly in France, where customers still unfolded, a high level of product innovation suffered the impact of depressed market enabled this small company to return to conditions.
In the UK, sales levels were forward momentum.
successfully sustained, but margins came under pressure as raw material cost increases took effect in the second half.
