Knowing the issues as well as the answers.
We have expertise in all the core areas of market information New product Motivational research development Market structure Concept testing Needs segmentation Product testing Brand portfolio Marketing mix management optimisation Brand positioning Sales forecasting As the pressure to secure the best possible Clients increasingly recognise traditional shelf space for any new or repositioned market measurement is not enough to help brand intensies, clients need to ensure guide their marketing strategy and are their products will be an immediate moving towards a more consumer-led view success with consumers.
The area of motivational research offers clients a consumer-driven, TNS helps clients identify whether it is strategic analysis of a market to enable them worth investing in an idea, discover how to optimise their brand strategy and to make a concept more appealing, positioning, manage their portfolio and optimise the mix and forecast potential identify new product opportunities within sales volumes.
We offer tailored and a current or new market.
flexible solutions throughout the whole Whatever the reasoning, whether it be a new product development process from change in strategic direction, a stall in sales idea generation, early stage screening, or profit growth, the under-performance of concept development, testing and a key brand, or a significant shift in the optimisation through to volumetric category, TNS can offer clients the insight forecasting.
they need to develop and grow their brands.
When combined with our leading online capabilities we can ensure that, in an area One of our tools in this area is the where targeting difficult to reach samples Needscope System.
It uses a proven and speed-to-market is so critical, we are psychological framework to uncover the enabling clients to capitalise on the complex layers of consumer needs within a benets of online research.
Furthermore, category and to measure precisely what virtual in-store interactive testing is successful brands must deliver to create a opening up a range of opportunities for strong consumer-brand relationship.
It recreating in-store displays and enables analysis of market opportunities environments, so that the sense of and the actions required to capitalise on interacting with the product being tested those opportunities - all directly linked to is not compromised.
6 the sixth sense of business Brand and Stakeholder advertising research management Advertising pretesting Customer retention Advertising tracking Employee commitment Brand tracking Corporate reputation Brand equity measurement At the heart of most businesses is the Stakeholder management is fast becoming brand.
Clients need to know what the a key business metric for companies to critical factors are for brand success, what measure and monitor their performance the impact of their activities will be on the and relationships with various stakeholder brand and what brand equity they are groups such as customers, employees, creating.
Advertising becomes the dealers or shareholders.
TRI M, TNS representation of this brand in the key solution in this area, measures, marketplace.
It is obviously essential to manages and monitors these multi-channel ensure the creative is optimised and its relationships, offering actionable performance is tracked in-market.
TNS recommendations to board and senior enables clients to best manage their brands management.
and advertising communications, using its TRI M is applied worldwide across all range of sophisticated solutions including markets and offers extensive benchmarking AdEval for advertising pretesting, capabilities, drawing on over 6,000 studies MarketWhys for brand and advertising globally.
tracking and the Conversion Model for brand equity measurement.
Clients need integrated solutions which link stakeholder and brand management.
In the US, TNS has undertaken a study for TNS is well positioned to respond to this, the international financial institution Visa, using TRI M to analyse the stakeholders which analysed commitment to various experiences of a company and the forms of payment.
This has allowed them Conversion Model to interpret consumers to develop strategies for communication levels of commitment towards a brand.
and direct marketing opportunities better to meet the needs of their customers.
SAP, the worlds largest inter-enterprise software company, has been using the TRI M Index for a number of years to measure global customer retention.
SAP is a great example of how the scores resulting from the TRI M Index, which measure the intensity of customers business relationships with SAP, are very closely linked to the companys business success.
As TRI M Index scores have increased, so too has SAPs position in the market.
7 the sixth sense of business TNS specialises in industry sectors that require global presence or highly developed expertise Healthcare Media Intelligence Worldpanel TV and Radio Main activities Audience Main activities TNS offers a full range of Measurement Across a wide range of custom and multi-client media, including TV, radio, services throughout the Main activities print and internet, TNS product lifecycle to help Main activities Continuous measurement continuously measures define market opportunities, Using state of the art and analysis of consumer advertising expenditure, and develop brands, guide household and individual purchasing behaviour using tracks and analyses creative communications, track brand metering technology, TNS technology matched to the advertising and editorial performance and optimise measures television viewing development of local news.
TNS also tracks organisational effectiveness.
and radio listening habits to markets, including bar code cinema trailers and sport provide accurate audience Clients scanners, internet and till sponsorship activities.
Clients diagnostics, device and Clients Clients Media owners, advertising medical supply companies, Broadcasters, advertising Multi-national and local fmcg agencies, public relations and local health services.
agencies, advertisers, brand and private label advisers, broadcasters, platform operators and TV TNS insight manufacturers, fresh food publishers, government production companies.
What is the impact of suppliers, retailers, market departments and NGOs, changing demographics on analysts and government as well as local and TNS insight my market potential?
Is the programme What message will motivate maintaining its volume and TNS insight TNS insight consumers to seek medical share of audience?
What drives market share of What are the advertising treatment?
brands and retailers, and trends for our industry?
What share of commercial what has caused change?
What is the ROI on my impacts do we have Where and when should we direct-to-consumer compared with our Who purchases my products advertise?
and how can I meaningfully How can we ensure our segment and influence those What are the trends in drug What is the most efficient share of voice relative to our people?
way to reach our target competitors?
How does my advertising What is the optimal market How can we get the most affect shoppers actions?
Have campaign objectives effective impact from our been achieved?
How effective are my media budget?
Which physicians should my promotions?
How and when do people Are we using the most use interactive services?
What strategies should be effective combination of How can I improve the used for brand and category media for our marketing effectiveness of my When do light viewers of management?
8 the sixth sense of business Technology Automotive Main activities TNS Technology offers a range of syndicated and custom research services, to Polling & assist companies with their Main activities marketing and information Social TNS Automotive offers a needs at every stage of the comprehensive range of product lifecycle.
The TNS services on a customised or approach ranges from syndicated basis.
These eldwork to business include brand and advertising Main activities solutions and advisory tracking, car clinics, dealer TNS conducts surveys to services.
and customer satisfaction understand how society is research and vehicle quality thinking or reacting to major Clients studies.
issues on a national and Technology clients include international scale.
In the software companies, IT Clients political arena TNS tracks hardware, chip and mobile All leading vehicle public opinion on campaigns, phone manufacturers, manufacturers, component legislative and policy issues.
telecoms operators, content suppliers, tyre manufacturers, and internet service oil companies, dealerships Clients providers, as well as and repair specialists, plus Government bodies, political government regulators.
parties, editorial media, NGOs and foundations, TNS insight TNS insight major international How can we use our brand to How do I maximise business institutions, universities, keep and attract customers in opportunities in fast growing scientific institutions.
an era of digital convergence?
automotive markets, such as China and India?
What drives our customers TNS insight to switch providers?
What are the major values What will the needs and on which societys behaviour behaviours of car buyers be How should this product be is depending?
congured to maximise market share?
What are the major trends in Is my advertising effective?
What marketing strategies How committed are my should we use to deal with How does the population customers dealers increased product view its elected leaders and and why?
How do I maintain What content is the youth What is the election result competitive advantage in the market looking for?
What experience are What are the important How is the market going to customers looking for issues that concern citizens react to the launch of my with 3G?
9 the sixth sense of business more coverage TNS has a powerful network in Covering 14 countries, the research information.
We are launching nine the market information industry: has the flexibility to take account of new panel services and introducing it spans 70 countries and covers all local issues while also providing a new technology to six existing ones the worlds major markets.
taking best practice solutions from global presence has been reinforced one Worldpanel country to another.
The effectiveness of the TNS by the integration with NFO, which network, combined with our A key element in our strategy is that was successfully completed during expertise in the mobile we continue to seek out ways of 2004.
TNS is now the worlds communications industry, was making best use of one of our most largest custom research business: recognised when this project won powerful tools our global No 1 in major markets including Best International Research Project network.
the US, France and Germany.
It is at the UK Marketing Research also the most powerful custom Awards 2004: just one of the six business in the fast-growing Asia wins and five commendations, in Strong global presence Pacic region.
In addition, we 15 categories, achieved by TNS.
1 in custom operate three significant syndicated A further differentiator of the research businesses across the world: network is that it provides us with Worldpanel, Media Intelligence Significant syndicated a distribution channel for our and TV and Radio Audience businesses products and services and gives us Measurement.
the opportunity to share expertise Consistent, comparable In all these areas, the network and technology across the network.
data delivers clear competitive advantage.
Worldpanel is an excellent example.
Having a physical presence in the Network as distribution Following the 2005 launch of a countries in which our multichannel household panel in Mexico, TNS national clients operate allows us to will run panels in 32 countries and assure them that the insight we provide data on 48 countries deliver is collected and analysed in a through partnership arrangements.
consistent and comparable manner Developing Worldpanel around the world.
Added to that, In early 2005, we announced a our experts in each country offer major programme to increase crucial local knowledge.
country and market coverage and to Network delivers differentiation make significant improvements to Sony Ericsson, the mobile data quality.
These developments communications company, come at a time when the use by recognised the value of the TNS clients of consumer panel network when it launched a brand information, and the insights it into the competitive mobile brings, continues to grow.
In aiming to We are increasing sample sizes in differentiate its product, Sony nine existing panels: this extends Ericsson used TNS to assess market the range of products that can be change, as well as to monitor and reliably measured and increases the review international advertising speed with which we can deliver effectiveness on a continuous basis.
11 the sixth sense of business more access TNS operates the largest and, we by 2004, over 70 per cent of its supported by a transfer of expertise believe, highest quality managed access panel turnover came from from the US.
We are using the same, access panel in the US and we are the online panel.
This experience recently upgraded software for panel using our network to take this differentiates TNS from other panel management on all three panels.
This is a operators, especially those that have This consistency of approach will key differentiator for TNS in an recently entered the online market.
help to deliver the major multiindustry that is undergoing rapid Clients such as Procter & Gamble national projects that are an change.
Data has traditionally been value the assurance of quality they increasingly important part of our collected by mail or telephone but receive from TNS.
now the internet is becoming Expansion in Europe and Asia No other market information increasingly important.
It is The transition to the internet in company can match our combination estimated that in 2004 almost Europe is now also gathering pace of quality online panel experience $1 billion of research in the US was and the total value of online and global market coverage.
conducted over the internet, up research reached around from just $4 million in 1996. u120 million in 2004.
This offers Online access panels are the way Building managed online great potential and, with our forward.
Amongst the issues they access panels strength in the European custom address is the problem of declining market, TNS is well positioned to Speed and quality response rates in conventional introduce a multi-country online Launches in Europe research.
An access panel is a large access panel in the region.
and Asia pre-recruited sample of people, In February, we launched classied across a wide range of Sharing expertise 6thdimension, which will give variables, who have agreed to clients access from a single hub to Unique combination participate in future research.
panellists across France, Germany, This is a speedy method of data Italy, the Netherlands, Spain and collection: turnaround times can be the UK.
It will provide additional several weeks faster than in some resource to clients such as Peugeot, conventional forms of research.
Danone, Channel 4 and Campbells, Experience in managing which have already used TNS quality panels online panels in Europe.
TNS NFO has been operating access In Asia Pacic too, we are building panels for 55 years in the US and its on the success of our online panels management is highly experienced in Australia, New Zealand and in the art and science of panel Taiwan, to launch in five new management: building relationships markets in 2005, with an operating and gaining cooperation with hub in Hong Kong.
It was one of the first companies to recognise the The launch of these new services in advantages of the internet and, Europe and Asia Pacic has been 13 the sixth sense of business more understanding An important element of TNS client wants it and customised to introduced LaTEENo Online.
strategy is an emphasis on specialist the requirements of each individual Drawing on the TNS NFO access sector knowledge which, combined user.
That is the role of TNSInfo.
panel to provide the respondents, with our Areas of Expertise and this service allows clients to reach The InterContinental Hotels Group global network, provides us with the high-spending Hispanic teen site is designed with this in mind.
market via the internet in a costWe track customer satisfaction in effective way.
In Media Intelligence The value of being able to offer over 700 hotels across Asia, Europe, too, we have responded by such expertise across a number of the Middle East and Africa and extending our US services to cover countries was clearly illustrated in report our findings monthly, Spanish language media both 2004, when the newly created customised to individual user level.
Polling & Social sector was selected By the end of 2004, almost 13,000 by the European Commission to We are committed to delivering people at over 1,000 clients in 101 run its Standard Eurobarometer, innovation in our own business, countries were using TNSInfo.
the largest study of its kind in the in order to help our clients to Our sector structure is designed to world.
Under a contract of up to understand theirs.
enable us to understand our clients four years duration, TNS measures industries: when they change, so do public opinion on social, economic we.
In recent years, the impact of Sector specialisation and political issues across 33 digital technology has led to a European countries.
Eurobarometer win convergence of the IT and Telecoms The decision to award this important Growth of TNSInfo markets.
Clients such as Nokia and project to TNS recognises the depth Texas Instruments, Motorola and Technology insight of our expertise in social polling and IBM, Vodafone and Microsoft analysis, as well as our track record Multicultural services increasingly work in partnership.
in co-ordinating continuous, multiIn response, we have combined our country studies.
It also illustrates IT and Telecoms expertise into one the benets of the stronger sector, Technology.
This allows us European presence delivered by the to deliver the types of insight they integration.
Customised online data Innovation delivery Another area where clients seek Another factor in this contract win new insights is the rapid was our ability to deliver data and development of multicultural analysis to clients desk-tops via our marketing in Western markets.
In the US, for example, the buying In many areas, we now produce power of the Hispanic population is much more data than clients can attracting considerable interest.
For this information to be of As part of our drive to help clients value, we must deliver it in a better understand the growth concise and relevant way.
It has to potential of this market, we have be available when and where the 15 the sixth sense of business
