Sustainable competitive In custom research the competitive custom research an advantage yes, advantage scene is quite different.
Barriers to especially when competing for Given this overall market dynamic, entry are low: consequently we complex international projects such the question for TNS in custom nd many companies offering as the Eurobarometer.
But as our research is whether we can build competing services.
Just as in other competitors strive to build their and sustain our advantage over industries, technological change own networks that advantage, taken competitors and if so how?
has also created the opportunity for alone, may not persist.
And specifically within that context new entrants to come into the Unique combination for TNS is our size, our scale, an asset or a market.
In research, in the same Sustainable advantage in the market liability?
way as in publishing or financial will come, I believe, through the services, telecommunications or Our focus over the latter part of unique combination of advantages travel, the internet has created that 2003 and 2004 was on the that we can create.
And these are the opportunity.
And so we have seen integration of TNS and NFO, keys to future success for TNS in new companies come into the which established TNS, in terms custom research: market, some of which have of revenue, as the largest supplier Maintaining the strength of our survived and prospered.
international network The size of the task was large but Traditionally, in custom research, Specialisation in client industries by mid 2004 we had made good it has been more difficult to build Developing close relationships progress.
Since then we have sustainable competitive advantage.
with our Key Accounts, globally conducted an extensive review of Of course many companies can and regionally the business, of the opportunities point to some aspect of what they Using our unique portfolio of that exist and of how we can create do that gives them an advantage proprietary techniques to develop the competitive advantage we seek over competitors.
It may be a our areas of expertise in custom research.
proprietary product say for Use of high quality online customer satisfaction or advertising Advantage of independence managed access panels.
tracking: it may be specialist skills The conclusions are clear.
First Underlying all of this is the need and knowledge perhaps in we have an advantage as an for constant innovation: speed of healthcare or media.
market change remains one of the Not being part of a larger marketing But as I said at the outset it is major drivers of overall market services or publishing company sustainable advantage over growth.
means we can focus 100 per cent on competitors that is the key to our business and on delivering Ongoing success for TNS depends profitable growth.
The sort of superior service to our clients.
on our ability to execute our advantage I have just described But there is no single dimension on strategy with speed, in both our is rarely sustainable.
It can usually which we can create sustainable syndicated and custom businesses.
be copied or reproduced by advantage.
For example we have As we have set out to demonstrate competitors.
what is now regarded as the throughout this annual report, I am strongest international network in confident that we have that ability.
3 the sixth sense of business
