26 Financial commitments Group Company 2004 2003 2004 2003 Capital commitments m m m m Contracted but not provided for 2004 2003 Property Equipment Property Equipment Annual lease commitments m m m m Operating leases which expire: within one year 2.7 1.2 2.7 1.8 in two to five years 8.8 1.8 10.9 2.8 over five years 8.3 1.4 7.9 19.8 4.4 21.5 4.6 27 Guarantees and contingencies The company and certain subsidiary undertakings have jointly and severally guaranteed bank loans and credit facilities of the group.
The maximum liabilities that could arise under these arrangements are 460.0m 2003 490.0m.
At 31 December 2004, amounts outstanding were 388.2m 2003 400.9m.
The shares of Taylor Nelson Sofres BV, a subsidiary undertaking, have been pledged as security in relation to these arrangements.
Sofres SA has provided guarantees in the form of a letter of intent in relation to loans taken out to purchase properties in France.
At 31 December 2004, the total loans outstanding were 0.4m 2003 0.4m, of which nil 2003 nil was secured over relevant properties.
A number of group companies have provided guarantees relating to rental commitments and commercial contracts in the normal course of business.
At 31 December 2004, the total amounts guaranteed were 4.9m 2003 3.8m.
The group has commitments relating to put and call options for acquisitions.
The potential amounts payable are estimated to be 6.0m 2003 2.7m and are expected to become payable between one and five years.
Various group companies are parties to legal actions and claims of 5.0m 2003 4.4m, the most significant of which are associated with employment-related matters.
Although there is uncertainty regarding the final outcome of these claims, the directors believe that adequate provision has been made for anticipated liabilities.
The group is also involved in various other legal proceedings arising out of the normal course of business.
The directors believe that the outcome of these proceedings is uncertain but is unlikely to have a material effect on the groups financial position.
28 Post balance sheet event On 3 March 2005, the group refinanced its bank facilities, replacing the acquisition-based facilities put in place at the time of the NFO acquisition.
A syndicate of ten banks has provided new revolving credit facilities of 500 million.
On 7 March 2005, the group also announced the acquisition of Interscience Informaao e Technologia Aplicada Ltda.
a well-established Brazilian custom research business.
62 the sixth sense of business Independent auditors report to the members of Taylor Nelson Sofres plc We have audited the financial statements on pages 28 to 62 and the disclosures required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 contained in the directors remuneration report the auditable part.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards are set out in the statement of directors responsibilities.
The directors are also responsible for preparing the directors remuneration report.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the auditable part of the directors remuneration report in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and United Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the auditable part of the directors remuneration report have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the directors report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and transactions is not disclosed.
We read the other information contained in the annual report and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
The other information comprises the financial highlights, pages 1 to 27 and 64 to 84.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the companys or groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the auditable part of the directors remuneration report.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the auditable part of the directors remuneration report are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements.
Opinion In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and the group at 31 December 2004 and the profit and cash flows of the group for the year then ended: the financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and those parts of the directors remuneration report required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
 LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors London 7 March 2005 63 the sixth sense of business Board of directors Tony Cowling Rmy Sautter Chairman Age 59.
Joined the board in November 2002.
A founder member of Taylor Nelson in 1965, he of Channel 5 and RTL Radio.
He is also a non-executive became Managing Director in 1970.
He led the company as director of PartnerRe Ltd. a NYSE-listed global reinsurance Chief Executive through its mergers with AGB in 1989 and company and two media companies listed in France: Sofres in 1997, to create one of the worlds leading market M6-Mtropole Tlvision SA and Pages Jaunes SA.
He moved into his present role in 2001 and, since that date, the merger with NFO WorldGroup, Inc. has Dr Sharon Studer created the worlds second largest market information group.
Chair of the remuneration committee Age 53.
Joined the board in November 2003.
She sits on the Mike Kirkham Oxford University Audit Committee, and serves on the QMW Chief Executive University of London Advisory Council for Public Policy.
Joined AGB Research in 1970 and was appointed to Previously she was responsible for KPMGs Information, the Taylor Nelson AGB board in 1992.
He has extensive Communications and Electronics consulting practice, was international experience, having had responsibility for a number Vice President of Control Datas worldwide Marketing and ran of the groups activities in Europe, North America and Asia.
3Coms home office international networking business.
In 1999, he was appointed Head of the sector executive committee, responsible for growing international specialist Board committees sector activities.
Became Chief Executive in June 2001.
Audit committee 1 Neil Cross Chairman David Lowden Rob Rowley Chief Operating Officer Sharon Studer Age 47.
Joined the group as Finance Director in 1999 and Remuneration committee became Chief Operating Officer, with responsibility for the 2 Sharon Studer Chair groups regional operations, in October 2003.
He previously Stephan Buck worked for a number of international companies, including Neil Cross ACNielsen and Federal Express Corporation.
Rob Rowley Rmy Sautter Andy Boland Finance Director Nomination committee Age 35.
Joined the group and was appointed to the board in 1 Stephan Buck January 2004.
Prior to that he held a number of senior finance Rob Rowley positions at WPP Group plc and Cordiant Communications Rmy Sautter Group plc.
Tony Cowling Mike Kirkham Alice Perkins CB 1 Age 55.
Joined the board in March 2005.
She is Director Dr Cross and Dr Buck will retire from the board at the AGM General of the Corporate Development Group in the Cabinet on 11 May 2005 Office.
She previously held a number of senior Civil Service 2 Dr Studer was appointed Chair of the remuneration positions in the Departments of Health and Social Security, committee with effect from January 2005. as well as at HM Treasury.
From 1997-2001 she was a non-executive director of The Littlewoods Organisation plc.
Ian Portal Company Secretary Rob Rowley Senior Independent Director Age 55.
Joined the board in September 2002.
From 1990 to 2001 he was on the board of Reuters plc, serving as Finance Director from 1990 to 2000 and then as Chief Executive of Reuterspace.
He is currently Executive Deputy Chairman of Cable and Wireless plc and a non-executive director of Prudential plc and Liberty International PLC.
64 the sixth sense of business
