more insight Aligning ourselves and delivering the sixth sense of business to meet clients changing needs Chief Operating officer David Lowden outlines TNS approach.
TNS aims to deliver the sixth sense demand for a market information established in the US and launching of business to our clients in order partner dedicated to specialist, core in Europe as the 6thdimension, to be their most insightful global areas of research.
We can then market information partner.
efficiently capture responses from a We have formed four global Areas We want our clients to be able to wellmanaged panel and offer of Expertise, which are centrally get closer to their customers.
supported by Centres of Excellence To do this we must truly and these are headed up by An example of the way in which we understand the industries in renowned industry gures.
In can leverage our capabilities in the which they operate, as well as addition, there is a structured Areas of Expertise, to strengthen identify and anticipate the needs network of over 500 experts across client relationships and win new within their fast-changing markets.
The business, is demonstrated in the Many multi-national clients, Business Solutions form the work that we are undertaking for particularly those that we regard as foundation of our offering within Kimberly Clark.
our Key Accounts, are rethinking each of the following areas: Kimberly Clark has been able to use how they want to be serviced, New product development TNS market expertise and based on how they themselves are Motivational research motivational research solutions not responding to the demands and Brand and advertising research only to gain new understanding opportunities of being a global into the drivers of consumer Stakeholder management.
Some have stated that behaviour, but also to link this in areas such as research, they will Interconnecting understanding across continents.
concentrate their work with fewer TNS ability to meet clients needs In Asia, Europe, South and North suppliers who can meet their global across these multiple areas is America, Kimberly Clark is requirements.
strengthened by the fact that all our redesigning consumer learning to We are well placed to respond to Areas of Expertise interconnect and ensure its brands offer consistent this need, utilising our global draw upon the same philosophy and compelling propositions and to network, along with our breadth about how successful businesses reinforce its leadership role.
and depth of service in both the and brands operate.
So whether we Accelerating growth custom and syndicated parts of the are optimising a clients concept, By meeting our clients ever business.
assisting with managing a brand changing needs, continuing to portfolio, pre-testing or tracking Focus on partnerships innovate, and striving to redene advertising, or helping build TNS is already recognised as the market information industry, relationships with stakeholders, offering a leading portfolio of we will be able to accelerate growth we are employing a consistent Business Solutions branded within our clients businesses, as framework and drawing upon our research techniques that offer well as within TNS.
answers to clients key business We are also able to combine these and marketing issues.
We are now areas with our online managed additionally aligning our custom access panel, which is already well business to meet the growing client 5 the sixth sense of business
