Operational and Financial Review continued The company strategy with respect to commercial Shareholders returns property is to retain development and commercial skills Adjusted earnings per share increased by 25 per cent to within the Group to support mixed use developments.
The proposed final dividend of 8.1 pence Commercial property activity will therefore only be produces a total return of 11.1 pence per ordinary share, an carried out where it is ancillary to mainstream house increase of 25 per cent over last year.
This level of dividend building activities.
During the year, 12 properties were is consistent with the Boards policy of paying progressive sold, resulting in an operating profit of 9.0 million against dividends through the business cycle.
Average capital employed rose due to work in progress on the K2 project.
This The dividend is covered 4.2 times by earnings.
property was pre-sold for 117 million in March 2004 and its disposal will be completed in the first half of 2005.
Equity shareholders funds per share pence Investment property 2004 292.2p 2004 2003 2003 256.2p Average Capital Employed m 71.3 143.3 2002 255.6p Operating profit m 2.9 9.6 2001 246.3p Return on Average Capital Employed % 4.1 6.7 2000 232.5p Operating Margin % 46.8 55.2 Two remaining investment properties were sold in Cash ow 2004, completing the disposal of this portfolio.
The Cash ow from operating activities increased by 62 per St. Katharines estate was sold in March 2004 for cent to 400.4 million.
166 million, and Nelson Gate in Southampton achieved sales proceeds of 17 million.
Combined profits on the Operating profit of 474.5 million was offset by increased sale of these assets were 14.8 million.
stocks of 54 million, primarily in North America and a reduction in creditors of 79.0 million, consisting primarily At the end of 2004, no capital was employed in of UK land creditors.
Against this, debtors decreased by investment property.
Construction Net interest payments increased by 66.3 million, 2004 2003 primarily due to the 41.1 million exceptional redemption profit Before Tax m 34.6 19.4 premium on the First Mortgage Debenture stock 2014.
Increased levels of debt following the Wilson Connolly Construction profit before tax was 34.6 million.
This acquisition, account for the rest of the increase.
includes a 12.3 million exceptional profit, being the share of the Group pension curtailment provision release Fixed asset and investment property sales generated attributable to that business.
cash inows of 189.9 million, primarily resulting from the sale of the St. Katharines Estate.
The core business focus for construction remains unchanged.
During the year the PFI team was named as Net cash outow from nancing reects reductions in preferred bidder for the St. Helens PFI Hospital.
Financial share capital and debt reductions.
close of this contract is expected in 2005.
Share buyback The construction order book, including internal work, The company bought back 8,969,104 shares into treasury was 815 million at the end of 2004, up 4 per cent in the Spring of 2004 and a further 10,404,778 shares in a significant increase from the 673 million reported the Autumn, equivalent to 3.3 per cent of the issued share in 2002. capital on 1 January 2004, at an aggregate cost of 50.3 million including stamp duty and dealing costs of 0.3 Shareholders funds million.
The buy back of these shares fullled the Shareholders funds at the end of 2004 were 1,637.
8 companys stated intention to purchase the second million, up from 1,575.9 million at the end of 2003. tranche of the 50 million worth of shares announced at the time of the acquisition of Bryant Group plc.
Retained profit for the year of 201.5 million was offset by the redemption of 100 million preference shares issued The effect of the buyback was an immediate increase at the time of the Wilson Connolly acquisition, and the in shareholders funds per share and an enhancement re-purchase of 50 million of ordinary shares completing in earnings per share in future years without a commitment made at the time of the Bryant acquisition.
adversely affecting the ability of the Group to expand its core activities.
Equity shareholders funds per ordinary share rose to 292.2 pence at the end of 2004.
This represents an increase of 14 per cent from the previous year.
26 Taylor Woodrow Report and Accounts 2004 Taylor Woodrow Report and Accounts 2004 27 Operational and Financial Review continued Treasury Management and Funding successfully issued a 15 year 200 million eurobond, The Group operates within policies and procedures a 10 year US private placement for US$175 million and approved by the Board.
A Group capitalisation policy was a 7 year US private placement for US$75 million.
This established overall parameters issues were rated BBB by Fitch.
The proceeds were for the consolidated capital structure together with mainly used to renance short-term borrowings under guidelines in respect of interest and currency translation the acquisition facility and provide a longer term exposures.
The Group seeks to match long-term assets committed source of funds.
with long-term funding and short-term assets with shortterm funding.
Strict controls are exercised on the use of Taxation financial instruments in managing the Groups financial The effective tax rate in 2004 of 32 per cent is above the risk.
The objectives are to ensure sufficient liquidity is standard UK corporation tax rate.
This is attributable to the maintained to meet foreseeable needs and to invest cash amortisation of goodwill and fair value adjustments and assets safely and profitably.
The Group does not the blend of trading profits from countries with tax rates undertake speculative or trading activity in financial higher than the UK.
Pensions The Group maintains a balance between certainty and FRS 17 Retirement Benets was implemented during exibility through the use of term borrowings, overdrafts the year and the Financial Statements have been prepared and committed revolving credit facilities with a range on that basis.
During the period we agreed amendments of maturity dates.
It is the Groups policy to maintain to the companys pension arrangements to mitigate committed facilities with staggered maturity dates current and future exposures.
One consequence of this in order to ensure continuity of funding.
has been a 24.8 million exceptional profit arising from the reduction of future pension accruals.
Broadly speaking, Treasury functions are centralised in our main geographic as a result of additional money purchase arrangements, locations.
All treasury operations must remain in overall targeted benets have been kept at similar levels compliance with Group policy and are closely monitored for members of the pension schemes concerned.
by the Group treasury department.
As described in Note 23 to the accounts, the Group has Equity, retained profits and long-term xed interest adopted FRS 17 Retirement Benets in full for the year debt are primarily used to finance goodwill, xed to 31 December 2004 and comparative gures for 2003 assets and land.
Short-term borrowings are primarily have been restated accordingly.
required to finance net current assets, other than land bank assets of more than one year, and commercial This change in accounting policy, which would have been developments and are therefore kept at a oating rate.
mandatory in 2005, has had two material effects on the Where possible, temporary cash balances made companys financial results.
First, a prior year adjustment available by our construction business are used to reduced net assets by 117.
6 million as at 31 December reduce our short-term borrowing facilities.
Second, as a result of changes limiting future also uses derivatives to manage interest rate exposure benefit accrual for members of dened benefit schemes, if economically appropriate.
an exceptional non-cash profit of 24.8 million arose from a curtailment release of pension fund liabilities.
A significant proportion of the Groups capital employed is in currencies other than sterling with the result that At 31 December 2004, the net FRS 17 deficit had reduced currency movements can affect the balance sheet.
Where appropriate, foreign currency translation exposure International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS is reduced by nancing overseas assets with borrowings Commencing with the 2005 interim statements, the of the same currency.
company will report its financial results in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
Net debt at the year end stood at 557.
7 million 2003: Preparations for this have been underway throughout 742.9 million equivalent to net gearing of 34.1 per cent 2004.
It is the companys intention to provide the market 2003 as restated: 47.
Net interest cost, pre with an audited opening IFRS Balance Sheet at 1 January exceptional items, for the year was 66.3 million 2003, 2004, and a restated profit and loss account and Balance as restated: 46.4 million.
Average net debt for the year was 948 million.
At the year end Taylor Woodrow had undrawn committed facilities totalling 800.0 million.
1 In April the 100 million 9 2 per cent First Mortgage Debenture Stock 2014 which was secured principally on the St. Katharines Estate was repaid following disposal of that asset.
In May and June the company 28 Taylor Woodrow Report and Accounts 2004 Taylor Woodrow Report and Accounts 2004 29 Corporate Social Responsibility We recognise that the various elements of Corporate Social FACT: Responsibility CSR are of increasing importance to our stakeholders and fundamental to the achievement of our 4,460 business objectives.
MAN DAYS OF HEALTH, SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENTAL TRAINING UNDERTAKEN IN 2004.
How we do things employment without experiencing discrimination on We integrate Corporate Social Responsibility into the grounds such as gender, age, marital status, ethnic way that we do business.
We are guided by policies background, disability or religious belief.
which address all material CSR issues, and these continue to evolve.
We operate an employee development review process, which provides an opportunity for all team members to CSR issues that are material to Taylor Woodrows work with their line manager to plan their development business are: for the coming year.
This may include formal training, gaining experience in new areas, and or mentoring.
sustainable development Performance reviews are also conducted annually.
These long-term impacts of the communities that we help provide the opportunity to identify specic objectives for to develop, including energy efficiency of dwellings, each team member, to review progress against previous transport, social inclusion, redevelopment of objectives and assess overall performance.
browneld land and local economic benets health and safety We provide a wide range of benets to team members, environmental impacts including pension provision, permanent health insurance, employee benets, training, satisfaction and ethics access to private healthcare and share option and share relationships with customers purchase plans.
relationships with suppliers and partners community involvement Our management approach encourages continual engagement with investors and other groups improvement.
Our improvement group process is an off-line and innovative activity, which supports and At senior management level, strategic and business augments normal line management and functional risks, including those relating to CSR, are regularly responsibilities.
Its primary objectives are: reviewed at Board meetings and by the line management to spread best practice system.
CSR risks are assessed at project inception and to develop suggestions and proposals for new and then considered in more detail during the development improved processes, objectives, products etc.
and implementation of project execution plans.
Internal audits are conducted on compliance with risk The senior group within the improvement group process management processes and other internal controls.
includes members of the Executive Committee and is chaired by the chief executive.
The senior group develops We operate a health and safety management system strategy on CSR matters and sets high-level objectives.
across the business worldwide that is recognised as an exemplar in our sector.
In the past year we have Our team members receive regular communications on placed particular emphasis on developing our processes CSR issues via a number of media, including weekly for occupational health management.
We also operate electronic newsletters, quarterly magazines, technical environmental management systems across the bulletins, notices by email and management briengs.
Our UK construction business is certicated to the environmental management standard BS EN Performance measurement has been a particular focus ISO14001:1996. for the business in the past three years.
We have developed a range of CSR indicators, initially focusing on The skills and experience of our team members are health and safety, environment and community issues.
fundamental to the success of the business.
Equality of opportunity is an integral principle and individuals can seek, obtain and continue 30 Taylor Woodrow Report and Accounts 2004 Taylor Woodrow Report and Accounts 2004 31 Corporate Social Responsibility continued Plasterboard segregation for recycling How we are performing UK residential 1600 1400 1200 Sustainable Development Our active measurement of health and safety 1000 Sustainability is one of the central themes for the performance, driven by clear commitment from senior 800 development industry.
We believe that construction of management and supported by extensive health and new, high quality homes is an important factor in safety training programmes, is delivering improvement in 600 improving quality of life.
Urban regeneration is a particular health and safety management.
400 feature of our business, in which we contribute to 200 sustainability by bringing otherwise redundant land back In 2004, the UK business successfully achieved its overall 0 into use, and cleaning up contaminated sites.
Through goal for health and safety performance as measured Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 2002 2003 2004 this, we raise the overall quality of local environments against a benchmark Safety Index score.
The Safety and breathe economic life back into communities.
In Index score incorporated challenging targets for both 2002: 708 tonnes 2003: 1,929 tonnes 2004: 4,831 tonnes 2004, 64 per cent of the homes built by Taylor Woodrow management performance planning and actual in the UK were constructed on browneld previously performance through inspection programmes.
We have developed land 2003: 62 per cent, 2002: 57 per cent.
also been able to demonstrate a healthy downward trend Suppliers, Partners and Customers In support of our Ethics Policy we have introduced in accident frequency over several years.
We implement our CSR principles by working with carefully Safecall, an independent and condential hotline, for We are one of the leading developers in the selected supply chain partners designers, contractors, team members to raise issues of unethical behaviour, implementation of EcoHomes, the environmental The efforts of our business in Spain to manage health and specialist manufacturers who share our approach of fraud and other concerns.
The service went live in the UK assessment method for housebuilding and safety have been recognised through certication to the meeting and exceeding customer requirements through in April and in the USA in June.
During the year we completed 126 units Occupational Health and Safety Standard, 18001. collaborative working.
By working in integrated supply and in most cases investigations have already been certicated to EcoHomes Good standard.
We have a chains we have been able to improve considerably the completed and appropriate action taken when necessary.
number of other ongoing projects targeting EcoHomes Environment efficiency of project delivery on major construction projects, standards of either Very Good or Excellent.
One of Taylor Woodrow has for many years had an excellent benefiting both our customers and our suppliers.
Engagement with investors and other groups these, Stamford Brook in Altrincham, is incorporating a record on pollution prevention.
We achieve good We have continued to engage positively with investor research project that will be investigating a number of environmental management on our project sites through We are committed to a process of continual improvement organisations on CSR issues.
sustainability issues, with a particular focus on improving the implementation of project environmental plans and in meeting the requirements and expectations of our the energy efficiency of new homes.
through training of our team members.
We measure our progress through customer Our progress in developing and integrating CSR into the satisfaction and, during 2004, the UK homebuilding business was recognised in 2004 by Taylor Woodrows Taylor Woodrow has taken the positive approach of Improvement in waste management practices in our business achieved an improved overall satisfaction rating inclusion for the first time in the FTSE4 Good Index and including affordable housing in the vast majority of its UK housebuilding operations brought a reduction in of 70 per cent.
Our North American business achieved 86 by our continuation as a constituent in the Dow Jones current and future schemes, thereby creating mixed and waste disposal costs and an increase in volumes per cent on their customer satisfaction index, in line with Sustainability Indexes.
Our strategy is to work with local recycled.
In 2004 we were able to reduce waste disposal previous years performance and, at 88 per cent, our authorities in identifying the most appropriate type of costs by 20 per cent compared with 2003.
Segregation construction teams Customer Heartbeat programme The future dwelling mix and a range of affordability levels, and of waste plasterboard for recycling has been rolled out continued its trend of year on year improvement.
Effectively integrated, CSR has the potential to contribute creating quality homes that will receive Government across the whole of the UK homebuilding business.
meaningfully to advancing the business.
The immediate financial support in the form of Social Housing Grants.
In 2004 we returned approximately 4,831 tonnes of Our team priorities for 2005 will build on those for 2004, with an waste plasterboard to the manufacturer for recycling In 2003 2004 we set ourselves the goal of improving emphasis on health, safety and environmental issues, a Every year, Taylor Woodrow invests in infrastructure and 2003: 1,929.
Following benchmarking surveys focus on sustainability and further development of services which provide benets to communities.
Whilst in February and November 2003, action plans were put community programmes.
typically tied in to the planning process, these Community in place to address issues of concern.
An independent contributions provide enormous value to communities One of our CSR priorities is to minimise the effects on survey carried out in November 2004 showed a 14 per Further details of Taylor Woodrows CSR performance and would not occur without the association with the neighbours of our development activities.
Good cent improvement in the UK, with a satisfaction index of can be found in our full CSR report which is available development process.
communication with neighbours is particularly important 73.5 per cent.
Our North American team achieved 89.5 per on our website, http: www.
com csr2004 and we often make use of project newsletters to support cent satisfaction index, up from an 80.5 per cent in 2003.
In 2004 we expanded our participation in the Setting us apart from our peers in the management of Considerate Constructors scheme with 27 project sites health and safety is the extent and depth of our active registered at the end of 2004 2003: 10. measurement programme.
This differs from the Summary of performance against CSR objectives for 2004 traditional approach of reactive monitoring recording In November 2004, Taylor Woodrow announced its accidents and incidents which only measures things that Building Futures partnership with the childrens charity, 1.
Improve health and safety performance as measured have gone wrong.
The active monitoring programme we Barnardos.
The aim of the partnership is to help fund by site inspections and management audits Achieved employ provides information on the effectiveness of our skills and training programmes for disadvantaged systems and can identify potential weaknesses before young people, particularly programmes that enable us 2.
Improve environmental performance: they result in accidents.
to address the growing skills shortage in the building a To reduce waste during construction Achieved and construction industry.
The company has kick started b To raise environmental awareness of our site managers Largely achieved Our achievements in health and safety management the partnership with a 40,000 donation and over the have been recognised by the Movement for Innovation coming year team members, customers and suppliers 3.
Involvement with the community M4i, in selecting Taylor Woodrow as a demonstration will be invited to get involved with fundraising for this a Develop corporate community programme Additional schemes will organisation for health and safety, and through several very worthy cause.
commence in 2005 prestigious industry-wide awards.
However, in regard to b To increase participation in Considerate Constructors Scheme Increased from 10 to 27 projects health and safety, management can never be over During the year team members in the UK raised over vigilant.
Regrettably, one tragic incident in 2004 resulted 65,000 for charitable causes and the company 4.
To formalise Occupational Health Management Achieved in a fatality.
In 2005 we will continue to focus our efforts contributed a further 30,000 to this.
on improving health and safety.
To improve our understanding of EcoHomes and its commercial implications Achieved 32 Taylor Woodrow Report and Accounts 2004 Taylor Woodrow Report and Accounts 2004 33 Tonnes Board of Directors Norman Askew Iain Napier Peter Johnson Denis Mac Daid Graeme McCallum Chairman Chief Executive Finance Director Executive Director Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointed a director in January Appointed a director in November Appointed a director in July 2001.
Appointed a Director in October Appointed a director and Chairman 2002.
He is a member of the He is a member of the Executive 2003.
He is a member of the in July 2003.
He chairs the Committee and is a member of the Executive Committee.
He is an Committee and non-executive Executive Committee and an Nomination Committee and is a Nomination Committee.
He is experienced financial executive with Chairman of Taylor Woodrow Operations Director of Taylor member of the Remuneration non-executive director and joint Vice a strong background in financial Construction Limited.
He has wide Woodrow Developments Limited.
His current Chairman of Imperial Tobacco Group services and property investment, experience of the industry, gained He was previously chief executive appointments include the plc.
Formerly chief executive of Bass conducting business both in the UK during a 39 year career with Taylor of Wilson Connolly Holdings plc.
Chairmanship of Kidde plc, Derby Brewers, a director of Bass plc, and North America.
Previously Managing He is a non-executive Director of Cityscape and Chairman of the non-executive director of BOC senior positions with Henderson Director of Taylor Woodrow National House Building Council and Board of Governors of the Group plc and a member of the plc, Pearl Assurance, Norwich Union Construction Limited, chief has had over 26 years experience in University of Manchester.
Executive Management Committee Life and Bioglan Pharma plc.
executive of Bryant Homes Limited the housebuilding industry.
He also worked for the Hammerson and Operations Director South Age: 58 Age: 55 Property Investment and of T aylor Woodrow Developments Development Corporation plc.
Limited, he retires from the Age: 50 company and the Board on 30 June 2005.
Age: 60 Lady Robin Innes Ker Andrew Dougal Mike Davies Vernon Sankey Independent Non-Executive Independent Non-Executive Independent Non-Executive Independent Non-Executive Director Director Director, Director Appointed a director in July 2001.
Appointed a director in November Senior Independent Director Appointed a director in January Lady Innes Ker is Chairman of the 2002.
A Chartered Accountant, he is Appointed a director in October 2004.
He is a member of the Audit, Remuneration Committee and a Chairman of the Audit Committee 2003.
He is the Senior Independent Remuneration and Nomination member of the Nomination and a member of the Nomination Director and a member of the Audit, Committees.
He spent sixteen years Remuneration and Nomination executive Director of Pearson plc executive director of Bryant Group with Hanson, with eleven years in a Committees.
He is non-executive and of Zurich Financial Services plc, her other directorships include number of senior management Chairman of Marshalls plc and nonAG Swiss.
He is Chairman of Fibernet Group plc, The Television positions in the former diversied executive director of Pendragon plc.
Photo-Me International plc, a Corporation plc and Williams Lea industrial group, including Finance He is also Chairman of Vi-Spring Supervisory Board Member of Group Limited.
Limited and non-executive director Cofra Holding AG Swiss and Age: 44 Following completion of the Hanson of Baxi Group Limited.
He was Chairman of The Really Effective demerger process, he was chief formerly a director of Williams Development Company Limited.
executive of the ongoing Hanson Holdings plc and also held senior Age: 55 plc, the international building positions with British Aluminium materials company, from 1997 to and then British Alcan Aluminium.
He is a non-executive Age: 57 Director of BPB plc.
Age: 53 34 Taylor Woodrow Report and Accounts 2004 Taylor Woodrow Report and Accounts 2004 35 Report of the Directors Report of the Directors continued to the members for the year ended 31 December 2004 Review of activities and future developments Resolutions will be proposed as Special Business: Corporate Social Responsibility Corporate governance A detailed review of the companys activities, the Taylor Woodrow places great emphasis on its role as a Detailed statements of the companys corporate development of its businesses, and an indication of to vary certain terms of the Performance Share Plan: good corporate citizen.
A summary of the companys governance principles and the Groups systems of likely future developments, are contained in the to facilitate the introduction of the Employee Stock policies and practices on corporate social responsibility internal control are set out in Corporate Governance reports and reviews on pages 3 to 33.
Purchase Plan into the USA: appears on pages 30 to 33.
The full Corporate Social on pages 38 to 42. to renew existing authorities for the issue and Responsibility Report 2004 is available at The subsidiary and associated undertakings principally buyback of the companys ordinary shares, and http: www.
com csr2004 Important events since the year end affecting the profits or net assets of the Group in the to delete certain clauses from the companys Except for any matters referred to elsewhere in year are listed on page 79.
Charitable donations this Report and Accounts, there have been no other During the year Group companies donated 296,000 important events affecting the company or any of Results and dividends Registrar 2003: 189,000 to various charities, 113,000 2003: its subsidiary undertakings since the end of the The Groups profit on ordinary activities before The companys registrar is Capita Registrars.
98,000 in the UK and Europe and 183,000 2003: financial year.
The profit after taxation Their details, together with information on facilities 91,000 in North America.
An outline of the Groups and minority interests was 264.8 million.
available to shareholders, are set out in Shareholder programme of charitable giving appears in Corporate This report of the directors was approved by the Board Information in the Annual General Meeting circular.
Social Responsibility on pages 30 to 33 and further of directors on 1 March 2005.
The directors recommend a final dividend of 8.1 details can be found in the on-line full CSR report.
pence per share 2003: 6.5 pence, which subject to Purchase of own shares approval at the Annual General Meeting, will be paid Between 22 April 2004 and 21 December 2004, Research and development on 1 July 2005 to those shareholders on the register the company made market purchases of a total of The company is committed to investing in research on 3 June 2005.
This, together with the interim 19,373,882 of its own shares with an aggregate and development projects where there are clearly dividend of 3.0 pence per share 2003: 2.4 pence paid market value of 50.3 million including dealing costs dened business benets.
Richard I Morbey on 1 November 2004, makes a total of 11.1 pence for of 0.3 million.
Full details of these purchases can be Secretary the year 2003: 8.9 pence.
The company operates found in the Operational and Financial Review on page Political donations 1 March 2005 a Dividend Re-investment Plan, details of which are 27 and in Note 30 to the Financial Statements.
The company did not make any donations to political set out in full in the Annual General Meeting circular.
Subscriptions totalling Substantial interests 158,000 2003: 170,000 were paid to the House Directors Details of the share capital are shown in Note 24 to Builders Federation, the Major Housebuilders Group The directors of the company at the date of this report the Financial Statements.
The following persons have and the Scottish House Builders Federation, which are shown on pages 34 and 35.
Vernon Sankey was notied the company of their interests in the ordinary are active in supporting the interests of the appointed as non-executive director on 1 January share capital under sections 198 to 208 of the housebuilding sector.
Some may consider that these 2004 and Sir George Russell retired from the Board Companies Act 1985: payments may fall within the meaning of EU Political on 19 April 2004.
Mike Davies continues to act as the Expenditure as dened by Part XA of the Companies Name Number of Percentage Senior Independent Director.
Act 1985 as amended by the Political Parties, shares held of issued Elections and Referendums Act 2000.
Shareholders millions share capital Retirement and re-election of directors consented to such donations being made at the 2002 Beneficial interests Iain Napier, Peter Johnson and Andrew Dougal will Annual General Meeting.
Barclays plc 22.49 3.83 retire by rotation at the Annual General Meeting.
All these directors, being eligible, offer themselves Policy on payment of suppliers Aviva plc and Morley for re-election in accordance with the companys The nature of the Groups operations means that Fund Management Limited 18.74 3.20 Articles of Association.
there is no single Group standard in respect of Britannic Asset Management payment terms to suppliers.
Generally, subsidiaries Limited 16.95 3.06 Auditors are responsible for establishing payment terms with Deloitte & Touche LLP have confirmed their Legal and General Group plc 17.82 3.045 suppliers when entering into each transaction or willingness to continue in ofce as auditors of the series of linked transactions.
In the absence of Morgan Stanley Securities company and a resolution to re-appoint them will be dispute, valid payment requests are met as Limited 23.56 4.014 proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
expeditiously as possible within such terms.
This Non-beneficial interest policy continues to apply in 2005.
Trade creditor days AXA SA 81.90 14.396 Deloitte & Touche LLP also provide non-audit services for the Group for the year ended 31 December 2004 to the group within a policy framework which is were 39 days, 2003: 46 days based on the ratio of described in Corporate Governance on page 42. year end group trade creditors excluding subcontract At 1 March 2005, no change in these holdings had retentions and unagreed claims of 13.2 million 2003: been notied nor, according to the register of Annual General Meeting 11.3 million and land creditors, see Note 18 to the members, did any other shareholder at that date The Annual General Meeting will be held at 2pm on Financial Statements to amounts invoiced during the have a disclosable holding of the issued share capital.
Tuesday 26 April 2005 at The Renewal Conference year by trade creditors.
The company had no Centre, Lode Lane, Solihull, West Midlands, B91 2JR.
significant trade creditors at 31 December 2004.
Formal notice and details of the meeting are set out in the Annual General Meeting circular.
36 Taylor Woodrow Report and Accounts 2004 Taylor Woodrow Report and Accounts 2004 37 Corporate Governance Statement Corporate Governance Statement continued Board Nomination Remuneration Audit The company is committed to the principles of management performance.
It also defines the Committee Committee Committee corporate governance contained in the July 2003 FRC companys values and standards and ensures that Combined Code on Corporate Governance which is its obligations to its shareholders and others are No.
of meetings held in the year 10 2 5 6 appended to the Listing Rules of the Financial understood and met.
Norman Askew 10 2 3 6 Services Authority the Code and for which the Chairman Chairman By invitation Board is accountable to shareholders.
The Board has adopted a schedule of matters which Mike Davies Senior Independent Director 10 2 3 6 are specifically reserved to its decision which were Statement of compliance with the Code of published during 2004.
It has also adopted a framework Lady Robin Innes Ker 10 2 5 5 Best Practice of delegated commercial and operational authorities, Chairman from By invitation Throughout the year ended 31 December 2004, which define the scope of the chief executives 26 February the company has been in compliance with the Code powers and those of subsidiary management.
2004 provisions set out in section 1 of the Code except for Andrew Dougal 9 2 3 6 the following matters: All directors have access to the advice and services of By invitation Chairman the company secretary and the Board has established Following a review of the existing terms of reference a procedure whereby directors may take independent Vernon Sankey 6 1 2 2 of the Boards Nomination, Remuneration and Audit professional advice at the companys expense where Iain Napier 10 2 3 6 Committees, updated editions were published on they judge it necessary to discharge their responsibilities Chief Executive By invitation By invitation the companys website during the second half of the as directors.
Peter Johnson 10 - - 6 year Code Provisions A.
2.1 and C. 3.3 : and Finance Director By invitation The Companys Articles of Association currently For part of the year the chief executive, Iain Napier, permit a director to appoint any other person to act Denis Mac Daid 10 - - 3 held non-executive directorships in more than one as his alternate director.
No such appointments Executive Director By invitation FTSE 100 company.
He is presently Joint Vice have been made since the adoption of these Articles, Graeme McCallum 10 - - 1 Chairman and non-executive director of Imperial and in accordance with good Corporate Governance Operations Director By invitation Tobacco Group plc.
He was a non-executive director principles, the company is seeking shareholders of The BOC Group plc from 1 May 2004 but to meet approval at the 2005 Annual General Meeting for Sir George Russell 4 0 2 2 the requirements of good Corporate Governance, he the deletion of this Article.
retired 19 April 2004 Chairman until relinquished this position on 22 December 2004 25 February Code Provision A.
Board effectiveness 2004 The directors possess an appropriate balance of skills Statement about applying the Principles of and experience for the requirements of the business.
Vernon Sankey was appointed a director on 1 January 2004.
Because of existing diary commitments at the date of his appointment, he Good Governance was not able to attend all Board meetings during the year.
The Board is satisfied that he demonstrates total commitment to his duties both Typically nine meetings of the full Board are held each within and beyond the formal framework of Board and committee meetings.
The company has applied the Principles of Good year.
In addition, the directors attend a strategic The Company Secretary is also secretary to the Boards committees.
Governance set out in section 1 of the Code, planning awayday.
The members of the Board and its including both the Main Principles and the Supporting committees, together with their attendances at the Principles, by complying with the Code as reported core meetings during 2004 are shown opposite.
Further explanation of how the Main Principles In addition, ad hoc meetings of the Board and its and Supporting Principles have been applied is set out committees were held to deal with administrative below and, in connection with directors remuneration, and similar matters.
Chairman and chief executive The Board has reviewed and re-afrmed that it in the Directors Remuneration Report.
The There is a clearly established division of responsibilities considers all of the non-executive directors, including Chairmans Statement, the Chief Executives Review, between the chairman and chief executive, set out the chairman, to be independent in character and the Company Review and the Operational and in writing, agreed by the Board and implemented by judgement.
Whenever any director considers that he Financial Review present a balanced and regular review meetings between these ofcers and or she is interested in any contract or arrangement to understandable assessment of the companys validated by the Board performance evaluation process.
which the company is or may be a party, due notice is position and prospects.
given in accordance with the Articles of Association.
Board balance and independence The Board has determined that any such interests as The Board Appointments to the Board are made on merit and may have arisen during 2004 are non-material to the The Board consists of nine directors whose names, through a formal, rigorous and transparent process director or to the companies concerned.
responsibilities and other details appear on pages 34 against objective criteria recommended by the and 35.
Four of the directors are executive and five Nomination Committee, which also guides the whole In the three years up to and including the 2005 Annual are non-executive.
Board in arranging orderly succession for appointments General Meeting, every director will have submitted to the Board and to senior management.
himself for re-election at least once.
The Board discharges its responsibilities by providing entrepreneurial leadership of the company within a The appointment of non-executive directors is for a The Nomination Committee and Board framework of prudent and effective controls, which specified term and re-appointment is not automatic.
appointments enables risk to be assessed and managed.
It sets the The terms of reference of the Nomination Committee, companys strategic aims, ensures that the necessary The chairman is also chairman of Kidde plc, a FTSE including its role and the authority delegated to it by financial and human resources are in place for the 250 company.
The Board is satisfied that this, and his the Board, are available upon request and have been company to meet its objectives and reviews other commitments, do not detract from the extent published on the companys website.
These outline or the quality of the time which he is able to devote the committees objectives and responsibilities and to the company.
38 Taylor Woodrow Report and Accounts 2004 Taylor Woodrow Report and Accounts 2004 39 Corporate Governance Statement continued Corporate Governance Statement continued define the programme of activities to support the for 2005 and will continually review its approach to the weaknesses are promptly remedied and indicate a these will be subject to regular self assessment discharge of those responsibilities.
The terms of evaluation process.
need for more extensive monitoring.
The Board has procedures from 2005 onwards.
A full programme of reference are reviewed at least annually.
also performed a specic assessment for the purpose process compliance audits is also being implemented.
Remuneration of this annual report.
This assessment considers all The members of the nomination committee and their The Boards policy and approach to the setting of significant aspects of internal control arising during the Dened authority limits are in place.
In particular, attendance at meetings during 2004 are shown on remuneration for directors and senior executives and period covered by the report including the work of any investment in land, property and other significant page 39. the activities of the Remuneration Committee are internal audit.
The Audit Committee assists the Board assets, including acquisitions and disposals require described in the directors Remuneration Report on in discharging its review responsibilities.
Key elements detailed appraisals and are subject to dened A number of Board changes were made during 2003 page 44. of the system of internal control are detailed below.
authorisation levels and post-investment review and in January 2004, including the appointment of procedures.
Investment decisions, including Private non-executive directors, which were facilitated through Executive Committee A Group-level review is carried out by the members Finance Initiative PFI projects, and tenders for search consultants and implemented in accordance The Executive Committee consists of all the executive of the Executive Committee to identify the major risks contracts are subject to approval by the Board, the with the Committees terms of reference.
The work directors of the company and senior executives of facing the Group and to develop and implement chief executive or subsidiary operating management, of the Nomination Committee during 2004 has been major group companies.
The chief executive chairs appropriate initiatives to manage those risks.
This depending on the value and nature of the investment focused primarily on planning the succession for its meetings.
process applies across the Group.
the Board and the senior management team and the and financial risks are identied and assessed at the reviewing of the balance of the Boards composition.
The committee directs, controls and reviews the operating process level, while strategic risks are There is a clearly identiable organisational structure financial and operational performance of all Group identied as a part of the business planning process.
and a framework of delegated authority approved by Terms and conditions of appointment of all directors companies and divisions, and key issues relating to Strategic risk reviews are carried out in each of the the Board within which individual responsibilities of are available for inspection as described in the 2005 human resources, communications and legal matters.
operating divisions to identify business risk, evaluate senior executives of Group companies are identied Annual General Meeting circular to shareholders.
It defines and recommends to the Board forwardexisting controls and develop strategies to manage and can be monitored.
looking business plans and budgets.
the risks that remain, the results of which form part of Information and professional development the Boards assessment.
Updates to these risk The annual employee performance appraisal process The company has procedures whereby directors Within the delegated authorities framework, assessments are reported to the Executive is objective-based, with individual objectives cascaded including non-executive directors receive formal the investment sub-committee reviews all major Committee on a quarterly basis.
An executive risk down from the appropriate business objectives.
induction, training and continuing familiarisation about investment proposals affecting the Groups business.
committee, chaired by the Group Finance Director, Development reviews identify training needs to the companys business, operations and systems, the reports to the Executive Committee with formally support achievement of objectives.
principles underlying the discharge of their duties as Other Group committees agreed terms of reference, and has also met directors and wider issues relating to the housing and The Group has also established operational and other throughout the year.
This committee oversees the risk The Group business process review and audit construction sector.
Any training needs are identied committees to co-ordinate activities including risk and control framework of the group and monitors the function reviews the effectiveness and efficiency of and implemented.
management, corporate social responsibility, including response to key risk issues identied through the the systems of internal control in place to safeguard health, safety and environmental matters.
Finally, as part of the chief the assets, to quantify, price, transfer, avoid or Board performance evaluation executives quarterly business performance reviews, mitigate risks and to monitor the activities of the During 2004 the directors undertook the annual Internal control assessment is made of the progress against objectives, Group in accomplishing established objectives.
evaluation of the performance and effectiveness of The Board has applied Principle C. 2 of the Code by changes to operational risk and adequacy of control.
Regular reports from these reviews are provided to the Board, its committees, individual directors and establishing a continuous process for identifying, the Board and reported to the chief executive, Audit the internal and external auditors.
The evaluation evaluating and managing the significant risks the The Chief Executive has responsibility for preparing Committee and management, who consider them was performed using a self-assessment framework.
The Board regularly reviews the process, and reviewing a three-year corporate plan and the on a regular basis.
The head of the Groups business Testing was focused mainly on the parameters of which has been in place from the start of the year to annual budgets.
These are subject to formal approval process review and audit function has direct access the Code and the NAPF Corporate Governance Policy the date of approval of this report and which is in by the Board.
Budgets are re-examined in comparison to the chairman of the Audit Committee.
but also contained a number of broader tests covering accordance with Internal Control: Guidance for with business forecasts throughout the year to ensure commercial and operational issues.
The assessment directors on the Code published in September 1999. they are sufciently robust to reect the possible Throughout the year the Board continually considers addressed strategic, operational and organisational The Board is responsible for the Groups system of impact of changing economic circumstances.
The the effectiveness of the Groups internal control criteria.
internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
chief executive and the Board conduct regular and systems.
On 20 January 2005 it completed the Such a system is designed to manage rather than systematic reviews of actual results and future annual assessment for the year to 31 December 2004 As part of the process of assuring Board eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business projections with comparison against budget and prior by reviewing evidence from the operating divisions, effectiveness, during the year, the non-executive objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not year, together with various treasury reports.
Disputes the Groups business process review and audit directors, led by the senior independent director, absolute assurance against material misstatement that may give rise to significant litigation or contractual department, and by taking account of events since met without the chairman present to appraise the or loss.
Additionally, the chairman held meetings with the non-executive directors In compliance with provision C. 2.1 of the Code, The Group has clearly-dened policies, processes Whistleblowing without the executives present.
the Board regularly reviews the effectiveness of and procedures governing all areas of the business In January 2004 the Board adopted an updated the Groups system of internal control.
The Boards which are accessible using a web-enabled tool, that whistleblowing policy which is supported The Board reviewed the results of these assessments monitoring covers all controls, including financial, also facilitates continuous improvement.
An owner by an  procedure through which in January 2005 and is satisfied with the evidence it operational and compliance controls and risk is identied for each process, responsible for risk employees of the company may, in confidence, raise provided about the balance and effectiveness of the management.
This process is based principally on assessment and process effectiveness.
Operational concerns about possible improprieties in financial Board and its committees and the effectiveness and reviewing reports from management to consider compliance responsibilities are also assigned to reporting or other matters.
The Audit Committee commitment of each director.
The Board will use this whether significant risks are identied, evaluated, individual managers who have access to compliance receives reports on any occasions on which such evidence in the setting of objectives and procedures managed and controlled and whether any significant testing and auditing software tools.
For each process, concerns are raised.
key operational controls have been identied and 40 Taylor Woodrow Report and Accounts 2004 Taylor Woodrow Report and Accounts 2004 41 Corporate Governance Statement continued Directors Remuneration Report Audit Committee and auditors designed to facilitate contact about remuneration Introduction Remuneration policy for the executive directors The terms of reference of the Audit Committee, and other issues.
This provides the opportunity for This report has been prepared in accordance with and other senior executives including its role and the authority delegated to it by meetings with the chairman, the Senior Independent Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 the Act.
Executive remuneration packages are designed to the Board, are available upon request and have been Director as well as the chief executive and finance The report also meets the relevant requirements of attract, motivate and retain executive directors and published on the companys website.
These outline director and other executives in order to establish a the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority key senior executives of the high calibre needed to the committees objectives and responsibilities and mutual understanding of objectives.
There is a and describes how the Board has applied the maintain the Groups position as a leading company define the programme of activities to support the structured programme of investor relations, based on Principles of Good Governance relating to directors in its sector and to reward them for achieving a high discharge of those responsibilities.
The terms of formal announcements and publications covering the remuneration.
As required by the Act, a resolution level of corporate performance in line with the best reference are reviewed at least annually.
full year and interim results.
There are associated to approve the report will be proposed at the Annual interests of shareholders.
The performance briengs for stockbroking analysts and investors, General Meeting of the company on 26 April 2005 at measurement of the executive directors and key The members of the Audit Committee are shown on the presentation material for which is published on which the Financial Statements will be laid before the members of senior management and the determination page 39.
All members are independent non-executive the companys website.
The Act requires the auditors to report to of their annual remuneration package is undertaken directors.
The Board has determined that Andrew the companys members on certain parts of the by the Committee.
Dougal, the committee chairman, who has a professional All directors receive formal reports and briengs Directors Remuneration Report and to state whether qualication from one of the professional accounting during the year about the companys investor relations in their opinion those parts of the report have been The following are the main elements of the bodies, has recent and relevant financial experience.
programme and receive detailed feedback through properly prepared in accordance with the Act.
remuneration package for executive directors surveys, direct contact and other means, through The report has therefore been divided into separate and senior management: The chairman of the company, the chief executive, which they are able to develop an understanding of sections for unaudited and audited information.
finance director, head of group business process the views of major shareholders about the company.
basic annual salary: review and audit department, representatives of the Unaudited information benets-in-kind: external auditors, and senior executives of major Constructive use of the Annual General Meeting Remuneration Committee annual bonus payments: Group companies attend meetings of the committee The Board encourages shareholders to participate The Board, whilst ultimately responsible for the participation in the deferred bonus plan: by invitation.
in the Annual General Meeting.
In 2005 this will be framework and approval of executive remuneration, participation in the performance share plan: and supplemented by the opportunity for shareholders has established a Remuneration Committee which is pension arrangements.
The committee reviews the internal control framework, to visit one of the companys developments in the constituted in accordance with the recommendations the internal audit process, the financial reporting vicinity of the meeting.
The Committees terms of The Committee has procedures in place to monitor practices and the external audit process and ensures reference are to establish and maintain formal and the size of potential pay awards.
The companys policy that the Board regularly assesses business risks and Information about the company and the Group, transparent procedures for developing policy on is that a substantial proportion of the remuneration their management and mitigation.
including full year and interim results and other major executive remuneration and for xing the remuneration of the executive directors should be , is published on the companys packages of individual directors, and to monitor related.
In 2004 the proportion of xed and variable In monitoring the financial reporting practices the website www.
The Committee makes pay of the executive directors was 61.3 per cent and committee reviews accounting policies, areas of recommendations to the Board.
The members of 38.7 per cent respectively.
judgement, the going concern assumption and Going concern the Committee who considered matters relating to compliance with accounting standards and the After making enquiries, the directors have formed directors in the financial year were Lady Robin Innes Executive directors are entitled to accept appointments requirements of the Financial Services Authority.
a judgement, at the time of approving the accounts, Ker Committee Chairman, Norman Askew, Mike outside the company provided that the Boards prior The committee also reviews, prior to publication, that there is a reasonable expectation that the Group Davies, Vernon Sankey, all of whom are independent permission is obtained and a determination made the interim and annual financial statements and and the company have adequate resources to continue non-executive directors and, for part of the year, Sir in respect of any fees resulting from all such other major statements affecting the Group in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Their details, including attendances appointments.
Iain Napier, the chief executive, is a concerning price-sensitive information.
For this reason, the directors continue to adopt the at meetings held during 2004, are listed in Corporate non-executive director of Imperial Tobacco Group plc going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Governance on page 39. and was also a non-executive director of The BOC The committee has approved a policy on employing Group plc between 1 May 2004 and 22 December the auditors to provide services other than audit None of the Committee members has any personal 2004.
During 2004 he received fees of 40,000 and services, which is to require a competitive tender financial interest other than as shareholders, 27, 000 from these companies respectively.
He is except in narrowly-dened circumstances where conicts of interests arising from cross-directorships permitted to retain these fees.
the company considers that for condentiality, past or day-to-day involvement in running the business.
knowledge or other reasons, there is an advantage No director plays a part in any discussion about his Basic salary in using a single tender procurement procedure.
An executive directors basic salary is reviewed by The committee has determined that the following the Committee annually and when an individual Advice assignments should not be undertaken by the auditors: changes position or responsibility.
In deciding In determining the directors remuneration for the appropriate levels, the Committee considers pay year, the Committee consulted Iain Napier chief the provision of internal audit services: and levels in the Group as a whole and relies on objective executive and Alec Luhaste Group director of human advice on large IT systems.
research from Towers Perrin which gives up-to-date resources about its proposals.
The Committee information on comparator groups of companies appointed T owers Perrin to provide advice on directors The Board is satisfied that this policy is conducive to the which comprise FTSE 150, FTSE 100 to 150 companies remuneration packages.
Towers Perrin did not provide maintenance of auditor independence and objectivity.
and an industry-specic group comprising 25 companies any other services to the company or the Group.
representing the housing, development and KPMG LLP advises the company on executive pay Relations with shareholders construction industry, namely Alfred McAlpine, Amec, and practices, including share-based reward.
The Board actively seeks and encourages Balfour Beatty, Barratt Developments, Bellway engagement with major institutional and other Homes, Berkeley Group, Bovis Homes, British Land, shareholders and has put in place arrangements Canary Wharf Group, Carillion, Costain, Countryside 42 Taylor Woodrow Report and Accounts 2004 Taylor Woodrow Report and Accounts 2004 43 Directors Remuneration Report continued Directors Remuneration Report continued Properties, Crest Nicholson, George Wimpey, Achievement of improvements in health and and to replace it with the Performance Share Plan, become policy until the Plan amendments have been Hammerson, Kier, Land Securities, Liberty safety performance, based on specified levels which is summarised below, and which shareholders approved by shareholders.
International, McCarthy & Stone, Mowlem, of safety management performance and site approved at the 2004 Annual General Meeting.
Persimmon, Redrow, Slough Estates, Westbury inspection results: Executive Share Option Plan Homes and Wilson Bowden.
Achievement of specified customer satisfaction Performance Share Plan Prior to the suspension of the Taylor Woodrow ratings: In order to incentivise executive directors and other Executive Share Option Plan, options were granted The Committee relies both on this research and on its Achievement of specified cost reductions at the senior executives, the company established the new to executive directors and to other executives own judgement when determining appropriate levels centre and operational areas of the business: Performance Share Plan during 2004.
The Remuneration under the terms of the Plan during the period up to of remuneration, taking into account the scale and Achievement of specified synergy savings: Committee or a specially appointed committee of 9 October 2003. scope of individuals responsibilities and corporate Other important issues affecting business success.
independent non-executive directors is responsible for performance.
Basic salaries were reviewed in January supervising the plan and for the grant or recommendation The Committee placed a restriction on the maximum 2004, with changes taking effect from 1 April 2004.
In Most, but not all of the targets were achieved.
of awards under its terms.
aggregate value of options that could be awarded to order to align the review cycle with general industry, any individual to six times basic salary, within which the salaries of the members of the Executive For 2004, the maximum performance-related bonus Conditional awards of shares are made to participants, there is a restriction in the case of options to be Committee and certain senior managers are now set that can be paid is 100 per cent of basic salary for the entitling them to receive shares of the company at no satisfied by the issue of new shares, where the limit is on a calendar year basis.
Accordingly, salaries were chief executive and 85 per cent in the case of the direct cost upon the expiry of three years, provided four times basic salary.
reviewed in November 2004 with any consequent other executive directors.
Bonus awards for executive that the performance criterion is fullled.
The current changes being made from 1 January 2005.
Reviews directors in respect of the year ended 31 December maximum value of awards that can be made under Exercises of those options are subject to the take account of the level of remuneration elsewhere 2004 ranged between 65 per cent and 95 per cent of the Plan in any one year is 75 per cent of salary.
The attainment of a performance criterion which applies to in the business.
basic salary, reecting performance against the targets.
awards made in 2004 to each of the executive all participants, namely that growth in the companys For 2005, bonus targets have been set based broadly directors were for 75 per cent of basic salary.
Eps must exceed the RPI by a specified measure over Executive directors contracts of service, which on the 2004 framework, and designed to reect the the three year period immediately preceding the year include details of remuneration, will be available companys performance relative to the peer Group.
The performance criterion governing the initial awards in which the option first becomes exercisable.
Eps for inspection at the Annual General Meeting and No bonus or deferred bonus is pensionable.
made during 2004 requires that in order for 50 per was selected as the measure, as the Committee generally as described in the 2005 Annual General cent of the award to vest, the companys Eps must considers it to be an appropriate indicator of Meeting circular.
Bonus Plan matching award outperform the UK Index of Retail Prices RPI by 3 per managements success in advancing the performance The Committee believes that receipt of matching cent per annum compound over three years.
A three-year measurement period Benets-in-kind shares under the deferred bonus plan should be tied for 100 per cent of the award to vest, the companys was selected based on independent research of plans The executive directors receive certain benets-into the interests of the companys shareholders and Eps must outperform the RPI by 6 per cent per introduced during 2004.
The performance criteria are kind, principally a car or an allowance in lieu, life that a principal measure of those interests is growth annum compound over three years.
There is a sliding as follows: assurance, private medical insurance and non-taxable in earnings per share Eps.
Eps is calculated using the scale between these two targets.
There will be no participation in an Income Protection Plan.
Benets-inadjusted basic earnings per share as shown in Note 8 re-testing of the performance condition.
Options granted prior to 2001: Eps to exceed the kind are not pensionable.
RPI by 6 per cent The performance criterion, which applies to all Options granted during 2001: Eps to exceed the Annual bonus payments and the deferred Accordingly executive directors and certain senior participants in the Plan, was chosen because it is RPI by 9 per cent bonus plan executives have the opportunity of participating in the considered to be an appropriate indicator of Options granted in 2002 onwards: The Committee establishes the objectives that must deferred bonus plan by investing some or all of their managements success in advancing the performance Eps to exceed the RPI by 12 per cent for awards be met for each financial year if a performance-related bonus in the purchase of shares in the company.
Eps is calculated as described on which cause aggregate option values, measured at bonus is to be paid.
these shares remain undrawn for a period of three page 44. the time of grant, to exceed three times basic years, the company will match them on a one for one salary : and In setting appropriate bonus parameters, the Committee basis, provided that Group Eps shall have grown by at Proposed increase of Performance Share Eps to exceed the RPI by 15 per cent for awards refers to the objective research by Towers Perrin on least three percent compound in real terms during the Plan awards which cause aggregate option values, measured at the comparator group of companies as noted above.
It is proposed to seek shareholders approval at the the time of grant, to exceed four times basic salary.
2005 Annual General Meeting for the introduction of Eps is calculated as described on page 44.
Account is also taken of the relative success of the Proposed increase of future bonus potential an additional TSR-based element to the existing Plan, different parts of the business for which the executive The Committee has reviewed the maximum level which is designed to encourage executives to meet For awards made prior to October 2003, if the directors are responsible and the extent to which the of bonus potential for executive directors and both their existing Eps growth targets and, in addition, performance test is not satisfied at the first opportunity, strategic objectives set by the Board are being met.
considers that it would be appropriate for this to to outperform their peer group.
The additional awards it can be repeated annually until it is satisfied, or the The current maximum award that can be made under be increased in line with industry and sector trends.
would begin to be earned, if and only if, a prescribed option lapses.
Once the test is satisfied, these options the Plan to executive directors in any one year is As a result of this review the Committee has agreed level of real Eps growth is achieved and would vest at may be exercised during the remainder of their life 100 per cent of salary.
2004s bonus awards were that for 2005 the maximum performance-related cut-in only if the companys TSR exceeds the median without further tests, subject to the Plan rules.
dependent upon the achievement of a number of bonus potential for the chief executive shall remain for its peer group.
Initially it will be restricted to the business-specic and personal stretch targets.
at its present level of 100 per cent and for executive members of the Executive Committee.
For awards granted from October 2003, the company The targets include factors which the Board considers directors shall be increased from 85 per cent to reduced the number of performance re-tests to two, to be commercially condential if disclosed in detail, 100 per cent of basic salary.
These measures are indicative of the companys which are applied at the 4th and 5th anniversaries of but in order to provide meaningful information to intent to improve its performance relative to its peer the date of grant.
For these re-tests, the measurement shareholders, they are summarised as follows: Executive share-based reward group whilst continuing to focus on earnings growth.
period is four and five years respectively.
If the As reported in the Remuneration Report for 2003, the performance test is not satisfied at the final re-test, Achievement of specified levels of profit before Remuneration Committee decided in November 2003 Full details are contained in the 2005 Annual General the option lapses.
A significant element of the bonus is to make no further grants under the Taylor Woodrow Meeting Circular.
The additional awards will not dependent on this target: Executive Share Option Plan for the foreseeable future 44 Taylor Woodrow Report and Accounts 2004 Taylor Woodrow Report and Accounts 2004 45 Directors Remuneration Report continued Directors Remuneration Report continued The exercise price of the options granted under companys incentive plans.
This matter will be Earnings Cap on his pension, he also receives an the above Plan is equal to the market value of the reviewed by the Remuneration Committee and or additional salary allowance supplement of 12.5 per companys shares at the time when the options the Audit Committee over the coming months.
Pension arrangements Taylor Woodrow Personal Choice Pension Plan All-employee share plans Details of the Groups principal UK pension schemes With effect from 1 April 2002 the company introduced United Kingdom are given in Note 23 to the Financial Statements.
the Taylor Woodrow Personal Choice Plan, a dened The company operates a Sharesave Plan for eligible contribution Pension Scheme which all new eligible UK employees under which options may be granted Of these, the Taylor Woodrow Group Pension and Life UK employees are invited to join.
at a discount of up to 20 per cent of market value.
Assurance Fund, into which the Bryant Group Pension Scheme was merged in June 2002 and the Wilson At 31 December 2004 Iain Napier and Peter Johnson Additionally, a UK Share Purchase Plan has been Connolly Holdings Pension Scheme, the Wainhomes were members of this Plan.
The company contributes introduced under which all UK employees with Limited Pension Scheme, the Prestoplan Pension to the Plan 38 per cent and 34.5 per cent respectively 3 months service are permitted to invest up to Scheme and the Wilson Connolly Dened Contribution of their basic salary, of which an amount up to the 1,500 per annum of their pre-tax earned income in Pension Scheme were merged in August 2004, is Earnings Cap will be applied to the Plan and the the purchase of partnership shares of the company.
a funded scheme with dened benefit and dened balance paid as an additional allowance, this being Such shares, if held for a period of three years, contribution elements.
The Taylor Woodrow Personal reduced by the amount of employers National attract an award of free matching shares.
Currently Choice Plan is a Dened Contribution Pension Scheme.
Iain Napier and participants receive one matching share for each All members of these schemes are entitled to payment Peter Johnson each contribute 5 per cent of basic partnership share purchased.
of a lump sum in the event of death in service.
salary, subject to the Earnings Cap.
Dependants of members of the dened benefit The executive directors are eligible to participate in elements are eligible for dependants pensions.
Pensions of former directors these all-employee Plans.
During 2004 no special arrangements were made for Only basic salary is pensionable.
the provision of pensions for former directors.
Overseas Plans During 2005, the company is planning to implement Taylor Woodrow Group Pension and Life Performance graph all-employee share plans in the United States and Assurance Fund The following graph shows the companys performance, Canada, and to investigate the possibility of At 31 December 2004 Denis Mac Daid was a measured by total shareholder return, compared with establishing a plan in Spain, in accordance with member of the Taylor Woodrow section of the Fund, the performance of the FTSE 250 Share Index also authorities granted by shareholders at the Annual which provides dened benets of 2 per cent of final measured by total shareholder return.
The FTSE 250 General Meeting in 2004. pensionable salary for each year of pensionable Share Index has been selected for this comparison service.
The Fund was closed to new entrants from because the company is a constituent of that Index The United States Plan would be based broadly on the 31 March 2002.
With effect from 1 September 2004, and in order to provide consistency of comparison UK Sharesave Plan and would entitle participants to a restriction was applied so as to limit the amount of with the 2003 Directors Remuneration Report.
contribute funds of up to a US$ amount equivalent to any increase in pensionable salary of members of this Taylor Woodrow - total shareholder return 3,000 per year of their post-tax income to purchase scheme to the lesser of the actual increase in basic last 5 years shares of the company at a discount of 15 per cent to salary or the RPI, subject to a maximum of 5 per cent Growth in value of a hypothetical 100 holding over the relevant market price.
The company contributes to an individual five years top up arrangement for each member a sum calculated The Canadian Plan would be based broadly on the UK on the full basic salary.
The companys contributions Share Purchase Plan and would entitle participants to in respect of Denis Mac Daid and Graeme McCallum 300 Taylor Woodrow plc contribute funds of up to a Can$ amount equivalent totalled 10,900 and 850 for the year respectively FTSE 250 250 to 1,500 per year of their post-tax income to purchase and were credited to an additional voluntary shares of the company which, if held for a period of contribution AVC account and to an individual top-up 200 3 years, would be matched by the company.
150 If implemented, the Spanish Plan would be based Details of Denis Mac Daids and Graeme McCallums 100 broadly on the UK Sharesave Plan and would entitle accrued pension entitlements under the Fund and the participants to contribute funds of up to a Euro amount opening and closing transfer values of their accrued 50 equivalent to 3,000 per year to purchase shares of pension rights are shown in the tables of directors the company at a discount of up to 20 per cent to the pension entitlements on page 52.
0 Jan 00 Jan 01 Jan 02 Jan 03 Jan 04 relevant market price.
At 31 December 2004 Graeme McCallum was a This graph has been prepared from information obtained through Impact of International Financial Reporting member of the Wilson Connolly Holdings section of Datastream.
It shows the theoretical growth in the value of a Standards on performance criteria of incentive the Fund.
He has a target annual benefit of 78 per cent shareholding over the specified period, assuming that dividends are re-invested to purchase additional units of equity at the closing plans of his final pensionable pay, which is restricted to the price applicable on the ex-dividend date.
Historical data is based The move to International Financial Reporting Earnings Cap, currently 102,000, at his normal on the constituent companies at each given date.
Standards will impact the calculation of Eps for the retirement age of 60.
To reect the impact of the purpose of performance measurement under the 46 Taylor Woodrow Report and Accounts 2004 Taylor Woodrow Report and Accounts 2004 47 Directors Remuneration Report continued Directors Remuneration Report continued Directors contracts AUDITED INFORMATION It is the companys policy that executive directors should have contracts of employment providing for Aggregate directors remuneration a maximum of one years notice.
However, it may be The total amounts for directors remuneration were as follows: 2004 2003 necessary occasionally to offer longer notice periods 000 000 to new directors.
Where this arises, it is the companys policy to reduce the notice period to one Emoluments 3,222 2,686 year within one year of appointment of the director.
Compensation for loss of office - - Gains on exercise of share options 32 34 The details of the directors contracts are summarised Amounts receivable under long-term incentive schemes - - in the table below: Money purchase pension contributions 45 46 3,299 2,766 Name Date of contract Unexpired term Notice periods Notice periods Normal retirement Company months Director months age Iain Napier 10 January 2002 12 months 12 12 60 Directors emoluments Peter Johnson 1 November 2002 12 months 12 12 60 Name of director Basic Salary Benefits-inBonus in 2004 2003 salary fees supplement in kind respect of 2004 total total Denis Mac Daid 3 August 2001 12 months 12 6 62 lieu of pension Graeme McCallum 2 October 2003 12 months 12 12 60 000 000 000 000 000 000 Executive It is the companys policy that liquidated damages should not apply on the termination of an executive directors contract.
In accordance with Iain Napier 519 150 25 503 1,197 950 this approach, payment for early termination of contract without cause by the company is, in the case of each of the executive directors, to Peter Johnson 308 74 26 246 654 566 be determined in accordance with normal principles of English law, which requires mitigation of liability on a case by case basis.
Any such payment would typically be determined by reference to the main elements of a directors remuneration, namely, salary, contractual bonus, Denis Mac Daid 294 - 17 195 506 410 benefits-in-kind and pension entitlements.
Graeme McCallum 294 37 21 195 547 381 Executive Directors seeking re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
As announced on 20 October 2004, Denis Mac Daid will be retiring from the Board and as an employee on 30 June 2005.
Non-executive Norman Askew 150 - - - 150 64 Non-executive directors Mike Davies 38 - - - 38 8 None of the non-executive directors has a service Lady Robin Innes Ker 38 - - - 38 38 contract, as their terms of engagement are regulated Andrew Dougal 38 - - - 38 38 by letters of appointment as follows: Vernon Sankey 38 - - - 38 - Dr Hawley former director ----- 81 Name of director Date of letter of Term of Notice period by Notice period by appointment appointment Company months Director months Sir George Russell former director 16 - - - 16 60 Norman Broadhurst former director ----- 90 Norman Askew 25 July 2003 3 years 3 3 Aggregate emoluments 1,733 261 89 1,139 3,222 Mike Davies 29 September 2003 3 years 1 1 2003: 1,469 210 94 913 2,686 Lady Robin Innes Ker 21 May 2001 1 year 1 1 Andrew Dougal proposed for 31 October 2002 1 year 1 1 Notes re-appointment at the Annual General Meeting Includes non-cash payments.
Vernon Sankey 15 December 2003 3 years 1 1 No expense allowances are paid.
No termination payments were made to directors during the year.
Initial term, subject to review on first anniversary and annually thereafter.
No payments were made during the year to former directors.
Their remuneration is determined by the Board based on research of fees paid to non-executive directors of similar companies within the FTSE 150 index and the sector peer group, subject to the overall limits set by the Articles of Association.
The fees of the chairman in the year were 150,000 per annum and the fees of each non-executive director were 37, 500.
Non-executive directors cannot participate in any of the companys share option plans and are not eligible to join the companys pension scheme.
48 Taylor Woodrow Report and Accounts 2004 Taylor Woodrow Report and Accounts 2004 49
