Technology overview Introduction cost-effective and compact addition.
Italia will be able to further optimise its optical Marconis core business is the provision of Additionally, plug-in data cards are available network infrastructure allowing it to respond to equipment and services to telecommunications as a low-risk, low-cost solution for upgrading the growing demand for broadband services service providers and other telecommunication our significant SDH installed base with from its customers.
By integrating network network operators.
Marconi sells to its advanced data functionality, where there is layers, Telecom Italia will be able to make customers the infrastructure, or hardware, and available capacity.
innovative data services available to a wider the programs, or software, to enable them audience with the aim of providing a further Marconi has also announced a partnership to increase the capacity, predictability boost to the broadband market in Italy.
with RBN to provide customers with a and reliability of voice, video and data Coarse Wave Division Multiplexing CWDM communications carried over their networks.
Focus on Telstra platform for more cost-effective, low-density Through its services business Marconi provides Marconi has been selected as a preferred wavelength service delivery than services throughout the network lifecycle from supplier of next-generation 10 Gigabits per traditional DWDM.
design and implementation through to ongoing second Gbps DWDM and SDH products for continuous support and operation.
Marconi has recognised the need for the Inter-capital, Metropolitan and Regional operators to lower the total cost of ownership networks of Telstra in Australia.
Under the The following section gives further detail of the Core network and move to an increased frame agreement, Marconi is positioned to on the technologies the Group offers its multiservice environment.
Our world leading supply hardware as well as commissioning customers broken down by technology area integrated SDH ODU WDM solutions with and support services to Telstra when the and giving examples of specific customers ASTN control plane architecture have carrier upgrades its transmission network in each main area.
Readers may find it useful enabled major customers such as Telecom to 10 Gbps capacity.
to refer to the glossary on page 94.
Italia to realise significant cost savings For 2003-04, adjusted Group research and with a futureproof scalable network.
The Access Networks development R&D expenditure on continuing combination of intelligence and flexibility has Driven by end user demand for greater operations before goodwill, exceptionals allowed Marconi to achieve a 12% European services and bandwidth, the Access market and share options was 185 million market share within a year of entering the is one of the key areas in which the Groups 2003: 300 million see page 13.
The core of Optical Core Switch OCS market.
The new customers have increased their capital this R&D spend was focused on Optical OMS32xx family of scalable, optical core expenditure.
This market is characterised Networks, Broadband Routing & Switching switches is unique in its ability to support an by rapid growth in the number of lines and Access Networks, which together unrestricted mix of SDH and OTN multiplexing deployed by operators coupled with accounted for over 80% of adjusted R&D and switching in a single switch fabric, aggressive price competition between spend during the year.
enabling optical equipment to interwork with suppliers.
The Marconi Access Hub platform other network elements.
combines flexibility, scalability and intelligence: Optical Networks it is a true broadband, multiservice, multimedia Marconi also unveiled the Multihaul 3000 this Marconi continues to invest in optical platform that takes broadband well beyond year, a highly cost-effective DWDM platform technology, which allows operators to fast internet connectivity with high-speed data that has multiple span options from a single transport communications traffic around Ethernet and ATM, it gives end-users access box, which means it can be applied to Metro, their networks along optical fibres.
Marconis to data, video and broadcast multicast TV Regional and Core networks.
The Multihaul next-generation optical range is more effective services and, of course, voice telephony.
3000 also acts as an integrated module for for carrying the new and rapidly growing Marconis multiservice platforms, allowing the As a next-generation Multiservice Access internet and broadband services.
service provider to construct flexible solutions Node MSAN, it can address multiple access As a leading optical vendor in Europe, to best meet the needs of varying parts of the market segments from the same platform, Marconi is well positioned to evolve customers network.
The platform has already been such as xDSL broadband for both ATM and IP towards data-intensive, optical networking.
deployed in a number of leading operators centric networks, Fibre to the Home FTTH, For the challenging Edge and Metropolitan throughout Europe and Asia Pacific and has Fibre to the Curb FTTC, aggregation and Area Networks, we offer a range of new contributed to a significant improvement in the PSTN replacement.
By migrating all these optical multiservice platforms that Groups market share of the European long services onto one platform, operators can are highly flexible in terms of service type, haul DWDM market.
achieve a substantial reduction in their volume and mix.
The platforms are modular operating expenditure, in excess of 50% Optical Networks has focused on maintaining and scalable, significantly reducing the total in some cases.
its core customer base by continuing to cost of ownership.
Marconis OMS1664, evolve existing products while at the same formerly SMA16-64, a high-capacity, Focus on BT time developing new class-leading products multiservice platform launched last year, In August 2003 Marconi announced, it had that enable operators to evolve to the designed specifically for simultaneously signed a three-year frame contract with BT next-generation networks today.
handling and provisioning of a wide range for the provision of its Access Hub platform.
of data and TDM services has now gained The contract is an early first step towards BTs Focus on Telecom Italia significant market traction and has been 21st Century next-generation network project.
February 2003 saw Marconi announce shipped to over 20 customers.
Investment that it would supply Telecom Italia with continues in our next-generation Synchronous Fixed Wireless next-generation network equipment capable Digital Hierarchy SDH products with the Marconi is synonymous with radio and of optimising the transmission of data over launch of the SMA1 4UC providing a remains at the forefront with its MDRS and SDH.
Under the frame agreement, Telecom MDMS ranges of microwave systems.
24 MDRS Marconi Digital Radio System is Adjusted research & development expenditure on Continuing Operations a range of cost-effective, point-to-point SDH microwave radio systems, delivering 6 1 reliable bandwidth to the Metro and Core 5 in short-haul or long-haul applications, 4 particularly mobile backhaul.
MDMS Marconi Digital Multipoint System Product area 200304 % delivers toll-quality voice and high-speed 1 Optical Networks 40 data, multimedia and leased-line services to 2 Access Networks 23 both business and multi-dwelling residential 3 Broadband Routing & Switching 19 customers.
It offers high reliability and 3 4 Outside Plant & Power 6 exceptional bandwidth efficiency for the 5 Other Network Equipment 8 2 6 Network Services 4 spectrum used.
2003-04 has been a productive year for roll-outs in the 3G mobile systems sector domain, while switches typically operate in provider of business communications with continued GSM CDMA system the traditional voice, frame relay and ATM solutions, to provide feature-rich, highly expansions and basic connectivity projects.
The military-grade capabilities scalable IP communications solutions to Marconi provides connectivity with microwave demonstrated by the BXR-48000 are equally enterprises.
This partnership utilises the SIP radio in high speed point-to-point SDH spans applicable for the voice, video, data and protocol for internetworking and integration of up to 100km and in lower speed access multiservice networks of service providers the highly scalable SoftSwitch with the rich radio networks in either point-to-point or and large non-military organisations.
features of Mitels IP PBX to deliver a wide point-to-multipoint formats over a few range of IP telephony features and innovative kilometres reach.
This solution redefines how This year will see a major R&D programme The comprehensive feature set and software communications solutions can be deployed deliver a new Access Radio AXR that, architecture of the Marconi SoftSwitch efficiently and effectively to large enterprises.
through innovative design, changes the XCD5000 enable carriers to replace traditional, economics of fixed wireless access and voice-only networks with new multimedia Focus on Kingston Communications complies with two major international access and switching technologies.
It provides Marconi signed a frame contract with UK standards for radio access ETSI a seamless integration with customers service provider, Kingston Communications, in HiperAccess and WiMAX.
existing voice networks whilst providing an June 2003 for the supply of its next-generation opportunity for them to increase revenues and switching product, SoftSwitch.
SoftSwitch Broadband Routing & Switching save costs.
The SoftSwitch supports traditional will make it easier for the operator to scale Marconis broadband routing and switching Class 4 and Class 5 PSTN services, advanced up services for both business and residential multiservice platforms, including the business services and next-generation customers.
It offers the potential for a managed BXR-48000, combine the scalability and multimedia services, all from one platform.
centrex capability that will reduce operational reliability to protect existing revenue streams expenditure for Kingstons customers.
Development investment in the SoftSwitch with the flexibility to offer profitable, XCD5000 continues to add additional carrier-class, next-generation IP, Ethernet, Network Management revenue-generating and cost-saving 3G and packetised voice services.
With constant changes and upgrades to functionality to the product.
This functionality equipment and network infrastructure, Designed for Core and Edge networks, includes new revenue-generating Session ease of provisioning and migration are Marconi switch routers support the Initiation Protocol SIP based next-generation paramount.
The introduction of carrier-class exceptionally high quality of service services.
SIP is an open standard for network management systems have needed for todays real-time, establishing and managing multiparty, revolutionised network operations: helping mission-critical, IP-based applications.
mixed-media communications sessions operators better control their network assets, over converged networks.
There are also new The ASX-4000 can switch at transmission optimise the efficiency of their networks, features to allow operators to easily migrate speeds ranging from 10 Gbps to 40 Gbps increase their competitiveness and improve their existing TDM networks to an IP-based and can be positioned either within the Core customer satisfaction.
Marconis ServiceOn network, thus making significant operational or at the Edge of service provider networks or portfolio of carrier-class, open-standard cost savings whilst continuing to support high-capacity private networks.
The platform network management products, not only the traditional revenue-earning services.
allows service providers to transport voice supports all of the Groups access, data, For teleworkers, the SoftSwitch enables traffic over packet switched infrastructures optical and switching solutions but also broadband services for the home with such as ATM VTOA or IP VoIP.
supports selected third-party products in order options for multiple phones, voice, video to provide end-to-end network management The BXR-48000, the industrys highestand data services, such as videoconferencing, solutions for operators.
capacity switch router, can operate at to enhance the experience of employees transmission speeds ranging from 40 Gbps to migrating to remote working.
It can be configured as a very high Marconi has also announced a new capacity router or a very high capacity switch.
partnership with Mitel, a leading global Routers function in the IP packet networking 25 Statutory and financial contents 27 Directors 28 Corporate governance 32 Directors report 35 Report to shareholders by the Board on directors remuneration 44 Corporate social responsibility 46 Statement of directors responsibilities 47 Independent auditors report 48 Consolidated profit and loss account 49 Balance sheets 50 Consolidated cash flow statement 50 Reconciliation of net cash flow movements in net monetary funds debt 51 Consolidated statement of total recognised gains and losses 51 Reconciliation of movements in equity shareholders interests 52 Notes to the accounts 87 Statistical information 2000 to 2004 88 Information for shareholders 90 Shareholder services 91 Notice of meeting 94 Glossary of terms 26
