Directors report Profits and dividends Mr I M Clubb resigned from the Board on 26 January 2004.
The loss for the year to 31 March 2004 on ordinary activities after taxation Mr P C F Hickson was appointed to the Board on 6 May 2004. and minority interests amounted to 153 million 2003: 1,144 million.
In accordance with Article 84 of the Companys Articles of Association, The Board has determined that, taking into account the terms of the Mr McWilliams, Mr Binning and Mr Hickson will retire from office at Companys Senior Loan Notes, no dividend will be declared in respect the 2004 Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, offer themselves of the year to 31 March 2004. for reappointment.
Review of the Group Further details of the committees of the Board are given in the An analysis of results and net assets for the Group and its share of Corporate governance report on pages 28 to 31 and details of the joint ventures and associates is shown in note 3 to the accounts.
remuneration packages of the directors and their share interests in the A commentary on the activities of the Group and outlook is given in the Company are contained in the Remuneration report on pages 35 to 43.
Chief Executives review on pages 4 and 5 and the Operating and financial review on pages 6 to 21.
A review of the Groups research and Substantial holders of share capital development activities can be found in the Technology overview on As at 4 June 2004, the latest practicable date prior to the approval pages 24 and 25. of this report the Company was aware of the following holdings of 3% or more of the Companys ordinary share capital: The Company acts as a holding company: its subsidiaries and % associated companies are principally engaged in the provision of FMR Corp. and Fidelity International Ltd 8.90 telecommunications equipment and services together with associated Aviva plc and Morley Fund Management Ltd 5.86 support applications.
Further details of the principal subsidiaries, Barclays plc 4.05 joint ventures and associates are shown in note 15 to the accounts.
Legal & General Group Plc companies 3.40 The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. 3.37 Restructuring of the Group HBOS plc 3.06 Pursuant to Schemes of Arrangement of M 2003 plc previously known Payment of creditors as Marconi plc and the Company under Section 425 of the Companies It is the policy of the Marconi group that operating subsidiaries agree Act 1985 the Restructuring, the Company became the new ultimate with suppliers the best available terms taking account of quality, parent company of the Marconi group on 19 May 2003, on which day delivery, price and period of settlement and abide by those terms.
the Companys shares, notes and warrants were admitted to the official list of the London Stock Exchange: its ADRs subsequently being listed Marconi Corporation plc is a holding company and, as distinct from the on Nasdaq from 2 October 2003.
Marconi group, has no revenue and no trade creditors.
It is therefore The remaining assets of M 2003 plc, which is no longer a member not possible to provide statistics for the Company as required by the of the Marconi group, will be distributed over time to its creditors in Companies Act 1985. accordance with its Scheme of Arrangement following which it is intended that M 2003 plc will be liquidated or dissolved.
Employees A report on people in the Marconi group can be found on pages Further details of the Restructuring are set out in the Operating and 22 and 23. financial review on pages 6 to 21.
Full and fair consideration is given to applications for employment from people with disabilities having regard to their aptitudes and abilities: Acquisitions and disposals special arrangements are made to support the continued employment The following material disposals were made during the year ended of those who become disabled.
Wherever practical, access, facilities 31 March 2004: and training programmes are made available allowing people with By two share placements in July and September 2003, the Group disabilities to participate at work to the best of their ability.
disposed of its interests in Easynet Group plc: and Individual employees and their representatives are kept informed of In February 2004, the Group disposed of its North American current business issues through the groups intranet website, telephone Access business.
conference calls, briefing groups, training seminars and professional networks as well as through more formal consultative procedures.
Directors The directors are listed on page 27, together with their biographical Share option plans details.
In anticipation of the completion of the Restructuring, the Company Mr I M Clubb and Ms K R Flaherty were appointed to the Board on conditionally adopted two new share option plans: the Marconi 19 May 2003 and reappointed at the 2003 annual general meeting.
Corporation Senior Management Share Option Plan the Management Plan and the Marconi Corporation Employee Share Option Plan the Mr D F McWilliams was appointed to the Board on 8 September 2003.
Employee Plan, which became effective on 19 May 2003.
Summaries Mr P S Binning was appointed to the Board on 20 October 2003 and of the Plans were contained in the prospectus of 31 March 2003 and Mr C C Holden resigned from the Board on that date.
are also described in the Remuneration report on pages 35 to 43.
At 31 March 2004 options over 17,580,000 shares were outstanding to directors and senior managers under the terms of the Management Plan and options over a total of 6,070,000 shares were outstanding to other employees under the terms of the Employee Plan.
32 Corporate social responsibility The special business to be conducted at this years Annual General A report on corporate social responsibility, including social, ethical and Meeting relates to: environmental conduct, can be found on pages 44 and 45.
Resolution 8: which will be proposed as an ordinary resolution, authorising the directors to allot relevant securities up to a maximum Charitable donations value of 16,668,000, representing just under one third of the nominal Charitable donations made by Marconi group companies during the amount of the issued share capital of the Company at the date of year amounted to 57,000 2003: 141,000 of which nil 2003: nil this report.
This resolution is in place of the existing authority and was made to charities in the United Kingdom.
These amounts exclude will be effective until next years annual general meeting or, if earlier, non-cash support provided by operating businesses to charitable 13 December 2005.
It is the present intention of the directors to seek organisations and educational establishments.
Further information on a similar authority annually.
No treasury shares were held by the charitable activities can be found in the report on Marconi people on Company at the date of this report.
The directors have no present pages 22 and 23. intention of exercising this authority except in relation to the allotment of ordinary shares of 25p on the exercise of warrants.
Political donations No donations for political purposes were made during the year Resolution 9: which will be proposed as a special resolution, 2003: nil and the directors do not propose to make any donations to authorising the directors to allot equity securities for cash other than political parties in the foreseeable future.
This authority will enable the directors to issue shares in connection with a rights issue and otherwise to issue shares The Companies Act 1985 the Act, as amended by the Political Parties, for cash up to a nominal amount of 2,500,000 representing around Elections and Referendums Act 2000, obliges companies to obtain prior 5% of the issued share capital of the Company at the date of this shareholder approval before donations, above certain limits, are made report, which includes the sale on a non pre-emptive basis of any to EU political organisations or EU political expenditure is incurred shares the Company holds in treasury, if required.
This resolution is as defined in the Act.
The definitions of these terms are very wide and in place of the existing authority and will be effective until next years could include donations or expenditure that would not commonly be annual general meeting or, if earlier, 13 December 2005.
It is the regarded as being made or incurred for political purposes.
As a result of present intention of the directors to seek a similar authority annually.
this, the Company will propose resolutions to this years Annual General Meeting, authorising the Company and certain of its subsidiaries to Resolution 10: which will be proposed as a special resolution, make such donations and incur such expenditure, on a precautionary authorising the Company to purchase up to a maximum of 20,000,000 basis.
The Company has set up procedures to monitor certain types of of its ordinary shares of 25p in the market, representing around 10% expenditure that could fall into the categories described above.
of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company at the date of this report.
The price paid for any shares purchased will not be less than Capital reduction the nominal value of 25p per share nor more than 5% above the On 21 May 2003 the Court approved a reduction of capital of the average of the middle market quotation of the Companys ordinary Company from 300,000,000 to 156,687,463.25 and the cancellation shares as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List of 4,369,742,176.73 standing to the credit of the share premium for the five business days preceding the day on which the shares are account.
One of the requirements of the reduction of capital involved purchased.
This resolution will be effective until next years annual the Company giving an undertaking to the Court to create a special general meeting or, if earlier, 13 December 2005.
It is the present reserve comprising the excess of the cancelled share capital and share intention of the directors to seek a similar authority annually.
premium account over the deficit on the Companys profit and loss The directors have no current intention of using this authority and account as at 31 March 2003.
Pursuant to the undertaking, subject to recognise that it could only be used subject to the restrictions certain exceptions, no amount shall be transferred out of such reserve imposed under the terms of the Companys Senior Loan Notes, for so long as there remains outstanding any debt or claim against the while they remain outstanding but feel that the granting of this Company as at 22 May 2003. authority provides for greater flexibility in the management of the Companys share capital.
Share consolidation Following shareholder approval at the 2003 annual general meeting, The directors will only use this authority if they are satisfied that any the share capital of the Company was consolidated with effect from purchase will lead to an increase in the earnings per share of the 9 September 2003, such that every five issued and unissued ordinary ordinary share capital in issue after the purchase and, accordingly, that shares of 5p each were consolidated into one ordinary share of 25p.
the purchase is in the best interests of shareholders.
The directors will also give careful consideration to the gearing levels of the Company Going concern and its general financial position.
A statement is made in the Operating and financial review, on page 20 If the directors use this authority, they may consider holding any in relation to this matter.
shares purchased in treasury, in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985, rather than cancelling them.
Shares held in Annual General Meeting treasury may subsequently be sold for cash, cancelled or used to The Annual General Meeting will be held on 13 September 2004. satisfy share options or share awards under share incentive schemes.
The notice of meeting is set out in full on pages 91 to 93, and a proxy Once held in treasury, the Company is not entitled to exercise any card is enclosed with this report.
rights, including the right to attend and vote at meetings, in respect of those shares.
No dividend or other distribution of the Companys assets may be made to the Company in respect of treasury shares.
33 Directors report continued Although none of the investor groups have yet issued guidance in relation to the purchase, holding or sale of treasury shares, the directors will have regard to such guidance when it is issued.
The total number of options to subscribe for ordinary shares outstanding on 4 June 2004 the latest practicable date prior to the approval of this report was 23,180,528.
The proportion of issued share capital that they represented at that time was around 11.56% and the proportion of issued share capital that they would represent if the full authority to purchase shares is used is 12.84%.
Resolutions 11-17: which are being proposed as ordinary resolutions, authorising the Company and six of its wholly owned subsidiaries to make donations to EU political organisations and incur EU political expenditure, as defined in the Companies Act 1985, and as more fully described above under Political donations.
Resolution 18: which is being proposed as an ordinary resolution, approving the introduction of a new employee sharesave plan, as described in greater detail in the circular to shareholders accompanying this report.
By Order of the Board Marconi Corporation plc M A Skelly Company Secretary New Century Park, PO Box 53 Coventry CV3 1HJ 9 June 2004 34
