DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors present their annual report to shareholders on COMPANYS SHAREHOLDERS The company is not aware of any the affairs of the Group, together with the audited consolidated ordinary shareholders with interests of 3% or more.
financial statements of the Group for the 53 weeks ended 28 February 2004.
DIRECTORS AND THEIR INTERESTS The names and biographical details of the present Directors are set out in the separately PRINCIPAL ACTIVITY AND BUSINESS REVIEW The principal activity published Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2004. of the Group is the operation of food stores and associated Mr R W P Brasher, Mr E M Davies, Mr K J Hydon and Mr D activities in the UK, Republic of Ireland, Hungary, Poland, Czech E Reid were appointed to the Board in the last twelve months Republic, Slovakia, Thailand, South Korea, Taiwan and Malaysia.
and, as required by the Articles of Association, offer themselves During the year, we entered the Turkish and Japanese markets.
Mr C L Allen, Mr P A Clarke, Dr H Einsmann, A review of the business is contained in the Annual Review Ms V Morali and Mr G F Pimlott retire from the Board by and Summary Financial Statement 2004 which is published rotation and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
separately and, together with this document, comprises the full Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements.
The interests of Directors and their immediate families in the shares of Tesco PLC, along with details of Directors share GROUP RESULTS Group sales including VAT rose by 5,277m to options, are contained in the Report of the Directors on 33,557m, representing an increase of 18.7%.
Group underlying Remuneration set out on pages 13 to 23. profit on ordinary activities before taxation, net loss on disposal At no time during the year did any of the Directors have a of fixed assets, integration costs and goodwill amortisation was material interest in any significant contract with the company 1,708m, compared with 1,401m for the previous year, an or any of its subsidiaries.
Including net loss on disposal of fixed assets, integration costs and goodwill amortisation, Group profit on EMPLOYMENT POLICIES The Group depends on the skills and ordinary activities before taxation was 1,600m.
The amount commitment of its employees in order to achieve its objectives.
allocated to the employee profit-sharing scheme this year was Staff at every level are encouraged to make their fullest possible 57m as against 51m last year.
After provision for tax of contribution to Tesco success.
498m, minority interests of 2m and dividends, paid and proposed, of 516m, profit retained for the financial year A key business priority is to deliver an Every little helps shopping amounted to 584m.
Ongoing training programmes seek to ensure that employees understand the Groups customer DIVIDENDS The Directors recommend the payment of a final service objectives and strive to achieve them.
dividend of 4.77p per ordinary share to be paid on 25 June The Groups selection, training, development and promotion 2004 to members on the Register at the close of business on policies ensure equal opportunities for all employees regardless 30 April 2004.
Together with the interim dividend of 2.07p per of gender, marital status, race, age, sexual orientation or disability.
ordinary share paid in November 2003, the total for the year All decisions are based on merit.
will be 6.84p compared with 6.20p for the previous year, an increase of 10.3%.
Internal communications are designed to ensure that employees are well informed about the business of the Group.
These include TANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS Capital expenditure amounted to 2,285m a UK staff magazine called one team and the equivalents in our compared with 2,134m the previous year.
In the Directors overseas businesses, videos and staff brieng sessions.
opinion, the properties of the Group have a market value in Staff opinions are frequently researched through surveys and excess of the book value of 12,009m included in these financial store visits.
We work to deliver Every little helps for all our statements.
SHARE CAPITAL The authorised and called-up share capital of the company, together with details of the shares allotted during the period, are shown in note 24 to the financial statements.
Details of investments held in Tesco PLC are shown in note 14 in the financial statements.
6 TESCO PLC Employees are encouraged to become involved in the financial performance of the Group through a variety of schemes, principally the Tesco employee profit-sharing scheme, the savingsrelated share option scheme Save-As-You-Earn and the Partnership Share Plan Buy-As-You-Earn.
POLITICAL AND CHARITABLE DONATIONS Contributions to community projects and to charities amounted to 3,953,582 2003 3,509,398.
Including gifts in kind total donations amounted to 11,048,435 2003 10,496,651.
There were no political donations 2003 nil.
During the year the Group made contributions of 44,713 2003 - 31,282 in the form of sponsorship for political events: Labour Party 14,368: Conservative Party 5,502: Liberal Democrat Party 6,340: Plaid Cymru 1,300: Fianna Fil 1,203: Usdaw 16,000.
SUPPLIER PAYMENT POLICY Tesco PLC is a signatory to the CBI Code of Prompt Payment.
Copies of the Code may be obtained from the CBI, Centre Point, 103 New Oxford Street, London WC1A 1DU.
Payment terms and conditions are agreed with suppliers in advance.
Tesco PLC has no trade creditors in its balance sheet.
The Group pays its creditors on a pay on time basis which varies according to the type of product and territory in which the suppliers operate.
GOING CONCERN The Directors consider that the Group and the company have adequate resources to remain in operation for the foreseeable future and have therefore continued to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
As with all business forecasts, the Directors statement cannot guarantee that the going concern basis will remain appropriate given the inherent uncertainty about future events.
AUDITORS A resolution to re-appoint  LLP as auditors of the company will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING A separate circular accompanying the annual accounts explains the special business to be considered at the Annual General Meeting on 18 June 2004.
By Order of the Board Ms Lucy Neville-Rolfe Secretary 19 April 2004 Tesco PLC Registered Number: 445790 TESCO PLC 7
