4 Non-executive Directors Jo Connell 56 joined the Board 1 Roy Brown 57 was appointed of THUS as a Non-executive Director as a Non-executive Director of THUS in January 2001.
Mrs Connell was until in January 2001 and became Chairman March 2003 Managing Director of Xansa on 10 July 2002.
She joined Xansa in 1977 after five Mr Brown was a main Board Director years at CMG Limited and an early career of Unilever and President of Unilevers with Mars Group.
She became a member European Foods and Beverages division.
of the Xansa board in 1991 and was In addition, he has held the role of Regional subsequently appointed Chief Operating Director of Unilevers Africa, Middle East, Officer in July 1997 prior to being Central and Eastern Europe division.
appointed Group Managing Director Mr Brown will become Non-executive in November 1999.
Mrs Connell is also Chairman of GKN plc on 21 May 2004, a Non-executive Director of London having been a Non-executive Director, Bridge Software Holdings plc and Synstar and is also a Non-executive Director plc, and is a governor of the University of Brambles Industries plc, BUPA, HMV of Hertfordshire.
Group plc and Lloyds Franchise Board.
5 Margaret Ford 46 was appointed 2 Ian Chippendale 55 was appointed as a Non-executive Director of THUS as a Non-executive Director of THUS in November 2002.
She is the Chairman in October 1999.
Mr Chippendale of English Partnerships, founder and is Executive Chairman of RBS Insurance, Deputy Chairman of Good Practice Ltd having previously been Chief Executive of and a Non-executive Director of Serco plc.
Direct Line Group Ltd, and has considerable From 1993 to 2002 she was Managing experience in the insurance and financial Director and then Chairman of Eglinton services industry.
Prior to joining Direct Management Centre.
From 1997 to 2001 Line in 1996, Mr Chippendale was Chief she was Chairman of Lothian Health Executive of Privilege Insurance from Board and from 2000 to December 1994 and before that he was a Director 2003 she was a Non-executive Director of Provident Financial plc.
She is an expert in change management and leadership issues.
3 Michael fide Kare-Silver 47 joined the Board of THUS as a Non-executive Director in September 2000.
He is currently Managing Director of Modem Media Europe and before that was Head of eBusiness Services at PA Consulting Group.
Prior to that he was Group e-commerce Director at Great Universal Stores Plc GUS.
Prior to joining GUS, Mr fide Kare-Silver was Senior Partner of the strategy consulting firm, the Kalchas Group which was acquired by Computer Sciences Corp. in September 1997.
Mr fide Kare-Silver is Visiting Professor at Middlesex University Business School of Computing Sciences.
Board of Directors 14 7 Executive Directors Philip Male 37 is Chief Operating Audit Committee 6 William Allan 50 is Chief Executive of Officer.
He joined a predecessor company Ian Chippendale, Chairman THUS.
He joined a predecessor company originally as Technical Director of Demon Jo Connell in December 1998 as Chief Operating Internet Limited in October 1997.
Mr Male Michael fide Kare-Silver Officer and was appointed Managing has previous experience as Technical Nomination Committee Director in February 1999.
Mr Allan has Director of Computer Newspaper Services Roy Brown, Chairman more than 25 years experience in the and PA Data Design, part of the Press William Allan telecommunications industry.
In 1997, Association Group, and has held the Ian Chippendale Mr Allan was appointed Chief Executive positions of Head of Research and of Cable & Wireless Regional Businesses.
Development and, prior to joining Demon, Remuneration Committee He was a Director on the boards Director of Strategic Research with the Michael fide Kare-Silver, Chairman of Telecommunications of Jamaica, Press Association Group.
With advanced Ian Chippendale Entel Panama, the Barbados Telephone knowledge of data networking Jo Connell Company and the Barbados External technologies, programming languages Margaret Ford Telecommunications Company.
Between and operating systems, Mr Male has been Senior Independent 1995 and 1997, Mr Allan was Regional involved in the development of Internet Non-executive Director Director for Cable & Wireless North East services in the UK since 1990.
Ian Chippendale Asia Region, President and Representative 8 John Maguire 38 a Chartered Director of Cable & Wireless Japan, Accountant, joined THUS as Chief and Chairman of Cable & Wireless Financial Officer in December 2000.
Prior to joining THUS, Mr Maguire was He was also a Director on the boards Vice President Finance Japan and Asia of International Digital Communications for Cable & Wireless Global.
This IDC Japan, Sakhalin Electrosvyaz, included leading the finance team in Sakhalin Telecom, Sakhalin Telecom Cable & Wireless IDC, Japans second Mobile and Nakhodka Telecom.
Mr Maguire has extensive financial and international telecommunications experience, having held a number of other key financial positions within the Cable & Wireless group since 1991, including that of Regional Finance Director of Cable & Wireless Asia Pacific, based in Singapore.
