Directors Report Board of Directors The Directors are pleased to present their Annual Report, together with the The names and details of the Directors of the Company are shown on pages audited Accounts, for the year ended 31 March 2004.
Activities In accordance with the Articles of Association, William Allan, Michael fide KareTHUS is a provider of voice, data, Internet and contact centre services to Silver and Jo Connell are retiring from office at the Annual General Meeting.
corporate and small and medium sized enterprise markets, primarily in the UK.
These Directors, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
A review of the business and its future development is contained in the Chairmans Letter and Chief Executives Review on pages 4 and 5 and in the Operating and Directors interests Financial Review on pages 7 to 13.
Details of the Directors service contracts, letters of appointment and remuneration are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 21 to 26.
Other than Results and dividend as disclosed therein, none of the Directors had a material interest in any contract The loss transferred to reserves for the year amounted to 25.2 million 2003: of significance with the Company and its subsidiaries during or at the end of the 59.0 million, details of which are set out in the Group Profit and Loss Account financial year.
The Directors interests, all beneficial, in the ordinary shares of the Company The Company has not declared or paid a dividend on its share capital 2003: at the year end, including awards and options under the THUS Group plc Nil.
The Company intends to retain future earnings to expand the growth and Discretionary Share Option Scheme, the THUS Group Performance Share Plan, development of its business.
Accordingly, it does not anticipate paying dividends the THUS Group plc Sharesave Scheme, the THUS plc Employee Sharesave in the foreseeable future.
In addition, given the Companys stage of development Scheme, the THUS plc Executive Share Option Scheme and the THUS plc and the accumulated losses built up during the network deployment, the Discretionary Share Option Scheme 2000 are contained in the Directors Company is not yet able to pay a dividend.
Remuneration Report on pages 21 to 26.
Share capital In addition to the interests referred to above, William Allan, John Maguire and Details of THUS Groups authorised and issued share capital as at 31 March Philip Male, as Executive Directors, are to be regarded as having an interest, 2004 all of which was fully paid or credited as fully paid are contained as trustees, in the 17,600,525 ordinary shares held in trust to satisfy entitlements in Note 19 to the Accounts on page 39. under the Companys various share incentive arrangements and the excess shares Loan facility held in trust.
These interests are also disclosed in the Directors Remuneration The Company reduced its loan facility from 90 million to 60 million with effect Report on pages 21 to 26. from 28 May 2003.
Further details are contained in Note 15 to the Accounts Directors and officers liability insurance on pages 36 and 37.
THUS Group plc maintains liability insurance for the Directors and officers Environment of the Company and its subsidiaries.
Our environmental policy principles remain unchanged and continue Substantial shareholdings to meet the criteria set by FTSE4Good.
We believe communications technology The Company has been notified of the following interests representing 3% or more can help reduce adverse environmental impact.
We believe that proper fiscal of the issued share capital of the Company as at 30 April 2004. management, operational management and risk management are all facets of good corporate governance.
We believe good environmental management is a key part of this responsibility and that it adds value for all our stakeholders.
Percentage of Our environmental management system is being integrated with the Number of shares issued share capital health and safety management system.
This, together with environmental Meditor Capital management training in the risk management team, will aid efficient control Management Limited 63,943,900 4.74 of these complementary risk areas.
Legal & General Group plc 53,739,011 3.98 We recognise our responsibility to properly manage redundant and obsolete Prudential plc 41,142,455 3.05 equipment, hence we maintain our endeavours to have electronic and electrical equipment re-used or recycled in preference to disposal.
Littledown Nominees Ltd a nominee for Zurich Financial We are committed to reducing environmental impacts and continue Services Group 40,865,000 3.03 to work with our specialist energy management advisors to reduce waste and cut costs.
Our preference is to procure energy from renewable sources and energy efficient equipment, where available and financially viable.
THUS recently secured energy from renewable supplies that provides electricity to 33% of our site portfolio.
We have installed intelligent meters at a number of selected sites, to allow our specialist advisors to analyse usage patterns.
The programme of installation continues, as this will help us identify and rectify consumption inefficiencies and set targets for the coming years.
THUS is encouraging its shareholders to receive documentation electronically via the Web.
Please see the back of the Annual Report.
16 Employees Once again our occupational injury rates remain very low when compared Our employees have yet again responded well to the challenges we set ourselves to industry sector standards, which is a tribute to our employees professionalism.
for the year and, in the main, our objectives were met.
THUS employees reported seven minor injuries and two lost time injuries over the 2003 calendar year.
With the approximate average number of employees Our ability to meet the challenges in the year ahead will be dependent on all across the year this gives a frequency rate of 0.28.
THUS has not been the subject of us maintaining the same levels of commitment and performance, and the need of any enforcement action.
This record is reflected in the strong relationships to continue to attract, develop and retain the very best talent will again be critical.
we have built with our insurers.
The Company continues to operate within very tight cost controls but has Charitable and political donations ensured that money spent on development activities has been focused on the During the financial year the Group made a charitable donation amounting areas of improving leadership and personal development and we have yet to 7,500 plus gifts in kind to Emmaus, an organisation which provides help again seen an increased usage of the COOL e-learning system.
to long-term unemployed homeless people to rebuild their lives.
The Group also We have focused the business on improving the key measures of staff turnover donated 10,587 to the Princes Trust as well as providing the telephone lines and sickness.
Both of these measures have seen significant improvement over free of charge to Womens Aid to support its Domestic Abuse Campaign.
It made the year and are now considered to be extremely low for our market sector no donations for political purposes.
The Group and members of staff provided and industry in general.
assistance during the year to Comic Relief.
Recruitment activity has remained steady and we are seeing a greater interest Creditor payment policy and practice externally from experienced candidates from within our market sector keen The Groups current policy and practice concerning the payment of the to join us.
majority of its trade creditors is to follow the Better Payment Practice Code.
Copies are available upon request from the Company Secretary.
For other Our employee policies and processes are continually reviewed to ensure our suppliers, the Groups policy and practice is to settle terms of payment when commitment to providing equal opportunities to all our staff is maintained within agreeing the terms of the transaction, to include the terms in contracts, and all areas of the business and to support our position that performance and ability to pay in accordance with its contractual and legal obligations.
The Groups remain the basis for progression within the business.
creditor days at 31 March 2004 were 51 days.
The Company did not have A follow-up employee survey was conducted in September 2003 and, whilst any trade creditors at 31 March 2004. it highlighted areas of focus for future improvement, we also found that the Auditors majority of questions answered demonstrated improvements during the year.
A resolution to re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors to the Company and Plans are in hand to ensure this key piece of feedback is used to further enhance to authorise the Directors to fix their remuneration will be put to shareholders our employee proposition for the coming years.
at the Annual General Meeting.
Our policy in respect of the employment of disabled persons is the same Annual General Meeting as that relating to all other employees in matters of training, career development The Annual General Meeting will be held at the Radisson SAS Hotel, 301 Argyle and promotion.
Where employees become disabled during the period of their Street, Glasgow, G2 8DL on Friday 9 July 2004 at 11.00 a. m. Details of the employment, we will endeavour to continue to provide employment.
resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting are contained in the Health and Safety Notice of Annual General Meeting on page 46.
We remain convinced that moral and economic drivers are compatible By Order of the Board in occupational risk management.
We recognise that efficient management David Macleod systems are safe management systems because the human and economic costs Secretary of accidents are greater than effective risk control costs.
30 April 2004 Our health and safety management system, modelled on the principles set out in the Health and Safety Executives Successful Health and Safety Management, continues to evolve.
We have implemented an initiative called Serious About Safety, which provides access to information and helps build a positive safety culture.
High quality document folders containing information, risk assessment forms and guidance have been distributed to employees, enabling them to conduct personal risk assessments.
Operational documentation can be included in the system, emphasising the ethos of safety as an integral part of work.
In light of new legislation, we published our Occupational Driving Safety Code of Practice.
Our position is clear: THUS employees are not required to use a mobile phone whilst driving and the use of hand held devices whilst driving is prohibited.
We continue to revise our policy and process documentation as required, for example, the procedure for assessing and controlling occupational risks to our employees who are mothers, or expectant mothers, and their infants.
