TRA VIS PERKINS PLC Directors report For the year ended 31 December 2004 The directors present their annual report and audited accounts for the year ended 31 December 2004.
Principal activities Travis Perkins is one of the largest builders merchants and home improvement retailers in the U. K. The principal activities of the group are the marketing and distribution of timber, building and plumbing and heating materials and the hiring of tools to the building trade and industry generally and since the acquisition of Wickes, to the general public, within the United Kingdom.
Review of groups position, developments and future prospects A review of the groups position, developments and future prospects is contained in the chairmans statement on pages 4 and 5, the chief executives review on pages 6 to 10 and the finance directors report on pages 12 to 16.
Results and dividends The group results and dividends for the year ended 31 December 2004 are set out on page 56.
If approved, the final dividend will be paid on 16 May 2005 to those shareholders on the register at the close of business on 22 April 2005.
Directors and their interests The names of the directors at 31 December 2004, together with their biographical details, are set out on pages 30 and 31 except for those of Frank McKay who is retiring from the board on 14 March 2005.
All of those directors held office throughout the year, except Geoff Cooper and John Coleman who were appointed on 1 February and 10 February 2005, respectively.
In accordance with the companys Articles of Association, John Carter, Michael Dearden and Peter Maydon will retire by rotation and, being eligible, will offer themselves for re-election at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
John Carter has a rolling twelve month notice period in his service contract.
As non-executive directors, Michael Dearden and Peter Maydon do not have service contracts.
In light of the evaluation of their performance as a result of the process described on page 33, Tim Stevenson, chairman, confirms on behalf of the board that both Michael Dearden and Peter Maydon continue to be effective in, and committed to, their roles as non-executive directors.
In accordance with the companys articles of association, John Coleman and Geoff Cooper, who have been appointed as directors since the last annual general meeting, will retire at the forthcoming annual general meeting and will offer themselves for election.
Geoff Cooper has a rolling twelve month notice period in his service contract.
As a non-executive director, John Coleman does not have a service contract.
None of the directors had an interest in any contract to which the company or any of its subsidiaries was a party during the year.
The disclosable interests of directors at 31 December 2004, including holdings, if any, of wives and of children aged under 18, were as detailed in the Remuneration Report on pages 45 and 47.
Substantial shareholders At 4 March 2005, the only substantial interests in the companys issued share capital representing 3 per cent or more of such share capital notified to the company were as follows: Beneficial Non-Beneficial No.
Employees and charitable donations Statements on these matters are contained in the corporate responsibility statement on pages 27 and 28.
Supplier payment policy The groups policy is to pay all of its suppliers in accordance with established terms.
Group trade creditors at 31 December 2004 represent 47.8 days 31 December 2003: 48.6 days of average purchases of goods and services.
The company has no trade creditors.
Annual general meeting special business The annual general meeting of the company will be held at Lords Conference and Banqueting Centre, St Johns Wood Road, London NW8 8QN on Wednesday 27 April 2005 at 11.45 a. m. The following items are to be proposed at the forthcoming annual general meeting as items of special business.
Resolution 9: report of remuneration committee In accordance with the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002, this resolution seeks shareholders approval of the report of the Remuneration Committee set out on pages 39 to 47.
Resolution 10: renewal of authority to allot shares Under the Companies Act 1985 the board is not able to allot shares except with the general or specific authority of shareholders.
Resolution 10 renews the boards authority to issue share capital up to an aggregate nominal amount of 1,439,526 being the lesser of the companys authorised but unissued share capital and one third of its issued share capital.
This represents 11.94 per cent of the issued ordinary share capital of the company as at 4 March 2005.
The authority extends until the earlier of the conclusion of the next annual general meeting and the date fifteen months from the passing of this resolution.
The board does not have any present intention of exercising this authority other than for the purposes of the companys employee share option schemes.
The company does not hold any treasury shares as at 4 March 2005.
Resolution 11: limited authority to allot shares for cash The Companies Act 1985 provides that, when equity securities are being issued for cash, such securities must first be offered pro-rata to existing shareholders unless the board is given power to allot them without regard to that requirement.
Resolution 11 therefore empowers the board to allot for cash, equity securities of a nominal amount not exceeding 404,535 representing 3.35 per cent of the issued share capital as at 4 March 2005 without first offering such securities to existing ordinary shareholders.
The calculation of this amount takes into account the placing of five million shares on 17 December 2004 in connection with the Wickes acquisition and the relevant institutional shareholder voting guidelines in respect of non-pre-emptive share issues.
Any issue of shares for cash will, however, still be subject to the requirements of the UK Listing Authority.
Resolution 12: amendment of articles of association The company has reviewed its Articles of Association the Articles to take account of regulatory changes and current practice.
The following is a summary of the proposed principal amendments: Article 4 - Allotment Article 4 is amended to bring the sale of treasury shares within the scope of the section 95 authority disapplying pre-emption rights under section 89 of the Companies Act 1985.
This is required as the statutory pre-emption rights apply to the sale of treasury shares.
50 TRA VIS PERKINS PLC Article 7 - Variation of Rights Article 7 is amended to exclude shares held in treasury from the calculation of the three-quarters in nominal value in order to reflect the inability of a company holding treasury shares to exercise any voting rights in respect of such shares.
Article 11 - Right to Certificate Articles 11 A and D are updated to refer to the United Kingdom Listing Authority the UKLA rather than to the London Stock Exchange.
Article 27 - Power of Sale Under existing Article 27 A v, the Company is required to inform the London Stock Exchange if it intends to sell the shares belonging to untraceable members.
This is no longer a requirement under the UKLA Listing Rules the Listing Rules and it is therefore proposed that this reference be deleted.
Article 27 C is amended to bring both certificated and uncertificated shares within the provisions concerning the transfer or sale of forfeited or surrendered shares and evidence of such forfeiture or surrender.
Article 29 - Form of Transfer Article 29 C is amended so that it is subject to the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001 the Regulations.
Article 30 - Right to Refuse Registration Article 30 is amended to anticipate the transfer of both certificated and uncertificated shares, the latter being subject to the Regulations.
Article 31 - Fees on Registration Existing Article 31 provides that transfers relating to or affecting title to shares be registered without payment of any fee.
This is no longer a requirement of the Listing Rules and it is therefore proposed that Article 31 be amended to provide that the Company has the option to charge a fee for registering the transfer of a share.
However, the company has no current intention to make such a charge.
Article 32 - Suspension of Registration and Closing of Register The reference to the London Stock Exchange is deleted from Article 32 as it is no longer a requirement of the Listing Rules that the closing of the members register be discretionary.
Article 32 is amended to refer to the Regulations.
Article 37 - Fractions Article 37 is amended to make it subject to the Regulations and to provide that the Board may treat a members shares held in certificated and uncertificated form as separate holdings when effecting divisions and or consolidations.
Article 39 - Purchase of Own Shares Article 39 is updated to delete the reference to the London Stock Exchange.
Article 43 - Length and Form of Notice Article 43 is amended to allow the Board to i determine those persons entitled to receive notices of meeting: ii determine by which time a person must be entered on the register of members in order to have the right to attend and vote at the meeting: and iii permit a notice of meeting to be published on a website in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 Electronic Communications Order 2000.
Article 44 - Omission to Send Notice Article 44 is amended to provide that, where a notice of meeting is published on a website and the notice contains irregularities, proceedings at such meeting will not thereby be invalidated.
51 TRA VIS PERKINS PLC New Article 45 - Postponement of General Meetings A new Article 45 is added to provide that the Board has the power to postpone general meetings where it considers that it is impractical or unreasonable to hold the general meeting at the time or place specified in the notice.
Article 47 - Procedure if Quorum not Present Article 47 A is amended so that where a general meeting is not quorate, the meeting will automatically stand to be adjourned to such other day, time and or place as may have been set out in the original notice convening the meeting.
Article 49 - Directors Right to Attend and Speak Article 49 is amended to provide that the chairman may invite any person to attend and speak at a general meeting where he considers it will assist in the deliberations of the meeting.
Article 51 - Notice of Adjourned Meeting Article 51 is amended to provide that it is not necessary to give notice of an adjourned meeting, or the business to be transacted at the adjourned meeting, if the meeting has been adjourned in accordance with the proposed amendment to Article 47.
Article 60 - Voting by Proxy Article 60 is amended to refer to the Regulations.
Article 60 A is amended to provide expressly that proxies may be submitted using the CREST automated proxy-voting service.
Article 60 G is amended to refer to the UKLA rather than to the London Stock Exchange.
Article 62 - When Votes Through Proxy Valid Though Authority Revoked Article 62 is amended to include a proxy appointed by means of an electronic communication.
Article 68 - Failure to Disclose Interests in Shares Article 68 E v b is amended to refer to the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000, rather than the Financial Services Act 1986.
Article 68 is also amended to have regard to the requirements of the Listing Rules, as amended in December 2003 to take account of the introduction of treasury shares.
Article 84 - Participation in Board Meetings Article 84 is amended to refer to notices served by means of an electronic communication.
Article 86 - Directors Fees Article 86 is amended so that the financial thresholds that apply to non-executive directors fees do not apply to a non-executive chairman.
Article 86 is amended to allow non-executive directors to receive part of their fee in shares rather than cash.
Article 91 - Remuneration of Executive Directors Article 91 is amended to include the non-executive chairman so that the Board may determine his remuneration in the same way as for the executive directors pursuant to the existing Article 91.
Article 136 - Accounts to be Sent to Members etc.
Article 136 is amended to allow the Company, provided certain procedural requirements are met, to meets its statutory and Listing Rules obligations in respect of sending certain documents to members by means of an electronic communication or the posting of such documents on a website.
52 TRA VIS PERKINS PLC Article 137 - Notices to be in Writing Article 137 is amended so that notices can be given by electronic communication as well as in writing.
Article 138 - Service of Other Notice and Documents on Members Article 138 is amended so that notices and other documents can be given by electronic communication as well as in writing.
Article 139 - Notice by Advertisement Article 139 is amended so that, where a member has not notified the Company of an electronic address for communication, the Company may convene a general meeting by a notice in a national newspaper if there is a suspension of postal services.
Article 140 - Proof of Service Article 140 is amended to set out when notices that are sent electronically are deemed to be given.
Article 146 - Indemnity Article 146 is amended so as to benefit from new provisions in the Companies Act 1985 that amplify the Companys existing power to indemnify the directors and officers of the Company.
This amendment will allow the Company, in certain circumstances, to provide funds to directors and officers to meet defence costs as they are incurred.
Resolution 13: authority to purchase own shares Your directors believe that it is in the best interests of shareholders that the company should have the flexibility to make market purchases of its own shares up to 10 per cent of the issued share capital.
The effect of any such purchases and the cancellation of such shares would be to reduce the number of shares in issue and the directors would only make such purchases after consideration of the effect on earnings per share and the longer term benefits for the company and shareholders generally.
The fact that such authority is being sought should not be taken to imply that shares would be purchased at any particular price or indeed at all.
At 4 March 2005, there were options outstanding over 3,479,353 ordinary shares, representing 2.88 per cent of the companys issued ordinary share capital.
This would rise to 3.21 per cent if the authority being sought to buy back shares were to be exercised in full, and all of the repurchased shares were to be cancelled.
Auditors A resolution to re-appoint Deloitte & Touche LLP as the companys auditors and to authorise the directors to fix the auditors remuneration will be proposed at the annual general meeting.
By order of the Board A. S. Pike Secretary 4 March 2005 53
