Pg 20 Regionals division The Regionals division publishes a large portfolio of newspaper Going forward into 2005 further improvement of advertising and online brands across the UK.
Its 240 local and regional sales performance will remain rmly at the centre of newspapers are strong, often market-leading titles which sit managements agenda.
at the heart of the communities they serve.
Circulation revenues have improved signicantly due to the Groups In 2004 the division produced a strong performance reecting cover price policy.
However, in line with the rest of the market, the benets of the Stabilise Revitalise Grow strategy.
Key activities in the Regionals division included: Improving circulation performance remains a key priority and Improved operational and management structures with the a primary focus for the Regionals division.
Where titles have appointment of a new Managing Director and the establishment been reviewed and relaunched, there has been a positive impact of a Regionals Executive Board on the newspaper sales trend.
Driving circulation revenue growth through cover price increases, reecting the Groups little and often cover price policy During the year three titles the Western Mail, Teesside Evening A strong advertising performance across the division which Gazette and Hudderseld Daily Examiner converted from included the benets of tighter yield management, new broadsheet to compact format.
All three relaunches incorporated advertising platforms and Group-wide advertising deals best practice developed by the divisional editorial team, and The move of the Groups digital operations into profit for circulation performance has improved on the Western Mail and the first time.
Further developments with the Groups partners the Teesside Evening Gazette following the relaunch.
The Chester in sh4 will see enhanced growth as new products are Chronicle will also be relaunched as a compact in March 2005. brought to market.
The recent NORAS survey rated sh4 as the UKs most popular website for job seekers The tabloid conversions of the Hudderseld Daily Examiner and Continued improvement in the revenue and profit performance Chester Chronicle have been made possible by the Groups of the Metro titles Manufacturing strategy, under which the various print sites are Benets from continued tight cost management, which is now managed as a single coherent network.
These newspapers now embedded as an essential part of the divisions culture, now have the benefit of greatly increased colour availability, and other savings from consolidating support functions and which increases their appeal both to readers and advertisers.
delayering management structures Other editorial initiatives included the relaunch of the Liverpool Advertising sales remain the major revenue stream of the Daily Post, the results of which have been very encouraging.
Better central co-ordination of the commercial function The title is now ranked as one of the industrys top-performing has resulted in improvements across the various sectors of regional dailies.
This, along with improved advertising market conditions, helped to deliver strong revenue growth.
Further ongoing activities to drive improvements in circulation volume performance include: Amra, the Groups national advertising sales house for regional The appointment of a Newspaper Sales Director for the newspapers, delivered a robust performance, securing new Regionals division, tasked with driving circulation performance revenue with a number of innovative deals throughout 2004. and leading a centrally led network for circulation management An expanded market research programme to enable greater Numerous initiatives are ongoing to further improve advertising understanding of customers needs performance in the division.
These include: Continued review and development of the editorial content The roll-out of a new Group-wide advertising system and format of the divisions newspaper titles to improve both Greater emphasis on effective sales training and development reader and advertiser appeal Continued drive to optimise yields to maximise profit growth Driving direct-to-home sales through newsagents and the Cross-selling between the Nationals and Regionals, divisions own networks co-ordinated by the Advertising Board The introduction of new, common platforms in some Looking ahead, the division is focused on improving performance content areas, including TV listings, weather and dating by driving growth in its core business and seeking out new pages.
This produced the triple benefit of improved reader opportunities for revenue and profit growth.
This will be achieved satisfaction, lower costs and new revenue opportunities within the framework of continued tight cost management from national advertisers across the division.
Increased content sharing, with the launch of an intranetbased travel service to provide high-quality content to all titles.
This is in addition to the existing motors service, which has proved to be a key driver of new revenue during the year Category management approach to key advertising sectors to ensure best practice and learning is driven into each operating business Pg 21 Review of financial performance The combination of numerous revenue growth initiatives and The turnover and operating profit of the Groups Regionals the continued tight management of costs has driven robust division, incorporating Metros and digital media, is as follows: operating profit and margin progression for the Regionals division.
On a like-for-like basis, operating and operating profit increased by 26.7 million 21.5% from margin improved by 4.2% and excluding the benefit of the 123.9 million to 150.6 million.
On a like-for-like basis, revenue additional weeks trading, operating margin improved by increased by 6.1% and operating profit increased by 24.7%.
Excluding the benefit of the additional weeks trading, revenues increased by 5.2% and operating profit increased by 22.3%.
A strong performance for core Regional newspaper titles was supported by significant improvements from Metros and digital media activities.
The Groups three Metros achieved a 1.1 million 550.0% improvement in operating profits to 1.3 million while digital media activities achieved a profit of 0.7 million, representing an improvement of 4.5 million compared to a loss of 3.8 million in 2003.
Pre exceptional as dened in footnote 2 on page 17.
Pg 22 Advertising revenue for the Regionals division increased by Circulation revenue for the Regional newspaper titles 3.4% from 404.0 million to 417.8 million.
On a like-for-like decreased by 0.8 million 1.0% from 81.5 million to 80.7 basis, advertising revenue increased by 6.0% from 394.0 million.
On a like-for-like basis, circulation revenue increased by million to 417.8 million.
Excluding the additional weeks trading, 6.0% from 76.1 million to 80.7 million.
Excluding the benefit advertising revenues increased by 5.3% with Regional newspaper of the additional weeks trading, circulation revenues increased titles, excluding Metros, achieving growth of 4.5%.
The division by 4.3% to 79.4 million.
The performance reects the benefit achieved year-on-year growth for all categories excluding the of cover price increases partially offset by circulation volume additional weeks trading with Display up 3.9%, Recruitment declines.
During the year the Group experienced circulation up 6.8%, Property up 12.5%, Motors up 0.3% and Other declines of 5.6% for Evening titles, 3.0% for Morning titles, classied categories up 2.8%.
2.0% for Weekly titles and 8.7% for Sunday titles.
Improving this circulation performance remains a key area of focus for Advertising revenues for the Regional newspaper titles in management.
Some improvement in performance has been London and the South East have continued to improve with achieved for a number of titles in the second half of the year growth of 3.8%, excluding the additional weeks trading, with the Daily morning titles declining by 2.3% in the second reecting 3.7% in the first half and 4.0% in the second half half compared to 3.7% in the first.
compared to a decline of 2.5% in 2003.
Largest regional titles Metros achieved strong advertising revenue growth of 1.4 million Daily Average A B circulation readers 13.5% driven by an 11.7% increase excluding the additional 2004 2004 weeks trading in Display and a 43.6% increase excluding the additional weeks trading in Recruitment.
Morning Daily Post Welsh 40,835 118,150 Digital media activities delivered a robust performance with Western Mail 43,247 121,814 advertising revenues increasing by 100.0% with all categories The Journal Newcastle 41,665 98,448 achieving strong year-on-year growth.
Like-for-like as dened in footnote 1 on page 17.
