Pg 45 A. Sly Bailey 43 D. Sir Angus Grossart 67 G. David Marlow 69 Chief Executive Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Sly joined the Board in February 2003.
Sir Angus joined the Board in September David joined the Board in 1992.
Originally She started her media career in 1999 having previously been a director of qualied as a chartered accountant, he advertising sales at the Guardian and Mirror Group since 1998.
Having qualied served with 3i between 1960 and 1992 then The Independent.
She joined IPC as both a chartered accountant and and became Chief Executive.
He was Media Limited in 1989 as Head of advocate, he practised for some years at previously a director of Brixton Plc, Classied Advertising Sales and joined the Scottish bar.
He founded and now Brunner Mond Holdings Plc, and its Board in 1994 as Advertising Director.
chairs the merchant bank Noble Grossart.
Chairman of Deutschland Investment She was appointed Managing Director He is vice chairman of The Royal Bank of Corporation Inc.
He is a member of the of IPC tx, the TV listings division, in 1997.
Scotland Plc and a director of Scottish Solicitors Disciplinary Tribunal and a She was appointed Chief Executive of and Newcastle Plc.
He is a former former member of the South Bank Board IPC Media Limited in December 1999 Chairman of the National Galleries of and of the Council of King Edward VII and subsequently led the sale of the Scotland and is a Trustee of the National Hospital, Midhurst.
business to AOL Time Warner.
She is Heritage Memorial Fund.
He has been a also a non-executive director at EMI and director of a wide range of public H. David Ross 39 was previously a non-executive director companies in the UK, Canada and the Non-Executive Director of Littlewoods Plc.
She is also President United States, involved in investment, David joined the Board in February 2004. of NewstrAid, a charity for the distribution insurance, construction, property, media He qualied as a chartered accountant and retail trade.
He cofounded and is currently Deputy B. Peter Birch CBE 67 E. Gary Hoffman 44 Chairman of The Carphone Warehouse, Senior Independent Director Non-Executive Director Europes leading mobile communication Peter joined the Board in March 1998 Gary joined the Board in March 2005. retailer.
He took a lead role with The and was Chairman of Trinity until He was appointed Chief Executive of Carphone Warehouse IPO in July 2000.
He started his Barclaycard in 2001 and joined Barclays He is Chairman of National Express commercial career at Nestl and then Main Board in January 2004.
Gary began Group Plc, holds non-executive moved to Gillette, eventually becoming his career in Barclays in 1982 and held directorships at Wembley National Managing Director, Gillette UK.
He then various positions until he was appointed Stadium Limited and Big Yellow Self joined Abbey National where he served Managing Director, Marketing and Storage Plc and is a council member as Chief Executive between 1984 and Distribution in 1998.
Before joining of Sports England.
He is currently Chairman of Land Barclaycard, Gary was responsible for Securities PLC and Kensington Group the launch of internet banking as well I. Vijay Vaghela 38 plc.
He is a director of Travelex plc, as setting up Barclaycall, the telephone Group Finance Director Sainsburys Bank plc and Dah Sing banking service.
He is a member of the Vijay qualied as a chartered accountant Financial Holdings Limited.
He is also an International and European Board of Visa.
and worked in private practice with adviser to N M Rothschild & Sons Limited Deloitte.
He joined Mirror Group in and Cambridge Place Investment F. Penny Hughes 45 1994 as Internal Auditor.
Non-Executive Director subsequently Group Treasurer and then Penny joined the Board in September Director of Accounting and Treasury.
C. Sir Victor Blank 62 1999 having been a director of Mirror He was appointed Group Finance Chairman Group since 1997.
Penny started her Director in May 2003.
Sir Victor joined the Board in 1999 having career at Procter & Gamble and the been Chairman of Mirror Group since July Milk Marketing Board, before joining J. Paul Vickers 45 1998.
Having originally qualied as a Coca-Cola where she rose to be Secretary and Group Legal Director solicitor, Sir Victor became a partner at President of Coca-Cola Great Britain and Paul joined the Board in September 1999 Clifford Turner now Clifford Chance in Ireland.
She currently serves as a nonhaving been a director of Mirror Group 1969.
In 1981 he joined the merchant executive director on the Boards of since 1994.
He originally qualied as a bank Charterhouse as Head of Corporate Vodafone Group Plc and Reuters Plc and barrister and was in private practice at Finance, subsequently becoming Chief has an international career serving on the bar.
He was legal manager of the Executive and Chairman and a director of both the Board of Skandiaviska Enskilda London Daily News, which he left to join the Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc.
Banken and The Gap Inc. She was the breakfast television company TV-am He is currently Chairman of GUS plc.
formerly the Chairman of Web Angel Plc where he subsequently became Assistant and has served on the Board of Next Plc, Managing Director.
He was previously a He serves on the Council of Oxford Beresford Plc and The Body Shop non-executive director of Virgin Radio.
University and is Chairman of the charity International Plc.
He is a member of the expertise in marketing and has developed Financial Reporting Council.
experience in many human resource areas including leadership development, motivation and retention.
Pg 46 The Executive Committee From left to right Sly Bailey Rupert Middleton Tony Pusey From left to right Georgina Harvey Paul Vickers Nick Fullagar From left to right Vijay Vaghela Ellis Watson Humphrey Cobbold Pg Pg 47 47 page HEAD Sly Bailey Humphrey Cobbold Rupert Middleton Chief Executive Director of Strategic Development Director of Manufacturing Sly joined the Company in February 2003.
Humphrey joined Trinity Mirror as Director Rupert joined Trinity Mirror as Group She started her media career in of Strategic Development in June 2003.
Director of Manufacturing in March 2004. advertising sales at the Guardian and He has responsibility for corporate finance He is responsible for developing an then The Independent.
She joined IPC and strategy and manages two of the integrated manufacturing division.
Media Limited in 1989 as Head of Groups specic businesses Sports and Prior to joining Trinity Mirror, Rupert was Classied Advertising Sales and joined Magazines & Exhibitions.
He acts as previously Managing Director of a division its Board in 1994 as Advertising Director.
Trinity Mirrors Board member of sh4, within The Stationery Ofce TSO.
She was appointed Managing Director the online classied business, where he of IPC tx, the TV listings division, in 1997. will be Chairman during 2005 6.
Prior to Tony Pusey She was appointed Chief Executive of joining Trinity Mirror, Humphrey had been Group Information IPC Media Limited in December 1999 a partner at management consulting rm Technology Director and subsequently led the sale of the McKinsey & Co. for six years.
Tony was appointed Group IT Director business to AOL Time Warner.
Prior to joining Trinity also a non-executive director at EMI and Nick Fullagar Mirror, he was Group CIO and Business was previously a non-executive director Director of Corporate Change Director at Storehouse plc which of Littlewoods Plc.
She is also President Communications incorporates BHS and Mothercare.
of NewstrAid, the industry charity for Nick joined Mirror Group as a reporter the distribution and retail trade.
He is Ellis Watson responsible for Group communications Managing Director, Vijay Vaghela including investor and public relations.
National Newspapers Group Finance Director He was appointed to the Executive Ellis joined Trinity Mirror as General Vijay qualied as a chartered accountant Committee in 2002.
Manager of UK Nationals in May 2003. and worked in private practice with Previously Ellis was Managing Director Deloitte.
He joined Mirror Group in 1994 Georgina Harvey of Celador International.
Before this he as Internal Auditor.
He was subsequently Managing Director, spent 10 years with News International Group Treasurer and then Director of Regional Newspapers where, for the majority of the time, he Accounting and Treasury.
He was Georgina joined the Company in was Marketing Director for the tabloid appointed Group Finance Director in February 2005.
She started her media newspapers.
Ellis is also Chairman of May 2003. career at Express Newspapers where the Newspaper Publishers Association.
she was appointed Advertising Director Paul Vickers in 1994.
She joined IPC Media in 1995 Secretary and Group Legal Director as Group Advertising Sales Director for Paul joined the Board in September 1999 SouthBank and went on to form IPC having been a director of Mirror Group Advertising in 1998, where she was since 1994.
He originally qualied as a Managing Director.
Georgina became barrister and was in private practice at a member of the Board of IPC Media the bar.
He was legal manager of the in 2000 and was subsequently appointed London Daily News which he left to join Managing Director of Wallpaper Group the breakfast television company TV-am in 2003. where he subsequently became Assistant Managing Director.
He was previously a non-executive director of Virgin Radio.
