United Utilities PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2004 Annual Report & Accounts 2004 Annual Report 04 United Utilities PLC Registered in England and Wales Dawson House Registered number 2366616 Great Sankey Warrington www.
qxd 9 06 2004 17:44 Page b This report contains certain forward-looking statements with respect to the financial condition, results of operations and business of the company.
Statements that are not historical facts, including statements about the companys beliefs and expectations, are forward-looking statements.
Words such as expects, anticipates, intends, plans, believes, seeks, Stakeholder Report 2004 estimates, potential, reasonably possible and variations of these words and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements.
These statements are based on current plans, assumptions, estimates and projections which may be signicantly varied, and therefore investors should not rely on them.
Forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks and speak only as of the date they are made, and except as required by the rules of the UK Listing Authority and the London Stock Exchange plc, the company undertakes no obligation to update publicly any of them in the light of new information or future events.
Our Forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties.
United Utilities PLC cautions investors that a number of important factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated or implied in any forward-looking statements.
These factors include: i the effect of, and changes in, regulation and government policy: ii the effects of competition and price pressures: iii the ability of the company to achieve cost savings Company and operational synergies: iv the ability of the company to service its future operations and capital requirements: v the timely development and acceptance of new products and services by the company: vi the effect of technological changes: and vii the companys success at managing the risks of the foregoing.
The company cautions that the foregoing list of important factors does not address all the factors that could cause the results to differ materially.
The financial information set out in this stakeholder report does not 04 constitute the companys statutory accounts for the year ended 31 March 2004 but is derived from those accounts.
The statutory accounts for the year ended 31 March 2004 contained an unqualified audit report.
The statutory accounts were despatched to shareholders on 18 June 2004 and will be delivered to the Registrar of Companies following the companys annual general meeting to be held on 30 July 2004.
In this report: our performance and results the customers view facts and gures Cover image: Dawson House Graduate recruit, Nina Shabanzadeh Warrington WA5 3LW managing our impacts with one of our electricity maintenance Telephone 01925 237000 teams at Little Hayeld, Derbyshire.
com Contents 2004 Chairmans statement 3 highlights Chief executives review 4 Future challenges 5 Facts and gures 6 Business review: Service Delivery 8 Customer Sales 11 Contract Solutions 13 Vertex 15 Your Communications 17 Corporate responsibility 18 In our report 44.31 p total dividend per ordinary share up 2.6% post rights issue The community 349m campaigner The customer profit before tax What are you going to do an increase of 6% Wheres my money going?
29% improvement in health & safety performance to 2,173 days lost The shareholder The business journalist 68m Can you maintain that you Are my shares secure?
operating profit in infrastructure management an increase of 15% 260m spent on improving The environment The employee officer the environment How are you planning my What about your impact on training and development?
before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items Chairmans statement Different people have different interests in United Utilities.
We have to understand and respond to all of our stakeholders.
Managing responsibilities During the last year the group has moved Our business principles forward signicantly.
In line with our promise, we have maintained dividends to shareholders We value and respect in real terms and propose that a final dividend our employees of 29.88 pence per ordinary share and 14.94 pence per A share be paid on 27 August 2004.
We focus on the needs of A business like ours has enormous our customers environmental and social responsibilities and it is vital that these are managed effectively.
We respect the contribution and Our performance in both areas has also rights of our investors improved this year.
We believe that sustainable success is best We seek constructive achieved by taking the broadest view of our business relationships responsibilities.
Our business principles set out how we aim to conduct business and We are good corporate citizens manage our relationships with stakeholders.
We seek to demonstrate integrity, This report will show you how we manage honesty and openness our economic, environmental and social responsibilities.
I believe that the group is well positioned to meet all of its challenges and These principles are supported by policies I look forward to watching it grow and prosper.
that set out the way we conduct ourselves.
For more information about our business Sir Richard Evans principles please visit our web site.
com United Utilities Stakeholder Report 2004 3 Chief executives 2004 has been another successful review year for the group.
We are well placed to meet the needs of all of our stakeholders going forward.
Delivering results United Utilities is committed to delivering 500 million through the first stage of our business performance that balances the rights issue to help fund future investment needs of all of its stakeholders.
This is demands in our regulated business and a key part of the way we operate.
As reduce cost impact to our customers.
such, it is essential that we report our Our non-regulated businesses, Contract performance in the same context.
Solutions, Your Communications and Vertex, In this report, we look at triple bottom line continue to make good progress in their performance economic, environmental and target markets.
With turnover from these social for our businesses as well as for the businesses exceeding 1 billion for the first group as a whole.
time, they now contribute over 75 million of operating profit to the group, compared to The report features a number of questions around break even in my first year as chief posed by our stakeholders, ranging from executive, three years ago.
a customer to an environmental leader.
These are intended to illustrate the diverse range of interests our stakeholders have in United Utilities.
Financial performance We have made significant progress during the The following graph compares the company's annual past year.
All of our businesses have contributed total shareholder return performance for the past five years against the FTSE 100 Index.
to the groups overall improved performance.
Our financial performance has improved.
Total shareholder return Turnover increased by 10.2 per cent to 2,115.5 million, reecting increased revenue 140 in our water business and growth in our 120 non-regulated businesses.
Operating profit 100 increased by 6.3 per cent to 597.1 million.
80 This principally reects improved performance 60 in all of our businesses.
40 United Utilities 20 FTSE 100 In our regulated businesses, as well as Source: Thomson Financial 0 growing profit, weve also met our output Mar Mar Mar Mar Mar Mar 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 targets and delivered over 1 billion of our This graph shows the value, by 31 March 2004, of 100 invested in United Utilities capital investment programme, our highest on 31 March 1999 compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 100 Index.
We have raised around The other points plotted are the values at intervening financial year ends.
4 United Utilities Stakeholder Report 2004 Value Future challenges Managing water and wastewater systems throughout the UK Corporate responsibility United Utilities core skills are price prole is weighted towards higher Our approach to corporate responsibility is infrastructure and business process prices at the beginning of the five-year to develop strong policies and to embed them management.
This is designed to maintain throughout the group.
We are committed the companys credit quality and deliver By infrastructure management we to managing the impacts of our activities.
the lowest overall cost to customers over mean the running, maintenance and the period as a whole.
We recognise the need for sustainable improvement of operational networks and development.
By this we mean long-lasting assets.
Business process management In order to fund our investment, we development which protects and enhances refers to the functions that support estimate that customer bills may need the environment, conserves natural resources, business operations, such as the to increase by an average of 7.8 per cent maintains strong economic growth and management of customers.
ahead of retail price ination each year.
supports the communities we serve.
United Utilities two stage rights issue, These skills are taken from our regulated together with a number of other We actively benchmark our performance electricity distribution and water businesses contributing factors, has signicantly against that of our peers.
Results are and applied to competitive markets.
A full reduced the probable impact of the pleasing and clearly position United Utilities breakdown of our businesses and their investment programme on customer as one of the leading companies in this area, operations is included within this report.
bills, reducing the proposed average within the UK.
Regulated businesses annual increase by around a third Our employees are key to our success and For our regulated businesses the key compared to the draft business plan.
we are committed to their development.
events are the forthcoming regulatory price For the electricity business, our final Work is underway for the next stage of UCan reviews.
Final regulatory determinations business plan has been submitted our culture change programme and its for both water and electricity distribution to Ofgem for the 2005-10 period.
This transition to becoming an integral part are expected towards the end of 2004. outlines an investment programme of the way we do business.
We are now For the water business, our draft business of 642 million to preserve the current concentrating on developing leaders within plan was submitted to Ofwat, the water high quality of supply, to keep fault rates the organisation, whilst continuing to regulator, in August 2003.
This proposed stable and to maintain existing levels enhance the capability of all of our people.
a capital investment programme of of service, security and network risk.
3.8 billion in the five-year period April A further 105 million investment is 2005 to March 2010.
This was based on proposed to allow renewable energy a package of maintaining existing services generators to be connected to the region.
to customers, meeting higher drinking As a result of our proposed investment, water and environmental quality standards we anticipate an average real increase in and targeting customers expressed customer bills of five per cent per annum.
John Roberts preferences for service improvements.
Non-regulated businesses Chief executive The timetable of the regulatory review Our non-regulated businesses offer the required us to submit our final business group the opportunity for sustainable and plan in April 2004.
Changes to guidance secure growth.
Both Vertex and Contract on the scope and timing of environmental Solutions are recognised as leading improvements from the Environment players in their sectors within the UK Agency and government mean that We treat the equivalent of and are expanding internationally.
Your our proposed capital programme was Communications continues to progress reduced to 3.2 billion at 2002 03 prices in a difficult market.
from the level proposed in our draft plan.
Based on contracts already secured and We remain rmly focused on achieving opportunities were currently pursuing, we 93,000 the right outcome from the reviews for are confident that these businesses offer all of our stakeholders.
Our proposed good growth prospects.
glasses of water a second in north west England United Utilities Stakeholder Report 2004 5 Facts and gures Serving millions United Utilities provides services to Our non-regulated businesses are: millions throughout the UK and overseas.
United Utilities Contract Solutions We are the largest operators of water and Contract Solutions provides infrastructure wastewater systems in the UK, managing management services in competitive 1in5 networks serving ten million people in north markets, serving more than 11 million west England, most of Wales and parts of people.
It operates infrastructure networks households in the UK is Scotland and providing specialist services to internationally, generates renewable industry.
We are the UKs leading provider of energy and provides multi-utility contacted by us each year customer management services, handling services to industry.
201 million customer transactions each year.
Vertex We employ over 15,500 people.
Vertex is one of the largest business United Utilities has five businesses.
process outsourcing companies in Our two regulated businesses are: the UK.
It provides services to clients in the commercial, utility and government 2.94bn United Utilities Service Delivery sectors and has particular expertise in Service Delivery owns and operates the customer management.
Last year Vertex minutes of usage on our electricity distribution, water and wastewater handled 206 million inbound calls.
networks in north west England.
It manages telecommunications over 700 water and wastewater treatment Your Communications network works, 32,000 electricity sub-stations and Your Communications offers voice, mobile around 120,000 kilometres of pipes, sewers and data services to the public sector and and cables.
business customers throughout the UK.
It provides services both directly to end users United Utilities Customer Sales and to selected resellers through its Customer Sales manages our regulated wholesale channel.
customer base in north west England.
It is a major service provider in the competitive industrial water and wastewater market and is responsible for the relationship with 2.9 million household and business customers.
6 United Utilities Stakeholder Report 2004 Our global operations Australia to Vertex clients and are providing We operate 12 water and two industrial consultancy services on Indias first major wastewater treatment plants in Australia, private sector water project.
Philippines Bulgaria We are helping to improve water and We operate, maintain and improve water wastewater services to the 3.4 million and wastewater services for a population of inhabitants of eastern Manila.
1.2 million in the capital, Soa.
Poland Canada We provide water and wastewater services We provide customer service expertise to to 300,000 people in the southern Polish city 1.2 million electricity customers and operate of Bielsko-Biala and nine neighbouring a long-term water strategy and efficiency communities.
programme for 800,000 customers in Ontario.
USA Estonia We have a debt recovery agency in Denver, We manage water and wastewater serving utility companies throughout the operations for the capital, Tallinn, serving United States.
India We have a contact centre near New Delhi, providing customer management services Our UK operations Regulated businesses Operational boundary regulated businesses United Utilities Service Delivery Operational boundary Welsh contract United Utilities Customer Sales Contract Solutions Vertex 1,300.7m Turnover Your Communications Main ofce locations 519.6m Operating profit 4,684 Employees Non-regulated businesses United Utilities Contract Solutions 446.9m Turnover 67.8m Operating profit 2,381 Employees Vertex 368.5m Turnover 25.1m Operating profit 7,746 Employees Your Communications 185.6m Turnover 16.6m Operating loss 709 Employees NOTE: Employee numbers stated on this page are full time equivalent and an average over the entire 2003 04 period.
Figures exclude contractors and agency staff.
154 people are employed by the group in other capacities.
before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items United Utilities Stakeholder Report 2004 7 Business review Service Delivery Maintaining the electricity distribution network Ennerdale water treatment works in Cumbria Increasing efficiency United Utilities Service Delivery owns to customers.
We cut levels of customer and operates the licensed electricity interruptions per 100 customers from 66.48 last year to 51.0, against a target of distribution, water and wastewater 56.4, and minutes lost per customer from networks in north west England.
Through good The business aims to create value through contingency planning and rapid response, the efficient management of its assets.
Its our teams were able to minimise the key objectives are to deliver our regulatory impact on customers of damage to the contracts: to be efficient by aligning our distribution network caused by winter storms.
resources in north west England: and, We improved our drinking water quality working closely with Customer Sales, to performance to 99.72 per cent on continue improving service for customers.
the Drinking Water Inspectorates water quality index, up from 99.49 per cent the Business performance previous year.
We had a successful year, improving water quality, wastewater compliance, electricity We also delivered a significant improvement distribution performance and delivering 1 in wastewater compliance.
This year we billion of capital investment our highest ever in a single year.
In water and wastewater, we manage a major ongoing capital investment programme, Customer satisfaction ensuring value for money for our customers whilst meeting all of our regulatory targets.
In electricity distribution, our asset replacement strategy focuses on stabilising fault rates, 4.42 out of 5 which we are reducing across most elements of our network.
2003: 4.26 In electricity distribution, we beat both our regulatory targets and our own internal Ofgem measure of customer satisfaction Charlie Cornish Managing director targets for providing continuous supplies with overall quality of telephone response 8 United Utilities Stakeholder Report 2004 The community campaigner Our water mains replacement programme reduced our score on failing works per head To ensure that we continue to deliver higher What are you of population to 0.26 per cent from 12.12 per levels of performance between April 2005 and cent last year.
We did this by putting problem March 2010, we are working on new initiatives doing to minimise works into an intensive care programme, to improve efficiency and reduce cost.
These increasing our maintenance spend, operator include a change programme to ensure that disruption to local involvement and capital work.
In 2003 04, as we have the appropriate business processes, part of our capital investment programme, we organisation, systems and commercial communities when contracts in place and a realignment of delivered 29 continuous discharge and 219 intermittent discharge improvement projects.
operational strategy to deliver further efficiencies you carry out and improvements to scheduling systems.
In our regulated businesses, turnover construction works?
The long, dry summer of 2003 had an increased by 5.7 per cent to 1,300.7 million Debra Murphy impact on water supply and demand.
in 2003 04, largely due to a real increase of Community campaigner We managed our water resources in an four per cent in water and wastewater prices.
innovative, sustainable and responsible way Operating profit increased by 3.3 per cent to maintain reservoirs at acceptable levels.
to 519.6 million in 2003 04, reecting the With the higher rainfall in the winter, reservoir increase in turnover offset by a number levels have now recovered without the need We are acutely aware of local concerns of factors, principally higher operating to restrict water use.
when we have to carry out essential costs and depreciation mainly due to works.
We try to engage with local the expanding asset base.
Our contractors continue to be of strategic communities before work commences importance.
During the last two years we Our five-year, 3.6 billion capital investment to explain why we need to do the work have entered into a number of commercial programme represents a quarter of all the and how we intend to minimise any arrangements with construction companies money being spent in England and Wales disruption this may cause.
Whenever we and are developing strategic partnerships on improving the water, wastewater and can, we plan our projects around other with them.
We delivered works in the vicinity, school holidays 1,013.9 million worth of our programme Corporate responsibility and rush hours.
Our capital investment programme is this year.
864.2 million of this was spent on delivering environmental improvements in water and wastewater and 149.7 million on north west England.
In partnership with our contractors, we delivered all of our regulatory outputs during the year.
Business impacts The biggest potential impacts on the business Properties affected by continue to be the two regulatory price reviews, low water pressure which will conclude in April 2005.
It is essential that we achieve balanced outcomes, which are fair to all of our stakeholders.
United Utilities has a major commitment to ongoing discussions with our regulators, Ofgem and 0.03% Ofwat, the Environment Agency and others to translate the anticipated outputs and For more information on our capital Target: 0.06% quality drivers into tangible and achievable improvement programme please visit our web site.
Ofwat key performance indicator United Utilities Stakeholder Report 2004 9 Service Delivery continued The employee Egremont UID scheme part of our 260m investment in environmental improvements in 2003 04 works and hundreds of sewer overows During the year, generation and use of Will United Utilities have been upgraded, resulting in a significant renewable energy within the business improvement to river and bathing water increased by over 23 per cent and the offer its employees quality throughout the region.
proportion of wastewater sludge sent to landll was reduced to nearly six per cent.
the right balance In parallel, the number of prosecutions for environmental offences has fallen from 29 We won recognition for our work to improve between rewards to eight.
We achieved this by working closely the worst performing areas of our electricity with the Environment Agency, highlighting the network in this years Utility Industry and opportunities?
The award focuses reduction in pollution incidents as a particular Nina Shabanzadeh on the work we have done to improve target area.
We have more work to do to Graduate recruit now internal customer service.
consolidate and build on these improvements.
communications executive On health and safety, we have implemented We also increased our investment in odour a major programme of initiatives to reduce control systems, successfully addressing an risks.
This helped us achieve a four star issue that had become of growing concern We want to encourage everyone to rating and commendation in the first ever for some customers.
achieve their full potential and feel British Safety Council audit of our policies, As part of our capital works we look supported and motivated to make procedures and practices.
We provide for innovative ways to minimise our environmental impacts.
For example, a broad range of opportunities across a new process was developed to maximise our businesses and promote on merit.
re-use of aggregate when laying pipes.
On Our aim is to provide competitive one project alone, this saved 10,000 cubic rewards to attract and retain metres of aggregate and 2,000 lorry journeys.
Since 2001, we have invested heavily to improve the culture of our company.
Water and wastewater business plan 2005-10 Our final business plan for water and This investment will wastewater services has been submitted involve improving water to Ofwat.
This details our proposed future quality in 1,900 kilometres investment plan.
of river, 75 wastewater treatment works serving Our proposal is to spend: 5.2 million people and cleaning or 1.5 billion on delivering reliable and renewing 3,000 kilometres secure water and wastewater services of water mains.
200 million on solving the concerns of our customers, including sewer ooding and managing odours A copy of our final business plan is 1.5 billion meeting higher drinking water available on request or from our web site.
For more information about our graduate and environmental standards www.
com scheme please visit our web site.
com 10 United Utilities Stakeholder Report 2004 Business review Customer Sales Our water catchment land at Rivington Improving coastal and inland bathing waters Improving service United Utilities Customer Sales is experienced since 2000 that were not responsible for our regulated customer allowed in the current five-year regulatory base of 2.9 million domestic households period.
This is in addition to the allowed and business premises in north west 4.5 per cent real price rise which was set at England.
It is also a provider of water the last price review and it brings our total and wastewater services in the allowed real price increase to 8.9 per cent competitive industrial market.
for the year from April 2004 to March 2005.
Our objectives are to maintain and improve We also delivered major improvements in our levels of customer service: to maximise customer service on our regulatory targets.
profitability and cash ow: and to manage our 93.3 per cent of calls were answered within reputation and influence the regulatory agenda.
30 seconds and 99.1 per cent of bill-related queries were responded to within five days.
A key task is to ensure that the forthcoming price review produces a balanced outcome Throughout the year we achieved real that is fair to all stakeholders.
improvements in managing cash and we are gradually solving the problems associated During the months ahead, we need to make sure that all customers understand the reasons why bills are rising and we have active programmes to make sure this is clearly communicated.
Drinking water quality Business performance Through the regulatory process this year, we successfully secured additional income for the business.
In December 2003, we 99.72% received Ofwats final decision on our Interim Determination of K IDoK application, which 2003: 99.49% allows us to increase real prices by a further 4.4 per cent next year.
The increase reects Operational performance index OPI Bob Armstrong Managing director actual additional costs the company has score for calendar year 2003 United Utilities Stakeholder Report 2004 11 Customer Sales continued The customer New customer billing programme, launched in March 2004 with long-standing customer debt.
The a decision we fully support since we believe Ive heard that my the costs would outweigh the potential payment card system that we introduced last benets to customers.
However, we welcome year has performed well.
We now have water bill will be competition for business customers in 360,000 customers on instalment plans plus water services as a driver for efficiency and a further 176,000 cards in issue.
innovation and we are key players in industry We launched our new customer billing working groups to develop the competitive Where exactly will programme in March 2004 and will roll out framework.
There is a need for a wellour new billing system to all customers managed process to deliver competition my money be going?
Lisa Taylor We made improvements to our meter Water customer The Water Act also set out a new obligation reading service for commercial and for water companies to uoridate supplies domestic customers this year, which when requested by a Strategic Health improved service, increased cash flow, Authority.
We welcome the clarification of the and reduced cost.
The rapid growth in the legal position, which rightly removes water As part of the five-yearly review of number of water meters meant that the companies from decisions on public health.
water company investment plans, weve routes our meter readers followed had Corporate responsibility asked the regulator Ofwat to increase become unmanageable.
This led to delayed One result of the current price review is bills.
This is needed to help pay for a billing and poor service for customers and that prices are likely to rise substantially 3.2 billion programme of service affected our cash ow.
Our concerns match those improvements and investment to satisfy In collaboration with Vertex, we introduced expressed generally about the affordability tougher regulations for drinking water route smoothing to ensure that the same of water bills, particularly for low income quality and new European requirements households.
Our approach has been to ensure number of meters are read each week: and to safeguard the environment.
that we have robust processes in place to route realignment, to make sure that meter manage issues of debt in a way that is fair and readers follow the most logical routes.
See page ten for more information on effective for the business.
We have developed our water and wastewater business Business impacts a range of initiatives to assist vulnerable plan for 2005-10.
The Water Act 2003 is now in place.
This customers, providing support through a rules out competition in the domestic market, special tariff, an arrears allowance scheme where we match pound for pound the sums paid and money advice services.
We have also taken a leading role in the Properties affected by Debt Focus Group of Water UK, an industrywide body, looking at ways to improve the supply interruptions Department for Work & Pensions Water Direct scheme.
0.08% Target: 0.23% For more information about our customer initiatives please visit our web site.
Ofwat key performance indicator www.
com 12 United Utilities Stakeholder Report 2004 Business review Contract Solutions Our new Scottish Water Solutions contract MacArthur water treatment works in Australia Expert innovation United Utilities Contract Solutions Scottish Water Solutions, the Welsh Water applies the groups core infrastructure contract, our International business and our management expertise to competitive Industrial business which offers waste markets.
It operates throughout the management and electricity services UK and in key target markets overseas, to industry.
providing services to 11 million people.
A major achievement this year was the By applying our core skills to competitive establishment of Scottish Water Solutions.
markets, we seek to win new business This joint venture has already delivered 160 without materially exposing the group to million of Scottish Waters capital programme, increased risk.
which is expected to total around 1.1 billion over the contract life.
Business performance Contract Solutions operates in three market In Industrial, we expanded our services to sectors: Operations Management, Green include electricity and acquired two major Energy and Networks.
Contract Solutions plants to deal with more difficult liquid and is now the leading utility infrastructure chemical wastes.
We now operate over management outsourcing business in the UK.
700 contracts in total, on sites from Turnover increased by 12.5 per cent to supermarkets to airports.
446.9 million in 2003 04, largely due to the Our contract with Dwr Cymru Welsh Water impact of the new Scottish Water contract has continued its excellent performance.
In and the first full year of the British Gas particular, Welsh Water has risen from near Trading contract.
Operating profit increased the bottom of the Ofwat Operational by 15.3 per cent to 67.8 million in 2003 04, Performance league tables to second reecting the increasing maturity of our position during the contract period.
contracts, the impact of the Scottish Water contract and our increased shareholding in Internationally, we have increased our our European concessions.
shareholdings in the Philippines and some of our European concessions.
In Europe, we Operations Management develops and have formed a joint-venture partnership with operates infrastructure management Gordon Waters the European Bank for Reconstruction and Managing director contracts in selected markets.
It includes United Utilities Stakeholder Report 2004 13 Contract Solutions continued The shareholder Hatton wastewater treatment works near Dundee Development EBRD which gives us a strong Corporate responsibility Can I be assured that strategic partner and a platform for further In Wales, we help to fund a youth offender liaison programme in Cardiff and partner growth.
In South Australia, work has started my investment is in Shelter Cymru in helping to combat the on the construction of a 7 million advanced problem of homelessness in Wales.
We also wastewater treatment plant.
safe hands, both now partner the Princes Trust in both Scotland Green Energy develops and operates and Wales.
We Geoff Hamilton Soyska Voda, our Bulgarian concession, operate more than 40 renewable energy Private shareholder is one of only six companies in the country projects throughout the UK.
Most of these to receive the good corporate practices are small-scale hydroelectric, landll and award of the United Nations Development mine gas schemes.
We are currently developing a number of We have a clear and consistent business The award acknowledges the successful wind farm schemes.
Scarweather Sands, implementation and promotion of socially strategy and have been successful in an offshore development in south Wales, and responsible practices, including recognition growing our non-regulated businesses.
Thorne, near Doncaster, are two of the largest.
in the eld of environment, for overall We are keeping our promise, made at attitude towards the problems of the the time of the rights issue, to maintain Networks provides multi-utility connections community and ecology, and for striking dividends in real terms until next year.
and metering to domestic, commercial and a safe balance between business and We will then make a decision on the industrial developers and utility suppliers.
dividend for the next review period.
also provide an energy efficiency service to What we will do is seek to maximise industry and local authorities.
Consultation is the key when it comes dividends consistent with our assessment to wind farms.
We hold public exhibitions Our metering and connections businesses of risk and our licence obligations.
for the local community and consult with up continue to grow.
We are the UK market to 70 organisations before we look at any leader in this area.
We also carry out a detailed with British Gas Trading is now approaching impact report which includes areas such envisaged volumes as the contract moves as wildlife, visual impact and noise.
out of its mobilisation phase.
Business impacts Our businesses serve different markets with different inuences.
In Green Energy, for example, planning and regulatory issues on distribution are key factors.
In liquid waste treatment we are dependent for growth on the application of new European legislation.
Increase in turnover A key issue as we grow is to recruit, retain and develop the right people.
We have a major focus on graduate recruitment and management training and have introduced sponsorship of undergraduate 12.5% For more investor relations students, which involves a job placement information please visit our web site.
2003: 2.9% 14 United Utilities Stakeholder Report 2004 Business review Vertex Our customer service representatives A transformation consultant meets with a client Transforming business Vertex is one of the UKs leading providers client relationships, worth a total of over of business process outsourcing.
We secured a new contract we may not be a household name, our extension for the provision of services to clients including Marks & Spencer, the Department for Work & Pensions with Vodafone and the Department for Work & our partners Atos Origin.
We extended our Pensions are.
existing contract with Lloyds TSB and also won major new business with existing client Business process outsourcing means Marks & Spencer.
managing and often transforming the processes that support our clients Sales increased by 19.8 per cent to 368.5 businesses, such as human resources, million in 2003 04, predominantly due to the finance and accounting.
first full year impact of the contracts with the Department for Works & Pensions and Our markets are local and central Westminster City Council.
Operating profit government, the UK service sector and the has improved by 33.5 per cent to 25.1 utilities sectors in the UK and North America.
million, reecting the effect of increased A 2003 survey into our sector by market external contract activity and improved researchers Ovum Holway, identied Vertex margins.
Operating margin improved to as the fourth largest business process 6.8 per cent in 2003 04, from 6.1 per cent outsourcing company in the UK.
The expertise During the year we signed a nine-year we have developed in improving customer contract with Powergen, replacing our service and reducing back-ofce cost in the previous ten-year contract with TXU Europe, utility sector is much in demand in the public whom Powergen acquired in October 2002. sector.
We are currently pitching for around This contract consolidates our relationship.
1 billion worth of contracts in the UK local and central government sector, all of which We established a small North American team, are due to be awarded during 2004 05. based in New York, who will be targeting the utility sector.
This is one of our key target Business performance Tom Drury markets.
We already operate one contract This year was principally one of contract Managing director renewals, extending and building on existing in North America, providing customer United Utilities Stakeholder Report 2004 15 Vertex continued The business journalist Our Westminster contact centre management services for the Canadian utility We have an active and robust corporate Most of United Hydro One, which is progressing well.
To governance programme to manage the strengthen our offering in preparation for strategic and tactical risks which could Utilities activities are further contract opportunities, we acquired impact the business.
These are clearly First Revenue Assurance, a debt collection identied and monitored on a regular basis.
in the north west of agency based in Denver.
How can Last year, we announced that Vertex had Business impacts obtained a contact centre in India as part Market demand for business process you maintain that of its acquisition of 7C.
At Vertex, our contact outsourcing continues to grow and there is centre in India forms one part of our total a trend towards organisations outsourcing you are a national delivery mix.
It complements our UK operations more than one part of their business.
We are and enables us to offer alternative solutions continuing to develop our transformational company?
We are growing in both India skills and services in line with market Michael Taylor and the UK.
To meet our clients demands, we Editor of North West Business Insider have established an in-house team of some Balancing the interests of our stakeholders is 600 technology and change consultants an important part of the way we do business.
to manage these complex and large scale Twice a year an independent organisation transformation programmes that add asks our clients about their satisfaction with We are a national company.
In fact, over value for both the client and ourselves.
our service, the results of which have shown half our employees now work outside a demonstrable improvement over the year.
For example, we In 2003 we received recognition from have over 1,200 employees in Scotland management consultants Frost & Sullivan Our employees are vital in delivering the and over 1,300 in Wales.
Vertexs with an award for market penetration services we provide for our clients.
The operations stretch from London to response rate in our employee survey leadership, presented each year to the northern Scotland.
We also have this year improved following a significant company demonstrating excellence in operations overseas.
Nonetheless, the programme of employee involvement.
Our capturing market share within their industry.
employees have also become involved in north west remains important for us and Continuing growth led to our largest ever many fund raising and community projects.
is home to our corporate headquarters.
We now operate in 30 Vertex received recognition in a number UK locations, as well as in India, the US of key industry awards in 2003.
included a national business leadership award from the European Foundation for Quality Management EFQM.
Operating margin 6.8% 2003: 6.1% For more information about all our businessesplease visit our web site.
Growth in Vertexs operating margin www.
com 16 United Utilities Stakeholder Report 2004 Business review Your Communications Installing telecoms systems in Manchester Enabling mobile business Sustaining progress Your Communications is a successful alliances with Business Serve and Siemens.
telecommunications business offering We also have an alliance with Vodafone, voice, mobile and data services to the which makes Your Communications one public sector and small to medium-sized of the largest independent mobile service corporate customers, predominantly in providers in the UK business sector.
the Midlands and north of England.
Business impacts Our market is characterised by aggressive Our objective is to sustain our progress.
Our sector is growing but is ercely competitive.
By participating in ongoing consolidation The new unied industry regulator Ofcom now, we are strengthening our position for was established during the year.
of our Calls & Lines product this year marks Business performance the culmination of significant work in lobbying In March, we announced the acquisition the regulator into giving UK business more of Manchester-based Eurocall for 42 million.
freedom when selecting their telecoms All of Eurocalls 15,000 customers and 137 supplier.
Launched a full six months ahead employees transferred to Your Communications.
of the competition, Calls & Lines represents the most powerful incentive yet for We met our major target this year, which companies across the UK to switch was to be a net cash contributor to the their telecoms business.
group on a post-tax basis, excluding the acquisition of Eurocall.
Turnover increased Corporate responsibility by 14.8 per cent in 2003 04 to 185.6 In the community, we have continued to million, as a result of the continued progress work closely with the Regional Broadband in increasing its proportion of higher value Consortium in north west England, to support business sales.
Operating losses were the North West Learning Grid which is bringing reduced by 14.9 per cent to 16.6 million.
broadband internet access to schools We were also free cash ow positive in the throughout the region.
Hugh Logan We have been working to increase our Managing director strategic alliances.
This year we developed United Utilities Stakeholder Report 2004 17 Corporate responsibility Maintaining a sustainable environment Community activities at our Anderton Centre Managing impacts We believe that being responsible in The focus for our work is determined by index and our B2 rating in Morleys the way we conduct our operations identifying and prioritising our impacts and Sustainability Matrix.
An important part of our makes sound business sense.
We received recognition for our commitment approach is stakeholder consultation.
This to sustainability in north west England and Our Business Principles guide the enables us to understand the interests and our work in the community in Liverpool.
way we manage our activities and our priorities of the different groups of people relationships with stakeholders.
They who are affected by our activities.
By Environment set the context for our approach to engaging with these groups we are able We continue to manage our impacts on the corporate responsibility.
to gain an appreciation of the areas of our environment and, where possible, to enhance business that are material to them.
This it through the implementation of our sustainable Two complementary strands to our helps us target where we should place most development plan.
Key areas of interest are approach corporate social responsibility emphasis in our internal programmes and, drinking water quality, climate change and CSR and sustainable development SD in turn, drives our reporting process.
renewables, compliance with legislation and are now integrated within the business waste minimisation recycling.
Performance During the year, United Utilities has made Our most significant environmental impact progress in both the BitC Business in the in recent years has been the contribution we Community Corporate Responsibility Index have made to cleaning up the north wests and the BiE Business in the Environment rivers and coastal waters through sustained Wastewater sludge Index of Corporate Environmental investment in our wastewater network.
We were ranked 21st out of the regions 37 bathing waters now meet of 138 companies in the 2003 BitC Index.
Our score of 91.94 per cent was a significant Community increase on 78.5 per cent in 2002 and We have identied three focus areas for compared to an average FTSE 100 score of community activity: environment, social 93.7% 79.68 per cent.
Our score of 95.46 per cent inclusion and education and training.
Our in the BiE index is our best yet and establishes approach is to develop strategic partnerships 2003: 86% us in their Premier League of companies.
with organisations active in these areas.
Key Proportion of sludge disposed of by Our approach is also recognised through topics are environmental education, job our regulated water business which is our inclusion in the Dow Jones World and creation and unemployment, consideration for not sent to landll STOXX Sustainability Indices, the FTSE4Good our neighbours and access and recreation.
18 United Utilities Stakeholder Report 2004 The environment officer A work placement from Thorn Cross at Winsford We have developed a working partnership had reported to a high standard against all its How does United with Thorn Cross Young Offenders Institute.
This helps to develop work placement More information on our stakeholder Utilities manage opportunities for graduates of their motor approach can be found within our corporate mechanics course and enables inmates its impacts on the responsibility report.
Three inmates have placements at United Utilities depots and environment?
others work on vehicles that need servicing Robert Runcie and valeting prior to auction.
Notes Regional director, Environment Agency Marketplace Throughout this document, unless Customers and suppliers contractors are otherwise stated, amounts and two of our key stakeholder groups.
We have percentage movements relating to the 2.9 million customers in north west England profit and loss account of the group or and well over 30,000 suppliers.
Key areas of Every business has some impact on any business segment are stated before interest are standards of service, charging the environment.
For a company like goodwill amortisation and exceptional policy, the investment programme and United Utilities, effective environmental items indicated by in the text.
see our 2004 Annual Report and management is vital.
In the past, we Accounts for more detail.
have fallen short of some of the high Vertexs partnership with Westminster City standards set for us by our environmental Council has helped it win the Council of the regulator, but we have concentrated Year accolade in the national Local Government Any questions?
Many of Chronicle awards in March.
The partnership For more information or if you have any our businesses have, or are in the process was also highly commended in the category questions about United Utilities or this of Public Private Partnership of the Year.
of obtaining, accreditation for their document, please write to us at: environmental management systems.
Workplace Group Communications, United Utilities, Our employees make up another stakeholder Dawson House, Warrington WA5 3LW, grouping.
Their key areas of interest are or visit our web site.
work life balance, health and safety, skills and job training and pensions.
Quick links Our health and safety strategy continues to www.
We have received external recognition www.
co. uk both for our performance and the quality of our reporting.
The Royal Society for the www.
co. uk Prevention of Accidents recently awarded Designed and produced by Black Sun plc us its Gold Award.
Printed by Butler and Tanner.
regularly receive awards, this is the first time Stakeholder Report 2004 printed on Revive Silk.
75% of the we have received recognition for the group furnish is made from 100% fide-inked post consumer waste, as a whole.
In 2003, the Health and Safety the remaining 25% being mill broke and virgin bres.
Executive commissioned a research project Totally Chlorine Free NAPM approved recycled product to review the public reporting of 321 organisations.
United Utilities was identied United Utilities PLC For more information about corporate Registered in England and Wales Registered No.
2366616 as an exemplar of public reporting and, responsibility please visit our web site.
com specifically, the only company in the UK that United Utilities Stakeholder Report 2004 19 UU015 covers v12 AW2.
