Operating review Business process outsourcing Vertex Tom Drury, Our success lies in building Managing director long-term partnerships, based on collaboration and trust.
Vertex is a growth business with Market demand for BPO continues to a highly visible income stream and grow and there is a trend towards multiexcellent prospects, based on a process outsourcing where organisations diversied portfolio of long-term outsource more than one element of their contracts across multiple sectors.
We are continuing are one of the UKs largest providers of to develop our transformational skills and business process outsourcing.
Major services in line with market demands.
To clients in the private sector include meet our clients needs, we have developed Marks & Spencer, Powergen and an in-house team of some 600 technology Vodafone and, in the public sector, and change consultants to manage these Westminster City Council and the complex and large-scale transformation Department for Work & Pensions.
programmes that add value for both the client and ourselves.
Business process outsourcing BPO means managing, and often transforming, Over the next few years we are looking to the processes which support a clients expand into other BPO areas, both in the business, such as human resources, UK and North America.
We have already procurement, finance and accounting.
increased the range of services we offer We are far from being simply a call our clients and have begun to broaden centre bureau and fewer than half of our our offer in service areas such as human employees work in call centres.
We help resources, procurement and finance our clients to transform their end-to-end and accounting.
Higher margins can processes, improving efficiency and be achieved from these more complex reducing costs, but at the same time processes and it means we can offer more creating a better understanding of, and services to existing clients and grow their stronger relationships with, their customers.
We can also benefit from economies of scale as we standardise Our markets are local and central processes across our operations, reducing government, the UK service sector our cost base, sharing common and utilities sectors in the UK and North America.
A study released in November infrastructure and improving margins.
2003 by market analysts Ovum Holway As the business mix continues to change, BPO: Trends and opportunities in the we are targeting our operating margins UK market identied Vertex as the fourth to increase above our previous seven to largest BPO company in the UK by turnover.
Business objectives Business performance Key markets for our growth continue to be This year was principally one of contract the public sector in the UK and the utility renewals, extending and building on sector in North America.
existing client relationships, worth a The expertise we have developed in combined total of over 200 million.
improving service and reducing backWe secured major extensions with ofce cost in the utility sector is much Westminster City Council and the in demand in the public sector.
We are Department for Work & Pensions and currently bidding for over 1 billion worth extended other existing contracts.
of contracts in the UK local and central Our contract with Westminster City government sector.
All are due to be awarded during 2004 05.
Council, which is worth up to 422 million, United Utilities Annual Report & Accounts 2004 9 Operating review Business process outsourcing Vertex continued is progressing well.
We are helping Vertex turnover m Marks & Spencer Westminster City Council to improve their 400 customer service levels by rationalising the This year we signed a new contract numerous points of contact that exist and with Marks & Spencer and will be re-engineering their business processes.
350 one of the first outsourcers to be considered for any further customer Our contract with the Department for services related work that Marks & Work & Pensions, which is in partnership 300 Spencer chooses to outsource.
with Atos Origin and involves modernising the way in which state benets are paid, We will work in partnership with continues to perform well.
As a result 250 Marks & Spencer, providing it with of its success, we have been awarded, a range of customer management through a sub-contract with Atos Origin, services.
Using our specialist a secondary programme of work worth 200 expertise in customer care and 2002 2003 2004 an additional 21 million.
business process transformation, During the year we signed a nine-year we will work with Marks & Spencer contract with Powergen, replacing our and change the way it interacts FRAs clients include Xcel, AT&T, T-Mobile previous ten-year contract with TXU with its customers to help it gain and Verizon.
Europe, whom Powergen acquired in an even greater understanding of October 2002.
This contract consolidates its customers and their needs.
This acquisition strengthens our offering in our relationship.
one of our key target markets, the North American utilities sector, in preparation for Financial highlights We have signed a new five-year contract further contract opportunities.
We already Sales increased by 19.8 per cent to with existing client Marks & Spencer, worth operate one contract in North America, 368.5 million in 2003 04, predominantly 35 million, to provide additional services.
providing customer management services due to the first full year impact of the Our new contract with Lloyds TSB is to for the Canadian utility Hydro One, which contracts with the Department for provide customer management and IT is progressing well.
Work & Pensions and Westminster City related billing services for its home energy Council.
Turnover in 2002 03 increased Business impacts and telephony operation.
We also agreed by 8.7 per cent to 307.6 million, primarily Balancing the interests of our stakeholders renewal terms with Vodafone and expanded through new contracts secured in is an important part of the way we do the range of services we provide.
Twice a year an independent Continuing growth led to our largest ever organisation asks our clients about their Operating profit has improved by recruitment drive.
We now operate in 30 satisfaction with our service.
The results have 33.5 per cent to 25.1 million, reecting UK locations and we have also grown our shown a demonstrable improvement over the effect of increased external contract operations in India, which forms another the year.
We were also the recipient of a activity and margins.
Operating profit part of our total delivery capability, number of key industry awards in 2003. in 2002 03 increased by 33.3 per cent to complementing our UK operations.
18.8 million due to the ow through of We have an active and robust corporate In March, we acquired First Revenue increased turnover and improved margins.
governance programme to manage the Assurance FRA, a debt collection agency strategic and tactical risks which could Vertexs operating margin improved to based in Denver.
FRA employs around impact the business.
Risks are clearly 6.8 per cent in 2003 04 from 6.1 per cent 200 people, has total annual revenues of identied and monitored on a regular basis.
in the previous year and 5.0 per cent in around 7 million and has a client base 2001 02.
This has been achieved due With clear objectives and an experienced that is principally spread across the utility to the increased maturity of the external management team, we believe that we and telecoms sectors in the United States.
contract portfolio and cost reductions on are on course to continue our growth by increasing the choice of services we offer intra-group contracts, together with the to clients and by helping them transform the relatively low level of contract mobilisation way they do business.
201 m customer transactions handled in the year Operating profit for a segment is before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items as shown in the segmental analysis by class of business in note 2 of the financial statements.
10 United Utilities Annual Report & Accounts 2004
