Operating review Infrastructure management United Utilities Contract Solutions Gordon Waters, This was a year of steady growth with Managing director successes across the board, the major highlight being the establishment of Scottish Water Solutions.
United Utilities Contract Solutions opportunities.
Our current experience means applies the groups core infrastructure we are well placed to take advantage of management expertise to competitive similar future opportunities.
It has grown quickly since The renewable energy market continues it was set up three years ago and is to focus on offshore and onshore wind.
The now the leading utility infrastructure government has raised its target to increase management outsourcing business the amount of electricity generated from in the UK.
renewable sources from two per cent We operate throughout the UK and today to 15 per cent by 2015. in key markets overseas Australia, Networks multi-utility expertise presents us Canada, the Far East and central Europe.
with real growth opportunities within the UK In all, the business provides services to utility sector as companies continue to seek 11 million people.
new ways to deliver cost effective services.
We focus our activities on three Business performance market areas: Operations Management Operations Management develops and The major achievement this year was the operates contracts in selected markets.
establishment of Scottish Water Solutions.
This includes our International business, This joint venture has already delivered our participation in Scottish Water Solutions 160 million of Scottish Waters capital discussed further on page 8, our contract to provide operations and maintenance services programme, which is expected to total to Welsh Water and our Industrial business, around 1.1 billion over the contract life.
which offers waste management and As well as being paid a fee for managing the electricity services to industry.
programme, efficiencies, after being adjusted Green Energy develops and operates for a number of key performance criteria, renewable energy generation projects.
are shared between consortium partners.
We operate more than 40 renewable One of the ways in which the consortium energy projects throughout the UK.
is looking to make savings is through asset standardisation, which reduces design, Networks provides multi-utility connections procurement and construction costs.
and metering to domestic, commercial and industrial developers and utility suppliers.
In Industrial, we expanded our services and We are the UK leader in this area and also acquired two major plants to deal with more provide an energy efficiency service to difficult, higher-value liquid and chemical industry and local authorities.
We also now operate and maintain high voltage electrical equipment for clients, Business objectives with around 700 contracts on sites from Our objectives are to grow non-regulated supermarkets to airports.
earnings from the groups infrastructure management expertise.
By applying our By combining our services we have created core skills to other markets, we seek to win new opportunities in the industrial and public and grow secure long-term income streams sector markets.
We have created a totally for the business, without materially new multi-utility service for clients who wish increasing risk within the group.
It is hard The approach adopted by Scottish Water to for many of our competitors to replicate the delivery of its capital programme shows this multi-utility approach, which offers the the continuing trend for bigger outsourcing prospect of regular but low risk income.
United Utilities Annual Report & Accounts 2004 7 Operating review Infrastructure management United Utilities Contract Solutions continued Our contract with Dwr Cymru Welsh Infrastructure management Scottish Water Solutions Water has continued to perform well.
operating profit m In particular, Welsh Water has risen from Scottish Water Solutions is a company 80 near the bottom of the Ofwat Operational majority owned by Scottish Water, set Performance league tables to second up to deliver over 1,200 projects, 70 position during the contract period.
We 65 per cent of Scottish Waters capital pre-qualied for the re-letting of the contract programme to 2006. post 31 March 2005 and have submitted The eight equity partners are Scottish our bid to Dwr Cymru Welsh Water, which 50 Water and two consortia: UUGM is expected to announce the contracts United Utilities and construction preferred bidders in August 2004.
35 groups Galliford Try and Morgan Est : During the year, we agreed to buy and Stirling Water Thames Water, KBR, International Waters shareholdings in our Alfred McAlpine and MJ Gleeson.
European concessions in Bulgaria, Estonia 20 Martin Bradbury, previously asset 2002 2003 2004 and Poland, in partnership with the European management director of United Bank for Reconstruction and Development Utilities Service Delivery, heads the EBRD.
This gives us a strong strategic team of around 450 people as chief partner and a platform for further growth.
reached project expectations as the operating officer.
contract has moved into its second In Manila, the existing shareholders bought Work includes building and upgrading year and out of its mobilisation phase.
out the International Water shareholding, water and wastewater treatment increasing our stake to approximately Networks acquired a gas connections works and water distribution and 19 per cent.
business from Lattice Energy Services, sewer renewal projects, serving around which signicantly expands our capabilities five million household and business In Australia, work has started for the in this area.
At the same time we sold our customers throughout Scotland.
construction and 20-year operation of a relatively small-scale private gas networks 7 million advanced wastewater treatment assets for 3.1 million.
Due to changes plant and network at Victor Harbor for the Financial highlights in the regulatory framework in the gas South Australian Water Corporation and Turnover increased by 12.5 per cent industry, this no longer forms part of our state government.
to 446.9 million in 2003 04, largely due long-term strategy.
to the impact of the new Scottish Water The legal dispute between NOSS contract and the first full year impact Our metering and connections businesses Consortium, in which North West Water of the British Gas Trading contract.
This International Limited is a partner, and the continued to grow outside north west compares with an increase in turnover Bangkok Metropolitan Authority is now England.
Energy Management Services of 2.9 per cent in 2002 03.
Excluding proceeding into full arbitration.
It relates to signed a 9 million three-year contract turnover from operations in the Americas, a contract that was terminated by NOSS with the Welsh Development Agency with from which we withdrew in 2002 03, Consortium in March 1998.
No outcome Objective One support for providing energy turnover increased by 18.5 per cent in is expected within the next financial year.
efficiency services to small and medium- 2002 03 due to the British Gas Trading sized enterprises in Wales.
Green Energy contract and increased revenues from We are developing a number of schemes, Business impacts other contracts within the operations with a potential capacity of 750MW, of Our businesses serve different markets management division.
which some 100MW take advantage of with different inuences.
In Green Energy, Operating profit increased by 15.3 per for example, planning and regulatory our position as owner of electricity, water cent to 67.8 million in 2003 04, reecting issues on distribution are key factors.
In and land assets in north west England.
the increasing maturity of our contracts liquid waste treatment, we are dependent Danish electricity utility Energi E2 A S has and the impact of the Scottish Water for growth on the application of new taken a 50 per cent share in the special contract and increased shareholdings European legislation.
purpose company we set up to develop in our European concessions.
Operating A key issue as we grow is to recruit, retain the Scarweather Sands offshore wind farm profit in 2002 03 increased by 96.0 per and develop the right people.
This project is currently subject to cent to 58.8 million as the period of introduced sponsorship of undergraduate public enquiry and a decision is expected start-up costs that had accompanied the students, which involves a job placement later this year.
previous years growth came to an end.
whilst at university, and have been recruiting We have applied for planning permission for our apprenticeship programmes in for a 28 turbine project at Thorne, near Wales and Scotland.
Doncaster, with a capacity of up to 84MW We have an active programme of risk and a 26 turbine, 64MW scheme located management within the business, including on Scout Moor in Rossendale.
Both factors such as competition issues and schemes are subject to consent from regulation.
Our strategic alliance with the the Department for Trade and Industry.
EBRD is a novel way of addressing some Operating profit for a segment is before goodwill Networks of the risks in European markets and we amortisation and exceptional items as shown in the Activity levels for the metering services aim to avoid countries where currency segmental analysis by class of business in note 2 of contract with British Gas Trading have now uctuations could be a significant risk.
8 United Utilities Annual Report & Accounts 2004
