Operating review Telecommunications Your Communications Hugh Logan, Your Communications achieved good Managing director growth and fullled its commitment to be a net cash contributor on a post-tax basis.
Your Communications is a mediumBusiness performance sized alternative telecommunications Excluding the Eurocall acquisition, we met provider, with a dense network in the our major target this year, which was to be north of England complemented by a net cash contributor to the group on a a lean national network.
post-tax basis and we were also free cash ow positive in the second half of the year.
We offer voice, mobile and data services Our cash ow target was achieved to the public sector and small to mediumthrough sales growth, by improving sized corporate customers, predominantly efficiencies and reducing our capital in the Midlands and north of England.
The continuation Business objectives of these achievements, together with the Our ongoing objective is to sustain our benets of the Eurocall acquisition, has progress.
Our sector is growing but is increased our drive towards profitability.
By participating We are now targeting the business to in ongoing consolidation now, we are generate an operating profit in the strengthening our position for the future.
In March 2004, we announced the Our network carried a total of 2.94 billion acquisition of Eurocall for a cash minutes in 2003 04, compared with 2.67 consideration of 42 million, of which billion in 2002 03.
30 million has been paid and 12 million Business impacts is payable in stages over the next 18 The new unied industry regulator, Ofcom, months.
Eurocall is profitable and cash was established during the year.
We look ow positive, with annualised revenues forward to working with them to help to of 55 million.
We expect to fund this make sure that the voices of the smaller acquisition from the post-tax cash ows players in the industry are heard.
of the enlarged Your Communications business over the next three years.
Eurocall complements our existing operations and adds significant breadth Financial highlights and depth to our customer base.
The Turnover increased by 14.8 per cent in acquisition will also enable us to better 2003 04 to 185.6 million compared with utilise our network and to deliver an increase of 7.5 per cent in 2002 03, as significant savings by integrating the a result of the continued progress of the operations of the two businesses, both of business in increasing its proportion of which are based in Manchester.
Since the higher value business sales.
acquisition, we have already put in place initiatives that will deliver annualised Operating losses were reduced by synergy savings of around 2.5 million.
14.9 per cent to 16.6 million in 2003 04 As a result of the purchase, all of compared to a reduction of 18.1 per cent Eurocalls 15,000 customers and 137 in 2002 03.
This is due to increased employees have transferred to our revenue and control of operating costs.
It is expected that the headcount of the combined business Operating profit for a segment is before goodwill will fall by around 50, with the majority of amortisation and exceptional items as shown in the this reduction expected by the end of segmental analysis by class of business in note 2 of June this year.
United Utilities Annual Report & Accounts 2004 11
