Operating review Licensed multi-utility operations United Utilities Service Delivery Charlie Cornish, We had considerable success this Managing director year, improving quality, compliance, performance and delivering 1 billion of capital investment.
United Utilities Service Delivery owns index, up from 99.49 per cent the previous and operates the licensed electricity year.
The long dry summer of 2003 had distribution, water and wastewater an impact on water supply and demand.
networks in north west England.
Our team managed our water resources in such a way as to maintain reservoirs at In water and wastewater, we manage acceptable levels.
Given the higher rainfall a major capital investment programme, in the winter, reservoir levels have now ensuring value for money for our customers returned to normal.
whilst meeting all our regulatory targets.
We delivered a significant improvement Our 3 billion AMP3 capital investment on wastewater compliance.
This year programme in water and wastewater is we reduced our score on non-compliant the most extensive in the UK water sector.
works measured per head of population In electricity distribution, our asset served to 0.26 per cent, improved from replacement strategy has continued to 12.12 per cent last year.
Furthermore, focus on minimising fault rates.
As a result, we are improving service levels and we have sustained our good performance, this is expected to improve our Overall with customer interruptions and customer Performance Assessment OPA score, minutes lost outperforming Ofgems targets as measured by Ofwat, by around 15 for 2003 04. per cent from 2002 03 to 2003 04.
The target over the next few years is to sustain We will continue to strive to be a this level of operational performance and responsive, focused, productive and reduce the cost of short-term remedial efficient market leader, to achieve work required.
excellence in customer service and to have the right commercial capability, while We also turned around our previous years remaining socially responsible.
performance on prosecutions related to pollution incidents and consent breaches, Business objectives cutting the number from 29 to eight.
We We aim to create value through the achieved this by working closely with efficient management of our assets.
The the Environment Agency, highlighting key objectives continue to be to deliver our the reduction in pollution incidents as regulatory contracts, to align our resources a particular target for the business.
We efficiently within the common geography also increased our investment in odour of our licensed networks in north west control systems, addressing an issue England and to continue to improve that had become of growing concern service for customers.
Our strategies aim to maximise the We have implemented a series of health benets of our multi-utility status and and safety initiatives to reduce risks and endeavour to integrate our systems and reduced the days lost due to accidents procedures to generate efficiencies across from 1,493 to 985.
This helped us achieve our operations.
We also work closely with a four star rating and commendation in the Customer Sales to ensure a seamless first ever British Safety Council audit of our service for our customers.
Business performance We delivered over 1 billion worth of our On water quality, we improved our five-year capital investment programme performance to 99.72 per cent on the this year, the largest United Utilities has Drinking Water Inspectorates water quality ever delivered in a single year.
4 United Utilities Annual Report & Accounts 2004 Working in partnership with our contractors, Service Delivery Supply interruptions Wastewater compliance we continued to be ahead of Ofwats Ofwat key performance indicator DG3 regulatory output schedule at 31 March It is important for us to consider the 2004.
Our policy to standardise designs 0.4 impacts of our activities on all our and equipment, wherever possible, is stakeholders and the environment.
helping to make sure we invest money This year, intensive efforts have 0.3 wisely and at the same time reduce resulted in a significant improvement the whole-life costs of our new plant in wastewater compliance.
achieved by putting problem works 0.2 into an intensive care programme, In December 2003, we received Ofwats increasing our maintenance spend, final decision on our Interim Determination 0.1 operator involvement and capital of K IDoK application, which allows us work.
In 2003 04, as part of our capital to increase real prices by a further 4.4 per investment programme, we delivered cent next year.
This is in addition to the 0.0 29 continuous discharge and 219 allowed 4.5 per cent real price rise which 2002 2003 2004 intermittent discharge improvement was set at the last price review and brings Percentage of properties affected by supply projects.
The Environment Agency our total allowed real price increase for interruptions of greater than 12 hours has praised our efforts, as a model next year to 8.9 per cent.
The increase of company responsiveness.
reects additional costs the business interruptions and minutes lost per has experienced since 2000 that were Licensed multi-utility operations connected customer.
Through good not initially allowed in the current five-year Financial highlights contingency planning and rapid response, regulatory period.
Turnover increased by 5.7 per cent to our teams were able to minimise the impact The proposed expenditure relating to a 1,300.7 million in 2003 04, largely due to on customers of damage to the distribution number of schemes in our sewer overow a real increase of 4.0 per cent in water and network caused by winter storms.
programme also known as unsatisfactory wastewater prices.
This compared with Business impacts intermittent discharges, which we identied growth of 1.8 per cent in 2002 03 when The biggest potential impacts on the as being poor value for money, was water and wastewater prices remained business continue to be the two price eliminated from 2004 05 prices as a result constant in real terms and a real reduction reviews.
It is essential that we achieve of the IDoK decision.
We have proposed a of 3.0 per cent in electricity distribution balanced outcomes, which are fair to all revised sewer overow programme in our prices was applied.
United Utilities has a final business plan to Ofwat and discussions Operating profit increased by 3.3 per major commitment to discussions with are continuing with the Environment Agency cent to 519.6 million in 2003 04, reecting our regulators, the Environment Agency in relation to this programme.
It is not yet the increase in turnover offset by a number and others to translate the anticipated clear as to the extent to which the revised of factors, principally higher operating outputs into tangible and achievable proposal will be accepted by the regulators.
costs and depreciation mainly due to investment programmes.
If we are required to carry out significant the expanding asset base resulting from additional works we will seek to recover To ensure that we continue to deliver higher capital expenditure on quality related these costs through the next price review levels of performance during the years obligations.
Operating profit decreased or subsequently.
2005-10, we are working on new initiatives by 5.1 per cent in 2002 03, reecting that to improve efficiency and reduce cost.
In electricity distribution, we outperformed price increases were more than offset by both our regulatory targets and our own higher operating costs and depreciation.
We are currently developing our procedures internal targets for providing continuous for the management of the next five-year Capital investment for the year was supplies to customers.
We cut customer capital investment programmes in water 1,013.9 million, 864.2 million was and wastewater and electricity distribution.
spent on water and wastewater and This will ensure we have the appropriate 149.7 million on electricity distribution, business processes, organisation, systems the highest ever undertaken by United and commercial contracts to provide Utilities in a single year.
This has enabled maximum shareholder value from our the business to remain ahead of its asset base.
59.31 regulatory output schedule in water and wastewater as at 31 March 2004.
Our operational strategy is being customer minutes lost realigned to deliver further efficiencies in operations and maintenance.
Areas that will yield benets include automation and Last year: 67.7 remote monitoring of plant, streamlining of processes and development of high Ofgem measure of electricity supplies, performance teams, reductions in overheads calculated as the average duration of and accommodation costs and supply chain interruptions per connected customer Operating profit for a segment is before goodwill management to maximise value from our per annum amortisation and exceptional items as shown in the scale and deliver benefit from long-term segmental analysis by class of business in note 2 of partnerships with key suppliers.
United Utilities Annual Report & Accounts 2004 5
