Operating review Licensed multi-utility operations United Utilities Customer Sales Bob Armstrong, We have put in place a number of Managing director key building blocks to deliver continuing improvements in service and further cost reductions.
United Utilities Customer Sales Business impacts The Water Act 2003 is now in place, is responsible for our regulated ruling out competition in the domestic customer base of 2.9 million domestic market.
We fully support this position households and business premises in since we believe the costs associated with north west England.
It is also a major introducing competition would outweigh the provider of water and wastewater potential benets to customers.
However, services in the competitive industrial we welcome competition for business market throughout the UK.
customers in water services as a driver for Business objectives efficiency and innovation.
We play a key role Our focus continues to be to maximise in industry working groups to develop the competitive framework.
There is a need profitability and cash ow, maintain and for a well managed process to deliver improve our levels of customer service, competition to the government timetable.
manage our reputation and contribute to the debate regarding the regulatory agenda.
The Water Act also sets out a new obligation for water companies to uoridate Business performance supplies when requested by a Strategic Through the regulatory process this Health Authority.
Our position on this matter year, we successfully secured additional is that it is not for us to decide matters of income for the business with our Interim public health, we simply act in accordance Determination of K IDoK submission.
with the instructions we receive.
Throughout the year, we achieved real One result of the impending price review is improvements in managing cash and that prices are likely to rise substantially for we are gradually solving the problems customers and we share concerns about associated with long-standing customer the affordability of water bills, particularly debt.
The Payment Card system we for vulnerable customers.
We have introduced last year has performed well.
processes in place to manage debt in a We now have 360,000 customers on way that is fair for customers and effective instalment plans plus a further 176,000 for the business.
Furthermore, we also cards in issue.
A complete re-appraisal have a range of initiatives that provide support, such as our vulnerable customer of our meter reading processes improved tariff, an arrears allowance scheme and both cash ow and service performance.
We also outperformed our regulatory targets We have taken a leading role in the Debt on all our customer service measures.
The Focus Group of Water UK, an industrynumber of telephone calls we answered wide body, looking at ways to improve the within 30 seconds was 93.3 per cent, Department for Work & Pensions Water against our regulatory target of 86 per Direct scheme.
We are continuing to cent and a 2002 03 industry average lobby for changes to the benets system of 92.5 per cent.
to extend the range of benets from which deductions can be made and to improve We launched our new customer billing take-up of such schemes.
programme to a small number of customers in March 2004.
Roll out will be achieved During the months ahead, we need to to all customers during 2004 05.
This make sure that all customers understand investment is targeted to deliver cost the reasons for increased bills and we savings for the business from 2005 06 have active programmes to ensure they and improve the service for customers.
6 United Utilities Annual Report & Accounts 2004
