Vedanta Resources plc 27 Annual Report 2004 Board of Directors, Senior Management and Advisers 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS 5 Sir David Gore-Booth KCMG KCVO A R 1 Anil Agarwal, Chief Executive Officer N Aged 61.
Sir David is Special Adviser to the Aged 51.
Mr Agarwal is also Chairman and Chairman of HSBC Holdings plc, Chairman of Managing Director of Sterlite and is a director of the Windsor Energy Group, Co-Chairman of the BALCO, MALCO and HZL.
Sterlite was formed by Dubai UK Trade and Economic Committee and Mr Agarwal in 1976.
Mr Agarwal has over 29 years holds a number of other board positions including of experience in the mining industry.
directorships of HSBC Bank Middle East, British Arab Commercial Bank, HSBC Bank Egypt, Saudi British 2 Peter Sydney-Smith, Finance Director Bank, Group 4 Falck and the Arab-British Chamber Aged 51.
Mr Sydney-Smith joined the Group in of Commerce.
Sir David served in a number of posts 2003.
Prior to joining the Group, he was Finance with the British Diplomatic Service from 1964 to Director at BPB plc, an international building 1998, including the post of High Commissioner materials group.
Mr Sydney-Smith joined BPB plc to India from 1996 to 1998 and the post of from British Gypsum Ltd in 1992, where he had been Ambassador to Saudi Arabia from 1993 to 1996. the Finance Director.
Mr Sydney-Smith is a chartered Sir David has an MA from the University of Oxford.
accountant, a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of England and Wales and has an MA 6 Naresh Chandra N R from the University of Cambridge.
Mr Chandra was Home Secretary in India in 1990, Cabinet Secretary from 1990 to 1992, NON-EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN Senior Adviser to the Prime Minister of India from 3 Brian Gilbertson N 1992 to 1995 and the Indian Ambassador to the Aged 60.
Mr Gilbertson has been a director, chief USA from 1996 to 2001.
He was Chairman of the executive and or chairman of many major mining Indian Government Committee on Corporate companies, including Gencor Limited, Goldfields Governance from 2002 to 2003 and is currently Limited, Billiton Plc and dual listed company BHP Chairman of the Committee on Civil Aviation Policy.
During his career, he has been He is a non-executive director of Bajaj Auto Ltd associated with a variety of company-transforming and several other Indian industrial companies.
Since May 2003, Mr Gilbertson has Mr Chandra has an MSc in Mathematics from acted as a consultant to Lonmin plc.
He is a director Allahabad University.
of Incwala Resources Limited, a black economic empowerment company in South Africa and is also a 7 Jean-Pierre Rodier A N H director of Emergofin S. V. a holding company in a Aged 57.
Mr Rodier was Chairman and Chief group with Russian aluminium assets.
Mr Gilbertson Executive of Pechiney S. A. from 1994 to 2003. has an MSc in Physics from Rhodes University and an Mr Rodier started his career at the French Ministry of MBL from the University of South Africa.
He was Chief Executive Officer of mining and metals firm Penarroya and Managing Director of NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS lmetal, its parent company.
He was Chairman of the 4 Michael Fowle CBE A R Executive Board of Metaleurop France from 1988 to Senior Independent Director 1991 and head of Groupe Suezs non-ferrous metal Aged 64.
Mr Fowle was the senior partner of KPMG operations from 1981 to 1994.
Mr Rodier was London & South from 1993 to 1998.
Throughout his educated at the cole Polytechnique and cole career at KPMG he held numerous leading positions, Nationale Suprieure des Mines in Paris.
including Chairman of KPMG India, Head of UK Audit and Chairman of Global Banking & Finance, and he also acted as auditor and adviser to a broad range of corporate clients.
Currently Mr Fowle is a non-executive director and Chairman of the audit committee of ICICI Bank UK and Senior NonA Member of the Audit Committee executive Director and Chairman of the audit H Member of the Health, Safety and Environment committee of Norwich & Peterborough Building Committee Society.
Mr Fowle is a chartered accountant, a N Member of the Nomination Committee member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants R Member of the Remuneration Committee of England and Wales and has an MA from the Committee Chairman University of Cambridge.
Vedanta Resources plc 28 Annual Report 2004 Board of Directors, Senior Management and Advisers continued EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE Company Secretary The Groups Executive Committee is chaired by Anil Matthew Hird Agarwal.
Its other members are Peter Sydney-Smith, Kuldip Kaura, Navin Agarwal, Tarun Jain and Registered Office TL Palani Kumar.
Hill House 1 Little New Street Kuldip Kaura London EC4A 3TR Aged 56.
Chief Operating Officer of Vedanta Resources plc and Managing Director of HZL.
Head Office Mr Kaura joined HZL in 2002.
Prior to this Mr Kaura 44 Hill Street held various positions in operations and business Mayfair management at ABB India.
He was a member of the London W1J 5NX board of directors of ABB India from 1996 and Managing Director and Country Manager of ABB from Telephone: 44 0 20 7629 6070 1998.
Mr Kaura has a Bachelor of Engineering degree Fax: 44 0 20 7629 7426 from Birla Institute of Technology & Science, Pilani.
com Navin Agarwal Registered Number Aged 42.
Vice Chairman and Director of Sterlite.
4740415 Mr Agarwal oversees the current US$2 billion investment programme and many of the operational Registrar functions within the Group.
Mr Agarwal joined Computershare Investor Services PLC Sterlite at its inception and has over 19 years P. O.
Box 82 experience in general management.
He has an OPM The Pavilions from Harvard and a Bachelor of Commerce degree Bridgwater Road from Sydenham College, Mumbai.
Mr Agarwal is the Bristol BS99 7NH brother of the Chief Executive, Mr Anil Agarwal.
Mr Jain is responsible for all financial matters in India as well as Auditors strategic planning and corporate communications.
Deloitte & Touche LLP Mr Jain has been with Sterlite since 1984.
Mr Jain is Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants London in India, the Institute of Chartered Secretaries in India and is a graduate of the Institute of Cost and Solicitors Works Accountants of India.
Freshfield Bruckhaus Deringer Amarchand & Mangaldas & Suresh A. Shroff & Co. TL Palani Kumar Aged 54.
Mr Palani Queries relating to Vedanta Resources plc should be Kumar joined the Group in July 2003.
Prior to joining addressed to the Company Secretary or the Head of the Group he was the Managing Director and Chief Investor Relations at the Head Office address.
Executive of New Holland Tractors India Private Limited which is part of the Fiat group.
Mr Palani Questions about shareholdings or dividends should Kumar has a Chemical Engineering degree from the be addressed to the Registrar.
Indian Institute of Technology, Madras and an MBA from the Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad.
