Currency On the other hand, most of the Groups The SSAP 24 charge to the profit The US dollar continued to weaken activities are transacted in the countries and loss account in 2004 for all pension against sterling, with the average for and currencies in which its operations plans including defined contribution was the year and the year end exchange are located and therefore exchange rate 23.2 million, an increase of 4.4 million rates for 2004 some 12% and 7% variations have less impact on trading.
23% over 2003, with the increase due lower than 2003 respectively.
Other US primarily to amortisation of the main UK dollar tracking currencies such as the Pensions and other post-employment plan deficit.
Total pension cash contributions Singapore and Hong Kong dollars and plans amounted to 24.8 million in 2004 2003: the Chinese renminbi also weakened by The Group operates defined contribution 20.1 million.
similar amounts, whereas the value of the and defined benefit pension plans, principally The Group has various post-employment euro was relatively stable against sterling.
If accounted for in healthcare plans which, based on actuarial In 2004 only 9% of the Groups accordance with FRS 17, the valuation on estimates, have future liabilities of 28.7 million turnover and 2% of operating profit these plans, net of notional deferred tax against which there is a balance sheet derived from operations in the UK.
As a and balance sheet accruals, would reflect provision of 21.9 million.
Whilst all of consequence, translation of the Groups a deficit of 99 million as at 31 December these liabilities are unfunded, the profit results into sterling were affected by 2004 2003: 85 million.
The increase in and loss account bears the appropriate variations in exchange rates, particularly net liability arises primarily from changes in cost to meet them.
the US dollar, as some 50% of the Groups the actuarial assumptions used to discount turnover and 60% of operating profit arise the present value of future liabilities which International Financial Reporting from operations based in the USA or in more than offset the increase in the market Standards IFRS countries whose currencies track the value of the assets of the funds since the For the year ending 31 December 2005, US dollar.
In addition, approximately 66% end of 2003. the Group is required to prepare its of the Groups borrowings are US dollar The triennial actuarial valuation of the consolidated accounts in accordance denominated.
main UK plan was completed in 2004 with IFRS.
Cooksons Interim Report and The year-on-year changes in key and has led to an actuarial funding deficit Annual Report and Accounts for 2005 will indicators of performance at both reported of 94 million as at 31 December 2003. therefore contain financial statements for and constant exchange rates, i. e. restating After consultation with the trustees of 2005 and comparative figures for 2004 results for 2003 at 2004 exchange rates, the Companys UK plan, normal cash prepared under IFRS.
were as follows: contributions were supplemented with an The Group began its study into the additional top up payment of 6.5 million effects of the transition from UK GAAP to % Increase decrease vs 2003 in 2004 2003: 5.0 million.
Further top up IFRS in mid-2003.
The project continued payments of 10.0 million and 10.5 million throughout 2004 and included training of At reported At constant exchange exchange are due to be made in 2005 and 2006 Group finance staff: the reissue of internal rates rates respectively.
The US plans undergo actuarial financial documentation: and a bottom-up Sales continuing operations 5 11 Operating profit continuing valuations every year and the FRS 17 deficit financial impact assessment.
operations 47 60 as at 31 December 2004 was 36 million The Groups strategy review that was Profit before tax 186 102 2003: 38 million.
Funding of the US plan given to the market on 18 January 2005 Net debt 14 9 is made in accordance with US government included a presentation outlining the likely Before amortisation of intangibles and exceptional items.
This is available on the Company Pensions and other post-retirement benefits In addition, the 317.8 million of website at www.
The Group operates a number of pension pre-1998 goodwill previously written-off A summary of the main IFRS differences and other post-employment plans, as set to reserves under UK GAAP will be writtenimpacting the Group covered in the out in note 30 on page 67, which includes off permanently.
This the appropriate FRS 17 disclosures.
information is preliminary and unaudited.
Accounting for pension and other postFinancial instruments employment plans under IFRS is governed As stated above, the IFRS standard on Deferred income on interest rate swaps by IAS 19 Employee Benefits.
Although financial instruments IAS 39 and its related In 2000, the Group entered into a series the full IAS 19 actuarial results are not yet disclosure standard IAS 32 are only being of fixed-to-floating interest rate swaps finalised, the total deficit brought on to the implemented on 1 January 2005.
Apart in respect of its $570 million senior loan IFRS balance sheet at 31 December 2004 from the treatment of deferred income on notes.
Between 2001 and 2004 these swaps will be broadly equivalent to the FRS 17 interest rate swaps, the Group expects little were closed-out for total cash proceeds deficit at 31 December 2003 161.9 million.
impact from the implementation of these and a surplus of 43.7 million.
Under UK Of this amount, 35.6 million was already standards, since: GAAP, this surplus was accounted for accrued in the UK GAAP balance sheet at it has few derivative contracts: as deferred interest income and released 31 December 2003.
Hence the net effect hedging activity is primarily sourced and to profit over the remaining life of the on shareholders funds on the transition controlled by the Group Treasury function: underlying loan notes to which the swaps to IFRS would be 126.3 million.
operations only take out short-dated had related.
As set out in note 17 iv on forward foreign exchange contracts: page 61, the Company had unreleased Joint venture accounting commodity purchase contracts are deferred interest income of 22.3 million Joint venture results are currently reported generally outside the scope of IAS 39: and recorded within Other creditors in its UK using the gross equity method under UK no significant embedded derivatives GAAP balance sheet as at 31 December GAAP.
The Group presents its share of joint have been identified.
In 2004, 5.4 million of the deferred venture sales, operating profit, interest, tax income was released as a credit to net and exceptional items in the profit and loss Other interest and a further 4.1 million was account, and its share of gross assets and The other IFRS transition differences scheduled to be released in 2005. liabilities in the balance sheet.
that have been identified are as follows: Under IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Under IFRS, the Group has decided holiday pay accruals of c. 3 million Recognition and Measurement, the it will record its share of joint venture net will be brought on to the balance sheet surplus on the above close-outs of swaps profit after tax, to be included in operating as a transitional adjustment as at would be recognised immediately.
As IAS profit in the profit and loss account and 1 January 2004: 39 is only being implemented with effect its share of joint venture net assets in the finance leases under IFRS currently from 1 January 2005, the 5.4 million credit balance sheet.
The equivalent 2004 IFRS classified as operating leases under to interest in 2004 will remain in the Groups profit and loss account would therefore UK GAAP will bring c. 5 million of 2004 IFRS profit and loss account, but exclude joint venture sales of 45.2 million additional debt and fixed assets the unreleased deferred interest income and operating profit would be reduced by on to the IFRS balance sheet as of 22.3 million will be credited to opening 1.7 million see note 7 on page 54. at 31 December 2004: and reserves in 2005. marking to market of availableGoodwill amortisation for-sale investments will increase Share option charge UK GAAP requires goodwill to be the carrying value of investments Under IFRS, all share option awards attract amortised over its useful economic life, to a by c. 2 million as a transitional a fair value charge to the profit and loss maximum of 20 years, with annual tests for adjustment as at 1 January 2004. account.
Under UK GAAP, the majority impairment.
Under IFRS, goodwill would be of the Groups share options attracted no frozen at its UK GAAP value on 1 January charge as they were issued at or above 2004 505.6 million see note 10, page the prevailing market price.
Goodwill amortisation would no longer that the awards outstanding during 2004 be applied and thus the charge booked would have attracted a charge of 2 million in 2004 of 31.7 million would be reversed Dennis Millard Group Finance Director under IFRS.
in the 2004 IFRS profit and loss account.
15 March 2005 22 Cookson Group plc Annual Report 2004 BOARD OF DIRECTORS 1 3 5 2 4 6 c, d a, b 1 Robert Beeston 63 5 Jan Oosterveld 61 Chairman Non-executive Director 7 Joined the Cookson Board in April 2003 and was Appointed to the Cookson Board in June 2004. appointed Chairman at the Companys Annual Jan spent the majority of his career at Royal Philips General Meeting later that month.
Electronics, latterly serving as a member of the Bob was the CEO of FKI plc from 1992 to 2002 Group Management Committee.
He is a nonand prior to that was Managing Director of BTR executive director of Continental AG, Crucell N. V. Valve Group.
He is a non-executive director and Barco N. V. and Atos Origin S. A. and Professor Chairman of the Remuneration Committee of D S at IESE Business School in Barcelona.
8 Smith plc, the international packaging and office a, b products group.
6 Barry W Perry 58 Non-executive Director a, b 2 Kent Atkinson 59 Appointed to the Cookson Board in January 2002.
Non-executive Director Barry is Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Appointed to the Cookson Board in April 2003, Engelhard Corporation, a US-based surface and is Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Barry previously held 9 Kent was previously the Group Finance Director senior executive positions with Rhone-Poulenc of Lloyds TSB Group plc.
He is the senior nonand with General Electric Co in the USA.
Barry executive director and Chairman of the Audit is also a non-executive director of Arrow f, g 9 Richard Malthouse 53 Committee of Coca-Cola HBC SA and the senior Electronics, Inc. non-executive director and Chairman of the Audit Group Secretary c, d, f Appointed Group Secretary in 1993.
Committee of Marconi Corporation plc.
Kent is 7 Nick Salmon 52 also a non-executive director of The Standard Life Chief Executive He was previously the Group Secretary of Assurance Company.
Appointed Chief Executive in July 2004.
He has held the equivalent or senior company secretarial Prior to joining Cookson, Nick was Executive f 3 Gian Carlo Cozzani 64 Vice President at Alstom SA, the global energy positions in pharmaceutical, engineering President Chief Executive Officer of the and automobile manufacturing companies.
Previously Ceramics division he was the CEO at Babcock International plc, Joined the Group in 1988 as Vice President, the engineering services group and held earlier Sales and Marketing, was appointed President positions with GEC and China Light and Power.
CEO of the Ceramics division in 1994 and became an executive Director in 1999. a, b, e 8 John Sussens 59 He previously worked at Exxon Chemical in Non-executive Director a Member of the Audit Committee a variety of management roles.
Appointed to the Cookson Board in May 2004, b Member of the Remuneration Committee is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee c Member of the Nominations Committee: d, f 4 Dennis Millard 56 and Senior Independent Director.
the membership also includes any three Group Finance Director non-executive Directors John was previously Managing Director of Dennis joined the Company and was appointed d Member of the Finance Committee Misys plc, the global software products and e Senior Independent Director Group Finance Director in 1996. solutions company.
He is currently a nonf Member of the Executive Committee He was previously the Finance Director of executive director of Admiral Group plc, Anglo g Not a member of the Board Medeva plc.
Dennis is a non-executive director & Overseas Trust plc, Phoenix IT Group plc and Chairman of the Audit Committee of Exel plc.
and Searchspace Group Ltd. Ages are as at 15 March 2005 23 Cookson Group plc Annual Report 2004 DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors submit their annual report together with the audited Reporting Council in July 2003 the Code.
The Company has accounts of the Group and of the Company, Cookson Group plc, complied with the provisions of the Code throughout the year ended for the year ended 31 December 2004.
The Company also continues to monitor the introduction of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 and the regulations Principal activities that relate to it.
In this regard, the Company complies with its Cookson Group is a leading materials science company which requirements insofar as they currently stand.
provides materials, processes and services to customers worldwide.
The Group operates as three divisions Ceramics, Electronics and The Board Precious Metals.
The Ceramics division is a world leading supplier Ultimate responsibility for the management of Cookson rests with of advanced flow control and refractory products and systems the Board of Directors.
The Board primarily focuses upon strategic to the iron and steel industry and also supplies refractory lining and policy issues.
It approves the Groups strategy and oversees materials for iron and steelmaking and other industrial processes.
the allocation of resources and monitors the performance of the The Electronics division is a leading manufacturer and supplier of Group in pursuit of this.
materials and services to the electronics industry, primarily serving The Board currently has eight Directors, comprising the nonfabricators and assemblers of printed circuit boards, assemblers of executive Chairman, the Chief Executive, two other executive semiconductor packaging and the electrical and industrial markets.
Directors and four non-executive Directors.
The Board considers The Precious Metals division is a leading supplier to the jewellery each of the non-executive Directors, Messrs M K Atkinson, industry of fabricated precious metals products.
J P Oosterveld, B W Perry and J G Sussens, to be independent Review of 2004 of management and free from any business or other relationship A review of Cooksons results, the major developments occurring which could affect the exercise of their independent judgement.
during 2004 within each of its three divisions and of the Groups The Company has reviewed the availability of the non-executive financial position at the end of 2004 is given on pages 1 to 22.
Directors and considers that each of them is able to devote the Events affecting the Group since the end of the year and likely necessary amount of time to the Companys business.
The Board future developments are also referred to on those pages.
nominates one of the non-executive Directors to act as Senior Independent Director and provide an alternative contact at Board Group profit before tax, exceptional items and amortisation of level, other than the Chairman, to whom shareholder matters intangibles for 2004 was 93.1 million 2003: 32.6 million.
During the year, Mr M K Atkinson held this profit for the year before exceptional items and amortisation of position.
Following the announcement that he has decided to intangibles was 62.8 million 2003: 20.4 million and a loss of step down from the Board with effect from 15 April 2005 to devote 50.2 million 2003: loss of 204.5 million after exceptional items more time to his other commitments, the Board has appointed and amortisation of intangibles.
Mr J G Sussens to be Senior Independent Director with immediate During 2004, Cookson paid 12.0 million in respect of acquisitions effect.
The Board is in the process of recruiting an additional nonof subsidiaries, joint ventures and other intangible assets and executive Director, who in due course will succeed Mr Atkinson disposed of interests in subsidiaries and joint ventures for a net as Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The biographical details of consideration of 1.4 million.
Further details of these interests individual Directors are set out on page 23. acquired and sold during the year are given in note 24 on page 65.
Mr D H Millard has also informed the Board of his intention to step Capital expenditure by Group companies in 2004 amounted to down from the Board and leave the Company during the course of 42.3 million 2003: 48.5 million.
Further details of the Groups 2005.
Mr Millard has been Group Finance Director since 1996.
The tangible fixed assets are given in note 11 on page 56. process of recruiting a successor has commenced and Mr Millard Details of Cooksons charitable donations made in the year has agreed to continue in his role until such time as an appointment are given in note 28 on page 66.
In accordance with Company has been made and an appropriate transition effected.
policy, no political donations were made in either 2004 or 2003.
The Articles of Association of the Company require that Directors The financial statements have been prepared on the going should submit themselves for re-election at least every three years.
concern basis as the Directors consider that the Company and Messrs G C Cozzani, B W Perry and D H Millard will therefore be the Group have adequate resources to continue in operation for retiring and offering themselves for re-election at this years AGM the foreseeable future.
as set out in the Notice of AGM and on page 29.
Mr Millard must stand for re-election even though he intends to leave the Company Dividends later in the year.
No dividends were paid in 2004 or 2003 or are proposed for 2004.
In January 2005, the Board stated that it intended to return to The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it and sustained dividend payment as soon as possible and that dividends delegates certain matters to committees as outlined below.
The would be funded through cash flow and would be linked to the Board met as a full Board on seven scheduled occasions during Groups underlying earnings.
One of these meetings was held at a Cookson site and another was combined with an off-site Strategy Day.
In addition, Corporate governance the Chairman and the non-executive Directors meet routinely on Details are set out in the narrative below of the Companys corporate their own without the executive Directors present and at least once governance procedures and application of the principles of the a year the non-executive Directors meet without the Chairman Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial present to discuss matters such as the Chairmans performance.
24 Cookson Group plc Annual Report 2004 Specific matters reserved for the Board include: reviewing Group adviser, being completed by each Director, thereby providing a and divisional performance: approving significant transactions framework for year-on-year comparison.
In addition, a series of including acquisitions, divestments and capital expenditure: setting one-to-one meetings between the Chairman and each member of and approving the Groups strategy and annual budget: approving the Board was held.
The performance of the Chairman was in turn the Groups financing and treasury policy: and approving Board reviewed by the Senior Independent Director following consultation appointments and the remuneration of the non-executive Directors.
with other members of the Board.
The results of the evaluations In addition the Board considers research and development, and were collated by the independent adviser and then presented to the health, safety and environmental matters and reviews the Groups Board for review.
In general, it was concluded that the Board and risk management processes.
its Committees operated effectively and that each individual Director continued to contribute in full and demonstrated commitment The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief to their role.
A number of areas of potential improvement for the Executive has been agreed by the Board and is set out in writing.
Board were identified and follow-up action was then taken as The Chairman leads the Board and meets routinely with the Chief necessary, including increasing the proportion of the Boards time Executive and Group Secretary to discuss matters relating to its spent on strategy and rescheduling the Board and Committee efficient functioning.
The Chairman continues to serve as a nonmeeting calendar to permit more time for Committee meetings.
executive director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee In addition it is proposed that going forward the Board will ensure of D S Smith plc.
He has not acquired any further significant that it has greater visibility of managerial talent below the level commitments during the year.
of the Main Board and that the number of Board meetings held The attendance of Directors at Board and principal Committee at operating units be increased.
These last two measures are meetings during the year was as follows: intended to assist the Board and especially members of the Nominations Committee in strengthening the succession AuditRemuneration Nominations Board Committee Committee Committee planning process for the Groups senior management positions.
Chairman non-executive Training and induction R G Beeston 7 7 n a n a 2 2 The Company ensures that all Directors are provided with details Executive Directors of seminars and training courses relevant to their role.
They are G C Cozzani 7 7 n a n a n a encouraged to attend these as they consider appropriate and are D H Millard 7 7 n a n a n a supported by the Company in so doing.
Where a general training N R Salmon need is identified, in-house training is provided to the full Board.
from 19 07 04 4 4 n a n a 1 1 The Group Secretary ensures that a full induction programme is Non-executive Directors provided to all new Directors, including visits to manufacturing M K Atkinson 7 7 4 4 6 6 2 2 facilities, meetings with key Group executives and introductions J P Oosterveld to the Companys principal external advisers.
from 15 06 04 4 5 1 2 2 3 1 1 Relations with shareholders B W Perry 6 7 3 4 3 6 2 2 The Group reports its financial results to shareholders twice a year, J G Sussens with the publication of its Annual and Interim Reports.
In conjunction from 01 05 04 5 6 3 3 4 4 2 2 with these announcements it gives presentations to institutional Directors retiring in 2004 investors and analysts, copies of which are posted on the Groups A G L Alexander to 14 05 04 2 2 2 2 3 3 1 1 website: www.
In addition, the Group publishes J F fide Moller to 01 10 04 4 5 3 3 4 4 1 1 trading statements after the first and third quarters giving salient S L Howard to 04 11 04 4 6 n a n a 0 1 unaudited financial figures.
The Group maintains a regular R P Sharpe to 19 05 04 2 2 n a n a n a dialogue with major institutional investors and regular updates Note on shareholder issues and discussions are provided to the Board.
Figures in brackets indicate maximum number of meetings in the period when the individual was a Board member.
Board members also receive copies of significant analysts notes issued on the Company.
All Directors normally attend the Groups Papers are provided to the Directors in advance of the relevant AGM, providing shareholders with the opportunity to question Board or Committee meeting to enable them to make further them about issues relating to the Group, either formally during enquiries about any matters prior to the meeting should they so the meeting or informally afterwards.
The Group Secretary oversees the distribution of these papers and ensures that there is an appropriate level of communication Board Committees between the Board and its Committees and between senior The principal Committees of the Board are the Audit, Remuneration management and non-executive Directors.
He also keeps the Board and Nominations Committees.
Each Committee has written terms apprised of all relevant developments in corporate governance.
of reference agreed by the Board.
These are available to view on the Companys website.
Performance evaluation The Board evaluates its own performance and effectiveness and The Audit Committee members are the non-executive Directors, assesses the performance of its Committees and individual members namely Mr M K Atkinson, Mr J P Oosterveld, Mr B W Perry and on an annual basis.
In 2004 this process again involved the use of Mr J G Sussens.
During the year the Committee was chaired a questionnaire, designed with the assistance of an independent by Mr Atkinson, who the Board believes possesses the relevant 25 Cookson Group plc Annual Report 2004 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED financial experience, as described by the Code.
The Board is in at its meeting in May 2004, the Committee reviewed the the process of recruiting a new non-executive Director with the Companys Annual Report on Form 20-F, which is filed each intention that this person be appointed to succeed Mr Atkinson year with the US Securities and Exchange Commission, together as Chairman of the Audit Committee.
with a report from the Auditor identifying any accounting or judgemental issues thereon requiring its attention: The Group Finance Director, the Group Head of Internal Audit and the Companys Auditor KPMG Audit Plc are normally invited a quarterly report from the Group Head of Internal Audit to attend meetings and other executives are invited to attend as was presented at each of the four meetings.
In addition, and when appropriate.
The Committee meets regularly with the at the December 2004 meeting, the Group Head of Internal Companys Auditor without any executives being present.
Audit submitted the functions internal audit plans for 2005: The principal roles of the Committee are: the Auditor presented their audit plans at the December 2004 meeting: assisting the Board in the discharge of its responsibilities in respect of statutory and other financial reporting and in respect reports were presented at each of the four meetings detailing of its review of the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls the Companys preparations to comply with the requirements and risk management systems: of International Financial Reporting Standards and Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act together with, where appropriate, monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys reports from the Auditor in order to allow the Committee to internal audit function: consider any matters which required a Board decision in making recommendations to the Board on the appointment relation to either project: and dismissal of the Auditor: from time to time, executives were required to make presentations approving the remuneration and terms of engagement of to the Committee or to the full Board on the subject of risk, its the Auditor: identification, management and control: and monitoring and reviewing the Auditors independence, objectivity as a matter of routine, the Committee was presented with and effectiveness, taking into account professional and regulatory information on significant litigation involving the Company.
requirements: and As noted above, one of the duties of the Committee is to make helping to strengthen the independent position of the Auditor by recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment of providing a direct channel of communication between them and the Auditor.
A number of factors concerning the Auditor are taken the non-executive Directors.
into account by the Committee in assessing whether to recommend them for re-appointment.
These include: The Committee has established procedures for the receipt, retention and treatment of complaints received by the Company including the quality both of reports provided to the Committee and the accounting, internal controls, auditing matters and confidential Board and of advice given: communications from employees.
the level of understanding demonstrated of the Companys The Group Head of Internal Audit reports directly to the Committee businesses: and Chairman and the Committee reviews and approves the internal the objectivity of the Auditors views on the controls around the audit work programme for each year.
Company and their ability to coordinate a global audit working During the year under review, the Committee met four times to tight deadlines.
and reviewed, amongst other matters, the Companys published The Committee has put in place safeguards to ensure that the financial results: updates on the Groups International Financial independence of the external audit is not compromised.
Such Reporting Standards conversion project: updates on the Companys safeguards include: preparedness for complying with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act: internal audit reports and management seeking confirmation that the Auditor is independent of the control issues: the scope of the external audit and its cost Company in their own professional judgement: and effectiveness: and the extent to which the Auditors remuneration considering all the relationships between the Auditor and the for non-audit services might affect their independence and objectivity Company, including those relating to the provision of non-audit in carrying out the audit.
services and whether this impairs, or appears to impair, the More specifically, the responsibilities of the Committee were Auditors judgement or independence.
discharged as follows: The Company has a policy governing the conduct of non-audit at its meetings in July 2004 and February 2005, the work by the Auditor.
Under that policy the Auditor is prohibited Committee reviewed the Companys Interim Report and from performing services where they: preliminary announcement Annual Report and Accounts, may be required to audit their own work: respectively.
On both occasions, the Committee received reports from the Auditor identifying any accounting or participate in activities that would normally be undertaken judgemental issues thereon requiring its attention: by management: 26 Cookson Group plc Annual Report 2004 are remunerated through a success fee structure, where success The Board delegates certain responsibilities on an ad hoc basis is dependent upon the audit: or to the Finance and Share Schemes Committees.
act in an advocacy role for the Company.
The Finance Committee is chaired by the Group Chairman, its other members being the Chief Executive, Group Finance Director Other than the above, the Company does not impose an automatic and Group Treasurer.
The Committee meets as and when required ban on the Auditor undertaking non-audit work.
The Auditor is to consider approval for treasury-related matters.
permitted to provide non-audit services that are not, or are not perceived to be, in conflict with auditor independence, providing they The Share Schemes Committees membership consists of any two have the skill, competence and integrity to carry out the work in the Directors.
It meets as and when required to undertake administrative best interests of the Company.
Services above a fide minimis level matters in relation to the Companys share schemes.
are submitted to the Committee for approval prior to engagement In addition to the Committees of the Board described above, and all services are subsequently monitored by the Committee.
the Group has an Executive Committee which supports the Details of the amounts paid to the Auditor during the year for audit Chief Executive in addressing Group-wide issues, reviewing and other services are set out in note 3 on page 52. performance and determining Group operational policies and initiatives.
This Committee is chaired by the Chief Executive and The Remuneration Committee members are the non-executive comprises the Group Finance Director, the Group Secretary, the Directors, namely Mr M K Atkinson, Mr J P Oosterveld and Chief Executives of each of the Groups three divisions and the Mr B W Perry and the Committee is chaired by Mr J G Sussens.
President of Cookson America Inc.
The Committees principal roles are to recommend and monitor the level and structure of remuneration for senior management Formal authority is also designated to the Central Executive and to set the appropriate remuneration for the Group Chairman, comprising the Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and executive Directors and Group Secretary.
Further details of the Group Secretary.
The Central Executive is responsible for reviewing activities of the Remuneration Committee are provided in the and approving capital expenditure, acquisitions and disposals Directors Remuneration Report on pages 31 to 39. at certain levels as determined by the Board.
Responsibility for day-to-day operational management is delegated to the divisional The Nominations Committee advises the Board on appointments Chief Executives.
to and retirements and resignations from the Board.
The members of the Committee are the Group Chairman, the Chief Executive Accountability and audit and any three non-executive Directors.
The Committee meets A responsibility statement of the Directors and a statement by as and when required and is chaired by the Group Chairman or the Auditor about their reporting responsibilities can be found on a non-executive Director.
The Group Chairman would not act as pages 42 and 43, respectively.
There is no relevant information Chairman of the Committee where the Committee was dealing that has not been disclosed to the Auditor throughout the year.
with the appointment of a successor to the Chairmanship.
Formal The Directors fulfil the responsibilities set out in their statement meetings are held to discuss relevant matters and there is also a within the context of an overall control environment of central significant level of ongoing discussion between members of the strategic direction and decentralised operating autonomy.
Committee, particularly when a recruitment exercise is taking place.
Auditor During the year under review a new Chief Executive and two Resolutions for the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as Auditor new non-executive Directors were appointed to the Board.
When of the Company and to authorise the Directors to determine their considering the appointment of new Directors, the Committee draws remuneration are to be proposed at the AGM.
up specifications, taking into consideration the existing balance Internal control of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board and the ongoing The Directors are responsible for the establishment and maintenance requirements of the Group.
It utilises the services of an external of the Groups system of internal control.
recruitment consultancy to identify appropriate candidates, interviews those short-listed and then makes recommendations for each The Company has complied with the provisions of the Code appointment to the full Board.
Care is taken to ensure that all on internal control which require that the Directors review the proposed appointees have sufficient time available to devote effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls, including to the role.
Following the announcement of the resignations of financial, operational and compliance controls, and risk management Messrs Atkinson and Millard, the Committee has commenced systems.
Whilst no system of internal control can provide absolute the process for recruiting a new non-executive Director and a assurance against material misstatement or loss, the Groups new Group Finance Director.
system is designed to provide the Directors with reasonable assurance that problems are identified on a timely basis and are The Nominations Committee also met during the year to dealt with appropriately.
Subject thereto, based on their review of review the Companys succession plans.
The Board as a whole the Groups system of internal controls, which include disclosure considered the Committees conclusions.
As part of the Boards controls and procedures, the Directors consider them to be performance evaluation process, Directors identified a number effective.
Since the date of the review, there have been no of potential areas for improvement in the Boards composition.
significant changes in internal controls or other matters which The Committee will take account of these in recruiting for any could significantly affect them.
27 Cookson Group plc Annual Report 2004
