Board of Directors Board of Directors Philip Rogerson aged 59, Chairman non-executive N Patrick Bourke aged 47, Appointed non-executive Group Finance Director E Chairman in January 1999 following his appointment as Joined as Group Finance Patrick Haren aged 53, a non-executive director and Director in September Group Chief Executive E, N Deputy Chairman in July 2000.
Chairman of Aggreko Harry McCracken aged 54, Joined NIE as Chief Executive Mergers and Acquisitions plc, and non-executive Group Managing Director, in 1992.
Appointed Group and then Group Treasurer at director of Northgate plc and Viridian Power & Energy E Chief Executive in February Powergen plc.
He was Celltech Group plc.
He is a Board member formerly a director of Appointed Group Managing Previously Deputy Chairman of Invest NI, Northern Barclays fide Zoete Wedd Director, Viridian Power & of BG plc formerly British Irelands economic and qualified as a chartered Energy in February 2003.
Gas plc until February 1998 development agency.
accountant with Peat Previously Managing Director, having been a director since Previously Director of New Marwick now KPMG.
NIE with responsibility for the 1992.
Prior to that he spent Business Investment with Groups regulated electricity 14 years with ICI, latterly as Electricity Supply Board ESB businesses.
Joined NIE in 1970 General Manager, Finance.
in the Republic of Ireland and as an engineer and progressed Chairman of ESB to Corporate Planning Manager International.
prior to appointment to the Board of NIE as Operations Director in 1992.
Dipesh Shah aged 51 A, N, R Desmond Smyth aged 54 A, N, R Appointed as a non-executive director in November 2003.
Appointed as a nonDuncan Lewis aged 53 Chief Executive of the United executive director in 1996.
A, N, R Kingdom Atomic Energy Desmond Smyth CBE has Mike Toms aged 50 Authority.
Non-executive been nominated by the Appointed as a nonA, N, R director at Babcock Board as the Senior executive director in International Group PLC and Appointed as a non-executive Independent Director and February 2002.
Senior Naps Systems Oy and nondirector in November 2003. chairs the Audit Committee.
Advisor to the Carlyle executive Chairman of IT Group Director, Planning and A chartered accountant, he Group.
Until late 2002 Regulatory Affairs at BAA plc was Managing Director of director of the British Library held a number of senior since 2001.
Formerly Director Ulster Television plc for 17 and CompleTel nv.
Formerly positions within BP plc, latterly of Corporate Strategy at BAA years until October 1999.
President and Chief as Vice President and General plc.
He is a member of the Operating Officer of GTS Inc, Manager, Acquisitions and Governing Board of the Managing Director of Equant Divestments and formerly as Airports Council International.
nv, Chief Executive of Chief Executive of several Granada Media Group and businesses within BP plc.
held a number of managing director and chief executive positions at Cable and Wireless.
Duncan Lewis - independent non-executive director chairs the Remuneration A - member of Audit Committee Committee.
E - member of Executive Committee N - member of Nomination Committee R - member of Remuneration Committee Page Eleven Viridian Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2003-2004
