2004 account 26-64 7 5 04 10:56 am Page 39 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT The Board has properly constituted Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees details of which are as follows: Audit Committee The Audit Committee comprises the three independent non-executive directors, D R Wilson Chairman, I C Durant and G K Maddrell.
The Audit Committee acts in an advisory capacity to the Board and meets at least twice a year.
This will increase to three times a year.
The Committee has formal terms of reference which require it to take an independent view of the appropriateness of the Groups accounting controls, policies and procedures.
The Committee also reviews and approves the reports, appointment and fees of the external auditors.
The Committee also has a process for reviewing annually auditor independence including the non-audit services provided by the auditors to the Group.
The Board believes that Derek Wilson, Committee Chairman, has recent and relevant financial experience as a Chartered Accountant and until recently as Chief Executive of Slough Estates plc.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee has formal terms of reference and comprises the three independent non-executive directors, G K Maddrell Chairman, D R Wilson and I C Durant.
The Committee meets at least twice a year and is responsible for the determination and application of the Groups policy relating to the remuneration and benefits of executive directors.
The Remuneration report on pages 31 to 37 contains details of directors remuneration and the Groups policies in relation to directors remuneration.
Nominations Committee The Nominations Committee has formal terms of reference and comprises, G K Maddrell Chairman, D R Wilson, I C Durant and M C Donohue.
The Committee meets at least twice a year and is responsible for succession planning within the Group and for the recommendation of appointments to the Board for executive and non-executive directors.
Relations with shareholders The Company maintains a dialogue with its shareholders with regular meetings between executive directors and principal institutional investors.
Both institutional investors and individual shareholders are welcome at the Annual General Meeting where they have the opportunity to ask questions of the Board.
At the Annual General Meeting, the Company will count proxy votes and will announce the number of votes cast after each resolution has been dealt with on a show of hands.
Accountability and audit Going Concern A statement by the directors concerning the application of the going concern principle in the preparation of the financial statements is included in the Financial Review on page 26.
Internal control The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and reviewing its effectiveness.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control.
This process was in place throughout the year and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and financial statements.
It is regularly reviewed by the Board and auditors in accordance with the guidance in the Combined Code.
However, it must be recognised that any such system can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance of the safeguarding of assets, the maintenance of proper books and records and the reliability of financial information.
The key features of the Groups control system are as follows: Control environment The Group has a clearly defined management structure which ensures a proper division of responsibility and authority.
The Group has established a Code of Ethics, together with company rules and policy manuals, and a strong culture of good control and accurate reporting is supported by an effective self audit function.
Key business risks The Board has identified the key business risks relevant to the Groups operations.
These risks are reviewed on a six-monthly basis to ensure that they remain relevant to the business and appropriate to the current trading environment and that no further risks require consideration.
Control procedures Comprehensive control procedures are used to address the key business risks.
These include segregation of duties and authorisation procedures and cover land management, cash control and bank facilities, trading performance, expansion of the business and information technology.
The Board considers the adequacy of the control procedures at the same time as it reviews the key business risks.
The approval of acquisitions and land purchases is reserved for the Board, with specific delegated authority to the executive directors depending upon the amount being committed.
Westbury plc Annual Report 2004 39 2004 account 26-64 7 5 04 10:56 am Page 40 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT Monitoring control The Group has a culture which recognises the importance of control and accurate reporting and has established information systems covering the key elements of the business to ensure that the Board, the executive directors and senior managers receive accurate and timely information on which to base decisions.
Budgets are set annually for each region and for the Group and actual performance is reviewed monthly.
The Board has also established key performance indicators which are monitored by the executive directors on a weekly, monthly or quarterly basis, as appropriate.
Self audit Operation of the Groups internal control system is reviewed and tested by an internal audit process known as self audit.
This process involves all of the senior managers in the regions and Head Office.
The Head of self audit has direct access to the chairman of the Audit Committee.
As well as being a very important element of internal control, the self audit process has facilitated the dissemination of best practice across the Group, and helps maintain a strong control culture in the Group.
Statement of directors responsibilities Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year that give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing those financial statements the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
The directors confirm that they have complied with the above requirements in preparing the financial statements.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The maintenance and integrity of the Westbury website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
