Introduction to Whatman Whatman Board 1 The Whatman Business Bob Thian Whatman is regarded as the worlds leading innovator, Chairman and Chief Executive developer, producer and distributor of high-end Also Chairman of Southern Water and Astron Group.
laboratory separations products including filter papers, Previously Group Chief Executive of North West Water membranes, syringe filters, filters for use in breathing and of The Stationery Office: 22 years in healthcare with apparatus, automated platforms and surgical devices.
Glaxo, Abbott Laboratories and Novo Nordisk and From collection, storage and manipulation of DNA for non-executive directorships with Celltech and Medeval.
forensic applications, Whatman provides world class 2 solutions for life sciences, worldwide.
Solutions that Dr Simon May enable engineers, scientists and medical staff to carry Deputy Chairman and Non-executive Director out their work more easily, quickly, accurately and safely.
Also a member of the Investment Committee of ACTIV Investments Fund, and a business consultant and author.
Corporate headquarters Previously Director of Business Development, Nortel Brentford, West London Europe, and founder of Mondiale Information Technology Associates.
Sales and marketing offices 3 Dassel, Germany North Europe Tom McNally Maidstone, UK South Europe Vice Chairman Florham Park, New Jersey, USA North America Appointed as Vice Chairman on 1 January 2005 with Singapore Asia Pacific executive responsibility for the Groups research and Tokyo Japan.
development, business development and sales functions: non-executive director of the Company since March 2003.
Principal manufacturing locations Also a director of Pediatric Clinical Trials International.
Banbury, UK Previously 25 years in healthcare with Abbott Laboratories.
Maidstone, UK 4 Sanford, Maine, USA Dr Morana Jovan Dassel, Germany.
Non-executive Director Also a venture partner with MPM Capital, and a director Whatmans distribution, sales and service organisation of Zeolita Mira and Panmedix.
covers more than 70 countries worldwide.
5 Dr Hinrich Kehler For contact details, see page 60.
Also Chief Executive of ConCap GmbH and Chairman of ConCert GmbH, DIA-Nielsen MicroTech GmbH, Hahnemhle FineArt GmbH and S&S Security Printing GmbH.
Previously Chairman of Schleicher & Schuell GmbH and Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Sebaldus Group.
Phil Greenhalgh Finance Director Ian Bonnar Operations Director John Simmonds Company Secretary 1 Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
2 Chairman of the Audit Committee, member of the Nomination and Remuneration Committees, and Senior Independent Director.
3 Member of the Nomination Committee: until 31 December 2004, also Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and member of the Audit Committee.
4 Member of the Nomination Committee: until 29 January 2004, also a member of the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
5 Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, member of the Nomination and Audit Committees.
2 | Introduction to Whatman and the Whatman Board
