Brand review Truly great brands live above and beyond the sum of their products and services.
At Whitbread we are building great brands.
Already we have brands that are leaders in their markets, and we are committed to achieving that position across our business as a whole.
page 12 Whitbread PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2003 4 measures of success a passion for winning.
Our brands will be number one in every market we serve power of brands quite simply, leaders in their markets, with strong connections with their customers strength of management we have exceptionally talented leaders, we have processes that are both imaginative and rigorous.
We make our decisions work better insights on leisure we have deep insights into what customers want and the determination to build our businesses around those insights page 13 Brand review If the Travel Inn at your chosen location is full, our unique national booking system will automatically find you the nearest available Travel Inn bedroom.
This ability to cross-sell generates an additional 1 million revenue per month page 14 Whitbread PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2003 4 page 15 measures of success Marriott 101% profit per room performance measured against best in class and market competitors Source:TRI Hospitality Consulting, March 2004 The opening of the London Marriott power of brands Kensington in July 2003 represented the culmination of a three-year programme to convert 25 former Swallow hotels to the Marriott brand.
The redevelopment of the 216-bedroom property on Kensingtons Cromwell Road, with its impressive eight-storey glass atrium, was the most ambitious of all the conversions.
The return on Whitbreads investment comes from the higher room rates and improved occupancies that the hotel is now capable of achieving.
Focus on operational excellence strength of management Since Whitbread acquired the Marriott franchise in 1995 it has moved the brand from cameo status to the second largest fourstar hotel business in the UK, with almost 10,000 bedrooms.
Marriotts emergence in this sector In February 2004 the business secured is no longer driven exclusively by major agreement to operate Manchesters capital investment, as we seek more Victoria & Albert Hotel under the imaginative routes to market.
Marriott brand from the hotels owners, Royal Bank of Scotland.
It is part of an approach that focuses on operational excellence and brand management to drive improving returns from our shareholders capital.
insights on leisure Consistent excellence in customer service is the key to brand preference in four-star hotels.
Marriotts Spirit to Serve programme focuses every associate on a common goal exceeding guest expectations.
Over the last year it has helped the brand to set new benchmarks for guest satisfaction.
page 16 Whitbread PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2003 4 Brand review I believe that Travel Inn is the best budget hotel business in the UK today.
I believe it because we have Travel Inn held occupancy above 80% year 11% after year: I believe it because we are able to improve revenue per available room with the same increase in consistency.
operating profit All these factors enable us to make returns that are difficult to match anywhere else in the sector.
Mike Tye, managing director of Travel Inn Satisfaction guaranteed Transparent pricing and a remarkably consistent and well-invested estate 18,173 gives each guest the assurance that he or she pays the same price and bedrooms makes enjoys the same standard of hospitality Travel Inn the largest as every other guest staying in the hotel brand in the UK same Travel Inn on the same night.
The brands 100% Satisfaction Guarantee is a promise of a full and immediate refund if any Travel Inn guest is unhappy with his or her nights stay.
Unique among major UK hotel brands, it is important in helping to build consumer trust and is an expression of the brands confidence in itself.
For the second year in succession Travel Inn has been voted one of the top 100 companies in Britain to work for, improving its standing from 91st to 72nd.
Travel Inn is the only hotel brand featured in the list.
Sunday Times survey March 2004 Fast-track A hotel is a people business but that doesnt stop Travel Inn from using cutting edge technology to improve customer service.
The fact that over 20% of our room We are also building on advances in bookings are made through our website voice-recognition software to improve tells us something about the importance our telephone bookings:guests can now to our guests of web communications.
make reservations faster:while our Working with Swisscom Eurospot we Travel Inn reception staff have more time are installing wireless internet access to deal with customers face-to-face.
in every single Travel Inn.
Mike Tye, managing director of Travel Inn.
page 17 measures of success Brewers Fayre 16.0% operating margin and Brewsters In an environment of rising business costs, Brewers Fayre and Brewsters have once again made significant improvements in operating margin, up 0.6% point on last year.
National brand, local reputation power of brands Brewers Fayre is a national brand built on the local market-place reputation of more than 240 individual pub restaurants.
For regulars, Brewers Fayre is the Whitbread understands the strength of Dog & Partridge, the Three Horseshoes a houses distinctive character and the or Whitewebbs House.
The brand itself is importance of maintaining the right a hallmark of quality, and shorthand for balance between the national brand and honest pub food served in traditional the local name.
Rejuvenation strength of management In 2003 4, 45 Brewers Fayres were touched by rejuvenation a rolling programme of minor refurbishments that keeps the estate fresh.
Rejuvenation helps Brewers Fayre to move forward, evolving with consumer tastes.
Ian Webster, managing director of Brewers Fayre and Brewsters.
A family favourite insights on leisure The most common reason people choose to dine at Brewers Fayre is when they want a relaxed and informal meal out with friends and family.
Its important that our customers feel By focusing on these key areas we at home when theyre out for a meal are delivering on our promise to serve with us.
That is why Brewers Fayre means Britains favourite pub food.
Ian Webster, comfortable surroundings, friendly managing director of Brewers Fayre and Brewsters.
service and a menu of familiar favourites for every member of the family.
page 18 Whitbread PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2003 4 Brand review Brewsters is 2004s Parent Friendly Restaurant of the Year.
This is the third time in succession that Brewsters has picked up the accolade, which is awarded by Tommys, the baby charity.
A unique market position The creation of Brewsters in 2000 may be viewed as a bold step or a piece of inspired thinking, depending upon ones perspective.
Until that point, Whitbreads Brewers In deciding to segment the estate, Fayre brand had been many things to Whitbread created the UKs first many people: in some locations it was a national brand of restaurants aimed classic British food pub: in others a specifically, though not exclusively, at family-focused restaurant, with young families.
It has enabled Brewsters to establish a unique market position, and has helped Brewers Fayre to define itself more clearly in the minds of consumers.
Our managers are a talented bunch they have to be.
The ability to run a pub restaurant, a fun factory for kids and in many cases a Travel Inn as well requires a particular set of skills.
Peace of mind Brewsters understands that while parents sometimes need a break, their children are never far from their thoughts.
That is why the Brewsters brand has been built around the idea of providing fun for children and peace of mind for parents: all Brewsters Fun Factories are equipped with Parentcam CCTV: and all children in the Fun Factory are kitted out with a security tag that alerts parents and staff should a child leave the Fun Factory.
page 19 Brand review The new Beefeater restaurants give customers the feeling of private dining space.
This innovation is helping the brand to attract a new generation of diners page 20 Whitbread PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2003 4 page 21 measures of success Beefeater 3.9% like-for-like sales growth In February 2003, Whitbread power of brands unveiled a new format for its classic Beefeater brand.
The restaurants themselves have a more contemporary feel, the service is less formal and the menu allows customers to be as adventurous as they choose with a range of special dustings, marinades and sauces.
By concentrating on great grilled food, Beefeater is winning over a new generation of diners.
Higher profits, fewer assets, strength of management better returns The Beefeater brand is now starting to deliver on its potential, driving higher profits out of fewer sites and a lower capital base.
Over the course of the year, return on Initial results are encouraging with capital employed has moved ahead by a 30% sales uplift in sites that have two percentage points to 9%, and a been trading for a full 12 months, while further improvement is being targeted.
return on capital employed in those sites now stands at 12.3%.
A new format for the brand has been rolled out to 24 sites: and there are 40 more to come in 2004 5. insights on leisure People only relax if they feel secure in their environment.
We know that our customers wont really enjoy their meal if they feel self-conscious or in the way of others.
For the time they spend with us, our customers need to feel that they own their space within the restaurant.
Neil Riding, managing director of Beefeater, explains why 90% of all seating in new style Beefeater is in booths.
page 22 Whitbread PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2003 4 Brand review T. G. I. Fridays Between 16 and 22 December 2003, T. G. I. Fridays in Londons Haymarket chalked up world record gross sales of 178,015, the most that any of the brands restaurants around the globe has ever taken in a single week.
You may have noticed a few changes at T. G. I. Fridays over the last year.
We have updated the look and feel of the restaurants while taking care to preserve the idiosyncrasies that makeusspecial.
Guy Parsons, managing director of T. G. I Fridays.
Building strong teams T. G. I. Fridays understands the importance of stability 41 and commitment in building strong teams.
T. G. I. Fridays restaurants in the UK Three in five store managers are appointed from within the brand: while four out of five operations managers are former store managers.
This brand strength has played a significant part in halving overall employee turnover at T. G. I. Fridays in just four years.
At T. G. I. Fridays we believe that our menu has something for everyone and we hold true to our Five Easy Pieces promise that if we have the ingredients we will create dishes to order.
page 23 measures of success Pizza Hut Pizza Hut UKs reach has never been greater.
The net addition of 29 new full-service restaurants and 32 new home delivery units in 2003 4 is giving more people across the country the opportunity to grab a slice of the action.
Delivering on a promise power of brands Pizza Hut promises that every pizza delivered to customers will be hot 578 and on time.
Pizza Hut units The brands claim is backed up by the in the UK offer of a free order next time if it fails to deliver on this promise.
strength of management Every single one of our restaurants both full service and delivery is now measured against its own specific balanced score card.
John Derkach, managing director of Pizza Hut UK explains why his brand has beaten its targets for financial performance, customer preference and team member satisfaction.
insights on leisure Being in the right place Pizza Hut shapes its distribution to consumer lifestyles.
For many people a meal out is no longer the central event.
Instead it is something that accompanies other activities, like a trip to the shops, a family outing to the cinema, or a night at home in front of the TV.
This is behind the brands move into retail and leisure parks and also explains the growing popularity of its home delivery franchises.
page 24 Whitbread PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2003 4 Brand review Costa 30 million cups of coffee sold in Costa stores Competitive edge Costa is the only major branded coffee store business that roasts and blends its own coffee.
This gives the brand a significant advantage in a competitive marketplace, and has opened up new opportunities to develop through franchising.
Costa already has a franchise agreement in the UK with RoadChef, the motorway services group: and has developed a brand-presence in the Middle East through four separate overseas franchise partners.
Ahead of the pack Seeking imaginative routes to market has helped Costa draw clear of the chasing pack in the UK branded coffee store sector.
We put great effort into understanding where our customers want us to be.
We now have a better quality estate of Costa stores, a developing franchise business and agreements with some of the strongest names in UK retail including Waitrose, Abbey, Ottakars, Waterstones and RoadChef.
Mark Phillips, managing director of Costa.
People in Britain still drink more instant coffee, on average, than any other nation in Europe.
Nine years ago, Whitbread spotted the opportunity to introduce more of them to real coffee served the Italian way.
Since then Costa has moved from fledgling business to flourishing national brand.
page 25 Brand review David Lloyd Leisure health and fitness coaches achieve qualifications from the National Academy of Sports Medicine.
Our members benefit from working with the best page 26 Whitbread PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2003 4 page 27 measures of success In achieving double-digit profit David Lloyd Leisure growth for three years in a row, David Lloyd Leisure has signalled its arrival as a real powerhouse brand.
But it is the manner in which the business has achieved this that really 49.1m stands out: generating most of its recent  operating profit before of established clubs, rather than the goodwill amortisation headlong pursuit of scale.
Trust power of brands The most powerful expression of the David Lloyd Leisure brand 321,000 is the trust members place in its people.
That is why you will members of David find only David Lloyd Leisure fitness Lloyd Leisure clubs coaches in David Lloyd Leisure clubs.
The brand requires every one of its health and fitness coaches to undergo training at the David Lloyd Leisure Campus, to study for and attain a Related Vocational Qualification from the National Academy of Sports Medicine.
strength of management Our club managers are focused on member retention and the creation of economic profit.
Their understanding of member needs, combined with a heightened appreciation of the assets they control is changing the way our managers think about the business.
This more than anything has led to the 2.9% points improvement on return on capital employed over the last 3 years.
Stewart Miller, managing director of David Lloyd Leisure insights on leisure No two people join our clubs for precisely the same reason.
We seek to understand what our members want to achieve and what will motivate them to be successful: and then we tailor solutions to meet their needs.
We know how powerful group exercise can be in helping people to remain focused and to find enjoyment in the pursuit of a sports, health or fitness goal.
This is why our clubs typically provide 60 hours of group exercise classes every week many of them designed specifically for children.
Stewart Miller, managing director of David Lloyd Leisure page 28 Whitbread PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2003 4 Brand review Brand distribution Whitbread is predominantly a UK business, with more than 1,900 outlets across the country Overseas interests Germany Whitbread operates 63 full service 62 upscale hotels, comprising steakhouse restaurants across Germany 9,648 bedrooms, across the UK under under the Maredo brand.
Whitbread also operates the Treudelberg Marriott Hotel & Country Club, outside Hamburg.
302 budget hotels, comprising Netherlands 18,173 bedrooms, across the UK.
In December 2003, Whitbread acquired Cannons Health & Fitness BV from Cannons Health Clubs Limited for 21m.
The business comprises five existing clubs 246 pub restaurants across the UK.
which will be re-branded under the David Lloyd Leisure name and two clubs currently in development.
Working with a local partner, David Lloyd Leisure is currently seeking further sites in the Netherlands.
149 pub restaurants with childrens Fun Factories across the UK.
187 full service pub restaurants across the UK under the Beefeater and Out & Out brands.
41 American restaurant & bar outlets across the UK.
578 full service, home delivery and takeaway outlets across the UK.
346 coffee stores, principally in the UK, but also under franchise in the Middle East.
56 tennis, health and fitness clubs in the UK and Ireland.
