our company today David Wilson Homes David Wilson Homes ability to predict and cater for the changing dictates the use of our homes.
As part of the project, a family has needs of customers and respond to the continued evolution of been chosen to live in the house for a number of months, in order planning has reinforced its position as a leading and progressive that they can report back to us their experiences and in particular for homebuilder.
us to understand in detail the elements of this new design which are attractive to purchasers and, more importantly, those which are not.
A customer-centric approach has been at the heart of the Companys This part of the Companys ongoing relationship with The University success for over 40 years.
At every stage of the homebuilding process, of Nottinghams School of the Built Environment has produced from designing and planning to the final finishing touches, the a leading edge building where new technology and techniques are Company keeps in mind the emotional and practical priorities of trialled under real life conditions.
the people who will be living in their properties.
During 2004 the Company has promoted eScape, a national design David Wilson Homes reputation was historically built upon four, competition open to all architects and designers in order to find the five and six bedroom executive homes.
In responding to changing best townhouse design.
eScape has been promoted by Design population demographics and government planning policy the for Homes in association with wood.
The two stage Company has, for a number of years, successfully expanded its competition was judged by an eminent panel consisting of industry portfolio to include a greater proportion of smaller homes including experts and the resulting winning submission by PCKO Architects apartments and townhouses.
Four, five and six bedroom executive will be built by David Wilson Homes at Sittingbourne in the Thames homes now account for 21% of units sold and apartments 24%.
Redevelopment of brownfield land is also high on the Companys As a member of the Housing Forum, the Company is addressing agenda, with 52% of land developed in 2004 from brownfield sites industry issues, including its continuing efforts in supporting the and around 58% of the current land bank being categorised as Barker Review into land supply.
Skills shortages are being countered brownfield.
The Companys expertise in developing and regenerating through the Companys long established apprenticeship scheme.
brownfield sites has resulted in it being selected to partner Liverpool David Wilson Homes acknowledged expertise, its skilled staff and City Council to redevelop the city centres north zone, the largest area established business partnerships, coupled with progressive design of Liverpools regeneration Pathfinder initiative.
The Company will and an eye to the future, combine to sustain an unrivalled reputation facilitate the delivery of around 6,000 new homes and will also in the sector.
provide the Council with commercial, technical, marketing and investment advice during the project.
The Company plays a leading role in innovative housing design, as evidenced by Project LIFE, which explores how people use and live in their homes.
David Wilson Homes has a LIFE concept house under construction that will enable the Company to explore a variety of elements, from the design and fabric of the home to how lifestyle 6 Wilson Bowden plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 A selection of two and three bedroom mews and three-storey townhouse homes together with a four bedroom detached home at The Village in Shipston-on-Stour, set around a village green, a focal point of the development designed to enhance the village ambience.
Wilson Bowden Developments Wilson Bowden Developments is the Groups commercial property urban entertainment centre in Nottingham, the retail and leisure development business focused on retail, leisure, office, industrial and extension to Harlow Town Centre, which also included the delivery mixed use schemes.
Over the past five years the commercial business of a new 70,000 square feet Civic Centre, and mixed use projects has developed residential apartment expertise enabling the Wilson such as the ones in Leamington Spa 70,000 square feet of retail Bowden Group to offer comprehensive retail, leisure, office and and leisure combined with 134 apartments and Bishops Stortford residential development capability.
This ability under one roof 100,000 square feet of additional retail together with 190 distinguishes us from many in the development sector and enables apartments.
As for the future, the Company already has other major us to deliver comprehensive urban regeneration which has for some town centre regeneration projects in the pipeline, such as those in time now been an important part of the Companys activities.
Wilson Bowden Developments is a trading developer, seeking Over the last 15 years, the Company has built an enviable track onward sales or letting and subsequent disposal of investments.
The record of joint ventures with both the private sector but more Company has always maintained a steady element of speculative particularly, the public sector Ministry of Defence, Cardiff Bay development, responsive to the market together with utilising its Development Corporation, English Partnerships, Local Authorities position as a major landowner, particularly within the East Midlands, and Regional Development Agencies.
The Company anticipates in order to maximise design and build development opportunities.
starting on site with major infrastructure works to open up a 420 The business has always believed that in order to maximise its acre business park near the M62 at Rochdale with partners, the returns, it should seek to control appropriate long term land in the North West Development Agency.
In Scotland, Wilson Bowden right locations, particularly against a background of land supply Developments are the developer responsible for promoting, in being tightly controlled by a highly restrictive planning system.
conjunction with the landowner, Corus and Scottish Enterprise Lanarkshire, the redevelopment of the former Ravenscraig Steelworks The Company also has its own in-house construction division, in Lanarkshire, one of the largest regeneration schemes in Europe.
which responds solely to the needs and objectives of the Development business, undertaking over 70% of the Companys build activity.
Wilson Bowden Developments, under the brand name Wilson Wilson Bowden Developments believes that its own construction Bowden City Homes, is responsible for the design, promotion division gives it a significant advantage over its competitors in being and sale of apartments within our mixed use schemes together able to harness internal construction expertise and knowledge at the with a number of purely residential urban apartment projects.
early stages of projects and being able to provide additional flexibility, Current schemes include apartments in the heart of the Castlefields responsiveness and control during the construction phase itself.
conservation area in Manchester, in the Leamington Spa conservation area, a significant Sheffield regeneration project and a landmark The Company is acknowledged as being a leader in successful waterside apartment scheme known as Admirals Quay at Ocean remediation projects and the redevelopment of brownfield sites Village in Southampton, together with substantial new projects such as Cardiff Bay, Sheffields Riverside Exchange and Cambuslang, expected to start in Leicester and Derby during the course of 2005. just outside Glasgow.
It is also an acknowledged specialist in urban regeneration having completed projects such as The Cornerhouse Wilson Bowden plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 7 Edinburgh Castle Winner of the CABE Building for Life Silver Standard in 2004, Scalebor Park was once an exclusive private Victorian hospital located in picturesque Burley in Wharfedale.
Pictured are the three-storey townhouses built around Scalebor Square, a period-style courtyard which acts as the main focal point of the development.
Wilson Bowden has grown from its historic base in Leicester to developments all over the north.
With access to the beautiful landscapes and coastline of Scotland, the heritage and countryside of Yorkshire, or the thriving centres of Birmingham and Coventry, Wilson Bowdens homes can provide a flexible base for an individual lifestyle.
from north 8 Wilson Bowden plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 The Chaucer collection of high specification two bedroom apartments at College Mews, minutes from Newbury Town Centre and perfectly located for commuters, with excellent links to Southampton, Reading and London.
Space is a very precious commodity in the south, and Wilson Bowdens reputation for building homes that maximise space has been making its presence felt here.
Some of the developments that embody these characteristics include Bolnore Village in Haywards Heath, The Waterfront in Aylesford and Beaulieu Park in Chelmsford.
to south Wilson Bowden plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 9 Stonehenge The attractive street scene at Beaulieu Park in Chelmsford, designed to generate a more natural sense of space.
The development offers a selection of homes, from flexible three bedroom townhouses, to grand six bedroom detached homes and incorporates materials influenced by relevant local buildings to ensure all properties remain characteristic to Essex.
from first homes Whether its apartments for city dwellers, or smaller traditional homes, our residential development expertise covers a wide range.
A Wilson Bowden first home can have a relaxed village feel, fitting in with local design requirements: or be the height of urban sophistication, with a thriving city centre right on the doorstep.
10 Wilson Bowden plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 The five bedroom detached Bradbury at Parkwood Heights, near Coulsdon in Surrey, is a shining example of the homes available at the development, offering an unrivalled combination of spacious family living on larger than average plots within a great location.
to family homes With time and space being todays great luxuries, Wilson Bowdens designers have worked to improve the time families spend together by giving them the space to interact.
How that space is utilised is as varied as the current responses to our changing lifestyles, greater life expectancy and dependent relatives.
Wilson Bowden plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 11 Freehold design and build sold to English Churches Housing Group.
The building comprises a state of the art three-storey office complex totaling 25,000 square feet.
This was the final plot on this comprehensive regeneration scheme in Leicester City Centre.
Where and how we work are key concerns in the 21st century.
Wilson Bowden Developments is working closely with customers, government, and other stakeholders as it develops a wide range of commercial property: including offices, retail facilities, both in town and out of town, and industrial sites.
from workplace 12 Wilson Bowden plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 The highly successful 415,000 square foot retail and leisure extension to Harlow town centre including a new 70,000 square foot Civic Centre for Harlow Council.
Occupiers include Next, River Island, Asda and Esporta.
The other side of this equation is how, and where, leisure time will be spent.
Wilson Bowden is responding to the way lifestyles are changing, and recent developments include the attractions young professionals are demanding: proximity to shops, restaurants, leisure facilities and the entertainment scene of a vibrant streetlife.
to weekend Wilson Bowden plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 13
