44 Report of the Directors Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Report of the Directors Including the statement of remuneration policy for the year ended 31 July 2004 The Directors submit their annual report and the audited consolidated Share capital accounts of the Company and its subsidiaries for the year ended At the date of this report, 585,098,265 ordinary shares of 25 pence each 31 July 2004. have been issued and are fully paid up and are quoted on the London Stock Exchange.
In addition, the Company has entered into a level II Principal activities and business review American Depository Receipt programme with the Bank of New York, Wolseley plc is a holding company: its subsidiaries are organised under which the Companys shares are traded in the form of American into three divisions which are set out on pages 30 to 32.
The principal Depository Shares on the New York Stock Exchange.
During the year activities of the Group are the distribution of plumbing and bathroom ended 31 July 2004, options were exercised pursuant to the Companys materials, central heating equipment and pipes, valves and fittings within share option schemes, resulting in the allotment of 4,411,342 new ordinary Europe, the USA and Canada.
Additionally in the UK, Ireland and France, shares.
A further 16,400 new ordinary shares have been allotted under it distributes heavyside building materials, whilst in the USA, the Group these schemes since the end of the financial year to the date of this report.
distributes timber and other building materials.
In the UK, it also operates Details of these issues including, where appropriate, the amounts subscribed tool hire centres.
Details of the development of the Groups businesses for new shares are set out in note 20 to the accounts on page 71 which during the year are given in the operating and financial review on also contains details of options granted over unissued capital.
pages 26 to 35 and in the Group Chief Executives review on pages 8 to 12.
The Directors propose Resolution 11 in the Notice of Meeting to renew Results and dividends the authority granted to them at the Annual General Meeting held in 1999 The Groups consolidated profit and loss account, set out on page 58, to allot equity shares up to an aggregate nominal value of 50,000,000 shows an increase of 31% in Group operating profit from 443.0 million representing approximately one third of the ordinary shares issued at the to 580.2 million.
An analysis of turnover and operating profit is given in note date of this report the section 80 authority.
It is your Directors intention 1 to the accounts on page 63.
There are no significant post balance sheet that the section 80 authority will, henceforth, be renewed annually and, events.
Shareholders were paid the 2004 interim dividend of 7.8 pence if approved at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, will expire no later per share 2003: 5.6 pence on 1 June 2004.
The Directors recommend than 15 months from the date on which the resolution is passed, or at the a final dividend of 16.0 pence per share 2003: 15.6 pence making a total conclusion of the Annual General Meeting to be held in 2005, whichever is dividend for the year of 23.8 pence per ordinary share, an increase of the sooner.
12.3% on the 21.2 pence paid in respect of last year.
Payment of the recommended final dividend, if approved at the Annual General Meeting, The limited power granted to the Directors at last years Annual General will be made on 30 November 2004 to shareholders registered at the Meeting to allot equity shares for cash other than pro rata to existing close of business on 8 October 2004.
The Directors of Wolseley QUEST shareholders expires no later than 21 February 2005.
Subject to the terms Limited have waived their right to receive dividends on any shares held by of the section 80 authority, your Directors recommend Resolution 12 in that company under the Wolseley Savings Related Share Option Scheme.
the Notice of Meeting which accompanies this report that this authority For the year ended 31 July 2004, Wolseley QUEST Limited held no shares should be renewed so as to give them the ability until the Annual General and no such dividend waiver was required 2003: 20.
Meeting to be held in 2005 to issue ordinary shares for cash, other than pro rata to existing shareholders, in connection with a rights issue or up to The Companys dividend reinvestment plan will continue to be available a limit of 5% of the ordinary share capital issued at the date of this report.
Shareholders who do not currently participate in the plan Your Directors have no present intention to issue ordinary shares other and wish to do so can obtain an application form and explanatory booklet than pursuant to the Companys employees share schemes and any from the Companys registrars, Lloyds TSB Registrars.
Contact details share dividend alternatives.
The Directors recommend that you vote in for the registrars are shown on page 91.
The latest date for receipt of favour of Resolutions 11 and 12 to maintain the Companys flexibility in new applications to participate in respect of the 2004 final dividend is relation to future share issues, including any issues to finance business 10 November 2004. opportunities should appropriate circumstances arise.
Acquisitions and disposals A Special Resolution will also be proposed Resolution 13 in the Notice Details of acquisitions and disposals made during the year are contained of Meeting to renew the Directors limited authority last granted in 2003 in the operating and financial review on pages 28 and 29 and in note 23 to repurchase ordinary shares in the market.
The authority will be limited on page 72. to a maximum of 58,509,827 ordinary shares 10% of the Companys issued share capital at the date of this report and it also sets the minimum Future development and maximum prices which may be paid.
This authority will enable your It remains your Boards intention to develop the Group through organic Directors to continue to respond promptly should circumstances arise growth and by selective acquisitions.
in which they consider such a purchase would result in an increase in earnings per share and would be in the best interests of the Company.
The Companies Acquisition of Own Shares Treasury Shares Regulations 2003 came into force on 1 December 2003.
These new regulations allow shares repurchased by the Company to be held as treasury shares, which may be cancelled, sold for cash or used for the purpose of employee share schemes.
The authorities to be sought by each of Resolutions 12 and 13 are intended to apply equally to shares to be held by the Company as treasury shares and to the sale of treasury shares.
The Directors consider it desirable for these general authorisations to be available to provide flexibility in the management of the Companys capital resources.
45 Report of the Directors Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Substantial share interests Directors responsibility statement The following interests of 3% or more in the issued ordinary share capital The Directors are required by UK company law to prepare financial appeared in the register maintained under the provisions of section 211 statements for each financial period which give a true and fair view of the Companies Act 1985. of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group and of the profit or loss for that period.
Name % The Directors consider that, in preparing the accounts, appropriate Fidelity, FMR Corp, Fidelity International Limited, accounting policies have been used and applied consistently, supported Fidelity Pensions Management Limited 3.94 by reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates and that applicable Sprucegrove Investment Management Limited 3.2 UK accounting standards have also been applied.
Legal & General Investment Management Limited 3.0 The Directors are also responsible for maintaining adequate accounting Directors records which disclose with reasonable accuracy the financial position Brief particulars of the present Directors are listed on pages 36 and 37 of the Company and the Group, which enable them to ensure that the and further details of the Board composition are contained in the corporate financial statements comply with the UK Companies Act 1985. governance report.
The Directors standing for re-election at the Annual General Meeting are Charles Banks, Jacques Descours and Claude Hornsby.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Each Director, being eligible, offers himself for re-appointment.
The work carried out by the auditors does not Nigel Stein and Andrew Duff, who joined the Board as Non Executive involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors Directors on 1 December 2003 and 1 July 2004 respectively, will each accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the stand for election.
financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of Directors interest in shares the financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The register kept by the Company pursuant to section 325 of the Companies Act 1985 shows that the Directors in office at 31 July 2004 The Directors have general responsibility for taking such steps as are and their families had the under-mentioned interests in the ordinary shares reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Company and the of the Company.
Group and to prevent and detect fraud or other irregularities.
The Directors, having prepared the financial statements, have permitted the auditors to 1 August 2003 31 July 2004 or on appointment take whatever steps and undertake whatever inspections they consider to be appropriate for the purpose of enabling them to give their audit opinion.
Accordingly, Jim Murray will stand for re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
