WO10065 01-43 12 10 04 11:14 am Page 13 13 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 A proven strategy delivering measurable results Our strategy has played a key role in helping Wolseley companies achieve both short and long-term success.
The strategy has six key components: Growing through acquisition Enhancing our and organic growth business diversity Our target is double-digit growth, year on year.
We aim to achieve this Construction, plumbing and heating professionals depend on Wolseley through a combination of organic growth including new branch openings for the timely and reliable delivery of a vast range of products.
We continually monitor and evaluate possible acquisitions, to increase their choice through a strategy of diversification: of geography: paying particular attention to evidence of a sound financial position and of lines of business: and of products and services.
This diversity has enabled the ability of the target company to grow.
us to achieve a more resilient business performance over a variety of different economic cycles.
Continuous improvement Developing our Although we set the highest standards in terms of sustained growth human resources and profitability, we are never complacent.
The pursuit of double-digit We rely on our people on the ground to drive sales.
We continue to growth demands continuous improvement from all Wolseley businesses.
expand our commitment to developing human resources, ensuring that For example, we have a number of business change programmes we attract and retain the best and the brightest people.
Our efforts include in place such as organisational restructurings in the USA, France and the establishment of a programme of management development at IMD the UK, and investment in our distribution centre network.
Our investment in Switzerland and Darden School of Management in the USA, and the in the common IT platform will support these and other business introduction of our European Graduate Recruitment Programme.
initiatives, including global sourcing, international procurement and supply chain efficiencies.
Leveraging our Creating innovative solutions international position to meet our customers With 3,637 branches in 13 countries, we have access to a tremendous changing needs fund of experience and expertise that we are increasingly leveraging in We invest resources in anticipating customers changing needs, and also order to share benefits across the business.
We plan to develop a diverse in creating new and better ways of meeting those needs.
We encourage footprint through an international supply chain, the establishment of innovation within Wolseley and remain flexible and open to new ideas synergies across our European businesses, increased global sourcing at all levels of the business.
During the year, we launched the Wolseley and international purchasing.
This includes the increasing use of own Cup to reward innovation within our businesses.
This award will be given brand products and the transfer of ideas from one country to another, annually to a team from within Wolseley that develops the most innovative such as the establishment of our express stores, XpressNet in the and beneficial concepts that support the key business focus for that year.
USA based on the successful UK format.
The focus for 2004 was to provide enhanced value for our customers: examples of our businesses response to this challenge can be found in this report.
And here are some examples of what we are doing... WO10065 01-43 12 10 04 11:14 am Page 14 With its stores operation hampered by lack of choice, poor availability and extensive waiting time, GEM Plumbing was a typical Rhode Island plumbing business.
But where others could see only inevitability and working methods cast in stone, the team from our US plumbing and heating division, Ferguson, identified opportunity.
Working with our Integrated Systems Division, which operates warehousing functions for major customers such as General Electric, Johnson & Johnson and General Motors, Ferguson designed an internal joint venture for GEM.
We now run the warehouse and manage all supply chain logistics for GEM, leaving GEM free to focus on its core business: fixing the leaks and servicing the boilers in Providence, Rhode Island.
Guy Clermont GEM Plumber I needed a choice of supply leads in Rhode Island WO10065 01-43 12 10 04 11:14 am Page 15 Bright people, bright ideas At Wolseley, people are encouraged to be innovative and to put their ideas into practice.
At GEM, the time that the firms technicians spend waiting for parts has been reduced by 50 per cent.
And the company is therefore able to complete several more jobs in an average day.
For Ferguson, the local branch has seen sales increase by 23 per cent, and from a standing start, we now have a 65 per cent share of GEMs business.
We are also paid an additional fee for managing the warehouse.
WO10065 01-43 12 10 04 11:14 am Page 16 Increasing productivity At Wolseley, we constantly strive to create new and better ways of meeting customer needs.
We work with our customers, not just for them, to help them achieve their business objectives.
For customers on the pilot scheme, such as Apollo Heating Limited, the wireless solution generates a total overview of workforce activity and job progress.
Work can be planned, tracked and billed more efficiently.
For the engineers, the PDA is a hand-held tool that helps to eliminate wasted trips and queues at parts stores.
The device can access the Wolseley UK parts database, transmit data to head office and notify job completion via Signature Capture.
It even incorporates a camera, which can be used for parts identification.
For Wolseley UK, the wireless solution underpins the companys reputation for innovation and service and is a platform for building long-term relationships with key customers.
WO10065 01-43 12 10 04 11:14 am Page 17 Steven Maclean Finance Director of Apollo Heating Limited Ineeded to manage my remote workforce more effectively The management of remote workforces has long been an issue in the construction and maintenance industries.
Employee downtime is a key aspect of cost management and the monitoring of productive time is difficult.
Wolseley UK has a long history of implementing innovative technology solutions that bring significant benefits to customers.
Since 1999, the company has launched eight transactional websites and also introduced a fully-integrated XML trading platform for suppliers and customers.
Building on this experience and expertise, and working in partnership with O and 2 ESB, Wolseley UK has developed a wireless solution that utilises PDA technology to enable customers to manage their remote workforce more effectively.
Engineers are now linked directly to their office network so jobs can be scheduled and tracked throughout the day.
WO10065 01-43 12 10 04 11:14 am Page 18 I needed Ferguson products, but without travelling 83 miles to the nearest Ferguson branch Dana Cristaldi Residential Home Builder As more than 13 million people discover every year, the Myrtle Beach coastline in South Carolina is a great location for a holiday.
For motorists, it is the second-most popular resort destination in America.
Unfortunately, the vehicles that they bring with them congest the countys roads to such an extent that the journey to the nearest Ferguson branch is simply not feasible for plumbing and heating contractors based around Little River.
Instead of encouraging customers to go to Ferguson, we brought Ferguson to them, via a unique partnership with our Stock Building Supply SBS business.
The SBS branch in Little River was refurbished to incorporate a dedicated area for a Ferguson Express branch, including signage, display racking, a sales counter and a separate customer entrance.
WO10065 01-43 12 10 04 11:14 am Page 19 The new joint SBS Ferguson branch in Little River is winning new business for both organisations.
Customers are now able to source plumbing and heating supplies from Joint effort, the same location that they pick up lumber and hardware.
And they can do so quickly and conveniently without battling through the traffic on Highway 31. shared benefits For SBS, the re-modelled branch is more customer-focused and efficient, with counter sales rising by 20 per cent.
For Ferguson, the advantages include access to a previously untapped market at a cost that is around 50 per cent less than a comparable store We leverage our international size and focus on developing opening in a new market.
initiatives that generate synergies among our businesses.
WO10065 01-43 12 10 04 11:14 am Page 20 PBMs 120 Reseau Pro and Panofrance showrooms enable homeowners to choose from a vast range of products, from kitchen cabinets and wall tiles to flooring, window frames Bringing new and doors.
There is even an interior design service.
At the same time, Brossette has 150 showrooms which feature heating systems and benefits to bathroom products, including complete suites as well as taps, pipework and accessories.
customers Together, our French brands are now giving customers access to more Wolseley-sourced and supplied products than ever before.
WO10065 01-43 12 10 04 11:14 am Page 21 Virginie Monnet Retail customer Ineeded a complete new kitchen and a new bathroom.
But I also needed the roof re-tiled and new floors laid.
And I needed the reassurance that every single product was being supplied by a world-class company The opportunity to provide customers with what they want, where and when they want it, is a key driver for Wolseley.
Wherever we find that these demands are not being met, we endeavour to create an appropriate solution.
Our m565 million 390 million acquisition of PBM in July 2003 meant that, for the first time, French customers could access building materials as well as plumbing and heating products from Wolseley companies.
PBM, which trades under the principal brands of Reseau Pro and Panofrance, is an established player in the building materials and timber sector, and the perfect complement to our Brossette business, which focuses on plumbing, heating and sanitaryware supplies.
WO10065 01-43 12 10 04 11:14 am Page 22 Ineeded materials on-site 24:7, even though the nearest depot was 2 hours drive away, on icy roads Susan Dancavitch Development Construction Consultant for Houle Plumbing & Heating of Brockville Canada is a huge country where logistics can present major difficulties, especially during the winter months.
So when Houle Plumbing & Heating of Brockville, Ottawa, moved onto a site that was a considerable distance from their office and our locations, materials deliveries would traditionally be accompanied by extensive delays and significant costs.
We developed a mobile warehouse concept that is as simple as it is effective.
Housed in a secure, custom-fitted trailer, the warehouse gives the Houle technicians instant access to the parts that they need.
WO10065 01-43 12 10 04 11:14 am Page 23 Going further, time after time We work hard to devise services that bring benefits to customers as well as to ourselves.
Now being rolled-out across other Canadian territories, the mobile warehouse allows customers on remote sites to work as efficiently as if they were next door to their main office.
Theres no unnecessary travelling, no interruptions for ad-hoc deliveries and less paperwork.
The trailer even incorporates fax and phone facilities.
And if the weather deteriorates, technicians can move inside to carry out simple pre-fabrication work.
For Wolseley Canada, the concept is winning new business and also delivering operational efficiencies, including reduced freight costs.
The trailer also acts like a giant billboard promoting the company far and wide across Canada.
WO10065 01-43 12 10 04 11:14 am Page 24 Sharing expertise to build customer satisfaction For Tobler, the new relationship with Wolseley brings real purchasing power and the opportunity to drive down costs in what is traditionally a high-cost marketplace.
Furthermore, customers will be able to reap the benefits as the Tobler team shares in our global best practice initiatives.
Increased choice, greater efficiency and lower costs will all become available, both across the trade counter and at the click of a mouse.
For the Wolseley Group, we are able to move into a new country and build a new customer base.
There is also the opportunity to enhance product diversity across the business by exploiting Toblers expertise in alternative energy systems and, in particular, in underfloor heating.
WO10065 01-43 12 10 04 11:14 am Page 25 Ineeded to order underfloor heating fixings at 11.47pm Karl Waechter Managing Director of Karl Waechter Ing in Zurich With the purchase of Swiss company Tobler for 54 million in December 2003, we acquired a company that was already building a reputation for outstanding customer service.
Tobler offers around 47,000 items across the key sectors of comfort heating systems: heat generation, heat distribution and behind the wall sanitation products.
It is the clear leader in this sector, with a 24 per cent market share.
The company also has proven capability in underfloor heating systems, a product line that currently heats around 80 per cent of Swiss homes and something that has great potential elsewhere in the Wolseley Group.
In addition, Tobler has a fine reputation in alternative energy such as solar panels and rainwater systems.
Toblers 9,500 plumbing and heating trade customers access Tobler products via three sales channels: logistics and regional centres which serve the sales organisation: strategically located pick-up points: and, increasingly, an e-shop through which they can place orders 24 hours a day.
