Directors Report for the financial year ended 31January 2004 The Directors are pleased to present their report and the consolidated financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries for the financial year ended 31 January 2004.
Principal Activities The Group trades principally as a UK-based General Merchandise retailer and Entertainment wholesaler and publisher.
Review of Activities A detailed review of the Groups activities and of future plans is contained within the Operating Review on pages 4 to 9.
Results and Dividends The profit on ordinary activities of the Group before taxation amounted to 66.7 million 2003: 38.0 million and the profit on ordinary activities after taxation amounted to 46.1 million 2003: 25.3 million.
The Directors recommend the payment on 24 June 2004 of a final dividend of 1.14 pence per ordinary share 16.1 million which, together with the interim dividend of 0.36 pence per ordinary share paid on 3 December 2003, makes a total for the year of 1.50 pence per ordinary share.
The total dividend payable to shareholders charged to the profit and loss account is 21.2 million.
The Directors propose to transfer the retained profit of 24.8 million to reserves.
The Company provides a Dividend Reinvestment Plan enabling shareholders to apply their cash dividends to purchase additional ordinary shares in the market at competitive dealing rates.
Full details can be obtained from the Registrar.
If you have previously completed a mandate form to join the Plan, you need take no further action.
Directors The Directors of the Company are shown on page 14.
The following have been Directors of the Company during the financial year ended 31 January 2004: Andrew Beeson, Trevor Bish-Jones, Gerald Corbett, Roger Jones, Prue Leith OBE and Christopher Rogers.
In accordance with Article 82 of the Articles of Association, Andrew Beeson and Gerald Corbett retire by rotation at the Annual General Meeting and being eligible offer themselves for re-election.
Directors Interests The Directors interests in shares of the Company are shown within the Remuneration Report on pages 20 to 24.
No Director has any other interest in any shares or loan stock of any Group company.
No Director was or is materially interested in any contract other than his her service contract, subsisting during or existing at the end of the financial year which was significant in relation to the Groups business.
Corporate Governance Combined Code Statement On 23 July 2003, the Financial Reporting Council issued a revised Combined Code, which comes into effect for listed companies with reporting years beginning on or after 1 November 2003 the New Code.
Whilst the Board has considered the principles and provisions of the New Code, and will report on compliance in next years Annual Report, the following statement is given in relation to the version of the Code, issued in June 1998, applicable to the year ended 31 January 2004.
During the financial year, the Group has complied with the requirements of Section 1 of the Combined Code.
The Company recognises the importance of, and is committed to, high standards of Corporate Governance.
The principles of good governance adopted by the Company have been applied in the following way: The Board of Directors The Board comprises the Chairman, the Chief Executive, the Finance Director and three Non-Executive Directors, appointed for periods of three years, and who are considered by the Board to be independent of management.
Their biographies appear on page 14 and illustrate the Directors range of backgrounds which provides an experienced and balanced Board to lead and control the Group.
Andrew Beeson is the senior independent Non-Executive Director.
All Directors have access to the Company Secretary and may take independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
In light of the supporting principles of the New Code, the Directors have instituted a process of annual self-assessment of the Board and the core standing committees.
This process is supported by the Company Secretary and the Director of Group Human Resources.
The conclusions of this years assessment were considered by the Board and a number of recommendations put in place to ensure continued operational effectiveness.
The Board meets not less than 11 times a year and has adopted a schedule of matters reserved for its decision.
The Board receives detailed proposal papers in advance of meetings, together with management presentations to facilitate proper consideration and debate of matters brought before it.
The Board is primarily responsible for the strategic direction of the Group.
Major strategic initiatives involving significant cost or perceived risk are only undertaken following their full evaluation by the Board.
Progress is reported regularly and minuted, together with routine matters such as financial performance and current trading in each of the Groups business divisions.
Each Director may receive appropriate training as necessary and a record of training undertaken is maintained by the Company Secretary.
15 Woolworths Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Directors Report continued for the financial year ended 31January 2004 The Board of Directors continued During the year 12 Board meetings were held.
The Directors attended as follows: Board of Directors Attendance Andrew Beeson 11 Trevor Bish-Jones 11 Gerald Corbett 12 Roger Jones 10 Prue Leith OBE 11 Christopher Rogers 12 In addition, 28 further Board meetings were convened during the year to deal with intercompany financial transactions, approval of certain bank mandates, the technical grant of share options previously sanctioned by the Board and the appointment of  LLP as the Companys auditor to ll the casual vacancy arising following the resignation of .
Gerald Corbett attended 21 such meetings with 14 being attended by Trevor Bish-Jones and 21 by Christopher Rogers.
The Board has established 3 core standing committees, with dened terms of reference as follows: The Audit Committee Chaired by Roger Jones, the Committee comprises the 3 independent Non-Executive Directors.
This Committee is responsible for providing the Board with independent and objective assurance on the control environment across the Group, for ensuring that the subsidiary companies are subject to an internal audit of the required quality and for making recommendations to the Board on the appointment of auditors and the audit fee.
It also reviews the performance of the Groups auditors to ensure an independent, objective, professional and cost effective relationship is maintained.
Each of the Non-Executive Directors has, through their other business activities, significant experience in financial matters.
Andrew Beeson chairman until January 2003 of Evolution Group plc, a leading Corporate Finance and Stockbroking business has significant, recent and relevant experience of financial and accounting issues.
The Committee is also responsible for the proper reporting of the financial performance of the Group and for reviewing financial statements before publication.
The meetings of the Audit Committee are also the forum used by the Non-Executive Directors to meet without the Executive Directors present to discuss the performance of the Group, its management and their ongoing stewardship of shareholders interests.
The Non-Executive Directors also have the opportunity at this time to raise any issues of concern with the Companys auditors.
During the year 3 Audit Committee meetings were held.
The Committee members attended as follows: Audit Committee Attendance Andrew Beeson 3 Roger Jones 3 Prue Leith OBE 3 16 Woolworths Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Directors Report continued for the financial year ended 31January 2004 The Nominations Committee Comprising the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors, the Committee is chaired by Prue Leith OBE, and is responsible for monitoring and reviewing the composition, balance and expertise of the Board and for reviewing and recommending appointments to the Board.
During the year 3 Nominations Committee meetings were held.
The Committee members attended as follows: Nominations Committee Attendance Andrew Beeson 3 Gerald Corbett 3 Roger Jones 3 Prue Leith OBE 3 The Remuneration Committee Comprising the Non-Executive Directors, the Committee is chaired by Andrew Beeson.
The Committees aim is to ensure that the Executive Directors are rewarded for their contribution to the Group and motivated to enhance the return to shareholders.
The Remuneration Committee is responsible, on behalf of the Board, for the Groups policy on the grant of share incentives to Executive Directors and other senior management as well as the specic remuneration and benets packages for Executive Directors.
During the year 5 Remuneration Committee meetings were held.
The Committee members attended as follows: Remuneration Committee Attendance Andrew Beeson 5 Roger Jones 5 Prue Leith OBE 5 The Corporate Social Responsibility Committee As part of the Corporate Governance framework, the Board recognises the importance of CSR in guiding the way the Group does business.
The CSR Committee, chaired by the Company Secretary, and with Group-wide representation, has been established to monitor and progress this commitment.
Further details can be found on page 13 and in the 2004 CSR report available on the Groups website www.
com Re-election of Directors The Articles of Association require one-third of the Directors who are subject to retirement by rotation to retire and submit themselves for re-election each year.
At the present time no Director will have held ofce for more than three years since his her last election or re-election.
Details of Directors submitting themselves for re-election are shown on page 15.
Directors Remuneration The Remuneration Committee, on behalf of the Board, has adopted a policy that aims to attract and retain the directors needed to run the Group successfully.
The Directors Remuneration Report is shown on pages 20 to 24.
Relations with Shareholders and Bondholders The Company maintains an active dialogue with its investors through a planned programme of investor relations activities.
This is a key component of its corporate communications programme and is headed by the Finance Director.
The Chairman and Chief Executive also attend the majority of these shareholder meetings.
The investor relations programme includes formal presentations in the UK and overseas where appropriate on full-year and interim results.
One-to-one meetings between institutional investors and senior management are also regularly held.
Feedback from these meetings including the non-attributed views of major institutional shareholders is reported back to the Board.
The Company Secretary is also charged with bringing to the attention of the Board any material matters of concern raised by the Companys stakeholders, including private investors.
Communication with investors also takes place through the Annual and Interim Reports and via the Group website www.
In addition, the Annual General Meeting provides an important opportunity for communication with both institutional and private shareholders.
17 Woolworths Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Directors Report continued for the financial year ended 31January 2004 Accountability and Audit Going Concern A statement in accordance with the going concern principle is included in the Financial Review on page 12.
Internal Control The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness throughout the Group.
However, such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal control is reviewed by the Audit Committee on behalf of the Board.
The Board considers risk assessment and control to be fundamental to achieving its corporate objectives within an acceptable risk reward prole, and confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying and evaluating the significant risks faced by the Group and the effectiveness of related controls.
This process is regularly reviewed by the Audit Committee.
The key procedures in place to enable this responsibility to be discharged are: The Board of Directors has approved a set of policies, procedures and frameworks that are designed to facilitate the operation of effective internal control and which include the provision of quality internal and external reporting and compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
These are periodically reviewed and updated: regularly reviews the Groups strategy and the strategies of the subsidiary companies: reviews and assesses the Groups key risks at least annually: reviews performance through a comprehensive system of reporting, based on an annual budget with monthly business reviews against actual results, analysis of variances, key performance indicators and regular forecasting: has well dened policies governing appraisal and approval of capital expenditure and treasury operations: seeks assurance that effective control is being maintained through regular reports from the Audit Committee and the Internal and External Audit functions.
Each Operating Company Board maintains systems for the continuous identication and evaluation of significant risks resulting from their strategies and their areas of the business: self certies that it is clearly accountable for establishing and monitoring internal controls within its business, that processes are in place to provide reasonable assurance that material business risks are identied and managed appropriately, that internal controls have been effected and that they comply with the Groups policies: and reports on any control weaknesses or breakdown considered as material to the Group: reviews and monitors the effectiveness of the system of internal control through reports from the Group Internal and External Audit functions.
The Internal Audit Function is responsible for providing the Board with independent and objective assurance on the control environment across the Group and for ensuring that the subsidiary companies are subject to internal audit of the required quality.
These processes and organisational procedures enable the Directors to confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting will be held at The Royal College of Physicians, 11 St. Andrews Place, Regents Park, London NW1 4LE on Thursday 27 May 2004 at 11:00am.
The notice of the Annual General Meeting and explanatory notes are set out in a separate circular that has been sent to all shareholders with the Annual Report and Accounts.
Employee Involvement The Board seeks to instil high standards of customer care and service in each subsidiary company and the commitment of every employee to this business requirement is considered to be critical.
Accordingly, the Corporate Centre has established a communication framework for employees concerning Group-wide business performance, community involvement, company benets, people and innovation.
Each subsidiary company has, in addition, their own communication strategies concerning their brands, company performance and people issues.
Training and links with the educational sector reinforce the Groups commitment to employee involvement and development.
The Woolworths Group Leadership Programme WGLP is the development framework for managers at all levels of seniority who have the potential to be our future leaders.
A brochure describing the programme and a micro site specifically for graduates have been produced.
Employees are represented on the Trustee Board of the Groups pension schemes.
18 Woolworths Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Directors Report continued for the financial year ended 31January 2004 Equal Opportunities The Group is committed to the principle of equal opportunity in employment and to ensuring that no applicant or employee receives less favourable treatment on the grounds of gender, marital status, race, colour, nationality, ethnic or national origin, religion, HIV status, disability, sexuality, or unrelated criminal convictions and without arbitrary restrictions in respect of age, or is disadvantaged by conditions or requirements which cannot be shown to be justied.
The Group applies employment policies which are fair and equitable and which ensure entry into and progression within the Group.
Appointments are determined solely by application of job criteria, personal ability and competency.
The Group gives full and fair consideration to the possibility of employing disabled persons wherever suitable opportunities exist.
Supplier Payment Policy The Groups policy, in relation to all of its suppliers, is to negotiate its terms of payment when agreeing the terms of the transactions, to ensure that those suppliers are made aware of the terms of payment and to abide by those terms provided that it is satisfied that the supplier has provided the goods or services in accordance with the agreed terms and conditions.
The Group does not follow any universal code or standard on payment practice but subsidiary companies are expected to establish payment items consistent with local procedures, custom and practice.
Woolworths Group plc, the parent Company, has no trade creditors.
It is therefore not appropriate to provide creditor day statistics for the Company.
However the number of days purchases outstanding for payment by the Group at the year-end was 39 2003: 39.
Political Contributions During the year the Company made no political contributions 2003: nil.
Charitable Donations During the year the Group has contributed 204,000 2003: 264,000 to communities in the UK.
Major Shareholders As at 23 March 2004, the Company has been notied of the following interests in three per cent or more of the Companys shares.
Number of ordinary shares Per cent AXA Investment Managers 127,217,161 9.00 Fidelity International Ltd 121,652,059 8.61 HBOS plc 56,763,623 4.02 Barclays PLC 55,181,094 3.90 Deutsche Bank AG 48,511,721 3.43 Legal & General Investment Management Ltd 48,473,865 3.43 Scottish Widows Investment Partnership 47,249,743 3.34 Authority to Purchase Own Shares At the Annual General Meeting of the Company held on 24 June 2003, the Company was given authority to purchase up to 17,598,447.35 nominal value of its ordinary shares in the market.
This authority, which has not been used, expires at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting to be held in 2004 and a resolution will be put to that Meeting to provide a similar authority for a further year.
Auditors  LLP have indicated their willingness to accept reappointment as auditors of the Company and a resolution proposing their reappointment is contained in the Notice of Annual General Meeting and will be put to the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
By Order of the Board Jonathan Bloom Company Secretary 23 March 2004 19 Woolworths Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004
