How were rewarded Compensation committee report on behalf of the Board Elements of remuneration As indicated in the table below, the principal elements of executive remuneration currently comprise the following: Base Salaries xed : Annual Incentives variable : and Long-term incentives variable.
Pensions, life assurance, health and disability, and other benets are also provided.
In light of changing market practice and tax and accounting environments, a full review of the current remuneration structures is currently being carried out.
Key elements of shortand long-term remuneration Objective Participation Performance Performance conditions period Annual Basesalary Maintain package competitiveness at All employees.
But salary levels are all levels within the Group.
determined taking a number of relevant factors into account, including individual and business unit performance, level of experience, scope of responsibility and the competitiveness of total remuneration.
Annual performance Incentivise delivery of value at all Approximately 10% of employees 1 year Achievement of challenging bonus levels within the Group.
An are eligible to receive a performance goals financial and opportunity to defer into shares performance bonus.
non-financial at the individual and provides further alignment with share operating company level and owner interests.
independent of an executives position within the Group.
Long-Term WWOP Develop a stronger ownership Employees of 100%-owned Group 3 years None.
Not offered to those participating in other option programs or to executive directors.
Executive Stock To provide long-term retention WPP Group Leaders, Partners, and 3 years Achievement of various TSR and Option Plan and to encourage a share ownership High Potential Group.
offered to parent company executive directors.
To reward financial growth in Key Operating Company executives.
3 years Achievement of specic operating Operating operating companies over company performance measures, Company LTIPs a multi-year period.
such as: improvement in operating profit: and improvement in operating margin.
PSP To incentivise long-term performance Parent company executives and 3 years Relative TSR performance against a against key comparators.
group of key communication services comparator companies, subject to the recorded TSR, in the committees view, being consistent with the achievement of underlying financial performance.
Renewed LEAP Incentivises long-term performance Participation offered only to those 5 years Relative TSR performance against a against key comparators and who transcend their day-to-day role, group of key communication services maximises alignment with share including executive directors.
comparator companies, subject to a owner interests through a high level fairness review by the Compensation of personal financial commitment.
Base salary is the only pensionable element of remuneration.
As indicated elsewhere in this report, these components of WPPs remuneration structure are currently under review.
106 WPP Annual Report 2004 Base salary The target level for the Group chief executive is 100% The base salary is determined by reference to the market of base fee salary and the maximum is 200%.
For 2004 median for similar positions in directly comparable Sir Martins bonus was determined by reference to three companies.
In the case of the parent company, this includes separate equal components.
First, financial performance other global communication services companies such as of the Company measured against budgeted operating IPG and Omnicom.
For JWT, Ogilvy & Mather Worldwide profit before interest and taxes and budgeted cash ow.
and Y&R, the competitive market includes other major Secondly, the Companys performance relative to a peer multinational advertising agencies.
For each of the other group of major public advertising companies taking into operating companies in the Group, a comparable denition account total shareholder return, increase in operating profit, of business competitors is used to establish competitive increase in earnings per share and increase in operating median salaries.
Individual salary levels are targeted at a margins.
Thirdly, the achievement of key strategic objectives, range of 15% above or below the competitive median, which for 2004 included amongst others, strengthening taking a number of relevant factors into account, including the geographic positioning of Group companies in both individual and business unit performance, level of developed and fast-growing markets, ensuring orderly and experience, scope of responsibility and the competitiveness effective succession of leadership for key operating company of total remuneration.
and parent company roles and developing collaboration Salary levels for executives are reviewed at least every amongst leaders of the various businesses and encouraging 18 or 24 months, depending on the level of base salary.
cross-selling amongst Group companies, including client Executive salary adjustments are made by the committee co-ordination initiatives.
following consultation where appropriate with the Group chief executive, the chief talent officer and the chief executive Executive Stock Option Plan and Worldwide Ownership Plan officer of the appropriate operating company.
The Executive Stock Option Plan has been used annually since its adoption in 1996 to grant options to members of Annual performance bonus the WPP Group Leaders, Partners and the High Potential The annual performance bonus is paid under plans Group as well as key employees of the parent company, established for each operating company and for executives but currently excluding parent company executive directors of the parent company.
Challenging performance goals are and the Group chief executive.
Howard Paster and Mark established and these must be achieved before any bonus Read currently hold share options, but none of these were becomes payable.
granted in respect of their services as executive directors of In the case of the Group chief executive and other parent the Company.
company directors and executives, the total amount of The Committee is currently considering alternatives annual performance bonus payable is based on Group e. g. awards of restricted stock to grants under the and individual performance.
Executive Stock Option Plan, which will be more in In the case of operating companies, individual awards line with current global practice and is also reviewing are paid on the basis of achievements against individual the level of grants to seek comparability with principal performance objectives, encompassing key strategic and competitors such as Omnicom.
It is anticipated that financial performance criteria relating to the participants restricted stock awards using purchased shares in one own operating company, division, client or functional of the Companys ESOPs rather than option grants responsibility, and as agreed by the committee including: will be made in respect of 2005. operating profit: In 1997 the Company broadened stock option profit margin: participation by introducing the Worldwide Ownership staff costs to revenue or gross margin: and Plan for employees other than those participating in other conducting talent reviews, succession planning and other option programs of 100%-owned Group companies with key strategic goals established annually.
at least two years service, in order to develop a stronger Those eligible to receive an annual performance bonus ownership culture.
Since its adoption, grants have been may, subject to satisfying specic conditions, elect to defer made annually under this plan and as at 10 May 2005 their bonus for four years, converting it into an award of options under this plan had been granted to over 49,000 shares under the provisions of the Companys Deferred employees for approximately 23.6 million ordinary shares Bonus Plan.
The value of this share award at grant is equal of the Company.
Further details of employee share to 125% of the bonus that would otherwise have been ownership are set out in the section on corporate received earlier had it been taken in cash.
Each executives annual incentive opportunity is dened at a target level for the full achievement of objectives.
Higher Operating companies: Long-term incentive plans awards may be paid for outstanding performance in excess Currently senior executives of most Group operating of target.
companies participate in their respective companys longThe target level for Group executive directors, other term incentive plans, which historically have provided than the Group chief executive, is currently no more than awards in cash and restricted WPP stock based on the 50% of base salary and the maximum is currently 75%.
achievement of three-year financial performance targets.
Executive directors bonuses are determined principally These plans operate on a rolling three-year basis.
The value by the achievement of financial performance goals by the of payments earned by executives over each performance Company and agreed strategic objectives.
A process period is based on the achievement of targeted comparable to that described below for the Group improvements in the following performance measures: chief executive is now in place for the remaining average operating profit or profit before tax: and executive directors.
WPP Annual Report 2004 107 Awards are made on an annual basis, taking into account prevailing market and competitive conditions.
Awards can How were rewarded be made in a variety of forms with the same economic effect, but allowing the Company exibility to adapt to changing Compensation committee report on behalf of the Board economic, financial, accounting and taxation environments.
Under Renewed LEAP, participants have to commit WPP shares investment shares in order to have the opportunity to earn additional WPP shares matching shares.
For each participants first LEAP award, at least one-third of these investment shares must be purchased in the market.
The investment shares have to be committed for a xed period investment and performance period.
The number of matching shares which a participant can receive at the end With effect from 2003 operating companies long-term of the investment and performance period depends on the incentive plans provide for awards to be satisfied wholly performance based on the TSR of the Company measured in WPP stock to be paid in the March following the end over five financial years four years in the case of the awards of the three-year financial performance period, with no made in 2004.
It is expected that all matching shares to subsequent restriction on sale.
which participants become entitled will be provided from The future composition of these plans forms part of the one of the Companys ESOPs.
The Compensation committee acknowledges that TSR may not always reect the true performance of the Parent company: Performance Share Plan PSP Company and therefore may perform a fairness review Annual grants of WPP performance shares are made to all the fairness review to vary the number of matching shares executive directors see the table on page 114 and to senior that will vest if, during an investment and performance executives of the parent company.
Vesting is dependent on period, it determines that there have been exceptional the TSR performance relative to the comparator group.
At circumstances: factors that the Committee will consider median performance, 33% of the performance shares vest, in its fairness review of any awards will include, but with higher percentages vesting for superior performance up are not limited to, various measures of the Groups to 100% if WPP ranks at least equal to the second ranking financial performance, such as growth in revenues and peer company.
Contingent grants of performance shares will in earnings per share.
be no more than 100% of base salary.
The current peer The maximum possible number of matching shares is companies are detailed in the table below.
five four in the case of awards made in 2004 for every Over the 2002-2004 performance period, WPP was below investment share for which the Company would need the median of the peer group companies, and consequently to rank first or second within a group of comparator this award lapsed in full.
companies over the investment and performance period.
Awards were made in April 2004 in respect of the The comparator companies for the award to be made performance periods 2003-2005 and 2004-2006.
The criteria in 2005 are currently being reviewed.
for future awards, including the award in respect of the Under Renewed LEAP, in order to equalise the economic performance period 2005-2007, is currently under review.
effect that different forms of award may take, participants other than those who have not received a previous award Comparator group table under LEAP may be entitled to receive a dividend fund The following communications services companies currently make up the equal to the value of the dividend on the shares that comparator group for PSP and Renewed LEAP.
The composition of the eventually vest.
This is used to calculate a number of comparator group is frequently reviewed by the Compensation committee and such a review is currently being undertaken.
additional shares receivable at the end of the investment Omnicom Aegis and performance period.
IPG Taylor Nelson Sofres If the Companys performance is below the median of Publicis Dentsu the comparator group then, for participants who have not Havas Arbitron received a previous award under LEAP, half a matching Digitas Gfk share will vest for every investment share held through the Ipsos VNU investment and performance period, in recognition of a participants maintenance of their personal investment throughout the period.
Renewed Leadership Equity Acquisition Plan Renewed LEAP On a change of control, matching shares can be received At an Extraordinary General Meeting of the Company held based on the Companys performance to that date.
Under on 16 April 2004, the Company obtained the approval of the fairness review, the Compensation committee can also share owners for a renewal of Original LEAP, an innovative consider, in the light of exceptional financial circumstances long-term incentive plan introduced in 1999.
As with during the performance period, whether the recorded TSR Original LEAP the purpose of Renewed LEAP is to: is consistent with the achievement of commensurate reward superior performance relative to WPPs underlying performance.
peer companies: Renewed LEAP adopted many of the principles of align the interests of executive directors and key executives Original LEAP e. g. co-investment but a number of changes with those of share owners through significant personal in design were made to improve the effectiveness as a investment and ownership of stock: and remuneration tool, to conform with current best practice, ensure competitive total rewards.
and to increase alignment with share owners interests.
108 WPP Annual Report 2004 These changes include: Retirement benets phasing awards, so that proportionate investment The form and level of Company-sponsored retirement opportunities are offered on a regular basis currently programs varies depending on historical practices and local envisaged to operate as an annual cycle.
Phasing of awards market considerations.
The level of retirement benets is will have a number of benets: it will ease entry regularly considered when reviewing total executive to the plan for new joiners, it will avoid situations where remuneration levels.
particularly large payments are delivered in any one year, In the two markets where the Group employs the largest and it will be more sensitive to performance relative to the number of people, the US and the UK, pension provision comparator group as a result of a greater number of start generally takes the form of dened contribution plans, and end points for measurement purposes: although the Group still maintains various dened benefit the first awards were made on 28 October 2004 in respect plans and arrangements primarily in the US and UK.
In of the investment and performance period commencing each case, these pension plans are provided for the benefit on 1 January 2004.
In order to smooth the transition of employees in specic operating companies and, in the case from Original LEAP to Renewed LEAP, the 2004 awards are of the UK dened benefit plans, are closed to new entrants.
subject to a four-year investment and performance period, All pension coverage for the Companys executive directors with a corresponding reduction in the maximum matching is currently on a dened contribution basis and only base share award to four matching shares.
Subsequent awards salary is pensionable under any Company retirement plan.
will be for a five-year period with a maximum five times Details of pension contributions for the period under review match: in respect of executive directors are set out on page 111. replacing the stepped vesting schedule of Original LEAP, During 2005, the committee will be reviewing the Groups with a measure more sensitive to relative total shareholder policy on retirement benets, in the light of legislative return TSR performance Pro-rata TSR: changes in the US and the UK.
removing the guaranteed half-share match for participants who were also in Original LEAP: Competitive positioning of remuneration simplifying the forms that awards can take: and On a regular basis the Compensation committee carefully maintaining the comparable economic effect of different considers, against the most recent market data available, forms of award by providing a dividend fund as described the market positioning of all executives for whose above, based on the number of shares that actually vest.
New participants receiving the half share match will not For example, for the Group chief executive three separate receive a dividend fund payment.
benchmarks for remuneration opportunities are used: Under Renewed LEAP, Sir Martin Sorrell committed the most senior executive position in the Companys two investment shares having a value of $10 million, namely closest comparators, Omnicom and Interpublic Group: 1,032,416 shares, for the award made for 2004.
For future the CEO position in companies of comparable size and years and at the discretion of the Compensation committee complexity in the UK FTSE 350 index: and he may be invited to commit up to a maximum amount of the CEO position in public companies of comparable $2 million in respect of each of the annual awards that may size and complexity in the US.
In making its assessments, the committee takes into account the overall value of the opportunities that Original Leadership Equity Acquisition Plan Original LEAP packages represent, including salary, benets such as As noted above, Original LEAP was an incentive plan post-retirement entitlements, short-term and long-term introduced in 1999.
The performance period of Original incentives and share ownership requirements.
It focuses, LEAP for most participants expired on 31 December 2003 in particular, on the on-target level of remuneration.
with the Company achieving sixth position in the The committee also takes into account the proportions comparator group of 15 companies.
This resulted in an of total compensation that are xed and those which are award of three matching shares for every investment share variable because they are subject to various conditions, committed to the plan 60% of the maximum, subject to including performance and, in the case of share-based certain continuing conditions until September 2004. incentives, future share price performance.
The matching shares to which participants in Original The same approach is taken for other senior executives.
LEAP other than JMS became entitled for the awards The Compensation committee considers data from the made by reference to 1999 were provided from one of the latest industry surveys for the senior positions in WPPs Companys ESOPs as will those for the remaining awards in operating companies.
WPP participates in the leading Original LEAP.
The ESOPs acquired the maximum potential global surveys of executive remuneration in the advertising, number of matching shares in respect of the original awards market research, healthcare, public relations and public at an average cost of 3.70 per share.
In addition, for heads of operating obtained from share owners to satisfy the entitlement of companies the committee also considers public disclosures JMS to matching shares by an allotment of new shares.
for similar positions in listed companies of comparable size No further awards will be made under Original LEAP.
and complexity in the relevant sector.
WPP Annual Report 2004 109 Earned awards exercised by Sir Martin Sorrell since 1 January 2004 How were rewarded Since the publication of the Accounts for 2003 a number of incentive plans in which Sir Martin Sorrell and or JMS Compensation committee report on behalf of the Board participated have vested or have been exercised following deferral over a number of years.
Details of these are as follows: Date of No.
of shares Year s of vesting phantom Plan grant exercise shares 1 Capital Investment Plan 1994 01.09.04 1,054,442 Notional Share Award Plan 1994 01.09.04 1,754,520 2 Original LEAP 1999 22.09.04 3,221,442 3 Phantom Options 1993, 1994 23.03.05 2,148,581 Group chief executive Sir Martin Sorrell 4 Performance Share Plan 1999, 2000, 2001 16.03.05 313,796 Sir Martin Sorrells services to the Group outside the US have Notes 1 In addition, 987,742 shares vested but have not yet been exercised and a further 2,649,208 shares previously been provided under an agreement with JMS, were deferred until 1 October 2008.
2 although with effect from 1 April 2005 this was replaced by The number of shares under Original LEAP includes those attributable to JMS.
3 JMS exercised the Phantom Options on 23 March 2005 and used the proceeds to subscribe for an executive service contract entered into directly between 1,907,468 shares.
4 Sir Martin and the Company.
He is also directly employed Sir Martin Sorrell JMS remain interested in the right to 11,076 shares under the Performance Share Plan award made on 28 February 2001. by WPP Group USA, Inc. for his activities in the US.
Taken together, the current agreement in relation to his services to the Group outside the US the UK Agreement and to his services to the Group in the US the US Agreement provide for the following remuneration, including incentive awards, all of which is disclosed on pages 111 to 117: annual salary and fees of 840,000: annual pension contributions of 321,000: short-term incentive annual bonus of 100% of annual salary at target and up to 200% at maximum: the Performance Share Plan: and the Leadership Equity Acquisition Plan as renewed.
Contract provisions relating to Sir Martin Sorrell Term Notice periods The notice provisions in Sir Martin Sorrells contracts currently provide for a xed term which is due to expire on 31 August 2005.
Thereafter the contracts will continue on an at will basis.
Damages for loss of ofce and change of control Sir Martins current contracts which expire on 31 August 2005 may be terminated by Sir Martin Sorrells respectively upon a change of control.
With effect from 1 September 2005, Sir Martins contracts will not contain a change of control provision.
