Because of the nature of our services and products, we also compete for talent with our clients, our potential How we behave clients and suppliers e. g. media companies, which range from the very large to start-ups offering the potentially Directors report exceptional rewards of being a successful entrepreneur.
As a truly global company, we must contend with the major differences around the world in compensation levels and incentive arrangements, and in such standard practices as the length of contracts, severance terms and the imposition of performance conditions on incentive awards.
The period since the issue of the accounts for 2003 has seen a significant rationalisation of Sir Martin Sorrells incentive arrangements.
The Notional Share Award Plan, Bud Morten chairman of the Compensation committee the Capital Investment Plan and Original LEAP all vested in September 2004, although Sir Martin has further deferred 2,649,208 shares under the Capital Investment Plan until late 2008.
In March this year JMS Financial Services Limited JMS exercised all of its remaining Additional Fee Rights phantom options and all of its rights currently exercisable under the Performance Share Plan.
With effect from 1 April 2005 Sir Martin became a direct employee of the Company in respect of the services that he provides to the Company outside the US.
He therefore no longer provides his services through JMS.
As of 1 September 2005 Sir Martins contractual arrangements both within and outside the US will be on an at will basis.
Dear share owner During 2004, the committee held six formal meetings and also held a number of ad hoc and more informal Throughout 2004, remuneration of directors and senior discussions.
Committee meetings are frequently attended, executives of global companies has again had continuous in whole or in part, by the Group chief executive, the chief attention not always of a critical nature in the press, and talent officer, the director of Compensation and Benets, from institutions and their representatives bodies.
WPP has the Company Secretary and the Group General Counsel.
received its share of this attention.
My colleagues on the committee are Philip Lader and WPP has welcomed and supported the growth of share Christopher Mackenzie and we are all considered by the owner involvement as we believe that thoughtful dialogue Board for this purpose to be independent.
on important governance and policy issues is constructive During the year, the committee received advice from for all concerned.
WPP has an excellent record of senior executives and also from those external advisers responsiveness to best practice, and has been one of the referred to in the Report of the Compensation committee foremost companies in terms of disclosing information that on page 103, which also reviews the work carried out by facilitates open dialogue.
the Compensation committee during the year.
As a committee, we believe that the best long-term As a result of the introduction of regulatory provisions interests of share owners must take precedence over strict governing the use of non-audit services from the auditors, and immediate compliance with every new corporate the committee decided that it was impracticable to continue governance guideline or standard.
to use the Executive Compensation Consulting Practice of We accept our responsibility to explain clearly and fully Deloitte and Touche LLP as the sole advisor to the our policies, and to speak out in opposition to rules and committee.
It therefore carried out a full review of its standards when we believe that the costs associated with requirements in this regard and, as a result, Towers Perrin them exceed the benets they provide to our share owners.
were appointed in 2004 to act as joint advisors with The mission of the committee is to provide fully competitive Deloitte & Touche LLP.
economic opportunities that allow WPP to attract, develop, In closing I would like to express my personal retain and motivate the excellent people upon whom our appreciation to Beth Axelrod who left us in March this success depends, and includes the potential for such people year to join eBay in California.
Beth brought to the to receive superior rewards for exceptional performance.
committee great clarity of thought as well as a detailed First and foremost, the committee recognizes that understanding of the Groups talent requirements and compensation is mission critical to the success of any exceptional strategic insight.
The committee wishes her communication services business.
Accordingly, WPP seeks well in her new life on the West Coast.
to structure its compensation in a manner that confers a competitive advantage that is fully integrated with its Bud Morten efforts to manage and develop its people and their talents.
10 May 2005 In most cases, the labour markets define what compensation is fully competitive for our people, just as they do for everyone from David Beckham to an unskilled labourer.
WPP competes for talent in global markets, and in particular against some very large and resourceful US companies.
