Principles governing long-term incentives Long-term incentives, including stock awards, currently How were rewarded comprise a significant element of total remuneration for senior executives in the parent company and each operating Compensation committee report on behalf of the Board company.
During 2004, approximately 1,700 of those executives participated in some form of performance-related long-term incentive program.
The committee retains the discretion to approve recommendations for ad hoc share-based awards to individuals other than for executive directors, e. g. when hiring or for retention purposes.
Any long-term incentive program in which an executive director is entitled to participate is subject to demanding Policy on remuneration of executive directors and performance conditions.
senior executives The committee reviews the operation of the Groups long-term incentive programs each year in detail to ensure The following policy applies for the financial year 2005 that the performance measures and levels of reward continue and, subject to continuing review, for future years.
The to be appropriate and competitive.
In response to changes remuneration of executive directors and senior executives in accounting standards under both international and US of the Groups operating companies and the parent company GAAP and evolving market practice such as the American is reviewed each year by the committee.
Jobs Creation Act, a review of incentive arrangements is The policy is designed to ensure that the Group is in a currently being carried out.
position to employ the best talent available at all levels on a The results of this review will be included in the next global basis so that it can meet client and share owner annual report and accounts.
In particular, the committee has regard to the levels of compensation in the Group and specic businesses Aligning share owner interests total shareholder return TSR with which the Group companies compete and is also sensitive WPPs share-based long-term incentive plans for executive to compensation levels in the wider business community.
directors, namely the Performance Share Plan PSP and the With this in mind the committee places importance Leadership Equity Acquisition Plan LEAP currently solely on remuneration practices in the global communications use TSR as the basis for performance measurement, subject services sector, particularly in the US and the UK, and also always to the fairness review as described on page 108. pays close attention to the structure of remuneration, and TSR represents the change in share price, together with the the proportion of remuneration that is performance-related, value of reinvested dividends, over the performance period.
on both a short-term and long-term basis.
The Compensation committee continues to believe that TSR relative to a group of key comparators is the most Principles of remuneration appropriate measure for determining performance-based To implement the Companys policy, executive remuneration rewards for Group executive directors, as it most closely is designed to be consistent with the following principles: aligns reward with the delivery of share owner value.
total remuneration opportunities are designed to be fully Under Renewed LEAP the committee has further competitive in the relevant market: improved the operation of a TSR-based performance all remuneration packages have a significant performancemeasure through the introduction of Pro-Rata TSR.
related and variable element: This works to improve the operation of a rank-based incentives are based on meeting specic, measurable and TSR vesting schedule by recognising and rewarding the challenging performance objectives: outperformance of close comparators, as shown below.
the performance objectives which are set for incentives In the illustrative example below, WPP is fifth in the are designed to align executive rewards with the creation of comparator group with a TSR of 150%, but it has value for our share owners see TSR explanation below : and outperformed the company in sixth position by a the total remuneration program includes significant considerable distance.
The final Matching Share award is opportunities to acquire WPP stock, consistent with building calculated as a pro rata amount between the TSR amounts of a strong ownership culture.
the comparator company immediately above and below WPP.
The Company believes that a significant proportion of remuneration for executive directors and senior executives Example of Pro Rata TSR vesting should be delivered through performance-related elements, such as the annual bonus awards and share-based longerComparator company TSR result 5 term incentive awards.
For target performance the committee WPP TSR result 4.5 55 4.5 would generally expect at least 60% of an executive directors 4 Matching Shares 3.3 3.5 3.5 remuneration to be performance-related.
The Company has, 3 WPP is fifth in the comparator group, with for several years, had a policy for senior executives to 2.5 TSR of 150%.
This is considerably above 2.5 the company below it with TSR of 130%.
2 2 achieve stock ownership goals, as a result of which awards The final Matching Share award is calculated 1.5 1.5 as a pro rata amount between the company may vary depending on whether individuals achieve and immediately above and below WPP.
1 0.5 maintain specic levels of ownership of WPP stock.
150 - 130 155 - 130 x 3.5 - 2.5 2.5 3.3 0 100 110 120 130 140 150 160 170 180 190 200 TSR results % For all incentive plans, TSR is calculated using external data sources, such as DataStream or Bloomberg and using an appropriate and recognised methodology.
104 WPP Annual Report 2004 LEAP Matching Shares
