external auditors to the Company.
As such, the appointment as joint remuneration advisors is also subject to, and has Compensation received, pre-approval by the Audit committee.
Information on other services provided by Deloitte is given in note 2 to committee report on the financial statements on page 138.
All services performed by Deloitte are carried out in accordance with the requirements of the UK Auditing Practices Boards Ethical behalf of the Board Standard 5, relating to non-audit services performed by a companys auditors, the US PCAOBs and the SECs requirements.
significant advice was also received from Hammonds solicitors on a number of legal and governance issues which arose during the course of the year.
Advice on the remuneration of the chairman and the non-executive Introduction directors was provided by the same advisors to the Board and not to the committee.
This report is made by the Board, prepared on its behalf Advice is received by the committee on a wide range and for its approval by the Compensation committee.
of relevant issues including: It provides the Companys statement of how it has applied analysis of competitive compensation practices the principles of good governance set out in the Combined and determination of competitive positioning: Code and those required by Schedule 7A to the Companies base salary levels: Act and the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations annual and long-term incentive plans and awards: 2002 the Regulations in respect of Compensation matters.
policy relating to WPP share ownership: As in previous years, additional information on executive pensions and executive benets: remuneration, based on a US-proxy style disclosure, is also service contract terms for executives: included at the end of this report.
changes in accounting, taxation, legal and The report of the auditors on the financial statements regulatory practices: set out on page 169 confirms that the scope of their report governance issues relating to compensation and covers, where required, the disclosures contained in or the role of the committee: and referred to in this report that are specified for their audit issues relating to employee harassment and discrimination.
by the UK Listing Authority and under the Companies Act.
Details of each individual directors remuneration and of Issues addressed by the Compensation committee their beneficial holdings of the Companys shares and share options are set out on pages 111 to 117.
This year the work of the committee included: reviewing and approving the remuneration of executive Share owner approval directors and senior executives of the Company and of The Company has, for many years, obtained the approval directors and senior executives of the operating companies: of its share owners for its remuneration policy, which is devising and implementing long-term incentive programmes set out below.
Legislation requires companies to put the including the Renewed Leadership Equity Acquisition Plan: Compensation committee report to the vote at their Annual reviewing terms of employment including termination General Meetings and the appropriate resolution is set out arrangements of executive directors and senior executives of as resolution 13 in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
the Company and of directors and senior executives of the operating companies: Remit of the Compensation committee reviewing systems implemented throughout the Group to deal with matters such as employee harassment and During the year, the Compensation committee comprised discrimination, including systems for the condential the following who took decisions in respect of the year: and anonymous submissions by employees relating S W Morten chairman of the committee : to those issues: P Lader: appointing and reviewing the performance of external C Mackenzie.
advisors to the committee and to the Company in relation to No current member of the committee has any personal executive remuneration and human resource activities: and financial interest other than as a share owner in the monitoring the vesting of the awards made under the matters to be decided by the committee, potential conicts Original Leadership Equity Acquisition Plan and the vesting of interest arising from cross-directorships or day-to-day of awards under a number of incentive plans applicable to involvement in running the Groups businesses.
The terms the Group chief executive and also reviewing his contractual of reference for the Compensation committee are available arrangements.
on the Companys website and will be on display as set out In determining the remuneration, stock incentive in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
arrangements and benets for all of the current executive The Compensation committee regularly consults with directors the Board accepted the proposals and Group executives, particularly the Group chief executive, recommendations of the Compensation committee the chief talent officer, the Director of compensation and without change.
benets and the Group General Counsel.
During the year, the committee appointed Towers Perrin as joint external advisors with Deloitte & Touche LLP and received material assistance from these rms.
Deloitte are also engaged as the WPP Annual Report 2004 103
