from left to right Michael Jeffries Keith Clarke Robert MacLeod Struan Robertson Admiral the Lord Boyce Christopher Kemball James Morley Sir Peter Williams Dr Stephen Billingham Board of Directors Michael Jeffries Struan Robertson Chairman, age 59 Senior Independent Director, age 54 Michael Jeffries was appointed a Director in 1992, Chief Executive Struan Robertson was appointed a Non-Executive Director in 2000 in 1995, and Chairman in 2001.
He was acting Chief Executive and Senior Independent Director in 2003.
He is a mechanical between October 2002 and September 2003.
He is a Chartered engineer with an MBA.
He retired from BP after a 25 year Architect.
Prior to joining the Group in 1975 he worked in the international career during which he held posts as Chairman of BP public sector and in private practice.
In 1979 he was appointed a Asia Pacific, Chief Executive Oil Trading International and Senior Vice Director of WS Atkins Group Consultants, a former Group Company President Technology and Marketing.
During his time at BP he lived and fulfilled a number of roles including the management and and worked in Africa, Europe and the Far East.
Following retirement direction of major capital programmes and business development.
he was appointed as Group Chief Executive of Wates Group He was appointed a Non-Executive Director of fide La Rue plc in Limited.
He stepped down from Wates Group in January 2004 2000, Chairman of Wembley National Stadium Limited in 2002 to pursue his non-executive interests.
He is a past Deputy Chairman and Chairman of Wyless plc in February 2004.
He is Chairman of of the International Petroleum Exchange and Director of the Major the Nomination Committee.
He is a Non-Executive Director of Forth Ports plc and Henderson TR Pacific Trust plc.
He is the Chairman of Keith Clarke the Remuneration Committee and is a member of the Audit and Chief Executive, age 52 Nomination Committees.
Keith Clarke was appointed a Director in October 2003.
He joined the Group from Skanska AB where Admiral the Lord Boyce he was Executive Vice President responsible for their activities in the Non-Executive Director, age 61 UK, Poland, Czech Republic, India and China.
He has over thirty Lord Boyce was appointed a Non-Executive Director in May 2004. years experience in construction and engineering having previously He has had a distinguished career in the Royal Navy and the worked for the City of New York, Olympia and York, Trafalgar Ministry of Defence MoD.
He qualified as a submariner in 1965, House and Kvaerner.
and commanded three submarines and HMS Brilliant.
He attended the Royal College of Defence Studies.
Lord Boyce was promoted to Robert MacLeod Admiral in 1995 and was Second Sea Lord and subsequently Group Finance Director, age 40 Commander-in-Chief Fleet before becoming First Sea Lord, Robert MacLeod was appointed Group Finance Director on Professional Head of the Royal Navy from 1998 to 2001: and Chief 23 June 2004.
He joined the Group of Defence Staff, Professional Head of the Armed Forces from 2001 as Group Financial Controller in March 2003 having previously to 2003.
He is a Director of the White Ensign Association.
He is a worked in a variety of senior financial roles at Enterprise Oil plc.
member of the Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
A graduate of Cambridge University, he trained at KPMG.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2004 28 Christopher Kemball Sir Peter Williams Non-Executive Director, age 57 Non-Executive Director, age 59 Christopher Kemball was appointed a Non-Executive Director in Sir Peter Williams was appointed a Non-Executive Director in 2002.
Most of his career has been in investment banking in Europe, May 2004.
He graduated from Cambridge University with an MA Emerging Markets and the USA.
He ran the North American and PhD in Physics.
He initially pursued an academic career, first at operations of Kleinwort Benson plc from 1983 to 1986 before Selwyn College, Cambridge and subsequently at Imperial College, moving to Dillon Read & Co. Inc. as Managing Director jointly in London.
After a period with VG Instruments Limited he joined charge of their European business.
In 1992, he joined Baring Oxford Instruments plc in 1982.
He became its Chief Executive in Brothers & Co. Limited as a Director and ran its international 1985 and was Chairman from 1991 until his retirement in 1999. corporate finance activities from 1994, leaving in 1999.
In 2000, He is Chairman of the UKs Engineering and Technology Board, and he joined Hawkpoint Partners Limited, the independent corporate of the National Physical Laboratory.
He is a Non-Executive Director advisory firm where he is currently Vice Chairman.
He is also Deputy of GKN plc and of Advent VCT1 plc and Advent VCT2 plc.
Sir Peter Chairman of The Davis Service Group plc and a Non-Executive has previously held the posts of Master of St. Catherines College, Director of Control Risks Group Limited.
He is a member of the Oxford, Chairman of the Board of Trustees of the National Museum Nomination Committee.
of Science & Industry, President of the Institute of Physics and President of the British Association for the Advancement of Science.
James Morley He is currently joint Patron of WISE Women into Science and Non-Executive Director, age 55 Engineering and President of the Association for Science Education.
James Morley was appointed a Non-Executive Director in 2001.
He is a member of the Audit and Nomination Committees.
He is Group Finance Director of Cox Insurance Holdings plc and a Non-Executive Director of Bankers Dr Stephen Billingham Investment Trust plc.
He was previously Finance Director at Arjo Executive Director, age 46 Wiggins Appleton plc, Guardian Royal Exchange plc and Avis Dr Stephen Billingham was Group Finance Director until 22 June Europe plc.
He is Chairman of the Audit Committee and a member 2004.
He will leave the Group on 24 August 2004 to take up the of the Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
post of Finance Director of British Energy plc.
He joined Atkins in 2000 as Group Financial Controller and prior to joining the Board in 2002 was Finance Director of the successful Metronet London Underground PPP bid.
Stephen spent 11 years with the engineering group BICC plc now Balfour Beatty plc, where he was Group Treasurer.
He previously held finance positions in Severn Trent plc, The Burmah Oil plc and British Telecommunications plc.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2004 29
