below We used virtual reality techniques to understand the experience of driving along the access road and ensure drivers would not be distracted by aircraft using the new terminal.
M25 widening and access to Heathrow Terminal 5 Atkins is Agent to the Highways Agency and Heathrow Airport Ltd for the widening of the M25 between Junctions 12 and 15 and for the provision of a free flow spur road to Heathrow Airports new Terminal 5.
Plan Atkins prepared plans to create road access to the new terminal in conjunction with the road widening work.
Integrated teams of planners, engineers and environmental scientists investigated the impacts on traffic flow, the economy and the environment of numerous scenarios, consulting with key stakeholders including local authorities, environmental bodies and the public.
Atkins presented the access case at the four-year Planning Inquiry that began in 1995.
Design The access road was particularly challenging in both environmental and engineering terms.
The design solutions factored in single point decision-making by drivers, avoidance of rivers and environmentally sensitive land, and minimisation and recycling of excavated waste.
Crucially we developed a design that could be constructed without loss of essential motorway capacity during the two-year works programme.
Enable The Atkins team is carrying out Employers Agent duties on the site throughout 2004 and 2005.
At the procurement stage, we developed an innovative tendering approach to ensure overall best value solutions rather than merely lowest face value cost.
We are now working closely with both clients and contractors, focusing heavily on the safety and convenience of the travelling public.
To ensure maximum capacity during the works programme and to keep traffic moving, the contractor is required to maintain four lanes open through peak periods, and to provide 24hour CCTV surveillance and state-of-the-art incident clearance.
In advance of the works, a public video was issued to Channel crossing operators and shown at motorway service areas to help motorists plan their journeys.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2004 02 We have an excellent relationship with the Atkins team.
Atkins positive approach has contributed significantly to the ongoing success of the project.
above The spur road was specially designed to minimise the severance effect on the Colne Valley.
Extra height and span and minimum column supports will improve through views.
Managing major civil engineering works on the busiest motorway in Europe is a huge challenge.
An excellent start has been made to the construction and during the first five months over 25 million journeys have been completed through the road works.
Paul Luft, Atkins Senior Engineer, seen left on site with Wan Sim Tan, Graduate Engineer.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2004 03 below Atkins is performing structural assessments on 80 miles of tunnels, 2,800 bridges and structures and nearly 100 miles of embankments to understand the condition of the assets and identify any necessary repairs or replacement.
The Metronet bid team achieved a fantastic level of integration, with engineers of all disciplines working together to decide how best to deliver London Undergrounds service aspirations.
I think we were all genuinely excited to be involved in the start of such a significant project, and to feel that we had a real mandate to transform the daily journeys of millions of network users.
Andrew Love, Atkins Signalling Engineer and capability consultant seconded to the Metronet bid team.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2004 04 below Our Station Design Team has proposed these initial designs for Turnham Green station.
In all, 150 stations will be refurbished including 10 by the end of 2005.
Improving the London Underground After years of under-investment a massive upgrade project is underway to transform the London Underground into a modern and efficient transport network.
Atkins core skills are central to the 17bn renewals and upgrade programme.
Plan Financial close of the Metronet PPP contracts represented the conclusion of four years of detailed planning.
Over 200 Atkins engineers, planners, quantity surveyors and accountants were seconded to the bid team over this period, planning and pricing the programmes for asset management, capital investment and performance improvement.
Design In the first year of the PPP contracts, more than 350 of our rail experts in the UK and Denmark started work on designs for the refurbishment and modernisation of 150 stations.
By the end of March 2004 we had submitted initial designs for a number of stations including Oxford Circus, one of the networks busiest.
Design work on a further 68 stations will be delivered during the next year.
We are also designing and building new communications systems including passenger information, CCTV and public address systems, Help Points and destination indicators.
Enable One of the exceptional challenges in this project is enabling the network to operate with minimal disruptions while undertaking significant modernisation and refurbishment work.
Behind the scenes, our project and asset managers and our experienced engineers are making a significant contribution to ensuring that work on the stations and civils infrastructure proceeds to plan.
left Atkins is working on the Bakerloo, Central, Victoria and Waterloo City BCV lines and the District, Circle, Hammersmith, City, Metropolitan and East London sub-surface line SSL.
Together they account for over two thirds of the London Underground network and carry 2 million passengers daily.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2004 05 An iconic resort for Bahrain A string of islands linked by bridges in a lagoon, forming a unique setting for 1,800 villas, retail and leisure facilities and a centrepiece marina: this was the concept conjured by our designers for a new resort in Bahrain.
It was a dramatic vision which captivated the client, securing Atkins a commission to design and assist in the procurement of the 550m development.
Atkins is providing a full range of professional services to the project, including architecture, engineering design, construction supervision and project management.
The resort is due to be completed in early 2009.
Plan The value of a scheme depends on the quality of the concept design, a philosophy demonstrated in Atkins award winning design of the Burj al Arab, the celebrated seven star landmark hotel in Dubai.
The same ethos underpins the visionary masterplan for Durrat, unveiled in April 2004.
Design Projects such as Burj al Arab have proven our ability to assemble a multi-disciplinary team from our own resources, supporting world class iconic design with detailed engineering.
The Atkins team will be responsible for all the design including ground and marine engineering, utility infrastructure and the design of the villas and hotels including the environmental and ecological challenges posed by the scheme.
Enable Realising the project will be a huge undertaking.
Progress will be closely monitored by a dedicated site team which will be responsible for ensuring that all aspects of quality are properly supervised.
Environmental studies have addressed in detail the impact of the development, which will be monitored closely throughout the project life cycle.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2004 06 right below Our coastal engineers used numerical Bahraini pearls are reputed to wave simulations to ensure that the resort be the most beautiful in the world and will be appropriately protected from high Bahrain was famous for its pearl fishers water levels and storm wave conditions.
in the first half of the 20th Century.
Our designers based their concept for the resort on a string of pearls.
Mahmood Abdul Rahman, General Manager of the Durrat Khaleej Al Bahrain Company, described Atkins designs as examples of perfection and magnificence.
This is the project of a lifetime.
Technical challenges aside, we are developing a new global landmark which will be as instantly recognisable as the Sydney Opera House.
Simon Crispe, Atkins Commercial Director Middle East Region.
below The twelve man-made islands and extensions to the existing mainland will have a surface area of over six million square metres.
20 million cubic metres of new land will be reclaimed.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2004 07 above, below Our designs for the Garrison Headquarters, including the well-defined entrance and high quality interior fit, set a high aesthetic standard and aim to provide a sense of pride and place for the 3,500 military personnel based at Colchester.
Colchester Garrison redevelopment Colchester Garrison is home to 16 Air Assault Brigade, Britains primary rapid reaction force.
Atkins is a member of the RMPA consortium awarded a 35-year Private Finance Initiative PFI contract by the Ministry of Defence MoD to redevelop and run facilities at the site.
The project will provide high quality, serviced accommodation for the 3,500 military personnel who live and work at the garrison, as well as training, recreation, education and welfare facilities.
Plan Working closely with the MoD and design and build contractor Sir Robert McAlpine Ltd, Atkins planned a development to meet the needs and the aspirations of the army of the future while satisfying affordability criteria and local Town Planning requirements.
Atkins prepared design information in support of the planning submission for 137 buildings together with an environmental statement covering ecology, ground contamination and air quality in relation to both the new garrison facilities and the re-development of the old site.
After extensive public discussions and negotiations, Planning Consent was granted in July 2003.
Design Our 160 plus team of architects, civil and structural engineers and landscape designers brings the array of skills needed for this complex project.
Detail designs and production information are now in preparation which will allow the contractor to implement the scheme efficiently within the parameters of the PFI contract.
Enable More than 95 per cent of the redeveloped garrison will be new build.
To meet tight time scales, some of the accommodation will be prefabricated and assembled off site to reduce construction time and improve the quality of installation.
Design will continue to December 2005 with construction progressing through to 2008.
Our Defence Asset Management team is providing building and estate maintenance services together with energy and waste management for the duration of the 35-year contract.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2004 08 One of several innovative ideas was to co-locate the client team of design coordinators with the Atkins design team, with the object of speeding up communication and decision making this has proved particularly successful.
Barrie Nickolls, Design Manager, Sir Robert McAlpine Ltd. Over the next eighteen months my team of 160 will deliver co-ordinated multi-disciplinary designs to enable Sir Robert McAlpine to meet their demanding construction programme.
It is a logistical challenge and we have enhanced our design procedures and methodology to meet it.
We have also developed a number of innovative CAD tools to ensure a consistent and efficient approach across the project.
Valerie Evans, Atkins Project Manager.
below We have prepared detailed faade drawings to demonstrate the quality of the designs.
This one shows the articulation of the bay elevations for the Brigade HQ.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2004 09 right Our team has delivered 100 new signals on 85 signal posts and 15 gantries.
Re-signalling on the West Coast Main Line The project to renew signalling infrastructure on a 30-mile section of the West Coast Main Line between Rugby and Wolverton was an important part of the programme to upgrade the line speed to 125mph by Autumn 2004.
Plan To ensure safety at high speeds and optimum performance, Atkins used virtual reality technology to review many of the signals and ensure each one was clearly visible to train drivers.
Where necessary, signals were repositioned to improve visibility and conform to the UKs strict rail infrastructure standards.
An Atkins-led team developed and commissioned signalling modifications for the driver training areas required by Network Rail for the new Virgin Pendolino tilting train.
Drivers must undertake comprehensive training test runs on the track before the line speed is uprated.
Design Working in close partnership with infrastructure operator Network Rail, Atkins designed and delivered a new signalling control system and data transmission links: new, improved train detection equipment using axle counter technology: and new LED signals and point operating mechanisms.
All these will improve rail traffic flows and system reliability.
Enable During the early design work for the control system it became clear that there was a need to accelerate part of the programme to meet the overall time scales for the project.
Consequently a new tool was developed to automate design of the control system data, saving several weeks of design and testing time.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2004 10 Rugby has been a challenge to meet Network Rails needs, both technically and in terms of time scale.
Our expertise in this specialist field of engineering have enabled us to solve all the problems the project has presented us with and yet still meet some very tough deadlines.
We have only been able to achieve this through the contribution of our excellent people.
Liz Plumb, Atkins Director Signalling Projects.
above At high speeds, communication between train drivers and signal boxes is crucially important.
We delivered major modifications to the radio system to improve operational links with the new signalling control system.
right The WCML is Europes busiest mixed density railway, used by 2,000 passenger and freight trains daily, including the new tilting trains servicing the busy route between Manchester and London.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2004 11 left Inspection of a vortex drop shaft which feeds flows from branch sewers into the main tunnel.
below The Atkins team, led by Dr Alan Skates second from right, reviews the project plan with members of the team from Water Service, Northern Ireland.
This is an exciting challenge to our team to deliver to Belfast a 21st Century sewerage system, thereby providing significant environmental benefits to the local community.
Dr Alan Skates, Project Director.
I am confident that the combined skills of Water Service and the Atkins Team, together with the contractors, will deliver a landmark project.
Katharine Bryan, Chief Executive, Department for Regional Development of Northern Ireland, Water Service.
below The streets of Belfast were subject to frequent flooding before the existing Victorian sewers were constructed.
This project will provide the city with infrastructure to meet current and further needs, and reduce the pollutant load on the River Lagan by 85%.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2004 12 A modern wastewater below A contractor making final checks on network for Belfast the segment lining of a new tunnel Belfasts crumbling sewer network is being repaired and upgraded under the largest contract of its kind ever let by the Water Service in Northern Ireland.
As lead consultant, Atkins is responsible for design, procurement and management of the project, which will cost 100m and aims to prevent flooding and reduce pollution in the city.
Plan Any major construction project can affect people living nearby and the local environment.
Atkins is aiming to ensure that potential adverse effects are minimised, with environmental specialists working alongside engineers for the duration of the work.
An Environmental Management System will be used to ensure that environmental factors are taken into account and monitored as construction progresses.
Design The project will present many technical challenges to Atkins geotechnical and civil engineers.
The works include 9km of tunnelled interceptor sewer ranging from 1.8m to 4.0m diameter, 3 a 16m sec capacity tunnel pumping station, upgrading of 18km of existing sewers and modifications to existing combined sewer overflows.
This will help to minimise the chance of flooding within Belfast and reduce pollution in the River Lagan.
Enable At the outset of the project, Atkins introduced a procurement strategy to ensure that each element of the project was fully defined before tendering began.
By the end of the year, this had already realised considerable cost savings for the client.
Other services for this project will include supervision of construction, commissioning and hand-over on completion.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2004 13
