Directors report The Directors present their annual report on the affairs of the Directors interests Company and the Group, together with the financial statements Directors interests in the Company are described in the Remuneration and independent auditors report, for the year ended 31 March 2004.
These will be laid before shareholders at the Annual General Meeting AGM to be held on 7 September 2004.
Articles of Association The Directors propose to seek shareholder approval at the AGM to Principal activities and business review amend the Companys Articles of Association to enable it to benefit WS Atkins plc is a leading provider of professional services with from the introduction of the Electronic Communications Act 2000, the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001 and the Companies offices in the United Kingdom, Europe, the Middle East, Asia Acquisition of Own Shares Treasury Shares Regulations 2003.
As at 31 March 2004 it employed 13,691 The Directors further propose to amend the Articles to remove the 2003: 15,392 permanent staff worldwide.
It reports through the distinction between ordinary and special business, and to permit a following major segments: Transport: Design and Engineering proxy to abstain from voting and to vote on matters not specifically Solutions: and Management and Project Services, supported by referred to in the Notice of Meeting.
In addition, it is proposed that Equity Investments.
the limit on the aggregate amount of fees payable to the NonExecutive Directors be increased from 250,000 to 380,000.
This The Chairmans statement pages 14 and 15, the Chief Executives increase is in line with external benchmarking and will enable the review of operations pages 16 to 23 and the Financial review Company to appoint additional Non-Executive Directors without pages 24 to 27 report on Atkins performance during the past exceeding the limit.
Detailed explanations of the proposed year and prospects for the future.
The reviews are included in this amendments to the Articles of Association are provided in the report by reference, together with the list of the principal subsidiary Notice of the Meeting accompanying this report.
undertakings and the countries in which they operate Note 31 to the financial statements.
Corporate governance A report on corporate governance is on pages 32 to 35.
Results and dividends The Group Profit after tax for the year of 37.4m 2003: Loss after Corporate social responsibility tax of 38.0m restated is shown in the Consolidated profit and A separate report on corporate social responsibility, dated 19 July 2004 loss account on page 43. and including detailed information in respect of social responsibility, health and safety, the environment and human resources, The Directors recommend a final dividend of 7.0 pence accompanies this report.
A copy of the report is also available 2003: 3.0 pence per ordinary share to be paid on 1 October 2004 on the Companys website www.
to ordinary shareholders on the register on 3 September 2004 which, together with the interim dividend of 2.0 pence paid on Employees 30 January 2004, makes a total of 9.0 pence for the year The Group communicates financial results and significant business 2003: 3.0 pence.
issues to all employees via the use of e-mail, the intranet and in-house publications.
Feedback from employees is obtained Disposals annually via a confidential survey.
Where appropriate, consultation Disposals made by the Group in the year are described in Note 3 with employee and union representatives takes place.
to the financial statements on page 55.
Employee share ownership has been encouraged over a long Directors period.
Later this year, UK employees will be offered the opportunity Full biographical details of the Companys Directors at the date of to become shareholders via the Companys Share Incentive Plan.
this report are given on page 28.
The Group is committed to the fair and equitable treatment of all The Companys Articles of Association require that all Directors its employees irrespective of gender, race, age, religion, disability appointed during the year retire at the AGM and offer themselves or sexual orientation.
Policies have been implemented across the for re-election.
In addition, one third of Directors must retire and Group to ensure that this commitment is acted on in practice.
The Groups policy and practice is to encourage the recruitment Paul Marsh resigned from the Board on 10 April 2003 and Frances and subsequent training, career development and promotion of Heaton retired from the Board on 16 September 2003.
Keith Clarke disabled people on the basis of their aptitude and abilities, and the who was appointed a Director on 1 October 2003, Sir Peter Williams retention and re-training of employees who become disabled.
and Lord Boyce who were appointed Directors on 5 May 2004 and Robert MacLeod who was appointed a Director on 23 June 2004 Business conduct policy will retire at the 2004 AGM and, being eligible, offer themselves The Board is responsible for the Groups Business Conduct Policy.
The Group believes that integrity is a fundamental prerequisite for successful business relationships, both internally and externally.
Michael Jeffries and Struan Robertson will retire by rotation Reputation, trust and confidence are essential elements which we at the AGM and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
seek to protect and enhance to the benefit of all with whom we have a relationship.
The Group seeks to understand and meet its Stephen Billingham will resign as a Director on 24 August 2004. customers needs, whilst seeking continuous improvement.
Across the Group there are procedures in place which seek to underpin The Board considers that the performance of those Directors this approach.
By so doing the Group aims to meet the needs of proposed for re-election continues to be effective and that they customers, shareholders and staff.
demonstrate a strong commitment to their role.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2004 30 Supplier payment policy Save as referred to above, the Directors are not aware of any person The Companys policy, which is also applied by the Group, is to agree as at 22 June 2004 who was interested in 3.0% or more of the terms and conditions for its business transactions with suppliers and issued share capital of the Company or could directly or indirectly, endeavour to make payment to these terms, subject to the terms jointly or severally, exercise control.
and conditions being met by suppliers.
As at 31 March 2004 the number of days annual purchases in the Group represented by Directors responsibilities year end creditors was 20 2003: 29 days.
The Directors are required by UK company law to prepare for each accounting period financial statements which give a true and fair Charitable and political donations view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group as at the During the year the Group made charitable donations of 101,000 end of the accounting period and of the profit or loss of the Group 2003: 115,000, principally to local charities serving the for that period.
communities in which the Group operates or charities relevant to the Groups activities.
It is the Groups policy not to make political In preparing the financial statements the Directors are required to donations either in the UK or overseas.
select and apply consistently suitable accounting policies framed by reference to reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates.
The Group has no intention of making any political donations or Applicable accounting standards also have to be followed and incurring such expenditure in the future.
However, the Political a statement made to that effect in the financial statements, subject Parties, Elections and Referendum Act the PPER Act defines to any material departure being disclosed and explained in the EU Political Organisation widely.
There is still some uncertainty notes to the financial statements.
The Directors are required to over which bodies are covered by the definition and what will be prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis unless it classified as a Donation.
The Board will therefore seek authority is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue in business.
at the forthcoming AGM for the Company and its main trading subsidiary Atkins Limited to make such political expenditure up to The Directors confirm that they have complied with the above 100,000 in aggregate over the next year in order to prevent requirements in preparing the financial statements.
The Directors inadvertent breach of the PPER Act.
are responsible for ensuring proper accounting records are kept which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial The Euro position of the Company and the Group and to enable them to The impact of the introduction of the Euro on the Group has been ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies minimal reflecting the fact that approximately 16.3m 1.6% Act 1985. of Atkins turnover in 2004 was generated in the 12 countries operating the Euro and that the Groups local systems have been They are also responsible for taking reasonable steps to safeguard appropriately amended.
It is not possible to predict whether the UK the assets of the Group and for taking reasonable steps for the will adopt the Euro in the future, at what exchange rate it might be prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
adopted or whether any impact on Atkins would be significant.
The Group neither anticipates changing its reporting currency nor The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of denominating its share capital in Euros, unless the UK decides to the Groups website.
Financial information published on the website join the European Monetary Union.
is based on legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements that may Tax status differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The close company provisions of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 do not apply to the Company.
Going concern The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has Share capital adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the Full details of the Companys authorised and issued share capital foreseeable future and therefore continue to adopt the going can be found in Note 23 of the financial statements.
concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Substantial shareholdings Auditors On 22 June 2004 the Company had been notified, in accordance The Companys auditors,  LLP, have with Sections 198 to 208 of the Companies Act 1985, of the expressed their willingness to continue in office and resolutions for following interests in the ordinary share capital of the Company: their re-appointment and to authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Number of Percentage of Name of holder ordinary shares issued capital Approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf The Atkins No.
4 1 Employee Benefit Trust 4,967,231 4.76% 2 Aviva plc 4,268,403 4.09% 1 Barclays plc 5,060,193 4.84% 1 Fidelity International Limited 4,064,094 3.89% 2 Legal & General Group plc 3,273,110 3.13% Amanda Massie Group Company Secretary 1 Not a beneficial interest.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2004 31
