Xansa Report & Accounts 2004 Board of Directors 3 2 1 3 Bill Alexander Age 57 Alistair Cox Age 43 Andrew Buxton CMG Age 65 Chairman Chief Executive Non-executive Deputy Chairman 30 Joined the Board on 1 January 2004.
Chief Executive Joined Xansa in 2002 as Chief Executive.
Formerly Appointed to the Board in 1999.
Former Chairman of RWE Thames Water plc since 1997, the worlds Regional President, Asia, Lafarge.
Group Strategy of Barclays Bank PLC and a former member of the third largest water company, having joined in Director, Blue Circle subsequently Lafarge from Court of the Bank of England.
Head of Engineering at British Coal where 1994.
An engineer by City: Director, Capitaland Limited: Visiting Professor he worked from 1970-1989.
Non-executive background, his early business experience was at the City University.
Director of RMC Group plc.
A Chartered Engineer with British Aerospace and Schlumberger in the and former President of the Institute of Mining, UK and US.
Mechanical and Electrical Engineers: Fellow of the Royal Academy of Engineering: Fellow of the Institute of Mechanical Engineers: Honorary Fellow of the Institute of Mining and Metallurgy: Honorary Fellow CIWEM: Honorary DSc Cranfield University and Honorary DSc Reading University.
1 3 4 3 4 Professor Neil Hood CBE Age 60 Saurabh Srivastava Age 58 David Thomas CBE Age 60 Non-executive Director Executive Chairman, Xansa, India Non-executive Director Appointed to the Board in 1997.
Professor of Business Appointed to the Board in 2000.
Executive Appointed to the Board in 2001.
Formerly Chief Policy, and formerly Dean, University of Strathclyde, Chairman, Xansa India Limited.
Chairman Executive of Whitbread PLC, a position held for Business School.
Currently Corporate Adviser to Emeritus, National Association of Software and seven years.
Chairman of In Kind Direct: Director Scottish Power plc: Chairman of Scottish Equity Service Companies.
Chairman, Indian Venture of Sandown Park Racecourse: Trustee of People 1st.
Partners Limited and STL Limited.
Works closely with the Indian Previous Non-executive Director appointments include The Malcolm Group: British Polythene Government on IT issues and is on the board of the include Food from Britain: W H Brakspear & Sons plc: Industries plc: and Reg Vardy plc.
Development Council of Uttar Pradesh Indias Capitol Group plc and The London Tourist Board.
On the Advisory Board of the Business School of Imperial College, London.
Other Indian-based memberships include the Governing Council of the Institute of Informatics and Communications: University of Delhi: the Investment Committees of the National Venture Fund and several state Venture Funds: and adjunct Professor of Entrepreneurship at Indian Institute of Technology, Mumbai.
Xansa Report & Accounts 2004 2 1 3 2 Lyn Barrat Age 56 Consuelo Brooke Age 57 Peter Gill Age 48 Commercial Director Non-executive Director Finance Director Joined Xansa in 1977.
Appointed to the Executive Appointed to the Board in 2002.
Formerly Joined Xansa in 2003 as Finance Director.
Board in 1987 and the Main Board in 1993.
Managing Director, Merrill Lynch Investment Formerly Chief Financial Officer, Penguin Group, Formerly Business Expansion Director where Managers, responsible for the creation and the Consumer Books Publishing Division of she played a major part in developing Xansas subsequent development of the Specialist Pearson plc.
Director, Financial Operations, outsourcing business.
Responsible for assuring the Pan-European investment management business.
Group Finance Director, commercial principles and integrity of major deals, Member of the Governing Council and Treasurer Dorling Kindersley Holdings plc, 1993-1997. new ventures and acquisitions: as well as of the University of Sussex: Director of Sussex Member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants corporate quality, risk management and Xansas Intellectual Property Limited: Non-executive in England and Wales.
Key to Board Committees 1 Audit 2 Strategic 3 Nomination 4 Remuneration Committee Chairman 2 3 4 Steve Weston Age 45 Lord Wilson of Dinton GCB Age 61 Managing Director, Xansa, UK Non-executive Director Appointed to the Board in 2001.
Formerly Managing Appointed to the Board in 2003.
Currently Master Director of Xansas outsourcing and systems of Emmanuel College, Cambridge.
Retired from the integration business.
Joined in 1998 as Director of Civil Service in 2002 after 36 years in a number of Technology playing an important role in developing UK Government departments including the Xansas application management and systems Department of the Environment appointed integration capabilities.
Previously at Barclays Permanent Secretary in 1992, the Home Office for 12 years with responsibility for design, appointed Permanent Under Secretary in 1994, development and implementation of technical and Secretary of the Cabinet and Head of the Home architectures and infrastructures.
Non-executive Director of British Sky Broadcasting Group plc.
Chairman of Blue Lion Limited.
