Xansa Report & Accounts 2004 Xansa is building... business-critical capabilities for Barclays 02 We chose Xansa because of its flexible, responsive approach, coupled with its track record of providing complex back-office processes that deliver real value to the bottom line beyond simple cost reduction.
David Curd, IT and Xansa is a strategic IT partner supporting Barclays business Operations Director, Barclaycard change programmes in a relationship that began in 1989.
At the Group level, we develop, support and optimise IT We have a well-established and systems that unlock the potential of products and processes helping Barclays achieve its goal of being one of the worlds highly productive relationship.
most admired financial service organisations.
Xansa is Xansas breadth of capability, integral in achieving that goal.
We are delivering an array in the execution of IT-enabled change of programmes including the creation of a single view of the and business processes, delivers a customer that will enhance the customer experience via a coordinated service portfolio using multiple channels cost-effective and quality service that such as high street branches, telemarketing and the internet.
is aligned to both the demands of our We also work at the core of the credit card business business and to our goal to be one delivering IT and business process services through the of the worlds most admired financial two-year old Xansa Barclaycard Partnership.
The joint business venture supports card processing for 9.7 million services organisations.
Gary Hoffman, UK cardholders involving 1.5 billion transactions from Chief Executive, Barclaycard 500,000 retail outlets.
This includes secure payments with real-time validation from 130,000 merchants.
In addition to managing over 200 applications, we bridge the gap from current to new technologies such as Chip and PIN that minimise fraud, and from business systems to business processes delivering ground-breaking IT-enabled processes, such as those for the Barclaycard Fraud Chargeback Programme.
Xansa Report & Accounts 2004 Xansa is building... red hot IT for Royal Mail 05 The key to Xansas success at Royal Mail is the ability to nurture strong relationships of trust and confidence complementing their world-class IT skills and capabilities.
This gives us certainty of outcome.
They deliver pragmatic and creative solutions at a Xansa delivers a range of IT consulting, implementation price we can afford.
The Royal Mail and outsourcing services to Royal Mail as part of the benefits from the synergies of the pioneering 1.5 billion Prism Alliance with CSC and BT.
Xansa is responsible for over 200 applications that Prism Alliance partners.
The result is serve 37,000 Royal Mail knowledge workers and drive a service and knowledge base greater business-critical systems including finance, human resources than the sum of its parts.
David Burden, and management information.
The only IT provider ever to Group Chief Information Officer, Royal Mail become a Royal Mail Supplier of the Year, Xansa brings expertise in organisational and process streamlining, productivity and application rationalisation.
Drawing on We have made real strides in IT.
integrated resources, onshore and offshore, Xansa is We needed to get more efficient and give committed to delivering certainty of outcome with 40% our IT people a real career and exposure reduction in the IT cost base over the first three years of the ten-year contract.
Adam Crozier, We have upped the gain in IT by actively looking for Chief Executive, Royal Mail ways to reduce repetition and complexity of tasks and proposing creative solutions.
In the first year, we transitioned 220 staff to Xansa.
The team provides a full-spectrum Information Services function from business consultancy and strategy to application management.
We also launched a new breed of HR call centres that drive down costs while supporting the Royal Mail great place to work initiative.
Xansa Report & Accounts 2004 Xansa is building... BTs service excellence in Accounting & Finance 06 The transition from in-house provision was smooth and the ongoing service is highly responsive with Xansa adapting quickly to changing needs and circumstances.
Real attention has been paid to developing positive working relationships throughout BT Xansa has built a reputation for service and innovation with and working with us to devise efficient BT over the last 16 years.
Now we are delivering one of the value for money solutions.
The BT and UKs largest-ever Accounting & Finance Business Process Outsourcing contracts.
The objective is to free up BT Xansa partnership has worked well.
management to focus on its core telecoms business while John Hargreaves, Head of BTs Informed also guaranteeing BT savings of at least 93 million over Client Unit seven years.
Our BPO activities include some 13 billion in annual payments, three million BACS electronic banking payments Our partnership with Xansa increases and many hundreds of thousands of expense claims, our ability to support our core business purchase orders and payslips.
The teams commitment to more proactively and economically.
delivering a daily service of such magnitude, with inherent quality and stability, has established Xansa as a leader in Our new systems will provide quality Accounting & Finance services.
This position was affirmed information about the whole business at the first European Shared Services Excellence Awards in in timely fashion and on a cost-effective 2004.
Industry peers lauded Xansa as the Best Outsourced platform.
Ian Livingston, Group Finance Shared Services Organisation and the winner of the Award for Most Advanced Automation of a Shared Service.
Director, BT In parallel, we are implementing one of the worlds largest Oracle financial systems that will help standardise BTs finance and accounting processes.
The global system, supporting a BT-wide chart of accounts, and providing consistency across all of BTs accounting and reporting, will replace 16 separate instances of finance systems across Europe, Asia Pacific and the United States.
Xansa Report & Accounts 2004 Xansa is building... the process and systems backbone for Boots 09 Xansa has an excellent track record in developing close and long-running relationships.
Their people are committed to achieving demanding goals.
Their skills and know-how make a difference every day.
Xansa will continue to play a major part in helping Boots deliver the process and systems improvements that deliver The Boots business is grounded in broad customer choice, innovative own brands and expert service.
Xansa is Boots an outstanding customer offer.
strategic partner in its dynamic business change and IT David Lister, Chief Information programmes for future growth.
These initiatives underpin Officer, Boots Boots new processes and systems to boost customer appeal and give staff the tools to be a world-leading service.
Xansa will save Boots some 30 million over a seven-year IT is a strategic enabler for retail ITO contract, allowing the company to invest further in excellence.
Xansa is making a strong innovation and have access to the flexibility and skills that contribution to IT at Boots which Xansa offers including a reskilling programme and use of has far-reaching impact on the way Xansas offshore capabilities.
Xansa is programme manager for the Boots Backbone we run our business and serve our Programme, integrating systems and processes from finance, customers today and for years to come.
human resources and supply chain to management of space Richard Baker, Chief Executive, Boots and merchandise.
The large volumes of complex and varied data means Backbone, one of the largest SAP retail system implementations in the world, will help ensure customers always find their favourite products from a range of 50,000 items across 1,400 stores.
Xansa also programme manages Oxygen, a broad SAP-based change programme that will impact all functions of Boots Healthcare International and Boots Retail International.
Xansa Report & Accounts 2004 Xansa is building... e-Government solutions Xansa was awarded the contract after a highly competitive process.
10 From development through to the go-live, Xansa has demonstrated a good understanding of our requirements and a partnership approach.
We have achieved the result to fixed timescales without compromising innovation.
John Apps, Project Director, Office of the Deputy Prime Minister Xansa has played a pivotal role in the creation of a leading e-Government service that we can be proud of.
In particular the introduction of an innovative natural language search facility which allows users to search for The UK e-Government programme aims to bring key services on line by December 2005 in an initiative designed to opportunities using their own words in move focus from administration to decision-making.
the area of their choice is a first for a Building on their in-house skills, Departments are working Government e-Service.
Neil Atkinson, with Xansa to develop long-term capability and innovation in public sector information systems.
Project Director, Department for Work One is the Office of the Deputy Prime Ministers Housing and Pensions Grants Management System.
It streamlines the application process for around 2 billion of housing grants to 350 local The e-HR project at the LSC was a high authorities.
This is the first system to transform interactions profile initiative, enabling significant between Central and Local Government via the security mechanisms of the Government Gateway, underpinning efficiencies to be achieved.
partnership with Xansa, the project For Worktrain, Xansa designed, developed and operates was delivered on time, within budget the award-winning internet portal.
It provides crossGovernment access to 400,000 jobs and 500,000 training and to the required quality.
Xansa opportunities via the first natural language search facility provided excellent project management in e-Government.
and clearly demonstrated a good For the Learning and Skills Council, Xansa is helping understanding of the business, to raise participation and attainment in education through IT systems connecting the national office and 47 regional a solutions driven approach and offices with learning providers.
Additionally, a pioneering a commitment to delivery.
Andy Walton, human resources intranet portal will serve over Human Resources Business Process 4,000 employees in support of a new centralised Human Manager, Learning and Skills Council Resources Advice Centre.
Xansa Report & Accounts 2004 Xansa is building... end-to-end value through Business Process Outsourcing Xansa is certainly at the top of the value chain in terms of actual offshore BPO service delivery at present December 13 2003.
Nelson Hall, Industry Analyst Xansa can claim to be a true end-to-end F&A BPO provider.
The Company is increasingly well positioned to take advantage of the growing BPO opportunities in its core markets.
IDC, Industry Analyst Xansa has provided a service that, in a Blue-chip clients entrust us to develop and manage their cost effective manner, has met and indeed business-critical processes.
We are responsible for credit exceeded the strict success criteria we set and debit card chargebacks for Barclaycard: investigating and resolving billing exceptions for RWE Thames Water: at the outset of the project.
However, it is validating corporate and financial information for Experian: neither the cost nor the quality of the and processing finance and accounting transactions for service that sets Xansa apart from other BT, O and MyTravel.
It is their ability to transition Such complex processes require highly-skilled operational teams and leading-edge technology enablement.
The services projects with the minimum of disruption we deliver require that we achieve challenging performance to our operations, their ability to adapt to targets, every day, operating within stringent regulatory new requirements at short notice and the frameworks.
Our BPO teams in the UK and India sharpen business processes, make the most of technology innovations extremely positive attitude with which and ultimately help clients control costs and generate they go about their business.
Keith Ambrose, Commercial Projects Our award winning Accounting & Finance Shared Services Director, Experian Centre supports the daily accounting needs of businesses, providing transaction processing and administration services through to specialist accounting.
Financial reporting also The excellent teamworking approach, helps clients establish control and manage risk.
between Xansa in both India and the UK Working as a team spanning the UK and India, we have also and our own Thames Water business transitioned many aspects of our own business support areas.
Our target operating models for Finance, Human Resources, support team, is an essential ingredient for IT and Market Research have the advantage of actively locating success.
Together, we proactively overcome key service elements both onshore and offshore ensuring we challenges and ensure the alignment of gain competitive advantage through our own internal services.
process improvement initiatives to our To increase the speed, quality and agility of the complex business processes we deliver, we have combined our business drivers.
Teamwork is at the core recognised BPO expertise with BTs robust voice and data of continuing to achieve business services.
Together this creates a functionally rich contact performance targets.
Linda Maslen, Customer centre capability to deliver location-independent voice and Services Director, RWE Thames Water back-office services for our BPO clients.
Xansa Report & Accounts 2004 Xansa is building... a potent mix of onshore offshore talent 14 Xansa is the leading domestic supplier of IT services from India to the UK.
UBS The key to the so-called second generation offshoring is to blend on and offshore Xansa builds value for clients through innovative solutions delivery.
With the development of second in IT, Business Process Outsourcing or by integrating both, with any combination of onshore offshore services.
generation offshoring, two capabilities Our integrated delivery model is pioneering but also are critical to success: domestic market well-proven and goes beyond cost reduction.
Single point presence to give domain expertise and accountability is backed by a collective culture of teamwork customer intimacy, and the ability to and a uniform set of processes across locations and functions to ensure high-quality performance.
integrate core application development, Unique in the industry, Xansa maintains a strong UK base IT services, BPO and business for sector expertise and close client contact while offshore transformation in on and offshore colleagues contribute at all levels of planning and delivery.
The team in India operates as a full partner with UK colleagues.
Xansas flexible resource mix allows solutions to be Arbuthnot tailored to each clients needs and at different points in time.
Twenty-two of Xansas top 30 clients benefit from both onshore offshore resources.
Xansa was the first UK IT services company to recognise the potential of offshore outsourcing and started delivering results from India, as Xansa, in 1997.
The Company was also the first in India to achieve ISO 9001, TickIT certification and BS7799 compliant IT security certification.
Xansas teamwork bridges distances to the advantage of clients from the banking, insurance, utilities, telecoms and retail industries.
Xansa has demonstrated that what matters most is not location but working together to improve each clients business performance.
