Annual Report 2003 04 11 Partnerships Value For over two decades we have built mutually beneficial and We believe that we provide cost-effective, value for money collaborative relationships with our suppliers.
We work in advertising solutions for all our advertisers.
In the UK and US partnership with our suppliers: the key ones are our prewe conduct substantial research into how our products press production company Pindar Set, our printer compare to other providers in the same market.
The cost of RR Donnelley and our paper supplier UPM Kymmene.
advertising in the UKs Yellow Pages is now less than it was in 1995, whilst the cost of advertising in competitive media has In the UK our suppliers have worked with us to improve our risen.
In the US and UK, research shows that our advertisers products and customer offerings, and were integral in the consistently receive an excellent return on their investment.
successful introduction of colour into our directories, offering greater choice for our advertisers and a more OUR PRODUCTS appealing product for our users.
We constantly review and revise our existing product portfolio We work with RR Donnelley and UPM Kymmene to to ensure we continue to provide a wide range of new minimise paper waste in the production of our directories products and services which deliver better value for our and Pindar Set are fully integrated within our operations to customers and greater opportunities for them to differentiate reduce turnaround times of advertisement proofs for our their businesses.
customers and increase the quality and accuracy of their Within our printed products these innovations include full advertisements.
We review contracts annually with our key colour advertising, discounts and new classications.
In 2003, suppliers to agree performance targets, and we have after extensive and positive public consultation, we decided to delivered year on year performance improvements to our production processes and costs.
change the boundaries of five of the London Yellow Pages editions.
London is our biggest and most significant The success of our partnerships with these organisations in marketplace in the UK and the ten new editions we are the UK led to the migration of these principles into the US.
publishing reflect how shopping and demographic patterns It was a natural choice to offer the opportunity to our and the needs of our advertisers and users have changed.
trusted UK suppliers to be part of this move, and we were Yellow Book is continuing to rebrand and relaunch recently able to extend these partnerships across the Group.
This resulted in efficiency improvements and economies of acquired directories.
This includes increasing the volume of user information in the directories and the production of scale across all of our US operations.
new scoping grids, product profiles and rate cards.
In 2003 we launched a discount scheme for new advertisers and New Movers programme so that users who introduced a relocate within a Yellow Book community receive a Yellow Book directory at their new address.
16 new directories were launched, each publishing in FY05 and further expanding our coverage.
US unique printed advertisers Customer retention 000s 386 363 77% UK 166 152 70% US 2000 01 2001 02 2002 03 2003 04 12 Yell Group plc We have introduced many new products and enhancements Our brands are our key assets and we invest considerably in to Yell.
com in the UK and to Yellowbook.
com in the US, promoting and protecting them.
This ensures that we provide reflecting the growing importance of the online channels for our advertisers with the greatest return on their investment advertisers and users.
We focus on developments which and provides users with high quality, reputable sources of improve the searching experience for our users, and those information.
Brand recognition and awareness is a vital part which increase value for our advertisers.
One recent of our virtuous circle model and is achieved through development is the Yell.
com toolbar, a feature which allows memorable and effective advertising campaigns.
the user quick and easy access to Yell.
com, without having Yellow Pages has gained Superbrand status and is one of to go to the site regardless of where on the Internet the user the top five most recognised brands in the UK.
We are using happens to be.
In August 2003, as a result of user and the strength of the Yellow Pages brand to develop and grow advertiser demand, we added 220 new locations to the Yell.
com search, including popular tourist areas.
This allows our other products.
We use the most effective and appropriate media for the promotion of our products.
For us to match more locations than ever, making it easier for our users to find the business they are looking for and example, we promote Yellow Pages using TV advertising and helping advertisers to be found.
com sponsors the London Underground maps.
our products At the same time we continually seek to improve our customer In the US, as the integration of our acquisitions develops we service.
In September 2003 we launched Yell Direct in the continue to rebrand all directories as Yellow Book.
This is an online channel enabling our customers to do given us an extensive national footprint, broadening our business with us at any time convenient to them seven days a appeal to advertisers and offering them greater advertising week.
Customers can view and amend their advertising, check opportunities.
To capitalise on this we launched a national financial information and buy Yell.
com advertising using a advertising campaign, Yellow Book, not the other book, secure eCommerce system.
These enhancements reduce which we are continuing to run across the country.
process times and have proved popular with our advertisers.
We will continue to respond to our advertisers and users needs, driving innovation throughout our business in order to be the best business information bridge between buyers and sellers across all of our channels.
97% 536 67m of adults in the UK have a editions of Yellow Book Yell.
com page impressions in March 04 Yellow Pages directory at home Annual Report 2003 04 13 Yell.
com is our UK online directory and advertising medium, Yellow Pages is our UK regional classified directory, featuring 1.7 million UK classified business listings.
In FY04 we published 90 editions, and services available include web links, template web sites covering the whole of the UK with the exception of Kingstonincluding design and hosting, enhanced listings, banners upon-Hull.
Our advertising portfolio includes colour options, and domain names.
There are also enhanced user options advert sizes from single line entries to full page spreads as such as maps and directions.
com has more than well as specialised areas such as the book spine and covers.
100,000 searchable advertisers and received 67 million In addition to advertisements, our directories contain local and page impressions in March 2004.
com search community information and special interest guides.
Nearly facility is available through the web site, mobile internet and 28 million copies were distributed to homes and businesses via text message.
in FY04 and 97% of adults have a copy of Yellow Pages at home.
Yellow Pages directories were used 1.2 billion times in FY04 which helped to generate over 88 billion in revenue for businesses appearing in the directory.
Business Pages is our annual UK classied, business-tobusiness directory carrying information on 950,000 businesses.
In FY04 we published nine editions of Business Pages and distributed 2.2 million copies across England, Yellow Book is the oldest and largest independent yellow Scotland and Wales.
The directories contain a range of pages publisher in the US.
Yellow Book published 536 advert sizes and colour options as well as a quick reference editions in FY04 and distributed more than 72 million guide, a business supplement with maps and advice on directories in 41 states and Washington DC.
publishes wide-area directories, city directories, community directories and a Business-to-Business directory.
With the acquisition of Feist in March 2004, we have extended our national footprint to 42 states and Washington DC.
Yellow Pages 118 24 7 is our UK 24 hours a day, seven days a week, operator-assisted information service.
It was launched in 2003 to replace our Talking Pages service and to take advantage of opportunities presented by the Yellowbook.
com is the website of Yellow Book USA.
deregulation of the UK directory enquiries market in December It provides online users with local business and residential 2002.
In FY04, 3.9 million enquiries were received and we information across the USA.
With over 375,000 local carried advertisements for nearly 64,000 paying advertisers.
business adverts, over 28 million yellow pages business listings and over 106 million white pages listings, yellowbook.
com is full of rich content that help consumers to make buying decisions.
Searches can be made by city or state, keyword, zip code, print directory and more.
99 100m 3.9m printed directories in the UK Yellow Pages uses per month Yellow Pages 118 24 7 enquiries
