24 Yell Group plc THE BOARD Robert Scott Chairman Bob Scott aged 62 is currently a non-executive director of The Royal 2000 and co-chief operating officer of News Corporation, Inc, Bank of Scotland Group plc, and its subsidiary companies, Royal Bank British Sky Broadcasting Group and Sky Italia from 1996. of Scotland plc and National Westminster Bank plc, as well as Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc, Focus Wickes Group Ltd. and Swiss Prior to joining News Corporation, Inc. Charles was employed at Reinsurance Company Zurich.
Bob retired as group chief executive Columbia Pictures in various senior capacities from 1981 to 1987. of CGNU plc in 2001, having previously held the same position with He is also a member of the board of directors of Gateway, Inc. CGU plc and General Accident plc, where he had been director since 1992.
He was also chairman of the Association of British John Coghlan Insurers in 2000-2001, having been a board member for four years and a member of the President's Committee of the CBI from John Coghlan aged 46 is currently deputy chief executive and 1998-2000. group finance director of Exel plc.
Prior to joining Exel Ocean Group plc in 1995, he qualified as a chartered accountant in 1982 and worked for Arthur Andersen for eight years before joining John Condron Chief Executive Officer Tomkins plc, where he spent seven years in various financial roles.
John Condron aged 54 was previously the Managing Director of the Group, when it was a division of BT.
He continued as CEO of the Joachim Eberhardt Group on its sale by BT in 2001.
Joachim Eberhardt aged 40 is currently the Executive Vice President He started working for BT in 1973 in the International Finance Division.
of Global Sales, Marketing and Service for DaimlerChrysler Motors He became Strategy Manager for BT's White Pages Division in 1978 LLC in the US.
Until 1 June 2003 he was President & CEO of before joining Yell in 1980 as New Product Development Manager.
DaimlerChrysler UK Limited, a position he held since November 1999.
In 1987, John became the Marketing and Sales Controller and, in 1992, he assumed the additional responsibility of Managing Director He is currently a non-executive director of a number of of Yellow Pages Sales Limited.
In January 1994, he was appointed DaimlerChrysler owned subsidiaries, including DaimlerChrysler as the Managing Director of the Yellow Pages Group.
Services UK Limited and Evobus UK Ltd. Joachim holds a Masters of John is a member of the UK Government's Advisory Committee on Arts degree from the Academy for Administration and Economics in Advertising.
He received an honours degree in Economics from Stuttgart, Germany and an MBA from New York University Stern School of Business.
Queen's University in Belfast.
John Davis Chief Financial Officer Lyndon Lea Before joining Yell as CFO in September 2000, John Davis aged 42 Lyndon Lea aged 35 is a partner of Hicks Muse, where he has been was Group Finance Director at Yahoo!
Prior to that, he worked since 1998.
Lyndon currently serves on the boards of Premier Foods for Pearson plc from 1997 to 2000 as Chief Financial officer for their plc, and various Cayman limited companies which wholly own Aster US operations, and as a board director of Pearson Inc.
He subsequently City Cable, Weetabix Limited, Eurotax Glasss Holdings Limited and became Finance Director of the Financial Times Group Limited.
He began his career at Price Waterhouse, where he qualified as a Chartered Accountant.
From 1989 to 1997, he held a variety of Prior to joining Hicks Muse, he served at Glenisla, which was positions at EMAP plc, including Director of Corporate Finance then the European affiliate of Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. Treasury and Finance Director of EMAP Radio.
He previously served in the investment banking division of Schroders in London and in the mergers and acquisitions department of John received a degree in Accounting from the University of Kent Goldman Sachs in New York.
and a master's degree from the Stanford Graduate School of Business.
Lyndon received his BA Honours in Business Administration from the Charles Carey University of Western Ontario, Canada.
Charles Carey aged 50 is currently a consultant and member of Lord Powell of Bayswater the board of directors of News Corporation, Inc. Until January 2002, he had served as co-chief operating officer of News Corporation and Lord Powell aged 63 is currently UK chairman of Moet Hennessythe Fox Entertainment Group, Inc. and president and chief executive Louis Vuitton and chairman of Sagitta Asset Management Limited.
officer of Sky Global Networks, Inc. Lord Powell is also a director of, amongst others, Matheson & Co, Textron Corporation, Caterpillar Inc, Mandarin Oriental Hotel Group, Charles has been appointed president and chief executive officer of LVMH, Schindler Holdings and British Mediterranean Airways.
Hughes Electronics Corporation and will assume this role upon the completion of News Corporation's acquisition of a 34% interest in Lord Powell is also a member of a number of advisory boards and a Hughes Electronics.
trustee of a number of not-for-profit organisations.
He joined News Corporation, Inc. and The Fox Entertainment Group, Inc. in 1988, and served in numerous roles including executive vice president of Fox, Inc. from 1992 to 1994, chairman and chief executive officer of the Fox Television Group from 1994 to
