16 16 Operating and financial review: International Partnerships, Avionics International Partnerships MBDA designs and builds a wide range of missiles for numerous platforms around the world.
AMS designs, manufactures and supplies command and control management systems, radar sensors, simulation and training systems.
Saab is focused on the design and manufacture of integrated defence systems.
Gripen International is a joint venture with Saab to market the Gripen combat aircraft.
Atlas Elektronik produces complete underwater sensor to shooter systems.
International Partnerships : Summary 6 Percentage share of group sales 2004 2003 1 Order book 6.5bn 6.8bn 2 Sales 1.9bn 1.7bn 13% 3 Profit 109m 65m 4 Cash inflow 48m 69m 5 Number of employees 13,200 13,600 The International Partnerships business group meeting all of its key development milestones In recognition of the changes to the Gripen joint comprises interests, at 31 December 2004, in the year.
Important orders for MBDA during venture agreement BAE Systems will reduce its in the following: the year included Exocet Block 3, a significant shareholding in Saab AB over time.
BAE Systems aircraft package for Greece, plus the PAAMS will retain at least a 20% shareholding.
AMS 50% Atlas Elektronik completed its first full year as Saab 34.2% Profitability of the AMS joint venture has a BAE Systems wholly owned business.
During Gripen International 50% continued to improve.
Order intake has included 2004, Atlas completed the acquisition of the Atlas Elektronik 100% the Network Enabled Combat System for the Danish Maridan autonomous underwater United Arab Emirates and an extension to a vehicles business.
2004 has been a successful year for Private Finance Initiative contract for Astute International Partnerships with an operating In January 2005, BAE Systems and Finmeccanica training services in the UK.
Sales grew by signed the Eurosystems agreement.
In sterling terms sales and Saabs operating profit in 2004 improved on Eurosystems transaction will bring the UK part profits were reduced by the translation effect of a 2003, after having recognised the cost of of AMS into 100% BAE Systems ownership in weakening Euro by 37m and 2m respectively.
exchange for the groups 50% share of the 4 The business group generated cash flow of Italian business currently under joint control, Gripen International is now well established in 48m 2003 69m.
These results have been and a cash equalisation payment.
the export market, with orders from the Czech achieved with a number of key programmes Republic, South Africa and Hungary for a current Looking to 2005, sales are expected to remain moving out of development into full production.
The joint investment to broadly flat across International Partnerships Another solid year of delivery and growth in develop the export baseline standard for the as a whole with margins slightly reduced owing 2004 has seen MBDAs sales increase by more Gripen combat aircraft is nearing completion, to the recently announced rationalisation than 20% with good operating profits growth.
and the first delivery to the Czech Republic is programme in AMS.
This strong performance was driven during the scheduled for May 2005.
Production for year by significant deliveries of Storm Shadow deliveries to South Africa and Hungary is and Scalp EG to the RAF and French Air Force, underway.
During 2004, it was agreed that respectively: significant deliveries of Mica and Saab will, from 1 January 2005, assume Exocet to export customers: and continued responsibility for marketing new Gripen export deliveries of ASRAAM to the RAF.
Saab and BAE Systems will continue entered service with the Royal Australian Air to have joint responsibility for any Gripen Force during 2004.
Solid development progress activity in the three established export markets on the Aster-PAAMS and Meteor programmes and may co-operate on future Gripen exports also contributed to MBDAs growth, with Meteor when appropriate.
