54 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2004 Directors report The directors of BAE Systems present their compliance officer.
Further information financial institutions, and adopts a systematic report, together with the accounts, for the year regarding the undertakings and the contact approach to the control and monitoring of ended 31 December 2004. details of the compliance officer may be counterparty credit risk.
A credit limit is obtained through the Company Secretary at allocated to each counterparty with reference to Principal activities the company's registered office.
For internal credit risk BAE Systems is a company engaged in the purposes, all transactions are marked-to-market Corporate governance development, delivery and support of advanced and the resultant exposure is allocated against The corporate governance statement is set out defence and aerospace systems in the air, on the credit limit.
on pages 34 to 41. land, at sea and in space.
The company designs, The company, through its internal audit manufactures and supports military aircraft, Treasury policy department, monitors compliance against the surface ships, submarines, fighting vehicles, The groups treasury activities are overseen by principal policies and guidelines including the radar, avionics, communications, electronics the Treasury Review Management Committee utilisation of credit and any exceptions found and guided weapon systems.
Two executive directors are members are reported to the TRMC.
Further disclosure the principal activities of the company and likely of the TRMC, including the Group Finance on financial instruments is set out on in note future developments in the business are set Director who chairs the committee.
out in the Chief Executives review and operating also has representatives with legal and and financial review on pages 6 to 27. taxation expertise.
Supplier payment policy It is group policy that each business unit is Research and development The group operates a centralised treasury in compliance with local best practice in the The company is engaged in a significant department that is accountable to the TRMC country of operation in respect of supplier programme of research and development for managing treasury activities in accordance with payment policies.
Agreed payment schedules in support of the platforms, systems and the framework of treasury policies and guidelines are maintained provided that the supplier services that it provides to its customers.
An overriding policy is that complies with all relevant terms and conditions.
The programme covers a wide range of work trading in financial instruments for the purpose Group policy is that changes to the agreed and includes performance innovations, of profit generation is prohibited, with all payment schedule are only made with the improvements to manufacturing techniques, financial instruments being used solely for risk prior agreement of the supplier.
and technology to improve the through life management purposes.
Other key policies are: support of products.
A particular priority is - to maintain a balance between continuity The average number of days credit provided in research and development into systems of funding and flexibility through the use 2004 by suppliers was 39 days 2003 37 days.
integrating both platforms and other systems of borrowings with a range of maturities, Employment and also the horizontal integration of systems.
currencies and fixed floating rates of The group has a programme in place to assist The development and demonstration of interest reflecting the group risk profile: employees to achieve their full potential and to capabilities in networked systems, and - to maintain adequate undrawn committed develop the skills necessary to meet the current enabling interoperability, is an important borrowing facilities: and future expectations of our customers.
The area of focus in both the UK and US.
- to mitigate the exposure to interest rate programme focuses on both personal and fluctuations on borrowings and deposits Long term research is undertaken through technological development.
by utilising interest rate swaps, interest rate partnerships with the academic sector and in options and forward rate agreements: and All employment policies include a commitment the companys Advanced Technology Centre - to hedge economically both contracted and to equal opportunities regardless of sex, race, and Systems Engineering Innovation Centre.
anticipated foreign currency cash flows colour, nationality, ethnic origin, religion, age Application of this research is managed by the over a five-year period, having first matched or disability, subject only to considerations companys business units through business receipts and payments.
The company's policy is focused research and development programmes.
to provide, wherever possible, employment Within this policy framework the treasury Customers fund directly much of the near opportunities for disabled people and to ensure departments principal responsibilities are: term product development work undertaken that disabled people joining the company and - to manage the groups core funding and by the company.
employees who become disabled whilst in our liquidity: employment benefit from training and career - to manage exposure to interest rate Note 3 to the accounts details the amounts development opportunities.
movements: spent on research and development in 2004.
- to manage exposure to foreign currency The company has put into place a number of movements: Office of Fair Trading undertakings ways of consulting with employees and providing - to control and monitor bank credit risk and As a consequence of the merger between them with information on the performance of credit capacity utilisation: and British Aerospace and the former GEC Marconi the company and other matters that affect - to manage the groups relationship with debt Electronics Systems businesses in 1999, them.
The effectiveness of the communication capital market investors, banks and rating the company is required to comply with process is assessed regularly with the aim agencies.
undertakings given to the Secretary of State of ensuring continual improvement so as to for Trade and Industry.
Compliance with the The treasury department transacts with an provide employees with the information they undertakings is monitored by an independent extensive range of counterparty banks and want by the most effective means.
BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2004 55 Employees are actively encouraged to become Results and dividends Directors shareholders in the company by way of The loss after taxation and minority interests The names of the current directors are listed employee share schemes.
During the year was 467m 2003 profit 6m.
The directors on pages 32 to 33.
The full remuneration report over 15,600 employees were granted options propose a final dividend of 5.8p per ordinary is set out on pages 42 to 53. in the companys SAYE Share Option Scheme.
share, amounting to 178m 2003 168m, Paolo Scaroni retired as a director at the which, together with the interim dividend, conclusion of the AGM held on 5 May 2004.
Honours amounts to a total annual dividend of 9.5p In the UK, the following individuals were per ordinary share 2003 9.2p, at a total Dick Olver was appointed as a director of the honoured in Her Majesty the Queens 2004 cost of 291m 2003 281m.
After deducting company on 17 May 2004.
Birthday Honours and the 2005 New Year 21m 2003 21m, which represents the Sir Richard Evans retired as director and Honours lists: total for the preference share dividend, the Chairman on 30 June 2004.
Dick Olver total retained loss for the year is 779m OBE: Keith Crockford succeeded him as Chairman on 1 July 2004.
MBE: Brian Ayres Lord Hesketh will be retiring from the Board at Gareth Humphreys Charitable donations the conclusion of this years AGM.
Richard Priss During 2004, the amount donated for charitable Tom Royle Beneficial and non-beneficial interests, purposes in the UK was 1.1m 2003 1.3m.
including family interests, in the share capital Further details of the companys charitable Safety, health and environment of the company, for those persons who were activities are set out on page 31.
The company is committed to high standards of directors at the end of the financial year are health and safety at work and encourages active Political donations detailed on page 49.
There have been no concern for the environment.
Further details of It is the companys policy not to make changes in such interests in the period from the companys activities in these areas are set contributions to political parties.
The Board is out on pages 28 to 31. not aware of any contract of significance other The Political Parties, Elections and than service contracts or as disclosed in the Referendums Act 2000 the Act, amongst Share capital remuneration report in relation to the company other things, prohibits the company and its As at 23 February 2005, the company had or its subsidiaries in which any director has, or subsidiaries from making donations to EU been advised of the following significant has had, any material interest.
Political Organisations as defined in the Act interests in the issued ordinary share capital of more than 5,000 in any twelve month of the company: Annual General Meeting period unless they are authorised to do so by The companys Annual General Meeting will Brandes Investment Partners, LP: 13.0% the companys shareholders.
The Act defines be held on 4 May 2005.
The Notice of Annual Franklin Resources, Inc EU Political Organisations widely as a result General Meeting is enclosed with this annual and its affiliates: 8.1% of which the definition could include bodies, report and details the resolutions to be FRM Corp and Fidelity International such as those concerned with policy review proposed at the meeting.
These include special Limited: 5.02% and law reform or with the representation resolutions for the disapplication of Barclays PLC: 3.96% of the business community or sections of pre-emption rights pursuant to section 89 of Legal and General Investment it, which the company may see benefit in the Companies Act 1985 and a change to the Management Limited: 3.0% supporting.
In recognition of this fact the companys Articles of Association concerning shareholders, at the 2002 AGM, authorised The companys Articles of Association contain the provision of indemnities for directors and the company and certain of its subsidiaries provisions to the effect that no foreign person, officers of the company.
to make donations or incur expenditure as or foreign persons acting in concert, can have defined in the Act up to an aggregate maximum Auditors an interest in more than 15% of the companys of 250,000 in a twelve month period.
The KPMG Audit Plc, the auditors for the company, issued ordinary share capital.
company made a donation of 50,000 in 2004 have indicated their willingness to continue At the Annual General Meeting AGM held on to Britain in Europe which may be deemed to in office and a resolution proposing their 5May 2004 the company was given authority fall within the ambit of the Act.
re-appointment will be put to the AGM.
to purchase up to 306,007,313 of its ordinary shares.
The authority will expire at the AGM held in 2005.
Although no ordinary shares have been purchased by the company during the period from 5 May 2004 to the date of By order of David Parkes this report, a special resolution will be put to the Board Company Secretary shareholders at this years AGM to renew the authority to make market purchases of the companys shares up to a maximum of 10% of the share capital of the company.
