18 Operating and financial review: North America F-35 Joint Strike Fighter The F-35 Joint Strike Fighter JSF is the USs next generation, multi-role stealth fighter aircraft.
It utilises BAE Systems state-of-the-art manufacturing techniques, and communications, flight control and electronic warfare technologies.
North America North America : Summary 2004 2003 Figures in underlying US dollars 2004 2003 1 1 Order book 2.5bn 2.4bn Order book $4.9bn $4.2bn Sales 2.8bn 2.7bn Sales $5.1bn $4.4bn 2 2 Profit 233m 232m Profit $427m $379m 3 3 Cash inflow 204m 162m Cash inflow $374m $264m Number of employees 27,400 23,150 In 2004, the North America business group BAE Systems presently ranks among the top 10 The order book increased to $4.9bn, resulting 2 made an operating profit of 233m 2003 suppliers to the US military.
In 2004, in excess from successful re-competes, new contract wins 232m on sales of 2,771m 2003 of 25% of BAE Systems group defence related and acquisitions, providing a good foundation 2,700m.
The business had an operating sales were in the US.
for future organic sales growth.
The BAE Systems North America business Strategic growth group has strengthened its core leadership The US is an attractive marketplace for In addition to good organic sales growth in positions in electronic warfare and electronic BAE Systems.
The US defence market has grown the year, the North America business group protection, military communications, significantly in recent years.
The combination of acquired five businesses with annualised battlespace management, imagery exploitation, the high priority afforded to US national security, sales for 2004 of some $700m.
intelligence systems and digital engine and a strong commitment to research and flight control systems throughout 2004 through development and contracting terms that balance STI Government Systems was acquired on acquisitions and organic growth.
risk and reward provide a healthy environment 10 May for $26m.
The business is a good for the defence industry.
US defence expenditure strategic fit with the groups core competencies The business group met or exceeded all is expected to continue at the current high level, in advanced hyperspectral imaging and financial and business targets for 2004, but with some substitution of spend, to fund maintaining its good performance track record.
the global war on terror and peacekeeping The business produced organic sales growth Boeing Commercial Electronics was acquired on operations, impacting projected defence of 12% with 8.4% return on sales.
The business represents the equipment outlays.
Despite some curtailment terms, sales and profits were reduced by the addition of highly complementary skills and capacity of expectations for equipment procurement, translation effect of the weakening dollar by to the existing commercial aerospace electronic BAE Systems participates in sectors of the 334m and 25m respectively.
This acquisition also defence market such as homeland security and support for the intelligence community.
The business continued to achieve good enhances the groups relationship with Boeing and These activities are expected to continue to conversion of operating profits to operating its capability as a developer and producer of avionic present good growth opportunities.
products and systems for commercial aircraft.
BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2004 19 Avionics and electronics BAE Systems is a primary provider of fly-by-wire flight controls and subsystems for display processing, navigation and other critical functions to the C-17 Globemaster III aircraft.
Littoral Combat Ship BAE Systems has been selected to fulfil a critical role in the final design of the US Navys Littoral Combat Ship.
BAE Systems North America is a leading national security, aerospace and information systems business and a leading provider of electronic and information-based systems and knowledgebased solutions.
4 Percentage share of group sales 19% Practical Imagineering was acquired on These five strategically important acquisitions This new organisation will better align the 17 August for $9m, adding significant capabilities enabled the group to achieve its strategy of services business to develop innovative in the design and build of custom digital signal expanding its core competencies in electronic solutions and meet customers increasingly processing algorithms, software and hardware.
systems, information technology and services complex requirements.
DigitalNetwas acquired on 25 October for $520m.
Transformational technologies and solutions DigitalNet is a leading provider of networked BAE Systems is one of the USs leading providers The business continues to grow its leadership infrastructure and information assurance of communications and network centric systems position in C4ISR capabilities and defence solutions to US government agencies and the supporting the transformational programmes electronics systems.
BAE Systems is national intelligence community, one of the fastest and technologies identified as priorities in the developing the integrated air and ground growing segments of the federal information US defence and security market.
The lines of communications suite for the US Armys technology market.
The combination of DigitalNet business across BAE Systems North America largest acquisition programme, the Future with the groups previously established business are focused on horizontal integration to provide Combat System FCS.
operating in the same market, creates the multi-discipline solutions and to continue to necessary critical mass to target and win operate as a high-performance enterprise.
business on prime federal information BAE Systems North America is also technology and assurance programmes.
transforming its services business to meet Alphatech was acquired on 5 November for the dynamic mission requirements of its $88m.
The company specialises in image and customers, as they respond to new and signal processing, multi-intelligence fusion evolving threats and challenges on a global and intelligent systems.
The services activities now comprise 1 before the elimination of intra-group orders 2 before interest, goodwill amortisation and impairment and makes a significant contribution to the groups a logistics Solutions Center of Excellence exceptional items statutory presentation is shown on page 58 capabilities to address the network centric SCE, a systems engineering and technical 3 net cash inflow from operating activities after capital warfare requirements of the national security assistance SCE, a sub-systems integration expenditure net and financial investment and intelligence communities.
SCE, and an operations and maintenance SCE.
4 before elimination of intra-group sales 20 Operating and financial review: North America continued US Department of Homeland Security BAE Systems has been awarded a contract by the US Department of Homeland Security to develop a solution to counter the threat of missile attack against commercial airlines.
C4ISR The BAE Systems North America business continues to grow and invest in C4ISR capabilities & defence electronic systems.
North America continued Participation in transformational The provision of technical services UH-60, CH-47 and various Special Operations communications programmes such as FCS BAE Systems is one of the largest suppliers helicopters.
CMWS is in production for the UK is positioning BAE Systems as a key provider of technical services and solutions to the Apache, ASTOR and maritime patrol aircraft: of situational awareness and situational US government.
The Naval Sea Systemsthe groups work on the JSF programme understanding to the warfighter.
As a FCS One Command awarded BAE Systems follow-on resulted in a number of Best in Class award Team partner, BAE Systems is designing and contracts for Program Executive Office fees, culminating in early delivery of the producing the complementary communications integrated warfare systems.
These wins were mission-critical electronic warfare suite for systems that comprise the Network key awards in which BAE Systems won all five the JSF and the Outstanding Contractor Communications System, including Warfighter of its competitive bids in the services market.
Award on the programme: Information Network-Tactical WIN-T and Joint Major contracts were also won to provide Tactical Radio System JTRS Clusters 1 and 5. continued support services to the Federal - BAE Systems extended its successful Aviation Administration on surveillance partnership with General Dynamics on the BAE Systems is contributing to major C4ISR systems programmes.
WIN-T programme and on the Littoral Combat programmes being undertaken by the US Ship study: Department of Defense DoD by offering: Development and delivery of electronic transformational communications, together with and information systems - the group successfully demonstrated the advanced technologies developed in precision A core strength of BAE Systems is integrating capabilities of the WolfPack unattended and time-critical targeting: geospatial imagery intelligent electronic systems with information ground sensors programme.
This will lead processing: battlespace management, technology systems, and providing enterpriseto additional development and fielding of the command and control: and information and wide and networked systems, particularly in the system to support US Army commanders intelligence systems integration.
area of battlespace management and C4ISR.
real-time battlefield intelligence needs from Recent contract performance underpins future safe distances: Support for the Department of growth in this market: Homeland Security - the key US Air Force Autonomous Approach - the group won the US Army five-year, Indefinite BAE Systems North America was selected Landing Capability contract was won.
This Delivery Indefinite Quantity award for the to continue into Phase 2 of the Department strategically positions BAE Systems on a immediate delivery of Advanced Threat of Homeland Securitys development of programme to give fixed and rotary wing Infrared Countermeasures System Common technologies to protect commercial airliners air crews the ability to land, taxi and take-off Missile Warning System ATIRCM CMWS.
from the threat of man-portable anti-aircraft in zero visibility conditions safely: The system provides next-generation, missile systems.
directable, laser and lamp based - BAE Systems was named a prime contractor The group is also a member of the winning countermeasures for the protection of aircraft under the unique Advanced Technology Federal Emergency Management Agency FEMA against heat-seeking missiles.
ATIRCM is Support Program III ATSP3 contracting multi-hazard map modernisation contract team.
planned for installation on US Army AH-64D, programme.
Under ATSP3, the DoD has BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2004 21 Satellite Mars Rovers An artists conception of NASAs CassiniSpirit and Opportunity Huygens spacecraft and Saturn.
BAE Systems continue to gather contributed the satellites seven radiationscientific data hardened microprocessors RAD6000 with the help of for the mission.
streamlined the procurement process with BAE Systems-built, radiation-hardened Fundamental to the business is the to receive the full capability of the group protected computer systems performing application of superior technologies that are to resolve technologically complex vital data functions.
The international essential to mission success and the safety problems and keep the warfighter Cassini-Huygens spacecraft reached of the armed forces.
operational by upgrading fielded systems Saturn after seven years and 2.2 billion The 2004 order wins and acquisitions underpin quickly and efficiently: miles of travel with seven BAE Systems future growth.
Margins are anticipated to remain Advanced Spaceborne Computer Module - the group has secured new contracts for close to 2004 levels.
avionics and flight control components on In addition, BAE Systems RAD6000 the USAF C-17, building on its selection as computers have provided critical mission Sikorskys preferred supplier of fly-by-wire manoeuvring capabilities onboard flight controls and sub-systems for the NASAs Swift Mission.
S-92 H-92 helicopters: Building for the future - BAE Systems spans the spectrum from With its 2004 acquisitions, BAE Systems acoustic through optical frequencies to North America is poised to capitalise on the provide ground-based, submarine, surface US defence industry trend toward awarding ship, airborne, and space applications large, complex contracts.
Anticipated future for such information dominance programmes acquisitions will further the groups strategy as Compass Call, Co-operative to acquire profitable, growing businesses OUTBOARD Logistics Update, and with strong, differentiated technologies that Adaptive Joint C4ISR Node: complement the groups broad range of - follow-on contracts were signed including capabilities to provide integrated systems Turkish F-16 Self Protection Electronic and transformational solutions to customers.
Warfare System orders, reinforcing Looking ahead, BAE Systems North America BAE Systems as a leader in providing is well positioned to compete in an increasingly the worlds foremost electronic competitive environment.
The business group warfare protection systems to both has identified the strategic capabilities that new and legacy military aircraft: and must be developed, and the strategic actions - in space, the company's capabilities were that will lead to the attainment of these demonstrated by the National Aeronautics capabilities.
BAE Systems North America and Space Administrations NASA strives to generate customer loyalty through successful landing of two Mars Rovers performance and best value solutions.
