12 Operating and financial review: Programmes Typhoon Astute The Eurofighter Typhoon combat aircraft Astute is the next is the product of a collaborative programme generation nuclear involving the United Kingdom, Germany, Italy powered attack and Spain.
Typhoon entered service with submarine being the air forces of the four partner nations in developed for the 2004.
BAE Systems manufactures the fully UKs Royal Navy.
equipped forward fuselage sub-assemblies for all Typhoon aircraft and is responsible Nimrod MR4A for final assembly of the aircraft in the UK.
The Nimrod MR4A Typhoon will deliver unrivalled swing role is the replacement capability delivering a combination of both maritime patrol and highly advanced air-to-air capability with attack aircraft for the precision air-to-surface operation.
Programmes The Programmes business group operates primarily in the UK defence market and comprises the 7 company's principal air systems, naval systems and C4ISR - related prime contract activities.
In 2004, the Programmes business made a Air systems businesses avionics architecture and deliver two trials aircraft 3 2 profit of 64m 2003 56m on sales of The air forces of the four Eurofighter Typhoon to support the development and test flying.
2,867m 2003 2,436m and generated an partner nations, UK, Germany, Italy and Spain, Contracts for Hawk with Canada, South Africa 4 operating cash inflow of 505m 2003 33m.
completed the acceptance of their initial 30 twin and Bahrain are progressing to schedule.
seat standard aircraft with the 28 aircraft delivered The 2.2% return on sales for Programmes in 2004.
In-service training and operational There was good progress on Nimrod with the continues to reflect the substantial sales evaluations by the four nations have progressed first development aircraft, PA01, flying in the generating no profit contribution from the Nimrod significantly in the first year of Typhoon's service summer and progressing successfully through and Astute programmes.
Over 600 hours have been flown in the UK its flight test programme.
PA02, the first aircraft level of sales on Typhoon was recognised with and a significant number of air and ground crew fitted with a full mission system, achieved its no profit.
Increased Type 45 destroyer sales were trained.
The delivery, in December 2004, of first flight in December 2004.
Programme recognised at zero margin, with the programme the first single seat aircraft for operational reforms continue to reinforce stability in the at an early stage of maturity.
use marks the next planned step in Typhoon programme on both cost and schedule.
Positive contributions to profit were made by capability.
This capability growth will continue Confirmation of future Nimrod production is Underwater Systems and sustaining engineering incrementally through the life of the programme.
awaited following the UK governments activity on Tornado and Harrier in the UK and export announcement in the summer of a requirement Contracts to secure Tranche 2, comprising the markets.
The F-35 Joint Strike Fighter JSF, a cost for some 12 aircraft for the maritime role, next 236 aircraft for the four nations, were plus award fee systems design and development subject to affordability and performance.
The conclusion contract, also made a positive contribution.
of agreements for Tranche 2 has, in the UK, BAE Systems is partnered with Lockheed Martin The outlook at Programmes is for increased sales led to a revision to the Tranche 1 contracts to and Northrop Grumman on the JSF programme.
in 2005 as deliveries on the Typhoon programme address production continuity.
In addition to substantial avionics sub-systems increase, together with increases on Hawk, Nimrod and equipment involvement in North America, Significant progress has been made during and Type 45.
Overall, Programmes profit will show BAE Systems participation in the programme 2004 in securing the future of the highly further improvement in 2005 from sales growth involves the design and manufacture of the successful Hawk business.
and margin enhancement as benefit flows from rear fuselage and stabilisers in the UK.
In April, the government of India placed an order In August 2004, a key milestone was reached for 66 Hawk aircraft and, in December, the UK The UK defence equipment budget is expected to with the start of the JSF production process MoD signed a design and development contract continue to be constrained, with low real growth comprising assembly of the rear fuselage.
for a new variant of the Hawk, the Advanced Jet having implications for the sustainability of longTrainer AJT.
The customer is working closely term funding for future defence technologies and Work has progressed on the JSF System with BAE Systems to manage the design of the engineering capability in the UK.
BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2004 13 Type 45 Joint Strike Fighter Type 45 is the Royal Navys new BAE Systems is a partner in the anti-air warfare destroyer.
Design US led F-35 Joint Strike Fighter of the ship is well advanced and programme with responsibility construction of the first of class, for design and manufacture of HMS Daring, is underway at the rear fuselage and tail the groups Clydeside facilities surfaces as well as a number in Scotland.
Programmes : Summary 6 Percentage share of group sales 2004 2003 1 Order book 14.3bn 11.3bn 2 Sales 2.9bn 2.4bn 20% 3 Profit 64m 56m 4 Cash inflow 505m 33m 5 Number of employees 18,400 19,400 The primary focus has been the detailed Work on the Astute attack submarine has US Navy, is successfully progressing through engineering design effort across the JSF variants, progressed well during 2004 with all key development and will commence formal test in preparation for the increase in manufacturing milestones achieved on schedule.
and evaluation in 2005. activity in 2005.
First flight of the Conventional An accelerated programme resulted in the C4ISR Take-off and Landing variant is planned for delivery of HMS Bulwark, the second Landing The C4ISR business has a key role in developing late 2006.
Platform Dock, ahead of the revised programme and delivering the UKs network-enabled Successful Harrier GR9 carrier landings took schedule.
The ship successfully completed its capability.
BAE Systems is working towards place to schedule as part of a major Harrier trials after leaving Barrow in May 2004 and was establishing a central role with the MoD in upgrade programme.
Contracts received include handed over to the Royal Navy in July 2004.
The creating and developing the MoDs overall the continuation of the Harrier GR9 sustainment early delivery enabled the Royal Navy to bring systems architecture.
and upgrade programme, the support of Tornado forward the in-service date by one month to Secondary Power Systems and the Tornado December 2004.
Following the completion of HMS Bulwark a redundancy programme commenced, which Naval systems businesses resulted in the loss of some 500 positions BAE Systems is building two 16,160 tonne across the Submarines business.
Landing Ship Dock Auxiliary vessels.
The first vessel, RFA Mounts Bay, was launched in April The tactical weapons systems update 2004 and the second vessel, RFA Cardigan Bay, programme for the Trafalgar class submarines is on schedule to be launched in April 2005. remains on schedule.
Good progress has been made on the first of Underwater Systems had another good year, the Type 45 class next generation destroyer for achieving all programmed deliveries.
The 1including share of joint ventures order books and before the Royal Navy, HMS Daring.
Major power and the elimination of intra-group orders development of the Sting Ray Mod 1 lightweight propulsion equipment has been installed in 2including share of joint ventures sales torpedo was completed and the UK production the engine compartments.
The official steel 3 before interest, goodwill amortisation and impairment and order commenced with the successful exceptional items statutory presentation is shown on page 58 cutting ceremony for the second vessel, demonstration of the first build torpedoes.
4 net cash inflow outflow from operating activities after HMS Dauntless, took place in August 2004. capital expenditure net and financial investment and The Spearfish heavyweight torpedo in-service dividends from joint ventures A successful programme to design and support programme completed 10 years 5includes share of joint venture employees build three sophisticated Brunei Offshore of on-time deliveries to the Royal Navys 6 before elimination of intra-group sales Patrol Vessels has been followed by submarine fleet.
The new Archerfish airborne 7 Command, Control, Communication and Computing, acceptance delays.
Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance mine neutralisation system, ordered for the
