8 Strategy Strategy The BAE Systems strategy is to create sustainable shareholder value by being the premier transatlantic aerospace and defence company.
The transatlantic nature of the BAE Systems The US is the world's largest defence market Research and Technology is a key driver of future strategy reflects the company's established with equipment spend around twice that of the capability in the defence sector.
Importantly, the strong presence in the UK and other European UK and rest of Europe combined.
In the UK, US allocates a significantly higher proportion of defence markets combined with its significant significant opportunities are present to derive its defence spend on Research and Technology presence and the growth opportunities in the value from new platform programmes and, in than Europe.
particular, from the provision of through-life Sales into the US defence related markets in support solutions for both new and legacy 2004 accounted for in excess of 25% of group defence systems.
Defence spend US and Europe Defence spend allocation US and Europe Total defence spend approximately $652bn based on 2004 data US $bn based on 2004 data Research and Technology represents 1 United States 65% $423bn 400 approximately 15% $62bn of US 6 2 United Kingdom 9% 5 defence spend.
In Europe, Research 300 4 3France 7% and Technology represents some 3 6.5% $15bn of total spend.
$229bn 4 Germany 5% 200 2 1 Equipment procurement 5 Italy 4% 100 Research and Technology 6 Rest of Europe 10% Other defence European Economic Area 35% 0 US Europe The BAE Systems strategy is to build on its Embed a high performance culture Optimise value from our order book established positions in the aerospace and across the company defence market in the United States, whilst maximising the value of its position in the UK and Europe.
These markets continue to shape the companys capabilities and its products and Embed a high performance culture across Optimise value from our order book.
From this strong base, BAE Systems the company is at the top of our list to reflect our best practice controls, tools and processes will continue to export to, and work in, markets its importance.
The Performance Centred in a consistently efficient manner we will turn around the world where we can deliver Leadership framework ensures all our business orders, and then sales, into profitable returns appropriate shareholder returns.
leaders should know what high performance for our shareholders and secure our future.
means for them and their people.
Our recent In addition, we need to continue to improve While defence remains our core market, our commitment to invest in a Performance Centre productivity and reduce our cost base.
strong presence in the aerospace sector is a of Excellence builds on our suite of controls, major contributor to the value of the company.
tools and processes to support our delivery Delivery of our strategy will be achieved by way of operational excellence.
of five group strategic objectives.
These five objectives are being pursued through seven strands of business portfolio actions supported by the integrated business plans of our operations.
BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2004 9 Group Strategy To create sustainable shareholder value by being the premier transatlantic aerospace and defence company Group Strategic Objectives - Embed a high performance culture across the company - Optimise value from our order book - Maintain a global presence from a strong transatlantic business base - Enhance US UK industrial technology transfer - Proactively manage investment and divestment in businesses Business Portfolio Actions Grow the Grow a global Create a Partner Continue to Grow and Manage business in the support, solutions sustainably MoD in the optimise our maximise the non-strategic United States and services profitable UK transformation European value of Airbus businesses for business programme of the UKs position through optimal value business in armed forces a rationalised air, land and sea portfolio of joint ventures Integrated Business Plans Maintain a global presence from a strong Enhance US UK industrial Proactively manage investment and transatlantic business base technology transfer divestment in businesses Maintain a global presence from a strong Enhance US UK industrial technology Proactively manage investment and divestment transatlantic business base recognises the transfer is crucial for the delivery of greater in businesses.
In order to continue to focus on location of our most important markets.
inter-operability between the US and UK delivering value to our shareholders, each part Transatlantic remains at the core of our strategy armed forces, in both peacemaking and of our business and product portfolio needs to given our leading position in the UK Europe peacekeeping roles around the world, and be focused on where appropriate returns can and strong and growing presence in the United maintaining the highest level of technology and be achieved.
If this is not possible, then a route States.
These markets continue to shape our capability within the UK defence industrial base.
to exit or to minimise exposure will be found.
capabilities and our product and service portfolio.
From this strong base, we will continue to export to and work in markets around the world where we can deliver appropriate shareholder returns.
