32 Board of directors Board of directors Dick Olver Mike Turner Chris Geoghegan Michael Lester Steve Mogford Sue Birley Steve Mogford, Chief Operating Officer Chairman Executive directors Appointed to the Board in 2000 as a Chief 2,4 4 Operating Officer, he has held a number of Dick Olver Mike Turner CBE, Chief Executive senior positions within the company including Appointed to the Board as a non-executive director Appointed Chief Executive in 2002, having been a responsibility for the groups military aircraft in May 2004, he succeeded Sir Richard Evans as Chief Operating Officer since 1999.
He is chairman of the Eurofighter Chairman on 1 July 2004.
A civil engineer, he of the shareholder committee of Airbus SAS having Supervisory Board.
joined BP in 1973 where he held a variety of senior formerly been a member of the Airbus Industrie positions culminating in his appointment to the GIE Supervisory Board.
He is a non-executive Appointed: 2000 Age: 48 board of BP p. l. c. as CEO of Exploration and director of Babcock International Group Plc.
4 Mark Ronald CBE, Chief Operating Officer Production in 1998.
He was subsequently Appointed: 1994 Age: 56 Appointed to the Board in 2002 as a Chief appointed deputy chief executive of BP in 2003, Operating Officer.
Formerly head of GECs North stepping down from that position when he Chris Geoghegan, Chief Operating Officer American defence business, in 1999 he was assumed the chairmanship of BAE Systems.
Mr Appointed to the Board in 2002 as a Chief appointed President and CEO of BAE Systems Olver chairs the Boards Nominations Committee Operating Officer.
He was formerly responsible North America.
He is a member of the board and the Non-Executive Directors Fees Committee.
for the groups Airbus operations and, in 2000, of governors of the Electronic Industries Association He is a non-executive director of Reuters Group plc was appointed Group Managing Director of the and the board and executive committee of the and deputy chairman of TNK-BP.
He is a council member of Aerospace Industries Association.
the Society of British Aerospace Companies.
Appointed: 2004 Age: 58 Appointed: 2002 Age: 63 Appointed: 2002 Age: 50 4 George Rose, Group Finance Director Michael Lester, Group Legal Director Appointed Group Finance Director in 1998 and Appointed a member of the Board following is a member of the shareholder committee of the BAe MES merger.
Prior to the merger he Airbus SAS.
Prior to joining the company in 1992, was a director and vice chairman of The General he held senior positions in the Rover Group and Electric Company, p. l. c. He is a non-executive Leyland DAF.
He is a non-executive director of director of Premier Farnell plc.
Saab AB and National Grid Transco plc, and a Appointed: 1999 Age: 64 member of the Financial Reporting Review Panel.
Appointed: 1998 Age: 52 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2004 33 Mark Ronald George Rose Ulrich Cartellieri Michael Hartnall Lord Hesketh Sir Peter Mason Michael Portillo 1 1,2, 3 Michael Hartnall Sir Peter Mason KBE Non-executive directors Formerly finance director of Rexam plc, prior Chief executive of AMEC plc.
Prior to joining AMEC 1,2, 3 to which he held senior positions with a number plc in 1996, he served as an executive director of Professor Sue Birley of manufacturing companies.
He is also a nonBICC plc, chairman and chief executive of Balfour Formerly Professor of Entrepreneurship at Imperial executive director of Lonmin plc and Elementis Beatty Ltd and chief executive of Norwest Holst College, University of London, and has held plc.
Mr Hartnall chairs the Boards Audit Group PLC.
He is also a board member of UK a number of academic positions at INSEAD, Committee.
He is a fellow of the Institute of Trade and Investment.
Sir Peter Mason has been London Business School and Cranfield Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
nominated the Boards Senior Independent Director.
She was formerly a non-executive director of National Westminster He is considered to be independent for the He is considered to be independent for the purposes Bank plc.
Professor Birley chairs the Boards purposes of the Combined Code on Corporate of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
Appointed: 2003 Age: 58 She is considered to be independent for the Appointed: 2003 Age: 62 1,2 Rt Hon Michael Portillo MP purposes of the Combined Code on Corporate 2 Rt Hon Lord Hesketh KBE A cabinet minister in the 1990s, Michael Portillo Governance.
Non-executive deputy chairman of Babcock was successively Chief Secretary to the Treasury, Appointed: 2000 Age: 61 International Group Plc and Chairman of British Secretary of State for Employment, and Secretary 2,3 Mediterranean Airways.
Lord Hesketh has of State for Defence.
He entered Parliament in Dr Ulrich Cartellieri held UK government ministerial positions 1984, was admitted to the Privy Council in 1992 A director of Robert Bosch GmbH and, until in the Department of the Environment and the and currently represents the Parliamentary recently, a member of the Supervisory Board of Department of Trade and Industry.
He is a former constituency of Kensington and Chelsea.
He is also a member of the government Chief Whip in the House of Lords International Advisory Committee of the Federal He is considered to be independent for the purposes and a Privy Councillor.
of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
Appointed: 1994 Age: 54 He is considered to be independent for the Appointed: 2002 Age: 51 purposes of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
Company Secretary Appointed: 1999 Age: 67 David Parkes 1 member of the Audit Committee 2 member of the Nominations Committee 3 member of the Remuneration Committee 4 member of the Non-Executive Directors Fees Committee
