BAE BAE SYSTEMS Annual Repor SYSTEMS Annual Report 2004 t 2004 17 17 Displays DASS BAE Systems is a BAE Systems leader in displays supplies significant technology including sub-systems and sophisticated equipment to the head-up and Typhoon programme helmet-mounted including the Defensive display systems.
Avionics The Avionics business group designs and develops electronic systems for air, naval and land defence platforms.
The businesses within this reporting sector comprise five areas of activity: sensor systems: electronic warfare: inertial systems: avionic systems: and communications.
Avionics : Summary 6 Percentage share of group sales 2004 2003 1 Order book 2.5bn 2.3bn 2 Sales 1.1bn 1.1bn 8% 3 Profit 32m 12m 4 Cash outflow 16 m 28 m 5 Number of employees 8,900 9,400 In 2004, the Avionics business group made The delivery of the 500th infra-red countermeasure The Australian business has continued to drive 3 its strategy to place itself as the Australian an operating profit of 32m 2003 12m system in partnership with Northrop Grumman 2 Defence Forces capability partner in integrated on sales of 1,103m 2003 1,127m.
The in the autumn showed the significant position that 4 military systems and support solutions.
business had an operating cash outflow of the partnership has in this technological area.
Other notable achievements in the electro-optical The completion of the Eurosystems transaction will sector included: the award of the contract for the result in the major part of the Avionics group radar, Avionics group results in 2004 improved surveillance, targeting and weapon system for the electro optics, defensive aids and communications compared with 2003.
Equipment deliveries on Future Combat and Liaison Vehicle: demonstrations coming under Finmeccanica management control Typhoon increased and the business benefited in both the UK and US of laser-based burst with a 25% retained BAE Systems interest.
from completion of the rationalisation illumination technology: and continuing successful BAE Systems retained activities in this sector will programme announced in 2003. development of the laser systems for the JSF be managed through the North America Platform Avionics is a major supplier of systems on electro-optical targeting system.
The North America business the Typhoon programme.
These include two is primarily associated with military aircraft flight The development of a new electronically principal sub-systems, the Captor multi-mode control and navigation systems, and head-up and scanned radar resulted in successful trials radar and the Defensive Aids Sub-System helmet-mounted displays.
The Australian business of the new E7000 radar for helicopters and DASS.
Deliveries of Captor radar systems will also be retained and managed through the border protection.
Battlefield systems activities continued to be in line with the programme, existing CS&S structure.
included international trials of the HALO artillery with the 100th radar system for Typhoon being The Eurosystems transaction will see businesses location system.
A contract to support the delivered in the year.
The build-up of DASS 2 3 that contributed sales of 718m and profit of Northrop Grumman Communications, equipment deliveries, while slower than planned, 33m in 2004 sold to Finmeccanica.
The outlook Navigation and Identification suite for the reached targeted throughput rates by year end.
for the retained business is for a good recovery in F-35 JSF was also received.
2005 as rationalisation activities announced in Investment in the business continued with the 2003 were concluded.
Orders for the electronic warfare suite for the opening of a major new facility for the electronic Boeing Apache helicopter for both Kuwait and warfare business in the UK.
Investment in 1including share of joint ventures order books and before Greece reinforces the groups position as a infrastructure in previous years contributed the elimination of intra-group orders leading electronic warfare export supplier.
to the award of a number of prizes for 2 including share of joint ventures sales These successes emphasise the importance of manufacturing excellence.
Furthermore, the 3 before interest, goodwill amortisation and impairment and helicopter crew self-protection systems and the exceptional items statutory presentation is shown on page 58 benefits of investment in the technology base 4 net cash inflow outflow from operating activities after key role of Avionics in this area.
Also in electronic of the business and its position as a leading capital expenditure net and financial investment and warfare, the full UK acceptance of the Siren offEuropean sensor and integrated system dividends from joint ventures board ship decoy system was achieved and further business were confirmed by a number of 5includes share of joint venture employees deliveries have been made to the UK MoD.
6 before elimination of intra-group sales successes across the technology portfolio.
