14 Operating and financial review: Customer Solutions & Support Al Yamamah Bahrain air training Under the long running Al Yamamah contract, programme BAE Systems is providing a complete defence Integrated solutions package to Saudi Arabia.
BAE Systems plays are key in the a key role in training Saudi nationals to maintain Bahrain air training the equipment supplied under the contract.
Type 22 frigate BAE Systems is prime contractor for reactivation of the frigates for use by the Romanian Navy.
Customer Solutions & Support The Customer Solutions & Support business group provides systems and solutions for current and future military capability.
It addresses the trend within armed forces to work more closely with industry to optimise their military capability in the most cost-effective and efficient manner.
In 2004, the CS&S business group made a BAE Systems has a major presence in the The reactivation and upgrade of two Type 22 3 2 profit of 413m 2003 411m on sales Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, as prime contractor frigates for Romania has progressed well of 2,243m 2003 2,166m.
The business for the UK  defence with the first ship accepted on schedule in 4 generated an operating cash inflow of agreement, Al Yamamah.
The business September and the second ship due to be delivered in the first half of 2005.
employs almost 4,700 people, of whom more Upholder class submarine to be reactivated than half are Saudi nationals, in support of the for the Canadian Navy was handed over in the CS&S continued to perform well and delivered Saudi Royal Air Force and the Royal Saudi Navy.
last quarter of 2004. on all its key targets in 2004.
The benefit to the BAE Systems provides complete support to Al Yamamah programme of the high oil price has the Kingdoms ground defence infrastructure BAE Systems has 50% interests in Fleet flowed through to operating cash flow, reducing and naval minehunters.
Support Limited and Flagship Training Limited.
These support and services joint ventures Performance on the Al Yamamah programme in continue to form an integral part of the CS&S Saudi Arabia was good, with cash flows benefiting In August, the groups offer to acquire Alvis plc strategy and both returned strong results in from the strong oil price throughout 2004. was declared unconditional.
The performance of Flagship Training, RO Defence businesses have been integrated UK support activity is increasing as the which manages the Royal Navy training to create a new Land Systems business.
The partnering relationship with the MoDs Defence establishments and markets their training formation of this business is consistent with Logistics Organisation DLO develops.
courses to overseas customers was particularly the groups land sector strategy.
The results, in Performance in support of key UK in-service air encouraging.
Contracts won this year included 2004, of the RO Defence and Alvis businesses platforms, Tornado, Harrier, Nimrod and VC10 the training of the Romanian frigate crew.
Fleet are reported within HQ and other businesses.
At RAF Wyton the DLO and Support continued to perform well, underpinned From January 2005 the results of these CS&S have set up a joint integrated project team by the partnering agreement at the UKs businesses will be reported within a Customer to address the next phase of partnering on the Portsmouth naval base which was signed Solutions & Support and Land Systems sector.
BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2004 15 15 15 15 VC10 spares inclusive maintenance contract In partnership with the UK MoDs Defence Logistics Organisation, BAE Systems has assumed responsibility for through-life support of the Royal Air Forces VC10 air-to-air refuelling tankers.
In 2004, the Javelin team, comprising MoD and BAE Systems, were winners of the MoD Smart Procurement Award.
Harrier BAE Systems supports key UK in-service air platforms.
Customer Solutions & Support : Summary 6 Percentage share of group sales 2004 2003 1 Order book 2.9bn 2.6bn 2 Sales 2.2bn 2.2bn 16% 3 Profit 413m 411m 4 Cash inflow 1,001m 518m 5 Number of employees 10,700 10,800 bases.
Tornado support will be the major driver programme, including greater in-Kingdom repair CS&S has also made further progress in of activity during 2005 and should also provide and overhaul work, is expected to bring forward developing a coherent information and logistics the blueprint of future support arrangements for that margin reduction with a step down in 2005, infrastructure in support of both in-service and Typhoon and JSF.
resulting in a lower CS&S business group new systems and platforms.
Al Yamamah support margins submitted in December 2004 to the UK MoD In bringing together Alvis and RO Defence to are expected to stabilise from 2005. under the Future Defence Supply Chain initiative form a Land Systems business, the combined for the planning and operation of a fully capabilities are able to provide customers with integrated supply chain network.
efficient solutions and to create opportunities In August 2004, CS&S agreed the purchase for increased systems content.
The business of the remaining 50% interest in AeroSystems will reflect the strong drive towards integrated International AeI not already owned by the through-life support of the large number of group for 15m.
AeI is a leading company in in-service vehicles and platforms within the the analysis, design, development and delivery UK and export markets.
of complex, software intensive systems for the BAE Systems has for some time signalled a aerospace and defence sectors and is part of the 1including share of joint ventures order books and before progressive reduction in margin for CS&S.
This development of the groups air support capability.
the elimination of intra-group orders anticipated margin reduction is a consequence 2including share of joint ventures sales Looking forward, the CS&S business group will of both a larger volume of lower margin UK MoD 3 before interest, goodwill amortisation and impairment and work to sustain a long-term presence in Saudi support activity and a reduction in margin within exceptional items statutory presentation is shown on page 58 4 net cash inflow outflow from operating activities after capital Arabia, deliver to schedule on the current its Al Yamamah support operations in Saudi expenditure net and financial investment and dividends from support contracts, and expand the relationship Arabia as the programme embraces greater joint ventures with the DLO as the group provides more local content in-Kingdom.
The increased pace 5includes share of joint venture employees integrated support programmes on customer of indigenous Saudi content in the Al Yamamah 6 before elimination of intra-group sales
