DIRECTORS REPORT for the year ended 31 December 2004 The Directors present their report and the audited financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2004.
The Chairmans statement should be read in conjunction with this report.
1 PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES The principal activities of the Group during the year were the investment in, development and management of commercial properties.
2 REVIEW OF BUSINESS The consolidated profit and loss account for the year is set out on page 65.
A review of results for the year and prospects for the future are included within the Chairmans Statement, Financial Review and Property Review.
3 DIVIDENDS In lieu of paying an interim cash dividend in 2004 the Company distributed 6,412,286 to shareholders equivalent to 7.5 pence per share by way of tender offer buy-back completed in November 2004 2003: distribution of 5,842,935 or 6.5 pence per share.
The Directors have decided to recommend a further tender offer instead of paying a final cash dividend for 2004.
It is proposed, therefore, that the Company offers to buy 1 in 41 of the shares registered in the name of each eligible shareholder at a price of 485 pence per share.
This compares with a mid-market price of 431.0 pence per share on 31 March 2005 2003: 1 in 36 shares at 380 pence per share.
The resulting distribution to shareholders will be 9,919,196 or 11.8 pence per share, which will be made in May 2005.
When added to the distribution made under the November tender offer, shareholders who take advantage of both tender offers in respect of the financial year 2004 will have received a total return of 19.3 pence per share 2003: 17.1 pence per share.
4 PURCHASE OF THE COMPANYS SHARES During the year the Company has made tender-offer purchases totalling 4,082,066 of its own shares at a cost of 15,676,268, a weighted average of 384 pence per share.
This represents 1,020,516.50 in nominal value, or 4.65 per cent of the brought forward called up share capital.
Shares purchased during the November tender offer have been retained as Treasury shares.
The Directors considered that the purchases were in the best interests of the shareholders given the cash resources of the Company and the significant discount in the market price of the Companys shares to their net asset value.
At the 2004 Annual General Meeting the Company was authorised to make market purchases of up to 8,532,617 ordinary shares.
Since last years Annual General Meeting the Company has not made market purchases of shares and therefore still has authority to purchase 8,532,617.
A resolution will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting to give the Company authority to make market purchases of up to 8,181,780 shares.
5 PROPERTY PORTFOLIO A valuation of all the properties in the Group as at 31 December 2004 was carried out by Allsop & Co for the UK and Sweden, and DTZ Debenham Tie Leung for France, which produced an open market value of 981.6 million 2003: 882.4 million.
On the basis of these valuations net assets per share amounted to 508.5 pence 2003: 439.2 pence.
In view of the policy of re-valuing properties biannually, in the opinion of the Directors there was no significant permanent difference between market and book values of the properties at 31 December 2004.
6 DIRECTORS The current Directors of the Company are shown on page 32.
Anna Seeley resigned from the Board on 23 November, 2004.
A statement of Directors remuneration and their interests in shares and share options of the Company is set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 59 to 63.. 53 DIRECTORS REPORT for the year ended 31 December 2004 6 DIRECTORS continued Biographical details of the Executive and Non-Executive Directors are set out below: Executive Directors: Sten Mortstedt, aged 65, has a consistent track record during a period of over 40 years, of building profitable and sustainable businesses both within the field of property and in a wide variety of other commercial sectors.
He began his career in 1962 with Svenska Handelsbanken in Stockholm and within three years he had formed a property investment partnership.
In 1968 he was appointed Managing Director of the Mortstedt family property company, Citadellet AB, which he successfully floated on the Stock Exchange in Stockholm, in 1981.
Since 1977 he has been involved in establishing and running property interests in the UK, Sweden and France.
He established CLS in 1987 and took the Company to a listing on the main market of the London Stock Exchange in 1994.
Since that time, as Executive Chairman he has been a driving force in this pan-European Group in generating growth in profits and asset values.
In addition to his focus on property, he has been commercially active in a number of investment areas outside the property arena and has seen a number of the companies in which he has invested through to successful stock exchange listings or trade sales.
He runs his global interests from his residence in Switzerland.
Tom Thomson, aged 54, has a BA Hons in law from Kent University and qualified as a solicitor with Reynolds Porter Chamberlain in 1976.
From 1979 to March 1994 he was a partner with Taylor Walton Solicitors.
He was Company Secretary and solicitor to CLS from its inception in 1983 until 2001, initially as a partner in Taylor Walton and since 1994 as General Counsel to the Group.
He became Vice Chairman and Acting Chief Executive on 5 October 2001, and became Chief Executive on 6 February 2004.
Dan Bverstam, aged 49, graduated from Stockholm School of Economics in 1979 and subsequently completed a Business Studies course at CERAM Sophia Antipolis in France.
He began his career with Wermlandsbank and PK Bank in Sweden.
He then became Assistant Treasurer of AB Astra, now Astra Zeneca, responsible for foreign exchange and interest rate management.
In 1987 he moved to the UK and became General Manager of the Treasury Operations of Svenska Finans International, part of the Svenska Handelsbanken.
He joined CLS in October 1991 and is responsible within CLS for corporate financing and treasury operations and for the Groups French property acquisitions.
He became Chief Financial Officer on 5 October 2001.
Steven Board, aged 50, joined the Company in December 1998 and is Chief Operating Officer with overall responsibility for the Groups Europe-wide financial and IT systems, financial reporting and personnel and administration matters.
Prior to joining the Company he worked for St. George Developments, part of the Berkeley Group plc as Finance Director.
He previously held directorships within Alfred McAlpine PLC and senior management positions within British Telecommunications plc.
He qualified as an accountant in 1980.
He joined the Board on 25 February 2003.
Per Sjberg, aged 43, graduated from Stockholm University with a Bachelor degree in Business Administration.
He is also an engineer and has experience of a number of large development projects globally.
Before joining CLS Per worked as an independent consultant, and set up his own consultancy company in 1996.
He has been responsible for property development activities at the Group since 1 November 2001 and was appointed to the main board as Group Development Director on 6 February 2004.
Non-Executive Directors: James Dean, aged 50, has worked for Savills plc since 1973, becoming a partner in 1983, and a director of Savills plc between 1987 and 1999.
He remains a director of Savills Financial Holdings PLC and Savills Commercial and is also a director of Cosalt plc, Daniel Thwaites Plc and a number of private companies.
He joined the Board on 9 April 1999.
Dr Keith Harris, aged 51, obtained his doctorate in 1977 and embarked on a career in investment banking.
Following eight years at Morgan Grenfell in London and New York, where he was President of Morgan Grenfell Inc. he went on to become Managing Director and Head of International Corporate Finance at Drexel Burnham Lambert, CEO of Apax Partners Ltd. and, in 1994, was appointed Chief Executive of HSBC Investment Bank plc.
In 1999, Keith left HSBC to pursue a number of interests as chairman or non-executive director of a range of public and private companies.
These now include his chairmanship of Seymour Pierce Group Plc.
In August 2000 Keith became Chairman of the Football League and in January 2001 joined the Board of Wembley National Stadium Limited.
He resigned his chairmanship of the Football League Ltd in August 2002.
He joined the Board on 28 April 1994.
Thomas Lundqvist, aged 60, joined the Board in November 1990 and had been Finance Director of the Group until retiring from the position and becoming a Non-Executive Director on 1 October 1995.
Prior to joining CLS, Mr Lundqvist worked for the ASEA-Brown Boveri Group ABB and from 1983 for Svenska Finans International, part of Svenska Handelsbanken Group where he was a board member.
Bengt Mortstedt, aged 56, holds a Bachelor of Law degree from Stockholm University.
He began his career as a Junior Judge of the Vxj District Court and in 1974 he joined Citadellet AB, the Mortstedt family property company in Sweden, where he was employed as an analyst.
In 1984, he moved to the UK in order to evaluate the London property market before joining the Group in October 1987, at which time he was appointed to the Board of the Company as an Executive Director.
He became a Non-Executive director in September 1998.
The Board has determined that, apart from Bengt Mortstedt, the Non-Executive Directors are independent in character and judgement and that there are no relationships or circumstances which could materially affect or interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.. 54 DIRECTORS REPORT for the year ended 31 December 2004 6 DIRECTORS continued The Board recognises that Keith Harris and Thomas Lundqvist, having served for more than 9 years as Directors, no longer meet the criteria for independence set out in the Combined Code.
After careful review, it is the opinion of the Board that they remain independent of the management of the Company, having regard to their financial independence and other commercial interests.
It is the Boards view that they add significant value to the operation of the Company through their combined wisdom and varying experience and as such it is currently not appropriate to change a successful team.
However, as recommended under the Combined Code, Keith Harris, Bengt Mortstedt and Thomas Lundqvist will retire annually.
All three Directors will seek re-election to the Board at the Annual General Meeting.
In accordance with the Articles of Association, Tom Thomson and Dan Bverstam will retire at the Annual General Meeting and seek re-election to the Board.
The Board recommends to the shareholders the re-election of the retiring Directors who have all contributed to the continuing financial success of the Company.
7 SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDERS In addition to the interest of the Mortstedt family referred to in note 8 of the Directors Remuneration Report, the Company has been notified of interests which at 31 March 2005 represented 3 per cent or more of the Companys issued share capital.
of shares % Stichting Pensioenfonds ABP 3,057,217 3.65 8 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Chief Operating Officer takes responsibility for the Companys Corporate Governance policy.
Combined Code As reported to shareholders last year, the Company has undertaken a review of its corporate governance arrangements in light of the introduction of revisions to the Combined Code introduced in 2003.
The Board supports the principles of good governance as set out in the Combined Code 2003 and incorporated into the rules of the UK Listing Authority.
Save as identified and explained below, the Board considers that it has complied with all the provisions of the 2003 Code.
The Board The Board currently comprises five Executive Directors, including the Chairman, and four Non-Executive Directors.
One NonExecutive Director left the Board during the year.
The Board notes that the Combined Code guidance recommends that at least half the Board should comprise independent Non-Executive Directors.
Due to the structure of the Company it is considered that it is not appropriate to change the successful Board composition at present.
During the year, the Chairman has conferred with the Non-Executive Directors without the other Executive Directors present.
All Directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first Annual General Meeting after their appointment, and are subject to re-election at least every three years.
Non-Executive Directors are appointed for a specific term of office which provides for their removal in certain circumstances, including under section 303 of the Companies Act.
The Board does not automatically re-nominate Non-Executive Directors for election by shareholders.
The terms of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors can be obtained by request to the Company Secretary.
The Board has appointed Keith Harris to be the Senior Independent Director.
As recommended by the Code, Keith Harris is available to shareholders who cannot appropriately approach either the Chairman or the Chief Executive about a company matter.
As Senior Independent Director, Keith Harris is also involved in succession planning and advises the Chairman as required.
The Boards primary objective is to focus on adding value to the assets of the Group by identifying and assessing business opportunities and ensuring that potential risks are identified, monitored and controlled.
Matters reserved for Board decisions include strategic long-term objectives and capital structure of major transactions.
The implementation of board decisions and day to day operations of the Group are delegated to management.
In making commercial assessments the Directors review detailed plans including financial viability reports that, among other things, detail the impact of proposals in respect of return on capital, return on cash and the likely impact on the profit and loss account, cash flows and gearing.
Strategy is determined after having taken due regard of forecast domestic and international developments.
The views of shareholders are sought in meetings held variously by the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer, and are reported back to the Board.
The Board is also advised of the views of shareholders as received by the Companys brokers.
Group and divisional budgets and quarterly financial forecasts including net assets and cashflow projections are formally reviewed by the Board on a quarterly basis.
In addition the Executive Directors monitor cashflows on a weekly basis.. 55 DIRECTORS REPORT for the year ended 31 December 2004 8 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued The Board met five times during the year and is responsible to the shareholders of the Company for the strategy and future development of the Group and the management of its resources.
The board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved to it for decision, which has been updated during the year: other decisions are dealt with as day-to-day matters by management.
Directors are, where necessary, able to obtain independent professional advice at the Companys expense and have access to the services of the Company Secretary.
They are given appropriate training and assistance on appointment to the Board and later, if and when required.
Although no specific formal meeting of the Non-Executive Directors without the Chairman and Executive Directors took place, informal discussions between Non-Executive Directors were held throughout the year.
During the year, the Chairman has undertaken a process of review of the Board, its Committees and Directors as recommended by the Combined Code.
This process inculded assessing the contribution to the Group of each individual Board member.
The results of this review have been discussed with the Chairman of the Audit Committee and reported to the Board.
The performance of the Chairman was reviewed by the Non-Executive Directors.
The attendance of Directors at meetings during the year is set out below: Audit Remuneration Board Committee Committee Number of meetings held 5 2 1 Mr S Mortstedt 5 Mr T Thomson 5 Mr D Bverstam 5 Mr S Board 5 Mr P Sjberg appointed February 2004 5 Dr K Harris 521 Mr J Dean 521 Mr T Lundqvist 52 Mr B Mortstedt 5 Mrs A Seeley resigned November 2004 2 The NonExecutive Directors fulfil a key role in corporate accountability.
The remits and membership of the Audit and Remuneration Committees of the board are set out below.
The terms of reference of the Committees can be obtained by contacting the Company Secretary at the Registered Office.
The Board is assisted by the following committees: The Audit Committee comprises three Non-Executive Directors Keith Harris Chairman, James Dean and Thomas Lundqvist and has met twice during the year.
The principal duties of the committee are to review the half-yearly and annual financial statements before their submission to the Board and to consider any matters raised by the auditors.
The Committee also reviews the independence and objectivity of the auditors.
During the year, the terms of reference of the Committee have been updated to reflect current best practice, including authority to: Recommend the appointment, re-appointment and removal of the external auditor Ensure the objectivity and independence of the auditors including occasions when non-audit services are provided Ensure appropriate whistle-blowing arrangements are in place The Non-Executive directors may seek information from any employee of the Group and obtain external professional advice at the expense of the Company if considered necessary.
Due to the relatively low number of personnel employed within the Group, the nature of the business and the current control and review systems in place, the Board has decided not to establish a separate internal audit department.
The Remuneration Committee comprises two Non-Executive Directors, James Dean and Keith Harris, and has met once during the year.
The committee considers the employment and performance of individual Executive Directors and determines their terms of service and remuneration.
It also has authority to grant options under the Companys Executive Share Option Scheme.
The Committee meets at least once a year.
Full details of the Committees work are given in the Remuneration Report on pages 59 to 63.
The Board of Directors has considered the appointment of a separate Nomination Committee, as recommended by the 2003 Code, however due to the size and nature of the Company, this function is carried out by the members of the Remuneration Committee with the Executive Chairman.
In addition to Board meetings, an executive committee comprising senior management meets weekly to discuss management issues relating to the Group.
There is a division of responsibilities between the Executive Chairman, who is responsible for the overall strategy of the Group and the Vice Chairman and Chief Executive, who is responsible for implementing the strategy and day to day running of the Group.
He is assisted by the Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer.
The Board has approved a written statement of the division of responsibilities between the Executive Chairman and the Chief Executive.. 56 DIRECTORS REPORT for the year ended 31 December 2004 8 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued Internal Control The Board acknowledges that the Directors are responsible for the Groups system of internal control and have established procedures which are designed to provide reasonable assurance against material misstatement or loss.
These procedures have operated for the entire financial year and up to the date of approval of the annual Report and Accounts.
The Directors have reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control for the period.
The Directors have recognised that such a system can only provide a reasonable and not absolute assurance that there has been no material misstatement or loss.
The key elements of the process by which the system of internal control is monitored are as follows: The risks which the Group faces or is likely to face are reviewed on an ongoing basis in Board and executive meetings.
The control mechanisms for each identified risk are reviewed regularly.
Problems which arise are reviewed to determine whether they could have been avoided or their effect mitigated through improved control procedures.
The risk and control features of new projects are assessed as they arise.
The Audit Committee considers any internal control issues raised by the external auditors or management.
Set out on pages 4 to 31 is the description of the Groups operations and the strategy which it employs to maximise returns and minimise risks.
Quarterly and annual budgets are prepared for each area and monitored.
Parameters have been established for investment decisions to be referred to the Board for approval.
Three-yearly rolling cash flows are updated and distributed weekly and appropriate expenditure authorisation procedures have been adopted.
Directors responsibilities Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of the affairs of the Company and of the Group at the end of the year and of the profit or loss for the year.
In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to: Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent State whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company and the Group will continue in business.
The Directors confirm that the financial statements comply with the above requirements.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
The Directors also have a general responsibility for taking reasonable steps to safeguard the assets of the Company and the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are also responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the CLS Holdings PLC website.
Uncertainty regarding legal requirements is compounded as information published on the internet is accessible in many countries with different legal requirements relating to the preparation and dissemination of financial statements.
Shareholder Relations The Group issues full annual accounts to each of its shareholders and at the half-year an Interim Report is sent to all shareholders.
In addition, all press releases are copied to each shareholder and included on the Companys website.
The Chairman, the Vice Chairman and Chief Executive and other senior management have regular meetings with institutional shareholders, all shareholders are welcome to attend the Companys Annual General Meeting and to arrange individual meetings by appointment.
The views received at such meetings are fed back to the Board.
Business Ethics The Board recognises the importance of the Companys responsibilities as an ethical employer and views matters in which the Company interacts with the community both socially and economically as the responsibility of the whole board.
Health & Safety It is a primary concern of the Board that the Company manages its activities in such a manner as to ensure that the health and safety of its employees, tenants, advisors, contractors and the general public is not compromised.. 57 DIRECTORS REPORT for the year ended 31 December 2004 8 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued Environmental Issues The Board is aware of the Companys environmental impact and therefore seeks to both minimise adverse effects and enhance positive effects.
The Company encourages recycling and energy conservation.
Our major refurbishment project in Sweden received a P mark award thereby ensuring our tenants receive a quality system for air, temperature, light, damp, noise, emissions from materials, static electricity and magnetic fields.
Compliance with the Combined Code With the exception of the absence of a Nominations Committee the Company has complied throughout the financial year with the provisions of the Combined Code 9 EMPLOYEES The Directors believe that the Groups employees are a source of competitive advantage.
The Directors recognise that continued and sustained improvement in the performance of the Group depends on its ability to attract, motivate and retain employees of the highest calibre.
The Group is committed to the principle of equal opportunity in employment.
It seeks to ensure that no employee or applicant is treated less favourably on the grounds of gender, marital status, race, colour, nationality, ethnic or national origin, religion, disability or sexual orientation or is disadvantaged by conditions or requirements, including age limits, which cannot be objectively justified.
Entry into and progression within the Group are solely determined by the application of job criteria, personal aptitude and competence.
It is the Groups policy to apply best practice in the employment of disabled people.
Full and fair consideration is given to every application for employment from disabled persons whose aptitude and skills can be utilised in the business and to their training and career development.
This includes, wherever possible, the retraining and retention of staff who become disabled during their employment.
All staff are informed of matters concerning their interest as employees and the financial and economic factors affecting the business.
Established management communication channels have been supplemented by direct presentations to staff by Directors to explain developments of particular significance.
10 SHARE CAPITAL Changes in share capital are shown in note 21.
At 31 December 2004 there were share options for 585,000 shares outstanding 2003: 879,000.
Details of the Directors share options are shown in the Directors Remuneration Report.
11 CHARITABLE CONTRIBUTIONS The contributions made by the Group during the year for charitable purposes were 5,058 2003: 42,150.
12 INSURANCE OF DIRECTORS The Group maintains insurance for the Companys Directors in respect of their duties as Directors.
13 SUPPLIER PAYMENT POLICY The Group agrees payment terms with its suppliers when it enters into binding purchase contracts.
The Group seeks to abide by the payment terms agreed with suppliers whenever it is satisfied that the supplier has provided the goods or services in accordance with the agreed terms and conditions.
At the year end Group trade creditors were owed the equivalent of 49 days total invoices received for the year as a whole 2003: 31 days.
The Company has no trade creditors 2003: nil.
14 AUDITORS A resolution to re-appoint  LLP as auditors to the Company will be proposed at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
By order of the Board S F Board Company Secretary 31 March 2005.
