Directors Report The directors submit their report and the accounts for the year ended 30th June 2004.
ACTIVITIES OF THE GROUP The Group's principal activity continues to be housebuilding and development.
A full review of the Group's performance and prospects can be found in the Chairman's Statement on pages 2 and 3, and in the Chief Executives Review on pages 4 to 18.
RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS The profit on ordinary activities after taxation for the year ended 30th June 2004 was 260.5m 2003 206.4m.
An interim dividend of 6.90p per share 2003 4.94p was paid on 21st May 2004 and it is proposed to pay a final dividend of 14.68p per share 2003 12.32p on 19th November 2004 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 22nd October 2004.
The dividends paid and proposed to be paid amount to 51.4m 2003 40.2m.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The notice of the annual general meeting on page 23 contains three resolutions relating to the Companys share capital.
Resolution number 9 requests shareholder approval to renew for one year the directors' authority to allot unissued shares in the capital of the Company and Resolution number 10 requests shareholders to authorise the directors to allot shares for cash in the context of a rights issue and otherwise up to a limit equal to 5% of the issued share capital without initially offering such shares to existing shareholders.
The directors consider that the Company should maintain an adequate margin of unissued shares for use, for example, in connection with a future acquisition although they have no present intention of issuing any shares except to satisfy options under the Companys share option schemes.
Under Resolution number 11, the company is seeking renewal for a further year of its authority to make purchases in the market of its own ordinary shares subject to specified limits.
Purchases under this authority will only be made on the London Stock Exchange and will be funded from distributable profits.
Following implementation of new treasury shares legislation, any ordinary shares so purchased may either be cancelled or held by the company in treasury.
The company would consider whether to hold any ordinary shares that it purchases in treasury at the time of purchase.
Any ordinary shares held in treasury would be available for reissue including pursuant to the authority conferred by Resolution number 10.
In seeking this authority, the Board is not indicating any commitment to buy back ordinary shares.
The Board will only exercise the authority if it considers that the purchases of ordinary shares can be expected to result in an increase in earnings per share and would be in the best interests of shareholders generally.
The total number of options to subscribe for equity shares outstanding as at 22nd September 2004 was 11,257,452 being 4.7% of the issued share capital at that date and representing 5.9% of the share capital which would be in issue if both the existing authority to purchase shares granted at the 2003 AGM and the authority being sought were fully utilised.
DIRECTORS AND THEIR SHAREHOLDINGS The current directors of the company are listed on page 22.
Mr C Fenton was appointed a director on 1st July 2003 and Mr R J Davies was appointed a director on 5th May 2004.
All other directors listed on page 22 held office throughout the financial year.
The beneficial interests of the directors and their families in the ordinary share capital of the company during the relevant year are shown below: Ordinary shares of 10p each 30th June 2004 1st July 2003 or later appointment Fully Executive share Fully Executive share paid options paid options C G Toner 8,000 5,000 D A Pretty 91,235 620,000 82,145 580,000 H Walker 273,877 634,679 273,877 520,000 P H Ashworth 5,700 5,700 S J Boyes 45,238 370,917 15,226 350,000 R J Davies C A Dearlove 54,646 834,275 54,646 775,000 C Fenton 9,973 112,275 62,000 P R Gieron 86,999 629,633 86,999 520,000 G K Hester 56,264 349,633 31,664 410,000 A E Kilburn 4,000 4,000 M Pescod 10,000 10,000 24 Directors Report At 30th June 2004 the executive directors had a potential future interest in 5,372,140 ordinary shares which are held by the Barratt Developments PLC Employee Benefit Trust.
Details of movements in the directors interests in executive share options are shown in the Remuneration Report on page 37.
No notification had been received of any change in the above interests during the period 30th June 2004 to 22nd September 2004.
Under the provisions of Article 87 of the companys memorandum and articles of association, Mr C A Dearlove, Mr A E Kilburn and Mr M Pescod offer themselves for re-election.
Mr R J Davies retires in accordance with the provisions of Article 86 and offers himself for re-election.
At no time during or at the end of the year did any director have a material interest in a contract of significance in relation to the business of the Group, other than the transactions detailed in note 25 to the accounts.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Introduction The Board is committed to achieving and maintaining the highest standards of corporate governance in accordance with the principles of the Combined Code as appended to the UK Listing Rules, administered by the Financial Services Authority.
"The Board has fully reviewed the recommendations of the Higgs Review: ""The role and effectiveness of non-executive directors"", the Smith Report on Audit Committees and the revised Combined Code on Corporate Governance published in July 2003 which took effect for accounting periods commencing on or after 1st November 2003."
Although the Revised Code does not apply to the period under review, the Board believes that the Group is already compliant with most of its recommendations other than the proposal that 50% of Board Members, excluding the Chairman, should be independent non-executive directors.
During the year an additional non-executive director was recruited, Mr R J Davies, Chief Executive of Arriva plc, increasing the number of nonexecutive directors from four to five.
The Board proposes to recruit another non-executive director during the current financial year.
The Board considers that balanced Board membership in line with the recommendations of the revised Combined Code should be achievable by 2006 07.
As part of the ongoing internal review of the Groups governance and accountability systems the following measures have been implemented during the year: Mr A E Kilburn was appointed senior independent non-executive director: A structured system of performance evaluation has been developed for the Board, its Committees and for individual directors.
The system has been operated on a trial basis this year and next years report will explain how the process of evaluation has been undertaken.
The main aims of the process are to: i Improve openness, communication and motivation.
ii Identify gaps or problem areas in terms of knowledge and skills.
iii Generate new ideas and a culture of continuous improvement.
iv Promote individual learning and development.
The Board has undertaken a full review of the Groups Three Year Strategic Plan and Board Objectives have been redefined in line with the plan: Committee membership has been reviewed to ensure full compliance with the revised Combined Code and the Remuneration and Audit Committees now comprise wholly independent non-executive directors and the Group Chairman is no longer a member of the Audit Committee.
Compliance Statement The Board has considered the Companys application and compliance with the Combined Code issued in June 1998 and believes that the Company complied with all of the provisions of Section 1 of the Code throughout the period under review.
25 Directors Report The Board The Board currently comprises seven executive and five non-executive directors, one third of whom retire by rotation each year.
The Board has a specific schedule of matters reserved for its decision which was reviewed and updated during the year.
The Board believes that all non-executive directors, with the exception of Mr P H Ashworth, are wholly independent in that they have no business or other relationship with the Group that might influence their independence of judgement.
Mr Ashworth has an ongoing business relationship with the company, details of which are disclosed on page 49.
Mr Ashworth is not a member of the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
The non-executive directors do not participate in the companys performance related pay, pension or share option schemes.
The Board attaches particular importance to the independence of the non-executive directors, their breadth of experience outside of the housebuilding sector and their lead role in assisting and challenging the executive in the strategic direction of the business.
The roles of the Group Chairman and Chief Executive are separate and are clearly defined in the Groups Corporate Governance Manual.
The Chairman is responsible for the smooth and effective running of the Board and he also leads the process of performance evaluation of the Board, its Committees and Directors.
The Chief Executive is responsible for the running of the business, for the formulation of strategy and for the implementation of Board decisions.
The Chief Executive is also responsible for ensuring the business is properly resourced, and for the effective promotion of the business to investors and shareholders.
On 17th June 2004 Mr A E Kilburn was appointed Senior Independent Non-Executive Director with specific responsibility for coordinating the evaluation by the Nominations Committee of the Chairmans effectiveness as well as being a point of contact for shareholders in the event of there being any material issues or concerns which the Chairman and or Chief Executive have failed adequately to address.
The Board currently meets eleven times each year, although in the financial year commencing 1st July 2004 the number of meetings will reduce to seven, with one specifically dedicated to the review of corporate strategy.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, a practising solicitor, and, if necessary, to independent professional advisors at the companys expense.
Training is available for both new and existing directors as, and when, required.
"A ""whistle blowing"" policy and procedure has been established during the year under which employees can report in confidence any concerns they might have of malpractice, financial irregularities, breaches of health and safety, environmental and other Group procedures, discrimination, harassment or any other unethical behaviour."
Board Committees The Board has established three standing committees, the Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the Nominations Committee, the functions of which are clearly specified within defined terms of reference.
The terms of reference were last reviewed in 2003 and will be further updated in the current year to reflect the requirements of the revised Combined Code.
The Audit Committee is made up of three wholly independent non-executive directors and is chaired by Mr M Pescod.
The committee is responsible to the Board for the appraisal of the Groups financial management and reporting systems and for assessing the integrity and effectiveness of its accounting procedures and internal controls.
All material issues arising from the internal audit programme are reported to the Board on a monthly basis, including a forward action plan, progress against which is monitored by the Audit Committee and the Board in one and three monthly follow-up reports.
The Audit Committee is responsible for determining the audit fee and for keeping under review the scope and results of the external audit, its cost effectiveness and the independence and objectivity of the external auditors.
The Audit Committee is also responsible for establishing the parameters of the Group risk management system, the internal audit programme and for reviewing progress in terms of the management of risk and internal controls.
On his appointment as independent director on 5th May 2004 Mr R J Davies was appointed to the Audit Committee and in line with best practice Mr C G Toner and Mr P H Ashworth stood down from membership of the Committee.
The Board considers that both Mr M Pescod and Mr R J Davies have appropriate current financial knowledge and experience to effectively discharge their responsibilities as Audit Committee members.
In the year under review the Committee met on four occasions.
The Remuneration Committee is made up of four wholly independent non-executive directors and is chaired by Mr A E Kilburn.
The Committee meets at least once a year and its primary role is to determine the terms of employment and remuneration of the executive directors.
Further details of the work of the Committee are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report.
The Nominations Committee, chaired by Mr C G Toner, comprises all five non-executive directors and Mr D A Pretty.
The primary functions of the Committee are to review the structure, size and operation of the Board and to make recommendations to the Board with regard to all new appointments to the Board.
In discharging this function the Committee aims to ensure that all directors possess a balanced range of skills, experience and expertise in order to discharge their responsibilities effectively.
The appointment of Mr R J Davies was made following an external recruitment exercise undertaken by recruitment consultants Spencer Stuart.
The Committee oversees the Groups succession plan process and led by the Chairman is 26 responsible for the Board, Committee and Directors evaluation procedure.
Directors Report Group Organisational and Management Structure As Group parent, Barratt Developments PLC, through its Board of directors, retains overall responsibility for the control and strategic direction of the business and for the allocation of funding and resources.
Housebuilding and development operations are delivered through a decentralised regional and divisionalised structure.
The managing director of each operating division and the local management team make up the divisional board, each of which is chaired by a Regional Chairman.
Each divisional board meets monthly to oversee local housebuilding operations and performance.
Although each division is run and monitored as a freestanding business, they operate within clearly defined central parameters in relation to overall strategic direction and financial control.
This tried and tested structure enables the divisions to be responsive to local demand and market conditions, whilst at the same time benefiting from the disciplines, financial strength and economies of scale of a large national Group.
There are currently four operating regions within Barratt Homes Limited, Northern, Central, West and Southern covering England, Scotland and Wales.
KingsOak Homes Limited, which has its own corporate identity and product branding, now has two operating regions, KingsOak Southern and KingsOak Central.
Each operating region including the two KingsOak regions are headed up by a Regional Chairman who is either an executive director or is a member of the executive management team.
On 1st July 2004 Mr R Handford was appointed Regional Chairman of Barratt Central taking over responsibility for the Region from Mr H Walker to enable Mr Walker to focus on his main duties as Group Deputy Chief Executive.
Mr A W Wilson was appointed Regional Chairman of KingsOak Southern reflecting the strong organic growth delivered over the last three years by KingsOak which is now a major housebuild operation in its own right with eight divisions producing over 2,300 units in the year under review.
Under this new KingsOak management structure, Mr Wilson assumes executive responsibility for the four Southern KingsOak divisions, with Mr P R Gieron heading up the four Central divisions as well as continuing in his role as an executive director of Barratt Developments PLC.
The appointment of two additional Regional Chairmen to the executive team represents a shift from the Groups previous management structure under which all Regional Chairmen were appointed executive directors serving on the Group Board.
The new structure ensures that the Group now has an appropriate level of senior executive management resource for the effective control of its expanding Regional and Divisional infrastructure.
At the same time the new structure recognises that having regard to the revised Combined Code, the balance of membership of the Group Board will change over the next few years through natural turnover.
Linked to the strengthening of the operational management structure, as part of its three year strategic plan, the Board also intends to ensure that the Groups infrastructure and operational support systems are of the quality and standards necessary to maintain the Groups position at the forefront of the housebuilding sector at a time when the expectations of our shareholders for outstanding performance in all facets of our business have never been greater.
As Group Deputy Chief Executive, Mr H Walker, as well as assuming executive responsibility for the development of the Groups off-site manufacturing capability through Advance Housing Limited, is also responsible for the review and improvement of key operational support systems including, national supply arrangements, housetype designs and product specification.
The Group Company Secretary, Mr L Dent, who has strategic and corporate management expertise outside of the housebuilding sector was appointed Corporate Director and a member of the Executive Board with effect from 1st July 2004.
In his extended role Mr Dent will assume executive responsibility for Group Corporate Social Responsibility performance, including health and safety and environmental management systems and for information technology, human resource management and internal audit.
Directors Remuneration The policy for and details of directors remuneration are contained in the Remuneration Report on pages 31 to 37.
Accountability and Audit The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and of the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are required by UK company law to prepare financial statements for each financial year that give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
The directors confirm that suitable accounting policies have been used and applied consistently and reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates have been made in the preparation of the financial statements for the year ended 30th June 2004.
The directors also confirm that applicable accounting standards have been followed and that the financial statements have been prepared on the going concern basis.
The Board of directors is required to consider whether the company and the Group is a going concern.
Accordingly the Board has made appropriate enquiries and is satisfied that the company and Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
They therefore continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The Annual Report and Accounts will be published on the Groups Investor Relations website which was established during the year.
The maintenance and integrity of the Groups websites is the responsibility of the Directors.
The work carried out by the auditors does not include consideration of these matters.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
27 Directors Report Internal Control System The directors are responsible for the Groups system of internal control which is designed to provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against mis-statement or loss.
The key elements of the Groups established control framework are: A clear organisational structure with defined levels of authority and responsibility for all senior management.
A comprehensive strategic planning, budgeting and forecasting system with monthly reporting to the Group and the Executive Divisional Boards of the results and forecasts of all Group operating units against budget.
Operational procedures, control parameters and accounting policies are embodied in the Group Policy and Accounting Manuals which are issued to all divisions and are regularly reviewed and updated.
All major land acquisitions and capital projects are subject to rigorous financial and environmental appraisal within established parameters and also to formal authorisation procedures by main Board directors, divisional Boards or senior management within authorities approved and reviewed by the Board.
The internal control and risk management systems are overseen by the Audit Committee.
Key risk areas, including finance, land buying, sales, production planning, quality and customer service standards, the market and environmental and health and safety performance are an integral part of our management reporting systems and are reviewed and monitored by the Group Executive and Divisional Boards each month.
The risk management system, the Combined Code and internal control exception reports are reviewed by the Board on a quarterly basis.
The internal control systems are supported by the Group Internal Audit Team which is responsible for advising Senior Management, the Board and the Audit Committee on the operation and effectiveness of the internal control system.
The Internal Audit Team conducts a scheduled programme of audit appraisals across the Group operations, the results of which and follow up action plans are reported to the Board at each meeting.
The directors have reviewed the operation and effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control for the year ended 30th June 2004.
The review covered all controls including financial, operational, compliance controls and risk management.
"CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY During the year the Group has clearly defined its policy in relation to Corporate Social Responsibility as follows: ""We are committed to legal compliance in all our activities and strive for continuous improvement in all areas of our business."
We have adopted appropriate measures to help us to monitor and improve that performance, as demonstrated in our annual Corporate Social Responsibility CSR report.
At every stage of development, from feasibility assessment, to the design, construction and occupation of the homes we build, the Group considers the economic, environmental and social issues relevant to the project.
In the creation of sustainable development we work to promote best practice in the acquisition of materials, in design standards, in the construction process and in the service provided to our customers as they take up occupation of the houses we build.
Regeneration of land used for other purposes is the cornerstone of our development activity.
Fundamental to our operation is profitability, which is linked to the potential impact of our development on the local economy and in the creation of attractive and healthy living environments.
Our responsibilities extend from the encouragement of social inclusion in local communities, to the development of the skills of our employees, provision for staff advancement, as well as the protection of the occupational health and safety of the public and of our employees and contractors.
"We are actively seeking to engage our customers and other stakeholders, especially our staff, contractors and National Supply Partners, who are central to the success of our CSR activity. """
In implementing our Corporate Social Responsibility Policy we have taken the opportunity to develop our governance and management systems and the Corporate Director, a member of our Executive Team, supported by a team of senior personnel from across the business will be responsible to the Board for taking the initiative forward and for performance monitoring and reporting.
The Groups first Corporate Social Responsibility Report has now been produced and has been the subject of an external assurance process.
A verification statement is included in the report from our verifiers SEQM Limited.
The report covers all aspects of our social and environmental performance, the management of occupational health and safety, our investment in training and development and our engagement with customers, shareholders, suppliers, contractors and other stakeholders in the delivery of our Corporate Social Responsibility objectives.
ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE AND SUSTAINABILITY Through its environmental policy the Group seeks to restore and enhance the natural environments in which its developments are set to improve the environmental performance of its products and to minimise the potential adverse impacts of our business operations.
For almost 30 years Barratt has been at the forefront of urban regeneration in the UK and over 80% of our developments utilise brownfield land: in the South East the figure rises to 95%.
In the period under review the Group has recycled over 700 acres of brownfield land throughout Britain.
28 Directors Report All of our land reclamation projects, often involving difficult sites in urban locations, are subject to rigorous feasibility assessments, including environmental and risk surveys undertaken by specialist external advisors, identifying both potential adverse impacts and opportunities to preserve and enhance existing environmental features.
Site preparation and construction operations are monitored in close conjunction with the NHBC, local authorities and the environmental agencies.
We also work closely with our construction teams and contractors to address issues arising from on-site activities, minimising any disruption to local communities and to encourage efficiency.
Since 2001 we have comprehensively improved waste management performance across all of our site operations and the standards now achieved are at the forefront of the industry.
Working in conjunction with Wastefile UK, our waste management facilitator, waste tonnage data is collected and monitored from all operational sites.
All waste is segregated, recovered and wherever practicable allocated for recycling or reuse.
All operational sites have a controlled auditable waste transfer system, tracing waste from creation to storage and segregation, collection and disposal or recycling and reuse.
The development of our first CSR report has led to an ongoing review of our environmental impacts and work is proceeding on the implementation of the ISO 14001 environmental management system across our business which will further improve the effectiveness of our environmental performance and our ability to monitor the progress made against our longer term objectives.
Further details of our environmental performance and our targets for the year ahead can be found in our separate CSR report.
HEALTH AND SAFETY The Board is committed to the continuous improvement of health and safety performance and during the year work has continued on the further development of our Group Occupational Health and Safety Management System OHSMS introduced three years ago.
The OHSMS is designed for ease of use to ensure that all staff understand their responsibilities for the management of health and safety at every stage of the development process from scheme viability, site purchase, tender and construction through to individual purchaser sales and after sales service.
The OHSMS incorporates as a technical reference the CITBs GE 700 Site Safety Notes, which are regularly updated to reflect all statutory regulations, approved codes of practice, Health and Safety Executive guidance and British and European Standards and directives.
GE 700 is also the standard reference for site management health and safety training throughout the industry.
The investment made in the development of our occupational health and safety management systems has led to a sustained and measurable improvement in the safety standards achieved on our sites.
For the second year running the average safety standard ratings achieved by Barratt as measured by an independent site safety inspection service undertaken by the NHBC have been ahead of the average ratings of all other national housebuilders using the service.
The incident rate on our sites, including both notifiable and reportable incidents, has improved in the year to 928, per 100,000 employees including subcontractors and we have an ongoing objective to improve on this performance in the year ahead.
EMPLOYMENT POLICY The Board recognises that employees need to understand and contribute to the broad objectives of the business and seeks to develop good relations with employees through regular communication and consultation.
Selection for employment and promotion is based on the objective assessment of ability and experience and the Group is committed to ensuring that its workplaces are free from unlawful discrimination of any sort.
The Group strives to ensure that its policies and practices provide equal opportunities for all irrespective of gender, race, ethnic origin, colour, religion, physical disability, mental health, marital status, sexual orientation or age.
Applications for employment by disabled persons are considered on their merits with due regard to the individual skills and abilities of the applicant.
Where disability arises in the course of an individuals employment the company will seek to enable the person to continue working by making appropriate adjustments to the working environment and by offering appropriate support and training.
The Group is committed to employee training and development at all levels of the organisation and endeavours to contribute to the industrys future skills base by an extensive recruitment and training programme for apprentices and graduate trainees.
The Group currently employs over 530 apprentices and 55 graduate trainees recruited from communities close to its areas of operation and its policy is to ensure that the majority of divisions and housebuilding sites employ both graduates and apprentices.
"To stimulate further graduate recruitment the Group subscribes to ""Graduate Prospects"", a national publication used by most universities and colleges of further education, and has recently established a recruitment and employment opportunities website."
The Group works closely with the Construction Industry Training Board CITB and the National House Building Council NHBC in training provision and a training plan is prepared annually linked to identified business priorities and objectives.
Having regard to the nature of our business, particular focus is given in the training programme to construction management, trade skills, health and safety and customer care.
As a business our commitment to quality and continuous improvement is absolute.
"Our National Employee Award scheme forms an important part of our ""Forward Through Quality"" initiative which seeks to raise quality and performance standards through a process of internal monitoring and appraisal."
The Board recognises that the strength and quality of its leadership resource is crucial to the continued prosperity and commercial success of the business.
The Board is therefore undertaking a review of the Groups succession planning arrangements and a management development and support programme linked to our targeted operational growth areas is being developed.
29 Directors Report During 2003 04 a review of employment procedures and processes has been undertaken and a new Employee Handbook has been introduced covering all of our workforce.
An Employment Procedures Guide for Managers is being developed and will be introduced this year.
SHAREHOLDER RELATIONS The Board believes that the effective management of investor relations is critical to its relationship with its shareholders and to the market in which the Companys shares are held, analysed and traded.
The Groups corporate governance framework sets the context for its continuing investor relations programme particularly in respect of key areas such as Board membership, remuneration and public accountability statements.
During the year a structured investor communications programme has been developed in conjunction with Weber Shandwick Square Mile our financial PR advisors.
"Also in the year an ""investor relations"" website has been established www."
co. uk which includes a full Company profile, regular corporate news updates and access to Company share price and regulatory announcements.
In the years ahead we are looking to develop the website in conjunction with our Registrars to provide a shareholding service and a shareholder portal to enable shareholders to view the details and history of their holding.
Our annual and interim reports will continue to be the primary means by which information about the Group, its Board and its business is communicated to institutional and private shareholders, investors and analysts.
In addition, other major company publications are also circulated to shareholders, which this year includes the Groups first separate Corporate Social Responsibility report.
The Annual General Meeting is used to enable private shareholders to discuss the Groups operations and progress directly with the Board.
Information of a price sensitive nature is communicated as required by the Company Secretary to the Company Announcements Office of the Stock Exchange and the Group strives to ensure that all key information is effectively and clearly communicated.
In addition to the above formal communications, the Company meets regularly with institutional investors and analysts in order to convey an understanding of the Companys operations, the market and its management objectives.
The aim is to meet with major institutional shareholders at least once a year.
Press releases on the Companys activities are made to journalists and the media through the Group Press Office and its external financial public relations consultancy service, Weber Shandwick Square Mile.
The Group broker, Cazenove & Co. also works actively on its behalf in an effort to ensure that investors and potential investors in the business are given reliable information on the Groups operations, its values and ethos in order to make informed investment decisions.
STATUTORY INFORMATION At 22nd September 2004 notification had been received of the following interests which exceed a 3% interest in the issued share capital of the company.
Date of Ordinary shares % of issued notification of 10p each share capital FMR Corp 17.06.04 33,192,600 13.84% Barclays PLC 17.08.04 22,825,283 9.52% Legal & General Investment Management Ltd 14.01.03 7,233,924 3.04% During the year the Group made charitable donations of 4,000 2003 6,000.
No political contributions were made during the year.
INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS The Group will be required to adopt International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS for the year ending 30th June 2005 which will include comparative information for 2004.
Our core policies for turnover and profit recognition and the value of land and work in progress should be unaffected.
A small team has been established to assess the full impact on the Group of IFRS, which are currently undergoing a period of further change.
CREDITOR PAYMENTS Each Group company is responsible for agreeing the detail of terms and conditions relating to transactions with its suppliers.
It is Group policy to abide by the agreed terms of payment with suppliers where the goods and services have been supplied in accordance with the relevant terms and conditions of contract.
Implementation of this policy resulted in a supplier payment period for the company of 36 days 2003 41 days for its trade creditors at 30th June 2004.
AUDITORS A resolution to reappoint  LLP as auditors to the company will be proposed at the annual general meeting.
On behalf of the Board L Dent Secretary Newcastle upon Tyne 7th October 2004 30
