A joint venture development with Taylor Woodrow.
Adjacent to the Thames Barrier, this development won an award for the quality of its construction.
19 Winner Best Large Housebuilder In the annual What House?
Awards In the Greenleaf housing awards, A commitment to we were voted Britains Best Large presented for the quality of the innovation and continuous Housebuilder and won the Gold living environment created around Award for the Best Brownfield new housing projects, we won 17 product development, Development in Britain for the awards.
These included the special second year running, whilst in the Wildfowl and Wetlands Trust Award coupled with the highest Your New Home awards our for our Park Farm development in standards of design, contemporary development at Pebble Frampton Cotterell, near Bristol, and Beach, Barry, in South Wales, was also the Southern regional award.
construction quality and judged Best Exterior Design.
Customer service is at the heart of customer service, has During the year our Site Managers our operations and this year we won earned Barratt every major won a record total of 52 awards for 3 top awards for the service we quality workmanship in the NHBC provide to our homebuyers in the industry honour in recent Pride in the Job campaign and five Daily Express British Housebuilder went on to win top Regional awards.
This 2 Geoff Hester, Chairman of Barratt West, 5 Our site managers won 5 top Regional brownfield development on former railway standing, fourth from left with awardAwards in the NHBC Pride In The Job land opposite Regents Park won a winning site managers in the annual Pride campaign, more than any other prestigious Greenleaf Award.
In The Job campaign for quality housebuilder.
From left to right: John workmanship.
The Group won a record 52 Fitzhenry, Neil Stubbs, Bob Burgess, Tim awards in total.
This development of 6 Coleridge Park, Hertford.
This innovative 24 townhouses has transformed a former regeneration of a redundant factory site garage site and won an award for the quality provided high-quality, value-for-money new of its construction.
homes and was judged Best Brownfield Development in Britain.
4 Archie Wilson, Chairman of KingsOak Southern, left presents Forward Through 7 Pebble Beach, Barry.
This contemporary Quality awards for outstanding performance scheme of 20 luxury apartments won Best to left to right Andre McHugh, Christine Exterior Design in the Your New Home Rogerson and Lloyd Lewin.
Record 6 3 Customer Service Record Award 4 Times 20 Awards Awards Winner National Winner Award Winners 3 4 5 6 7 21
