23 The continued weakness of the US dollar against sterling has Funding and liquidity: The Groups operations are had a significant impact on the translated value of our dollar financed by a combination of retained profits, equity and debt which accounts for 35 million of the overall exchange borrowings.
Borrowings are generally raised at Group level movement of 36 million shown above.
A significant proportion from banks and then lent on to operating subsidiaries on of our debt is held in US dollars as a hedge against our US commercial terms.
The Group maintains sufficient available dollar assets.
A profile by currency is shown in the table below.
committed borrowing facilities to meet any forecasted funding requirements.
At the end of 2004 the Group had DEBT CASH PROFILE BY CURRENCY 2004 2003 committed bank facilities of 985 million of which 350 Sterling 314 417 million was undrawn.
In addition, the Group maintains US Dollars 586 684 uncommitted facilities for daily working capital fluctuation Euros 204 158 purposes.
At the end of 2004 the undrawn amount of these Others 36 35 uncommitted facilities totalled 26 million.
Total 512 460 Interest rate risk management: The interest rate exposure arising from the Groups borrowing and deposit activity is At the start of the year the Group had two syndicated facilities managed by using a combination of fixed and variable rate debt for 550 million and 300 million, which were due to expire instruments and interest rate swaps.
The Groups policy with in 2005 and 2007 respectively.
During the year the Group took respect to interest rate is to fix portions of debt for varying advantage of a strong banking market for borrowers and periods based upon our debt maturity profile and an assessment refinanced both of these facilities on 5-year terms.
We of interest rate trends.
At the end of 2004 approximately 37 per also took the opportunity to increase the overall amount to cent of the Groups borrowings were fixed at weighted average 950 million from 850 million and improved terms both in interest rates of 4.3 per cent for varying terms up to three years.
relation to covenants and pricing.
This new facility will ensure Currency risk management: The Groups policy is to that we continue to have the headroom and flexibility to hedge all significant transactional currency exposures capitalise on investment opportunities as they arise.
through the use of forward currency contracts.
It is also the The Group policy with respect to cash deposits is to only Groups policy to hedge overseas capital employed, including have deposits with pre-approved banks with credit ratings recognised goodwill, between 50 and 85 per cent by means of A1 P1 and with limits on the amount deposited with each of currency loans and currency swaps.
institution dependent on their credit rating.
Deposits are generally for short-term maturity less than three months.
International Accounting Standards During 2004, the Group finalised the restatement of its Financial Risk Management and Treasury Policies transition balance sheet from UK GAAP to comply with The main financial risks of the Group relate to funding and current International Accounting Standards IFRS.
In order liquidity, interest rate fluctuations and currency exposures.
to guarantee the completeness of this exercise, the Groups The management of these risks is performed by a central internal finance manual was rewritten to revise the Treasury department that reports directly to me and operates accounting policies to be used by all Group entities to comply according to objectives, policies and authorities approved by with IFRS.
Presentations and seminars were held with key the Board.
The overall policy objective is to use financial finance personnel across the Group in which the major instruments to manage financial risks arising from the impacts of the changes were discussed and agreed.
The final underlying business activities and therefore the Group does step in the process was for all entities to re-submit their not undertake speculative transactions for which there is 2003 balance sheets using the revised finance manual.
24 BBA GROUP FINANCIAL ANNUAL REPORT 2004 REVIEW This process was completed in December 2004 and the results Compound Financial Instruments: The annual preference and accompanying notes are shown in the table below.
dividend on the Groups 6.75 per cent cumulative redeemable The areas affected are broadly those described in last preference shares will be shown as part of Finance costs years Annual Report but the following points should be noted: under IFRS rather than dividends under current UK GAAP.
This will affect the 2005 and possibly 2006 Income Statement.
Financial Assets & Liabilities: Due to the continuing debate Business Combinations: IFRS 3 requires the Group to around the final contents of IAS 39 and its acceptance by the identify certain intangible assets on the acquisition of a EU, it is not mandatory for the Group to include all financial business which would, under UK GAAP, have been included assets & liabilities on its transition Balance Sheet but within goodwill, and attribute a value to these assets, such instead to do so at 1 January 2005.
It is the Groups intention as brands or customer lists.
These assets will then be to achieve hedge accounting for those transactions which depreciated over their useful economic lives.
The impact on are entered into for that purpose.
To this end, the necessary Group earnings of this standard is currently being evaluated documentation of all hedges has been put in place as at for acquisitions made during 2004.
The first set of IFRS accounts to be produced by the Group The 2005 Income Statement could be impacted by will be the Interim Financial Statements to 30 June 2005.
In potential ineffectiveness of hedges, particularly cash flow order to have the necessary comparative figures for inclusion hedges that are entered into based on forecast data.
These within these accounts, another re-submission process will forecasts will be reviewed regularly and the effect is not take place during the second quarter of 2005, which will expected to be material to the Groups earnings.
require all Group entities to restate their Income Statements and Balance Sheets for both June and December 2004.
IFRS RECONCILIATION M Note 31 DEC 2003 Shareholders Funds UK GAAP 680.6 Preference Shares 1 50.9 Pensions 2 27.6 Dividends 3 34.3 Taxation 4 4.9 Share Options 5 0.5 Shareholders Funds IFRS 640.8 1 IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation This standard requires that the Group splits its 6.75 per cent Cumulative Redeemable Convertible Preference Shares into their debt and equity elements.
The carrying values of both components were determined on the basis of the circumstances and conditions existing when the instrument was issued 1988.
The debt element of the instrument at any point in time represents the expected future cash flows discounted at the discount rate appropriate at the date the instrument was issued.
This adjustment resulted in an increase in Group net debt, and thus reduction in net assets, of 50.9m.
2 IAS 19 Employee Benefits This standard states that the Group may recognise either the full net liability of its defined benefit schemes in the Balance Sheet or the proportion of this liability which is outside a 10 per cent corridor in relation to the schemes assets or liabilities.
The Group has decided to adopt the first approach which is identical to the approach proposed under the UK GAAP standard FRS 17.
This option avoided the need to determine the cumulative actuarial gains and losses from the inception of each pension plan and splitting this between recognised and unrecognised gains and losses at each subsequent balance sheet date.
The adoption of this standard has resulted in a reduction in net assets of 27.6m.
3 IAS 10 Events After the Balance Sheet Date Any proposed final dividends are no longer allowed to be recognised on the Balance Sheet until they have been declared which, for the Group, is at the AGM, usually in April or May of the following year.
They therefore represent non-adjusting events after the balance sheet date.
This adjustment resulted in an increase in net assets of 34.3m at the transition date.
4 IAS 12 Income Taxes A deferred tax asset is required to be booked relating to the temporary difference between tax generated goodwill with no book value and goodwill written off to reserves prior to FRS10 10.5m.
This is partially offset by the recognition of a deferred tax liability on temporary differences on fixed assets which were non qualifying items under UK GAAP 5.6 m. 5 IFRS 2 Share Based Payments This standard states that the Group must recognise a charge in the Income Statement for the fair value of outstanding share options and share appreciation rights SARS, including SAYE schemes granted after 7 November 2002.
The charge has been calculated using an appropriate share option valuation model and will be charged over the appropriate periods and adjusted to reflect actual and expected levels of vesting.
Under UK GAAP there is no similar charge in the Profit & Loss Account.
OUR PORTFOLIO THE FOLLOWING SECTION GIVES AN INSIGHT INTO BBAS OPERATIONS WORLDWIDE BBA WORLDWIDE The Group built its aviation and nonwovens businesses by consolidating fragmented markets.
The divisions are now global businesses and world leaders in their fields.
BUSINESS AVIATION COMMERCIAL AVIATION ENGINE REPAIR SYSTEMS AND INDUSTRIAL AND HEALTHCARE SERVICES SERVICES AND OVERHAUL HYDRAULICS CONSUMER CARE Improved plant utilisation Accelerated geographic The worlds leading New PW300 500 engine Contract wins for Airbus A key partner with our many worldwide.
expansion in 2004 resulting independent fueller and authorisations and other A320, NH90 helicopter and customers in the diverse in 43 US FBOs, 19 European fourth largest ground contract wins this year Hawk to promote continuing worldwide industrial and locations and 5 in the rest of handler.
expected to add significant growth in our hydraulics and consumer care markets.
BBA operates in the Americas, Europe and the Far East.
It operates in over 70 cities worldwide in aviation.
BUSINESS AVIATION COMMERCIAL AVIATION ENGINE REPAIR PILOT TRAINING AND INDUSTRIAL AND HEALTHCARE SERVICES SERVICES AND OVERHAUL AIRPORT SERVICES CONSUMER CARE The worlds leading Unrivalled business aviation Operating in 70 locations The worlds leading business Improvement in market Acquired Tenotex with plants supplier of engineered services network in including 46 of the worlds jet engine repair and conditions benefited pilot in Italy and Spain producing products to Fiberwebs 67 worldwide locations.
overhaul provider, operating training business at Oxford specialty products for a healthcare market.
Increased range of markets to business aviation activity complement our portfolio.
prompted investment in ramp and hangar space.
SIGNATURE Expansion of new and existing facilities saw Signatures European network grow significantly this year, with the number of FBOs increasing from 5 to 19.
SIGNATURE As the leading provider of FBOs, our portfolio services and supports nearly one million aircraft movements per year.
ASIG ASIG operates in 46 of the worlds top 100 airports offering a full range of ground handling, fuelling, cargo and ancillary services in 71 cities throughout North America, Europe and Asia.
ASIG Our ramp side services are vital to the smooth running of aircraft schedules maintaining a critical balance between safety, time and cost for the worlds major carriers.
DALLAS AIRMOTIVE Significant aftermarket engine support programmes ensure the overhaul of some 2,800 commercial and business engines per year.
APPH Thousands of aircraft, hundreds of airlines and dozens of air forces throughout the world rely on our expertise and high product quality in hydraulics and landing gear.
BBA FIBERWEB Our customers from across the world have a long-term partner able to innovate and develop new products and processes that are key to their success.
BBA FIBERWEB BBA Fiberweb facilities in the US, Europe and Asia-Pacific deliver quality products at a competitive price, with lines producing up to 400 metres per minute.
