DIRECTORS REPORT Substantial shareholdings Suppliers payment policy The Company has been notified under section 198 of the Companies The Company and Groups policy is to settle terms of payment with Act 1985 as amended of the following interests, which represented suppliers when agreeing the terms of each transaction, to ensure that 3 per cent or more of the existing issued ordinary share capital of the suppliers are made aware of the terms of payment and to abide by the Company as at 23 February 2005: terms of the payment.
Number % People and the environment Standard Life Group 32,988,556 7.30 Set out on page 42 is the Directors Report on Corporate Social Aviva plc 27,213,068 6.03 Responsibility which is included as part of this report.
AEGON UK plc 16,671,422 3.69 Legal & General Group plc 15,282,138 3.38 Resolutions at the Annual General Meeting The Company's Annual General Meeting will be held on 28 April 2005.
Research and development Accompanying this report is the Notice of the Annual General Meeting, The Group continues to devote considerable effort and resources to which sets out the resolutions to be considered and approved at the research and development of new processes and products.
These are explained in a letter from the Chairman which charged against income as incurred.
Market value of land and buildings Charitable and political donations The directors are of the opinion that the market values of the Groups Group donations to charities worldwide were 182,000 2003: 147,000 properties are not substantially different from the values included in with UK charities receiving 15,000 2003: 20,000. the Groups financial statements.
No donations were made to any political party in either year.
Board of directors Auditors The current directors of the Company at the date of this report appear A resolution to re-appoint Deloitte & Touche LLP as auditors of the on pages 38 and 39 all of whom held office throughout the financial Company will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Directors interests in shares Approved by the Board on 23 February 2005 and signed on its behalf by: Directors interests in shares and share options are contained in the Directors Remuneration Report.
SMF Shaw Group Secretary BBA GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2004 41 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Our Group CSR Steering Committee undertook a number of important best interests of BBA employees as well as those of all persons who initiatives during 2004 to broaden the reach of Corporate Social affect or are affected by our businesses.
As a complement to this Responsibility CSR within BBAs family of businesses and their Policy, the Group also issued its Disclosure of Unethical Conduct employees.
These initiatives included increasing the visibility of Policy, encouraging all employees to report any conduct that may CSR principles within BBAs business operations through awareness be incompatible with any Group policy.
communications and training, and the development and promotion of Health and safety remain integral components of the Groups Group-wide policies that encourage responsible business and social overall CSR strategy.
During 2004 we recognised that Recordable conduct.
We also examined metrics to measure the Groups Incident Rate RIR data gathered from each of our businesses reflects performance against various CSR performance standards and the frequency, but not the severity of workplace accidents.
Although prepared questionnaires for our major suppliers regarding their own our businesses have shown significant improvements in their RIR CSR practices.
The Steering Committee also guided the development performance, a single severe accident can result in lengthy employee of BBAs 2003 Annual CSR Report, the text of which can be found on the absences as well as direct and indirect costs to the affected business.
The Steering Committee regularly reports on its The Group now tracks accident severity alongside monthly RIR data.
activities to Richard Stillwell, a member of the BBA Group Board of This information allows a sharper focus on our root-cause analysis Directors who oversees CSR within the Group.
The Groups Executive Committee also embraced important CSR We are engaged in a continuing effort to improve the initiatives during 2004.
Specifically, in May the Executive Committee environmental performance of all of our businesses.
This is not just reviewed and approved for release guidance notes on Product Process a matter of legal and regulatory compliance.
It is a social obligation to Stewardship and Supply Chain Management.
These notes, which are the communities in which we work.
All of our businesses must commit being implemented through the Groups HS&E management function, to annual environmental improvement objectives that move beyond emphasise responsibility in the creation, marketing and sales of our compliance.
Performance against these goals is scrutinised by our products and services while encouraging our suppliers to employ Group HS&E Managers.
Performance results are reported to the sound environmental practices.
It is intended that the practices Groups senior management.
detailed in these guidance notes will become embedded in the way In November, BBA Group submitted its response to Business BBA Group companies conduct business.
in the Communitys BitC 2004 Corporate Responsibility Index.
The During 2004 the Group issued its Corporate Social Responsibility Index has been expanded by BitC to measure corporate performance and Code of Business Ethics, consolidating CSR into a single on a number of CSR issues.
The Groups response reflects material comprehensive directive to all members of Group management.
improvements in its performance over prior years.
We look forward to As an integral part of the mandatory practices of our management, the announcement of BitCs survey results in early 2005 as a significant this policy embraces social and ethical principles that promote the measure of the Groups progress in this important topic.
BBA GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2004 42 DIRECTORS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT This section on corporate governance contains information on The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it for decision the following : including approval of matters such as : strategy and objectives 1.
The Boards Role annual budgets 3.
The Board and Independence dividends 4.
Chairman and Group Chief Executive acquisitions and disposals of businesses 5.
Board Appointments expenditure over a certain limit 6.
Information and Professional Development financial results 7.
Performance Evaluation appointments to the Board.
Board Committees Matters outside the scope of this formal schedule are decided by 9.
Audit and Accountability management in accordance with delegated authorities approved by the a Financial reporting Board and Audit Committee.
b Audit Committee The Boards policies and procedures are set out in a Directors c Systems of Internal Control File which is provided to all directors on appointment and which is 10.
The Board and Independence The Board is committed to ensuring high standards of corporate The current Board comprises three executive and six non-executive governance are maintained at BBA.
This is the first complete financial directors who contribute a wide range of complementary skills and year in which BBA has been subject to the revised Combined Code experience.
A short biography of each current director is set out on issued in July 2003. pages 38 to 39.
Biographical details of directors who also served The Company applies the principles of corporate governance during the year are as follows: Irv Yoskowitz was a senior partner at set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code through its own behaviour, Global Technology Partners LLC, a senior counsel at the law firm of by monitoring corporate governance best practice and by adopting Crowell & Moring, a non-executive director of SIRVA, Inc and Equant appropriate recommendations of relevant bodies.
N. V. Ross McMillan joined BBA in June 2001 as Chief Executive of The directors can confirm compliance throughout the year the Materials Technology Division and was appointed to the Board in with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code except September 2002.
He previously held posts at INEOS Acrylics Inc. and ICI.
that bonuses and benefits in kind of certain executive directors are The Board is headed by Roberto Quarta, who has been Chairman historically pensionable.
This is explained further in the Directors since March 2001.
He has reported no changes to his significant Remuneration Report on page 49. commitments during the year.
The auditors report concerning the Companys compliance with The Group Chief Executive is Roy McGlone.
The Boards Senior the Combined Code appears on page 57.
Independent Director is David Rough.
He is available to shareholders if they have concerns that normal channels of contact with the Chairman 2.
The Boards Role or Group Chief Executive would not resolve.
The Board recognises its collective responsibility for the success of the During the year, the Board renewed the appointments of Company.
Its role includes providing effective leadership and setting Roberto Quarta, Richard Stillwell and David Rough, each for a term of the Groups strategic aims.
It assesses business opportunities and three years with effect from I March 2004.
The re-appointments were seeks to ensure that appropriate controls are in place to assess and fully reviewed in the light of the Boards performance evaluation and manage risk.
It is responsible for reviewing managements performance additional discussions were held with each member of the Board.
and oversees senior level succession planning within the Group.
The During the year there was one change to the composition of the Board, Board is responsible for setting the Companys values and standards, namely the retirement of Irv Yoskowitz on 1 March 2004 as non-executive ensuring the Companys obligations to its shareholders are met.
director, a position he had held for nine years.
The full Board met on seven occasions during 2004 and these With effect from 11 January 2005, John Roques appointment meetings were attended by all the directors, except that Bob Phillips as a non-executive director was renewed for a further period of three and David Rough were absent from one meeting due to conflicting years.
His re-appointment was fully reviewed in the light of the Boards commitments.
These meetings concentrate on strategy, financial and performance evaluation and additional Board discussion took place.
Additional meetings are called as required to With effect from 23 February 2005, Michael Harper was appointed a deal with specific matters.
The agenda is set by the Chairman in non-executive director of the Board for a period of three years.
He will consultation with the Group Chief Executive, the Group Finance be seeking election at the forthcoming AGM.
We also announced that Director and the Group Secretary.
BBA GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2004 43 DIRECTORS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Ross McMillan resigned from the Board with effect from 23 February 5.
John Roques, David Rough and Bruce Van Allen retire by rotation The Board acknowledges its responsibility for planned and progressive and intend to seek re-appointment at the forthcoming AGM.
It believes that the necessary arrangements to The Board believes that John Roques and David Rough should manage succession issues promptly and effectively are in place.
There be re-elected by shareholders as non-executive directors because is a formal and transparent procedure for the appointment of new each continues to be effective and demonstrates commitment to his directors to the Board, the prime responsibility for which is delegated role.
The Board believes that each director will continue to do so.
The appointment process is initiated by The Board has determined that all its non-executive directors the Board and a selection procedure established to identify suitable are independent in character and judgment.
As specified in the revised external search consultants for the vacancy.
The process will differ in Combined Code, such assessment is not required for a serving Chairman.
its detail depending on whether the appointment is for an executive or However, the Board believes that its Chairman, Roberto Quarta, non-executive position, but the essentials will remain the same.
should be considered independent although he was Group Chief Following the appointment of a suitable external consultant, details Executive of the Company for a number of years until 2001.
The Board of the role and capabilities required for the appointment will be considers that there are substantial benefits to having a Chairman who prepared.
The consultant then draws up a list of potential candidates is familiar with the business and that the Chairman has, throughout his and a shortlist is created through consultation amongst Committee period of office, demonstrated his independence.
The Board as a whole is also regularly updated as to the During the year, the Chairman held a meeting at which only the status of the appointment process.
Meetings as appropriate are non-executive directors were present.
In addition, the non-executive arranged with Committee members and the Committee aims to ensure directors met the Senior Independent Director without the Chairman that each Board member is given the opportunity to meet the final present.
There are several other opportunities during the year when candidates.
The Nomination Committee will then meet to finalise a discussions between various directors may be arranged or take recommendation to the Board regarding the appointment.
was followed during 2004 for the appointment of Michael Harper as a Executive directors must obtain the prior consent of the Board non-executive director which is referred to in paragraph 3 above.
before accepting a non-executive directorship in any other company.
The Board has a written framework for the induction of new Executive directors may retain the fees from any such directorship.
This includes site visits, meetings with senior management As stated on page 38, Roy McGlone is a non-executive director of and advisers and the provision of corporate documentation.
A personal Aggreko plc and during 2004 he was paid 30,350 in fees.
induction programme is prepared for each new director tailored to the experience and needs of the individual.
Chairman and Group Chief Executive offered the opportunity of meeting new directors.
There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman and Appointments of non-executive directors are made by the Board the Group Chief Executive and this is reinforced by a written statement for an initial term of three years.
This term is subject to the usual of the division of responsibilities approved by the Board.
The Chairman, regulatory provisions and continued satisfactory performance of duties a non-executive director, is primarily responsible for leading the Board following the Board's annual performance evaluation.
Re-appointment and ensuring its effectiveness.
He is responsible for setting the Board for a further term is not automatic but may be made by mutual agenda and ensuring the directors receive information in an accurate, agreement.
In addition, it is the Companys practice that all directors clear and timely manner.
He is responsible for promoting effective are subject to re-election at least every three years.
decision-making, ensuring the performance of the Board, its The fees of the non-executive directors, including the Chairman, committees and individual directors are evaluated on an annual basis are determined by the Board as a whole on the recommendation of the and that appropriate Board training and development occurs.
No director is involved in deciding his own Group Chief Executive is responsible for the development and remuneration or fees.
Letters of appointment for the non-executive implementation of Board strategy and policy, the running of the directors are available to review on request.
Groups business, ensuring that the business activities are effectively communicated and promoted within and outside the business and for building positive relationships with the Company's stakeholders.
BBA GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2004 44 The Senior Independent Director reported the Board and Committee 6.
Information and Professional Development evaluation outcomes to the Board, whilst directors were individually The Chairman takes responsibility for ensuring the directors receive briefed regarding their own performance.
Overall, the Board was accurate, timely and clear information with Board and Committee satisfied with its performance and that of its Committees.
Individual papers being circulated in advance of the meeting.
The Board and its directors performance was also agreed to be acceptable with each Committees are kept informed of corporate governance developments actively contributing to the effective performance of the Board and as they arise and receive appropriate briefings.
For example, the its Committees.
Remuneration Committee arranges an annual market review from its Overall, directors were satisfied with the level and quality of independent external advisers whilst the Audit Committee is routinely information provided to them, with certain adjustments being made to briefed on accounting and technical matters by senior management reflect individual comments.
Specific actions with which management and the external auditors.
has been tasked from this years evaluation include improvements in In addition to formal Board meetings, the Chairman maintains presentations made to the directors.
regular contact with the Group Chief Executive and other directors to discuss specific issues.
Senior management from the Groups 8.
Board Committees Divisions present to the Board on a regular basis and opportunities The Board operates a Remuneration Committee, a Nomination exist during the year for informal contact.
Board site visits are Committee and an Audit Committee.
Written terms of reference for arranged, collectively and individually, and non-executive directors each Committee are available on request.
are free to meet members of the senior management team.
The Board believes that, given the experience and skills of its a Remuneration Committee current directors, the identification of individual development needs Composition is best left to the individual directors discretion.
If any such needs During 2004, the Remuneration Committee comprised the following became evident through the annual performance evaluation, the independent non-executive directors: Richard Stillwell, Chairman, director would be encouraged to pursue the necessary development.
Bob Phillips, David Rough, John Roques and Irv Yoskowitz retired The Company will provide the necessary resources for developing and 1 March 2004.
These directors were in place at the time of determining updating the directors knowledge and skills.
remuneration for the year ended 31 December 2004.
During 2004, the All directors have access to the advice and services of the Group Remuneration Committee met on three occasions and meetings were Secretary and the Board has established a procedure whereby directors attended by all Committee members, except that Bob Phillips and wishing to do so in furtherance of their duties may take independent David Rough were unable to attend one meeting.
The Chairman and professional advice at the Companys expense.
the executive directors may attend these meetings by invitation.
The Company arranges appropriate insurance cover in respect of legal actions against its directors.
Role The Committee has two principal functions: first, making recommendations 7.
Performance Evaluation to the Board on the framework and broad policy on executive directors The Board held its first performance evaluation in 2003 and reported remuneration: and second, determining on behalf of the Board the the outcome in its last shareholders report.
The actions agreed specific remuneration package for each of the executive directors, following the evaluation have been implemented to the Boards including pension rights and any compensation payments.
During 2004, the Board carried out its second annual The Remuneration Committee is also responsible for developing performance evaluation.
The procedure established for the first and monitoring a compensation framework for senior executives in evaluation worked well and a similar process was therefore adopted conjunction with the Group Chief Executive.
The Board intends to carry out this evaluation annually.
of this framework, except as regards the executive directors, is the The evaluation was conducted internally on a confidential basis responsibility of the Group Chief Executive.
and was led by the Senior Independent Director in conjunction with the Further details of the work of the Remuneration Committee Chairman.
As in 2003, the main body of the evaluation centred on a appear in the Directors Remuneration Report.
review of the conduct of, and processes for, Board and Committee meetings, corporate governance issues, overall performance and an b Nomination Committee assessment of the contribution of individual directors.
This year the Composition Board decided to add as a particular focus information provided to the The Nomination Committee comprises three non-executive directors Board and its Committees, including strategic, financial, operational, and two executive directors as follows: Roberto Quarta, Chairman, corporate governance and CSR information.
Roy McGlone, David Rough, Andrew Wood and Richard Stillwell.
Other directors may attend by invitation.
BBA GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2004 45 DIRECTORS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Role Going Concern The Nomination Committee meets as required.
During 2004 the In compliance with corporate governance requirements, the directors Committee or its sub-committee met on five occasions and meetings consider that after a critical review of the Groups 2004 budget and were attended by all Committee members.
This was supplemented medium-term plans the Company and the Group have adequate with individual briefings and meetings as required.
The principal role resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable of the Committee is to make recommendations to the Board on the future.
Accordingly, the financial statements have been prepared appointment of the Companys executive and non-executive directors.
It is responsible for identifying and nominating candidates to fill Board b Audit Committee vacancies.
In making appointments, the Committee evaluates the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board and in the Composition light of this evaluation considers the capabilities required for the role During 2004, the Audit Committee comprised the five independent and, in the case of a non-executive appointment, the time available to non-executive directors as follows: John Roques, Chairman, fulfil the role.
Use is made of independent recruitment consultants and Bob Phillips, Richard Stillwell, David Rough and Irv Yoskowitz retired the final appointment rests with the full Board.
More information on 1 March 2004. the role of the Nomination Committee is set out in Board The Chairman has relevant and recent financial experience and Appointments above.
a professional accountancy qualification as required by the Smith Details regarding the Audit Committee are set out in paragraph Guidance.
In addition the other Committee members all have 9 b below.
experience of corporate financial matters.
During 2004, the Audit Committee met on four occasions, 9.
Audit and Accountability generally coinciding with key dates in the financial reporting and audit a Financial Reporting cycle.
There was full attendance by all the Committee members except that Bob Phillips and David Rough were unable to attend one meeting.
Directors responsibilities for the preparation of The external auditors and Head of Group Internal Audit regularly financial statements attend these meetings.
The Chairman, Group Chief Executive, Group The directors are required to prepare financial statements for each Finance Director and Group Financial Controller also generally join at financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of least part of Audit Committee meetings by invitation.
The Committee the Company and the Group as at the end of the financial year and of Chairman may call a meeting at the request of any director or the the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources Role to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this The Committee may consider any matter that might have a financial reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the impact on the Group.
However, its primary role is: first, reviewing the financial statements.
In preparing the financial statements the scope and results of the external audit and the internal audit work directors are required to: programme: and second, reviewing the annual and interim reports select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: before they are presented to the Board.
In addition, the Committee make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: reviews the work of the Risk Committee as described and assesses and compliance with the directors responsibility statement.
The Committee state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, also reviews the Groups Disclosure of Unethical Conduct Policy subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the under which staff may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible financial statements.
improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting The Committee is responsible for making recommendations to records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the the Board regarding the remuneration and appointment of its external financial position of the Company and the Group, and enable them to auditors.
It is the policy of the Audit Committee to review such ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act appointment at least every five years.
They are also responsible for the system of internal control and through the review of written reports circulated in advance of meetings for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group, and hence and by discussing these reports and any other matters with the for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud relevant auditors and management.
At least once a year the Audit and other irregularities.
Committee holds a confidential session without management present with each of the external auditors and the Head of Group Internal Audit.
