10 BBA GROUP CHIEF ANNUAL REPORT 2004 EXECUTIVES REVIEW Trading Background 2004 saw strong growth in revenues for both of our businesses.
In particular, the first half showed a significant improvement over 2003.
From an external point of view, demand in our markets was good.
Underlying profit before tax however was held back by the translation impact of the weakening US dollar and raw material prices in some areas they reached a 20 year high.
Underlying profit before tax for the year overall was similar to those in 2003, although on a constant currency basis it showed an increase of 5 per cent.
It is interesting to note that in US dollar terms our underlying profit before tax has grown by 33 per cent since 2001.
We continued to generate strong free cash flows after investing 61.7 million in capital across the Group and after absorbing the cost of a significant restructuring programme in our engine repair and overhaul division.
We also continued our record of investing in value-adding acquisitions, principally in our Aviation division.
Last year we acquired in total nine new companies, increasing and enhancing our service and product offering across the world.
These acquisitions are expected to contribute some 120 million of sales in 2005 9 per cent of our 2004 total.
11 AVIATION 800m MATERIALS TECHNOLOGY 572m GROUP REVENUES CONTINUING OPERATIONS 1,372m 12 BBA GROUP CHIEF ANNUAL REPORT 2004 EXECUTIVES REVIEW Aviation After the strong recovery we saw in the first half of 2004, demand continued at good levels in the second half.
For the year, overall sales at constant currency increased 9 per cent to 800 million, on a continuing basis, with operating profits before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items increasing AVIATION REVENUES AT 8 per cent to 80 million.
CONSTANT CURRENCY Signature Flight Support continued to experience good growth with sales at 255.4 million up 10 per cent on 2003.
Organic sales growth, excluding acquisition activity, was 8 per cent.
We continued to improve and expand our existing locations, adding ramp space in Luton and Paris, and completing new FBO facilities at Toulon and Jacksonville.
Perhaps more importantly, the year saw a significant increase in Signatures international network of bases, particularly in Europe.
We acquired a presence in Athens, Crete, Heathrow, Shannon, and with the Execair 01 02 03 04 acquisition, a further 10 locations in Europe, including Dublin, Edinburgh, Glasgow, Birmingham and Charleroi.
Collectively, in 2004 we have grown our European network from 5 to 19 FBOs.
With the addition of New Orleans in November, we now have 67 locations in the Signature network.
We are not only the largest provider of FBO services but also the only truly global provider.
At ASIG, our commercial aviation airport service provider, sales increased some 6 per cent on 2003 to 164 million.
Here again, we enhanced our geographic presence with the acquisition of Airport Group International AGI.
This added 13 another 6 new airport locations in the United States and strengthened our market position in a further 8.
With the acquisition and integration of AGI now complete, ASIGs worldwide network numbers 71 locations, including 46 of the worlds top 100 airports.
The December acquisition of Boker Aeroclean, an aircraft cleaning company based at London Heathrow Airport, complements ASIGs fuelling operations and SALES INCREASE OF 6% TO 164M ASIG positions the company to strengthen and expand its business with major carriers throughout Europe.
In 2004, ASIG also implemented a number of creative programmes, including structured pre-pay agreements, to better manage risk and solidify long-term business relationships with its major airline customers.
The contract to be the alternative provider of fuelling AWARDED services on the new airport in Bangkok is proceeding through A 5 YEAR, $7M PER ANNUM DALLAS AIRMOTIVE the start-up process and is expected to begin operations in the CONTRACT WITH THE US ARMY fourth quarter of 2005.
Our aircraft engine repair and overhaul business, headquartered in Dallas, saw sales increase 4 per cent to 290 million at constant currency.
Premier Turbines, acquired in 2003, continues to perform well, with excellent growth in TFE731 inputs during the year.
The TFE731 is one of the most popular engines in the business aviation fleet and growth prospects remain strong.
Dallas Airmotive secured significant new aftermarket engine support agreements with major airframe OEMs Cessna and Raytheon.
