Sir David Garrard FRICS 26 27 Chairman Aged 65 Board of Directors Responsible for ensuring the effective running of the Board, for setting the long-term strategy of the Group and for ensuring the Board and its members are effectively assessed.
He was the founder and senior partner of the London commercial estate agency, Garrard Smith and Partners, until his acquisition and privatisation of the publicly quoted Land Investors plc.
Following the sale of his familys and his own interests in Land Investors in 1988, he founded, with Andrew Rosenfeld, Minerva.
Andrew Rosenfeld BSC MRICS Chief Executive Aged 42 Responsible for the implementation of the strategic objectives set by the Board, the appraisal of the executive management team and the effective day-to-day executive management of the business.
He was co-founder of the Group in 1988, prior to which he worked for merchant bankers, Schroders, in their property division, Berisford Property Group, and alongside Sir David Garrard at Land Investors plc.
Paul Coster MRICS Property Director Aged 52 Responsible principally for the Park Place development activities in Croydon.
He joined the Group in November 1989 and was previously Managing Director of the publicly quoted Centrovincial Estates plc and, prior to joining Minerva, he was a main board director of Burford Holdings plc where he was responsible for the management of the investment portfolio.
Clive Richards OBE FCA FCMA FMIM Senior non-executive Director, Chairman of the Audit Committee and a member of the Remuneration Committee Aged 67 Following six years at Peat Marwick Mitchell in 1960 he joined Wedd Durlacher Mordant, subsequently a major constituent part of Barclays fide Zoete Wedd where he became Managing Partner.
From 1970 to 1976 he worked at N M Rothschild & Sons Ltd where he rose to become Group Finance Director.
In 1976 he left to set up his own investment and financial services company Clive Richards & Co which has been involved in a number of successful ventures.
He is currently non-executive Chairman of Intelligent Environments Group plc and CEL International Limited and a non-executive Director of Corin Group PLC and Xpertise Group PLC.
Appointed to the Board of Minerva in November 1996.
Christopher Sheridan FCIB MSI Non-executive Director, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and a member of the Audit Committee Aged 61 Joined Samuel Montagu & Co Limited in 1962 and became a Director in 1974.
He was appointed head of Samuel Montagus Treasury Division, with overall responsibility for all the banks dealing activities, in 1976.
He was Chief Executive of Samuel Montagu from 1984 to 1994, where as head of merchant banking of the Midland Bank Group he oversaw the changes during Big Bang as well as the integration into HSBC.
He is Chairman of Yorkshire Building Society and non-executive Director of Alpha Bank London Limited, Hanover Acceptances Limited and Standard Bank London Limited.
He is also a member of the International Executive Committee of the law firm Lovells.
