Pillar Property PLC CLOUT Annual report and accounts 2004 12 CLOUT CityPoint, London EC2 Pillar Property PLC Annual report and accounts 2004 13 The strategy going forward remains focused on splitting the City fund into two vehicles: an investment vehicle and a development fund.
Eugene Doyle After an 18 month period of uncertainty and difficult trading A further new planning consent has been received for conditions, the City market, has now finally bottomed out and 35 Basinghall Street, increasing the development potential of this is set for recovery over the coming months.
The vacancy rate is asset from 133,000 sq ft to 200,000 sq ft, which encompasses the currently around 15%, but this is expected to peak by mid 2004. adjoining property 16 Coleman Street.
This is not currently in the By contrast, the investment market has remained very strong and ownership of CLOUT, but work has commenced on the formation this has been reflected in the funds performance.
of a joint venture with the current owners.
This additional flexibility At the beginning of the financial year, the value of the groups gives the fund a wide range of options on this site.
equity invested in CLOUT was 72.6 million and this declined to Austral House is also a prime development opportunity of 68.8 million, a fall of 3.8 million 5.2%.
This was due to 180,000 sq ft, and the new headlease has now been agreed downward revaluations of the development properties, which were with the City.
As with 35 Basinghall Street, work has continued highly sensitive to rental movements.
However, as it is now widely throughout the year on this site to maximise its development accepted that the City market has started to improve again, potential, and a further planning application has been submitted no further downward movement is expected in the portfolio.
recently which will add another 3,000 sq ft, taking the total area Despite the difficult letting conditions in the City, two lettings added to the initial consent to approximately 30,000 sq ft. have taken place in CityPoint at level 16 and part 31, both due The strategy going forward remains focused on splitting to expansion of existing tenants.
In addition, there were two the City fund into two vehicles: an investment vehicle initially further sub-lettings, all achieving some of the highest rents set containing CityPoint, but with the potential to expand and in the City last year at around 50 per sq ft.
The only floors now which could readily convert itself into a REIT type structure, remaining to be let are levels 35 and part 36, some 16,000 sq ft, and the residual development fund forming the basis of an which represents 2.5% of the office content of the building.
alternative fund for potential investors with a higher risk position It is expected that with the improving market circumstances requirement reward.
This concept to split the fund has been our these floors should let during 2004. view for more than a year.
The delay in its implementation was due to the poor City office market but, as sentiment improves, the impetus to make this change is increased.
