Pillar Property PLC PREF Annual report and accounts 2004 14 PREF Parco Commerciale Navile, Bologna, Italy Pillar Property PLC Annual report and accounts 2004 15 PREF was formally established at the end of March.
Valentine Beresford, Director PREF was formally established as a closed ended Luxembourg The search for product and the subsequent acquisition process based fund at the end of March with an initial seven investors.
has taken longer than we anticipated but during this time we have We expect to increase this number at the next closing at the end built up an increasing knowledge of the retail park market in the of June and a number of prospective investors are currently countries under review and established good relationships with a conducting their due diligence.
As a result, there are several other Pillars investment is b40 million, which currently represents opportunities where we are confident of securing a position over 49% of the total equity but this will be diluted as other investors the next 12 months.
PREF is targeted on assets that will provide We have recently opened a small office in Madrid and have unitholders with an average distribution of over 7.5% and a post appointed a Spanish investment manager who is already making fee, post tax, geared IRR of at least 13%.
The fund is leveraged a valuable contribution to the management team.
As the portfolio with an operating maximum of 60% through a cross border size increases we will add further human resource to our European debt facility.
To date, PREF has three parks, the largest outside Madrid, one outside Bologna and the third near Lisbon, the space aggregating to 80,350 sq m 865,000 sq ft.
The total investment to date is b197 million.
There are a further three parks currently in the pipeline, in Spain, Italy and Belgium, all under development with completions scheduled from Autumn 2004 to Autumn 2006.
In all cases, PREF has signed heads of terms with the developers with legal and technical due diligence underway.
We aim to have contracted on these three schemes by the end of the year.
When complete, these parks will comprise a further 129,000 sq m of space with an investment of approximately b185.5 million.
