Pillar Property PLC Directors report Annual report and accounts 2004 20 The directors present their report and the audited financial statements of the 8 Going concern The following statement is made solely in order to comply with group for the year ended 31 March 2004. paragraph 12.43v of the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority and section D1.3 of the Combined Code.
After making enquiries, the directors have a 1 Principal activities and business review The group is engaged in property reasonable expectation that the company and group has adequate resources to investment, directly and through specialist unit trusts and joint venture continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they arrangements and property development and management through its continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
subsidiaries and through joint venture arrangements.
It is intended that the group will continue to pursue further acquisition and development opportunities and 9 Corporate governance The directors statement on corporate governance is set to increase funds under management.
A detailed review of the activities and out on page 26. prospects of the company and its subsidiaries is contained in the Chairmans 10 Environment The board recognises the importance of maintaining and statement and in the Operating and Financial review on pages 4 to 15 and improving the environment.
All acquisitions are subject to assessment to identify should be read as part of this report.
the presence of any potential environmentally harmful materials or contaminants.
2 Results and dividends The financial statements deal with the results of the group A remediation strategy is then put in place to treat any contamination as for the year ended 31 March 2004 which are shown on page 28.
The profit on ordinary appropriate.
activities before taxation amounted to 20.9 million 2003 15.9 million profit.
The board has an established policy on the environment and a framework for The directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 6.1p 2003 5.7p, ensuring compliance with all relevant laws and regulations.
Consultants are used which together with the interim dividend of 2.4p 2003 2.3p paid on 2 January to advise on and undertake the compliance on a property by property basis.
2004 makes a total of 8.5p per ordinary share 2003 8.0p.
The recommended All contracts are reviewed to ensure they fully bind third party contractors to dividend, if approved at the Annual General Meeting, will be paid on 30 July 2004 comply with environmental regulations.
to shareholders registered on 16 July 2004.
There is a regular Environmental Report to the board.
3 Share capital Details of changes in the share capital during the year are 11 Health and safety The group is committed to achieving a high standard of explained in note 21 to the financial statements.
The group operates and regularly reviews its health and safety policies and practices to ensure that appropriate standards are maintained.
4 Investment properties Investment properties with a book value of 37.0 million at 31 March 2004 were professionally valued by external valuers.
The directors 12 Suppliers The group aims to settle supplier accounts in accordance with their have valued certain properties which are undergoing significant development individual terms of business.
At 31 March 2004 there were 20 days 2003 12 days which was not completed at the year end, at 124.9 million, based on formal purchases outstanding in respect of the groups creditors.
assessments of gross development value given to the directors by the 13 Donations During the year the group made charitable donations of 15,541. groups valuers.
There were no political donations.
5 Directors The directors of the company who held office during the year and as 14 Auditors A resolution is to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting for the at the date of this report are shown on page 18.
Mr H J M Price, Mr A J M Huntley reappointment of KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of the company.
and Mr J M Mara retire by rotation in accordance with the Articles of Association and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
Mr M F McGann, to be 15 Special Business at the Annual General Meeting Resolution 11 will be appointed to the board on 1 July 2004, offers himself for election.
proposed as a special resolution to renew the companys existing authority to Sir Derek Hornby, being aged 74 and Mr M C Stoddart, being aged 72, offer purchase its own shares in the market.
This authority shall be limited to themselves for re-election.
The company supports the re-election of both 10,867,103 shares representing approximately 10% of the shares in issue at Sir Derek Hornby and Mr M C Stoddart because their considerable experience the date of passing of the resolution.
The maximum price to be paid on any is believed to be an asset to the company.
The interests of the directors and exercise of authority would not exceed 105% of the average of the middle their families in shares of the company and in share options are set out in the market quotations for the companys ordinary shares for the five business days Directors remuneration report.
immediately preceding the date of the purchase.
The directors would only There has been no change in the beneficial and non-beneficial shareholdings exercise the power to purchase any shares when satisfied that such purchase of the directors between 31 March 2004 and the date of this report.
would have a beneficial effect on net assets per share and generally that it All service contracts are for a period of less than one year.
would be in the shareholders interests to exercise that power.
The directors have no immediate plans to exercise this power and propose to keep the matter 6 Statement of directors responsibilities Company law requires the directors to under review.
prepare financial statements for each financial period which give a true and fair As a result of recent changes to the Companies Act 1985, certain listed view of the state of affairs of the company and group and of the profit or loss for companies which buy back their own shares are now permitted, subject to that period.
certain restrictions, to hold up to 10% of their issued shares in treasury rather In preparing those financial statements, the directors are required to: than cancelling them as previously required.
Instead, such repurchased shares select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: may be held by companies as treasury shares and later resold for cash, make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: transferred for the purposes of an employee share scheme, or cancelled.
While state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject any shares are held in treasury, voting rights are suspended, dividends are not to any material departures disclosed in the financial statements: and paid and companies cannot take advantage of statutory pre-emption rights in prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is respect of the shares other than in connection with a bonus issue of fully paid inappropriate to presume that the group will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which The board would consider holding as treasury shares any shares which the disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the company repurchases pursuant to the authority provided by this resolution.
To company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the extent that any shares repurchased by the company are held in treasury, the Companies Act 1985.
They have a general responsibility for taking such steps earnings per share will only be increased on a temporary basis until such time as as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the group and to the shares are sold or transferred out of treasury.
Overall, the board believes that prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
the ability of the company to hold shares in treasury will provide the company with greater flexibility in the management of its share capital.
7 Substantial shareholdings The directors have been notified that the following As at 27 May 2004, the company held no shares in treasury.
shareholders have a disclosable interest of 3% or more in the ordinary shares of the company at the date of this report: By order of the board Shares % P J Martin Secretary 27 May 2004 General Electric Pension Trust 23,580,137 21.70 Prudential plc M&G 7,487,764 6.89 Aegon Asset Management 3,956,959 3.64 Legal & General 3,270,877 3.01
