Pillar Property PLC Funds under management Annual report and accounts 2004 07 We have continued to implement Pillars strategy to focus on assets under management.
The value of assets in HUT increased in the year by 350 million 19.6%, through net additions of 161 million and a valuation uplift of 189 million.
The value of CLOUT funds fell by 9 million 1.4%.
The establishment of PREF has brought a further 131 million of funds under management, which we anticipate to grow to in excess of 400 million in the next two years.
Overall, funds under management have increased by 471 million 19.5% in the year.
Funds under management m 3,000 HUT PREF 2,882.4 CLOUT Total 2,500 2,411.4 2,133.7 2,000 1,784.4 1,500 1,000 627.0 618.0 500 0 130.7 2003 2004 2003 2004 2003 2004 2003 2004 Pillar Property PLC HUT Annual report and accounts 2004 08 HUT Cortonwood Retail Park, Barnsley Pillar Property PLC Annual report and accounts 2004 09 Retail warehousing put in the strongest performance with an overall return of 16.3%.
Mark Stirling and Andrew Jones, Director Over the last 12 months a number of institutions have increased It is anticipated that further sales of some of the smaller retail parks their overall weighting to the property market leading, particularly with bulky consent within the portfolio will be made over the course in the last six months, to further yield compression across of 2004. all sectors.
HUT also entered into an agreement to purchase Pillar and The retail sector as a whole has continued to perform Capital & Regionals 380,000 sq ft Glasgow Fort development for extremely strongly with overall returns in 2003 of 15.4%.
Phase 1 is due for completion in October 2004 Retail warehousing again put in the strongest performance with Following this portfolio realignment the average lot size is now an overall return of 16.3% benefiting from not only investor 90 million with an average size of over 200,000 sq ft. appetite but also strong retailer demand and a tightening of the Open A1 and restricted Open A1 retail parks now account supply of product as local authorities continue to restrict new for nearly 89% of the portfolio enabling HUT to take advantage planning consents.
of the continuing migration of high street retailer to out-of-town Consequently there has been considerable upward pressure locations.
on pricing, particularly for solus units and secondary retail parks, There has been a significant increase in demand for HUT with a material increase in the number of investment transactions units over the last 12 months as investors have looked to increase taking place over the last quarter of 2003 and first quarter of 2004. their exposure to what is a specialist sub-sector via indirect However only a limited number of open market transactions vehicles run by specialist management.
A Trust return of just within the prime sector of the retail warehouse market have taken under 20% over the last three years has also been a significant place as investors retain their exposure in this sector, unable to factor in attracting new funds and there are now over 80 investors find an alternative suitable home for their money.
Over the period 52 trades were completed totalling nearly has been little evidence to support the hardening of yields to the 186 million, bringing the total number of trades since marketing same extent that has occurred within the secondary and tertiary of the fund commenced two years ago to 106 with a value of sectors.
This is despite the fact that there is strong occupier 334 million.
The HUT portfolio as at 31 March 2004 totalled demand which provides superior rental growth prospects.
24 parks with an open market valuation of 2.1 billion.
Competition for new properties is extremely strong HUT has continued its strong focus on active asset and over the year HUT has spent a total of 121.5 million management to achieve returns ahead of the IPD benchmark.
acquiring the 226,000 sq ft Open A1 Cortonwood Retail Park in Over the year, a total of 32 new lettings on 246,000 sq ft were Barnsley and a 50% interest in the 209,000 sq ft Gallions Reach achieved, with an annual rent roll of 6.2 million.
A total of 15 Shopping Park in Beckton, East London.
The retailer line up on surrenders were negotiated and 26 rent reviews were completed.
the latter scheme includes Borders, Arcadia, Next, Superdrug, These various initiatives had the effect of increasing the total New Look and River Island.
This is in line with the strategy of income in the portfolio from 83.9 million pa to 95.1 million pa acquiring the larger parks which have an Open A1 planning and increased the ERV to 120.5 million pa from 109.1 million pa. consent and offer a critical mass of retailing which will dominate Occupier demand for retail parks is strong and the their catchment area.
out-of-town market is continuing to take an ever increasing As part of the positioning of the portfolio towards these larger proportion of total retail sales.
This is continuing to fuel occupier Open A1 retail parks HUT has taken advantage of the increase in demand particularly from the high street as retailers try to pricing for the secondary and larger bulky parks and disposed of a reposition their own portfolio to reflect the changing trend in number over the last 12 months.
HUT has sold three bulky parks in consumer shopping patterns.
According to Verdict out-of-town Merton, Bangor and Glasgow totalling 360,000 sq ft for an sales now account for 31.1% of the total retail spend.
This is aggregate of 112 million.
expected to increase to 32.5% by 2008.
Pillar Property PLC HUT continued Annual report and accounts 2004 10 Over the past 12 months Next have continued their acquisition of over the next few years, could see yields softening and the new space with a target of 500,000 sq ft over the next 12 months, compression that has taken place over the last two years of which 80% will be out-of-town.
They have now been joined by being reversed.
HMV, Borders, Argos and Sports Soccer who are all significantly Demand from the more traditional out-of-town occupiers, increasing their out-of-town representation.
particularly within the furniture and the electrical sectors has been Across the market further evidence is emerging of an more muted over the last 12 months as they continue to right-size increasing number of retailers looking to create new out-of-town their existing portfolio in line with their streamlined retailing formats.
formats as they begin to focus on opportunities away from the Harveys have continued to consolidate their out-of-town traditional high street.
formats Harveys and Bensons under one roof resulting in the Marks & Spencer have recently opened two general disposal of a number of their surplus stores.
Similarly Courts merchandise stores, one of which being at Speke, as part of have continued their policy of reducing their ground floor a trial format for the out-of-town market.
They also continue accommodation and introducing new first floor mezzanines in a to expand their Simply Food portfolio both in and out of town.
strategy designed to insulate their operations from increasing At Glasgow Fort Zara have agreed to take a new 10,000 sq ft rental values.
store which will be their first out-of-town unit within the UK, this However there is increasing demand from a number of the is expected to open for Christmas 2004. newcomers within the furniture sector, particularly ScS, Land of Asda have recently agreed to trial their George concept Leather and Sofa Co, all of whom appear to be acquiring stores at four standalone out-of-town locations and these again are in an attempt to build critical mass and market share.
expected to be open for Christmas 2004.
In the electrical sector Powerhouse was placed in Following the arrival of their new Chief Executive, Boots are administration with 134 of the core stores subsequently bought by looking to acquire 60 new edge of town stores including the trial the Pacific Group of New Zealand.
Pacific Group have continued of a new 30,000 sq ft concept store at Glasgow Fort which will be to trade the majority of these in an attempt to create a profitable by far their largest out-of-town unit acquired to date.
third electrical retailer within the UK market.
Elsewhere in the The increasing occupational costs, outdated and inefficient sector both Currys and PC World continue to look at new accommodation, high service charges, car park charging and opportunities but appear to be ever more selective and traffic congestion are all helping to support this migration away increasingly appear to be looking at a number of relocations from the high street.
This is particularly evidenced by Dixons to smaller retail parks and standalone units.
recent announcement that they intend to close a third of their town On the supply side the local planning authorities are centre portfolio amounting to 106 stores.
continuing to rigorously enforce government planning policies and There is further evidence emerging that occupier demand for it is becoming ever more difficult to secure new planning consents some of the higher rented bulky goods retail parks is becoming for new developments.
However HUT has had significant success increasingly limited and this will restrict future rental growth over the year in obtaining consents for retail park extensions and despite the aggressive yields the investor market is happy to loosening a number of user restrictions.
In our view the pricing of secondary parks has aligned The introduction of the new Planning bill may well make itself too closely to the prime schemes and, unsupported by the relaxation of further restrictions easier.
However, the planning occupational demand, rental growth will not sustain the current environment for the introduction of mezzanines is likely to become pricing.
Therefore reductions in occupier demand for secondary more challenging in the future.
schemes, coupled with an increase in the cost of borrowing Pillar Property PLC Annual report and accounts 2004 11 New Mersey Retail Park, Speke
