46 Quintain Estates and Development PLC Annual Report 2004 External Valuation Reports Reports from the Principal External Valuers to the directors of Quintain Estates and Development PLC From Jones Lang LaSalle Limited In accordance with your instructions we We were not instructed to carry out quality of the property and the strength have valued the freehold and leasehold structural surveys of the properties, of investor demand.
We have reflected investment properties, as set out in the nor to test any of the services, but this change in Stamp Duty in our attached schedule as at 31 March 2004 have reflected in our valuations, where valuations by making the necessary for annual account purposes.
necessary, any defects, items of disrepair adjustments.
Those properties which we or the benefit of any improvements understand are in Disadvantaged Areas Our valuations have been made in which we noticed during the course are indicated on the attached schedule.
accordance with the Practice Statements of our inspections, or of which you have in the RICS Appraisal and Valuation We have not made any allowance for subsequently advised us.
Our valuations Standards 5th Edition, on the basis of assume that the buildings contain no properties that are jointly owned and have market value, the full definition of which therefore reflected the full open market deleterious materials, and that the sites accompanies the General Principles are unaffected by adverse soil conditions value of these properties in our certificate.
attached hereto, to which we draw Adjustments should be made elsewhere or environmental contamination, except your attention.
where we have been notified to the in your accounts for any partial interests.
Should it, however, be We have inspected the top 30 properties Our valuation of the property at the established subsequently that by value, a third of the remainder and all Parishes Shopping Centre, Scunthorpe contamination exists at any property properties acquired over the last twelve does not take into account the cost of or on any neighbouring land or that the months.
For each property we have incentives that are likely to be required premises have been or are being put to made relevant local enquiries and obtained by tenants in order to secure lettings.
a contaminative use, this might reduce such other information as we considered Our valuation is therefore gross of these the values now reported.
necessary to provide you with our costs.
We understand that an estimate opinions of value.
Unless expressly advised to the of these costs is reflected elsewhere in Quintains Estates and Development contrary we assume that appropriate No allowance has been made in our insurance cover is and will be available PLC company accounts.
valuations for expenses of realisation or on commercially acceptable terms for any taxation which might arise in the Having regard to the foregoing, we relating to composite panels, terrorism event of a disposal and our valuations are of the opinion that the aggregate and flooding.
Accordingly, our opinions are expressed as exclusive of any Value of the market values of the freehold and of value make no allowance for the risk Added Tax that may become chargeable.
leasehold properties, as at 31 March that insurance cover for any property 2004, subject to and with the benefit may not be available, or may only be Our valuations assume that there of the tenancies then subsisting where available on onerous terms, or for any is good and marketable title to the applicable, was: adverse market reaction to the presence properties and that they are free of of composite panels.
any undisclosed burdens, outgoings, 552,295,750 FIVE HUNDRED AND FIFTY TWO MILLION TWO restrictions or charges.
We have not From 10 April 2003 Stamp Duty HUNDRED AND NINETY FIVE THOUSAND SEVEN read all documents of title nor leases HUNDRED AND FIFTY POUNDS relief at 100% was introduced in and, for the purpose of our valuations, Disadvantaged Areas on all non-residential have accepted the details of tenure, Categorised as follows: property transactions.
This measure has tenancies and all other relevant information only been given approval until 2006, with which we have been supplied by Freehold and Feuhold 370,720,000 following a review of EU State Aid rules, your Company or other professional Long leasehold 159,550,000 or earlier, should the Government seek advisers.
We have not seen or read the to amend Stamp Duty in the interim.
planning consents and have assumed Short leasehold 16,875,750 The classification of Disadvantaged that the buildings have been erected Areas is based on a deprivation index, and are being occupied and used in Part Freehold and Part Leasehold translated to electoral wards.
It would accordance with all requisite consents 5,150,000 appear that investors are prepared to and that there are no outstanding increase their bids in circumstances statutory notices.
In accordance with our normal where there is competition from other practice, we confirm that this Report purchasers.
The extent to which this is confidential to the Company directors occurs is likely to depend upon the 47 Quintain Estates and Development PLC Annual Report 2004 External Valuation Reports From FPDSavills Commercial Limited for the specific purpose to which it refers.
Land Holdings at Greenwich which have been provided to you and No responsibility is accepted to any third and Wembley which are available for inspection at We confirm that we have inspected the party, and neither the whole of the Report, your offices by interested parties.
nor any part, nor reference thereto, may above properties and made all relevant enquiries in order to provide you with our Yours faithfully be published in any document, statement or circular, nor any communication with opinion of Market Value as at 31 March 2004 of the various property interests Stephen R Reasbeck MRICS third parties without our prior written Director approval of the form and context in which Quintain Estates and Development PLC hold at the Greenwich Peninsula, For and on behalf of FPDSavills which it will appear.
Commercial Limited London SE10 and at The Wembley Finally, we confirm that the above Complex & the Palace of Industry, valuation has been carried out by us London HA9.
as External Valuers, qualified for the We confirm that our valuations have purposes of the valuation in accordance with the requirements of the Practice been carried out in accordance with the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors Statements in the RICS Appraisal and Valuation Standards.
Appraisal and Valuation Standards and that we have carried out the valuation Yours faithfully as External Valuers, qualified for the purpose of the valuation in accordance Roger D Norman MRICS with the Standards.
Our valuations have National Director been made on the basis of the definition, For and on behalf of terms of reference, information sources, Jones Lang LaSalle Limited assumptions and conditions as noted in our formal Valuation Certificate dated 18 May 2004.
Having carefully considered this matter, we have reported our opinion of Market Value as at 31 March 2004 of the Freehold and other interests held, subject to and with the benefit of the existing leases and otherwise with vacant possession, at an aggregate of 216,400,000 Two Hundred and Sixteen Million Four Hundred Thousand Pounds.
Our Valuation Certificate comments on the high degree of subjectivity in this instance for both properties and various other property specific matters.
This letter is a shortform confirmation of our valuation for inclusion in the Companys Report and Accounts.
No reliance should be placed upon it without simultaneous reference to our formal Valuation Certificate, copies of
