20 Quintain Estates and Development PLC Annual Report 2004 Board of Directors Board of Directors Nigel Ellis Adrian Wyatt Rebecca Worthington Nick Shattock James Hamilton Stubber Nigel Ellis Adrian Wyatt Rebecca Worthington Finance Director Chairman Chief Executive Aged 65, a Chartered Accountant, Nigel Aged 56, Adrian established Quintain Aged 32, Rebecca joined Quintain in joined Quintain in 1995 as a non-executive in 1992.
As Chief Executive and Deputy March 1998 as Group Accountant.
In July director following his retirement from BAA Chairman, he is responsible for all areas 2001 she was appointed Finance Director Plc, where he was Group Finance Director of the Groups strategy and is closely with additional responsibility for Quintains from 1988.
Prior to that he was Finance involved with all acquisitions and disposals.
She had previously held Director of Hammerson Plc.
He is also a member of the Donations the position of Company Secretary from and Nominations Committees.
Nigel became Chairman of Quintain in March 1996, and is also Chairman Prior to the formation of Quintain, Rebecca qualified as a Chartered of its Nominations Committee.
Adrian spent time as a Portfolio Manager Accountant with  for Jones Lang LaSalle, where he gained in 1997 and worked as Financial Controller Nick Shattock extensive experience of tax planning for Britton Group plc prior to joining Quintain.
Property Director and financial structures as a Proprietary Aged 44, a lawyer, Nick joined Quintain Partner in charge of fund management in 1995 from the City law firm SJ Berwin and founder of its finance company.
where he was a partner for five years.
James Hamilton Stubber Nick heads Quintains Special Projects Chief Operating Officer division which manages the Groups larger Aged 49, James joined Quintain in assets, complex restructuring and urban October 2002 from Jones Lang LaSalle regeneration programme.
Projects include where he was a National Director leading the major regeneration opportunities on a specialised Transaction Services Team.
the Greenwich Peninsula and at Wembley.
He advised property companies and banks on acquisitions, valuations, mergers and Nick is also the Chairman of Wembley IPOs and also advised the Government London Limited which operates the on the privatisation of the UKs Wembley Arena, Conference and electricity industry.
In addition to his responsibilities at Quintain as Chief Operating Officer, James also oversees the Groups investment property portfolio and is developing the Groups team, strategy and business model for joint ventures in the private and public sectors.
21 Quintain Estates and Development PLC Annual Report 2004 Board of Directors David Pangbourne The Hon.
Barbara Thomas Joan MacNaughton John Plender Martin Meech David Pangbourne The Hon.
Barbara Thomas Joan MacNaughton Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Aged 64, David was appointed to the Aged 57, Barbara was appointed Aged 53, Joan MacNaughton was board in August 2001.
He is a Chartered to the board of Quintain in March 2000. appointed as a non-executive director Accountant and spent most of his working She is a lawyer, an international banker of the Group on 27 January this year.
life with Deloitte & Touche where he was a and entrepreneur.
partner for 24 years until retiring in 1997.
Joan has worked for the Civil Service Formerly Barbara was a Commissioner of the throughout her career, gaining wide-ranging David had a special interest in taxation US Securities & Exchange Commission and experience and detailed knowledge of in the UK and internationally.
He has an executive director of Samuel Montagu numerous government departments and experience in working with substantial and News International, amongst others.
policy sectors and the private sector.
Since multinational companies, including those January 2002 she has held the position of involved in property, on a wide variety Barbara currently holds a number of Director General, Energy within the DTI.
directorships including Chairman of Private Previous positions included Director Equity Investor Plc, Deputy Chairman of General, Policy Lord Chancellors David is Chairman of the Groups Audit Friends Provident plc and the Financial Department, Chief Executive Police and Remuneration Committees and Reporting Council as well as a director of Information Technology Organisation and a member of its Nominations and Capital Radio plc.
She is also Chairman of Principal Private Secretary to the Rt Hon.
the Professional Standards Advisory Board Kenneth Clarke, the Rt Hon.
Michael of the Institute of Directors.
Howard and Lord Whitelaw while he was Deputy Prime Minister.
Martin Meech Non-Executive Director Barbara is a member of the Groups Audit, Remuneration, Nominations and Donations Joan is a member of the Groups Audit, Aged 46, Martin was appointed to the board in July 2000.
Committees and is the Senior Independent Remuneration, Nominations and Director.
Having gained considerable prior John Plender experience in property at director level Martin joined the Dixons Group in 1993 Non-Executive Director Aged 59, John joined the Company as Group Property and Development Director, and since January 1999 has as a non-executive director in July 2002. been Managing Director of Dixons Group Retail Properties Limited.
John trained as a Chartered Accountant and is a former chairman of PIRC.
He Martin is currently a non-executive is currently a leading journalist with the Financial Times, and brings to the Group director of Holborn Public Relations Limited, Currys Group plc and DSG Retail Limited, a wide experience in both investment and corporate governance issues.
and a Fellow of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors.
Martin is Chairman John is a member of the Groups Audit, of the Groups Donations Committee and a member of its Audit, Remuneration Remuneration, Nominations and Donations Committees.
