22 23 Directors report for the year ended 31 March 2004 The directors present their report and the Groups audited financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2004.
Principal activities and review of the business The principal activities of the Group during the year were the ownership and management of airport facilities at various locations throughout the world and the provision of airport services at various locations in the US.
These activities and the likely future development of the Group are reviewed in the Chairmans Statement and the Operating and Financial Review.
Results for the year and dividends The results for the year are set out in the consolidated profit and loss account on page 32 and show a profit before tax of 6.2m 2003: 11.2m.
The directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 1.60 pence per share which, if approved by shareholders, will be paid on 1 October 2004 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 3 September 2004.
This is in addition to the payment of an interim dividend of 0.70 pence per share which was paid on 2 January 2004.
The total dividend of 2.30 pence 2003: 2.30 pence will leave a retained loss of 13.7m 2003: 7.7m to be transferred to reserves.
Directors The directors who held office during the year were: Executive directors Non-executive directors Keith Brooks Gareth Jones Larry Gouldthorpe Charles Scott Paul Kehoe Tim Simon resigned 1 August 2003 Caroline Price G Stanley Thomas G Stanley Thomas and Charles Scott will retire by rotation at the Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, submit themselves for re-election.
The Board acknowledges that Mr Thomas has served as a director for more than ten years and Mr Scott for more than six years and confirms that the performance of both continues to be effective and that they continue to show commitment to their roles.
The interests and options of the directors in the issued share capital of the Company are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report.
Substantial interests Interests in 3% or more of the issued share capital which have been notified to the Company, in accordance with Part VI of the Companies Act 1985 as at 8 June 2004 are as follows: Number of Percentage of ordinary shares allotted share capital Vinci Airports UK Limited 83,250,000 14.90% Deutsche Bank AG 36,618,187 6.55% Dermot Desmond 28,406,660 5.08% North Atlantic Value LLP 20,847,867 3.73% In addition to the shareholdings above the Chairman, G Stanley Thomas, held 52,250,000 ordinary shares representing 9.35% of the allotted share capital.
Peter Thomas and Mary Case both direct relatives of G Stanley Thomas and their immediate families held 37,490,000 and 17,454,580 ordinary shares respectively, representing 6.71% and 3.12% of the allotted share capital respectively.
Donations During the year ended 31 March 2004 the Group made charitable donations amounting to 90,000 2003: 68,000.
Of this, the largest amount was 60,000 paid to the Noahs Ark Appeal with the balance paid to a number of other registered charities.
TBI Annual report and accounts 2004 Policy on payment to creditors The Groups current policy concerning the payment of the majority of its trade creditors is to follow the Better Payments Practice Code published by the Department of Trade and Industry.
A copy of this code and information about it may be obtained from the Department of Trade and Industry, No.
For other suppliers, the Groups policy is to: settle the terms of payment with those suppliers when agreeing the terms of each transaction ensure that those suppliers are made aware of the terms of payment by inclusion of the relevant terms in contracts pay in accordance with its contractual and other legal obligations The payment policy applies, without exception, to all payments to creditors for revenue and capital supplies of goods and services.
The Groups average creditor payment period at 31 March 2004 was 49 days 2003: 38 days and that of the Company was 26 days 2003: 14 days.
Corporate social responsibility The Group recognises its responsibility to the communities which are affected by its businesses and continually reviews its policies with regard to social, ethical and environmental matters.
Where matters in any of these categories may materially affect the business of the Group, that matter is recorded in a risk register, which is reviewed periodically by the Board.
Environmental policy Specifically the Group aims to: comply with environmental legislation continually assess, and where possible improve, the impact of its operations on the environment include environmental considerations in its investment decisions use energy efficiently progressively seek similar environmental standards of the Groups customers, suppliers and business partners The Group is committed to providing the knowledge, skills and resources needed to support an effective environmental policy within its wider commercial objectives.
During the year, the Group has, in partnership with specialist environmental consultants, continued the development of an Environmental Management System EMS, with the object of consistent management of environmental issues, the establishment and measurement of meaningful performance standards, the promotion of best practice throughout the Group and the development of a reputation for environmental management which will attract support and investment.
Each of the Groups businesses has identified its main environmental risks and impacts and appointed an officer with responsibility for championing the implementation of the EMS locally.
Guidelines on the management of environmental issues have been issued to all of the Groups businesses and a series of environmental performance indicators has been developed for the Group.
An environmental awareness training programme has commenced in the UK and is being extended throughout the Group.
Environmental audits are conducted concurrently with our established programme of operational assessments.
During the year, the Group participated for a third successive time in the Business in the Environment Index of Corporate Environmental Engagement and improved its overall score by over 5%.
While airports make a major economic and social contribution to the community, it is recognised that they have an environmental impact.
The Groups businesses aim to take appropriate action to mitigate or remedy this impact, including the following: Air noise: a number of noise mitigation measures have been implemented to reduce the impact of noise generated by aircraft movements at our airports, including the use of preferential routes and monitoring.
During the year, a reduction of 26% in the number of noise complaints from our UK airports neighbours was achieved.
Water management: airports consume large amounts of water and produce effluent containing chemicals that can influence the environment.
During the year, efficiency measures assisted in the reduction in water usage at our UK airports by 11%.
Air quality: airport studies have shown that, while aircraft and vehicles are significant sources of emissions, regional background pollution is a large contributor to air quality in neighbouring communities.
Although the Group has no direct influence on aircraft emissions, it can control other ground level emissions by requiring aircraft on stand to use fixed electrical ground power.
Waste: studies have shown that between 60% and 70% of waste generated at airports originates from aircraft.
The Groups airports are promoting various recycling schemes.
Ground noise: the Groups airports are using the best practical means to reduce emissions from ground based sources, such as construction activities, engine testing and aircraft movements.
Energy: the Group is committed to helping the UK Government meet its obligations under the Kyoto and other agreements.
During the year, the Groups energy consumption was reduced.
TBI Annual report and accounts 2004 24 25 Directors report for the year ended 31 March 2004 continued Employment of disabled persons The Groups policy for the employment of disabled persons gives full and fair consideration to all applications for employment made by such persons, having regard to their aptitudes and abilities and to the Groups operational requirements.
Once employed, a career plan is developed so as to ensure suitable opportunities for each disabled person.
Arrangements are made, where possible, for retraining employees who become disabled, to enable them to perform work identified as appropriate to their aptitudes and abilities in line with the Groups operational requirements.
Employee involvement During the year, regular consultations and briefings took place with employees and their representatives to increase their knowledge and understanding of the Groups performance and the financial and economic factors which affect it, and to enable the Group to take into account the views of the employees and their representatives when making decisions likely to affect employees interests.
The interests of employees in the defined benefit pension schemes were represented throughout the year by the trustees of those schemes.
The TBI Sharesave Scheme, referred to in the Directors Remuneration Report, encourages the involvement of employees in the Groups performance.
Auditors  LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in office as auditors and a resolution to re-appoint them will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting to be held at noon on 30 July 2004 at the Hilton Cardiff Hotel.
By Order of the Board R C Clifton Secretary 10 June 2004 TBI Annual report and accounts 2004
