The Davis Service Group Plc 21 Report and accounts 2004 Directors report The directors present their annual report and financial statements for the year ended 31st December 2004.
Financial results The financial results for the year are set out on page 24.
The profit for the year before tax was 53.4 million which compares with 26.8 million for the previous year.
After taxation, the profit attributable to ordinary shareholders is 26.2 million 2003: 10.0 million.
Ordinary dividends paid and proposed amount to 33.7 million 2003: 31.4 million.
Financial review The principal activities and a review of the results and future prospects are dealt with in the Chairmans statement, the Chief Executives review and the financial review on pages 2 to 13.
Dividends The directors recommend a final dividend of 11.25 pence per share to be paid on 4th May 2005 to shareholders on the register at 15th April 2005 which, together with the dividend of 5.25 pence paid in October 2004, makes a total dividend for the year of 16.50 pence 2003: 15.6 Pence.
Directors The current directors of the company are set out on page 14.
Each served throughout the year ended 31st December 2004 except Philip Rogerson and Per Utnegaard who were appointed on 28th June 2004 and 5th January 2005 respectively.
Christopher Kemball and Paul Smeeth retire by rotation at the annual general meeting and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
Paul Smeeth has a service agreement with Elliott Group Limited which is terminable by either party giving to the other one years notice in writing.
Philip Rogerson and Per Utnegaard, as directors appointed by the board during the year, offer themselves for election by the shareholders.
As non-executive directors, Christopher Kemball, Philip Rogerson and Per Utnegaard each have a three year written contract with one months notice.
The interests of the current directors, together with those of their families, in the shares of the company, are included in the report on directors remuneration which is set out on pages 17 to 20.
Share capital Details of the movements in the year are set out in note 21.
Substantial shareholdings As at 24th February 2005 the following shareholders had notied interests in the companys ordinary share capital: Material interests in 3% or more: % Aviva 3.0 Fidelity Investment Services 6.0 Prudential plc 6.0 Entire interests in 10% or more: Silchester International Investors Limited 15.8 Changes in composition of the group The group acquired the businesses and net assets of a number of small textile maintenance operations during the year.
These transactions have been accounted for as acquisitions in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard No 6.
Details of the fair value of net assets acquired and consideration paid are set out in note 29 to the financial statements.
On 21st January 2004 HSS Hire Service Group was sold: further details of this transaction are set out in note 4 b.
Share capital As in previous years, resolutions will be proposed at the annual general meeting to authorise the directors to allot shares up to approximately one-third of the companys issued share capital, of which up to approximately 5% may be issued for cash.
The two resolutions numbers 10 and 11 are set out in full in the Notice of Meeting on page 51.
No issue will be made which would effectively alter the control of the company without the prior approval of shareholders in general meeting.
The directors have no present intention of exercising this authority.
Purchase of own shares In certain circumstances it may be advantageous for the company to purchase it own shares.
A special resolution number 12 will be proposed at the annual general meeting to seek authority from shareholders to do so, such authority to expire on the date of the next following annual general meeting or a date 18 months from the date of the resolution, whichever is the earlier.
The directors intend to exercise this power only if and when, in the light of market conditions prevailing at the time, they believe that the effect of such purchases will be in the best interests of shareholders generally.
Other investment opportunities, appropriate gearing levels and the overall position of the company will be taken into account before deciding upon this course of action.
The resolution species the maximum number of shares which may be acquired being 10% of the companys issued share capital and the maximum and minimum prices at which they may be purchased.
The shareholders authority granted at the 2004 annual general meeting remains valid until the next annual general meeting.
Political and charitable donations Financial contributions to charities and good causes during the year amounted to 13,000 2003: 8,000.
There were no political donations.
Social, environmental and ethical matters SEE Since the acquisition of Sophus Berendsen in 2002 we have been coordinating and developing our approach to managing our Corporate Social Responsibilities CSR.
The board has decided that the further coordination and planning of this should become the responsibility of the new Chief Executive and we will be reporting on these activities in our Operating and Financial Review OFR in the 2005 Annual Report.
Until such time as we report our strategy and key performance indicators in this area, our current focus on social, environmental and ethical matters can be summarised under four headings:
