Who we are 1 2 Berkeleys unrivalled understanding of the land Underpinning the success of Berkeley is a Berkeley is a leader in the development and home building markets is powerful combination of its willingness to business of urban regeneration built on a matrix of key factors: innovate and take on projects most others shy away from.
Allied to this is a confidence in Britain.
Pioneering Vision that flows from the experience and financial strength Berkeley has built up over the past Management Expertise decade and more.
No other company has Over 95% of Berkeleys such a breadth and depth of management developments take place on Superb Land Holdings experience, gained at the cutting edge of the home building industry.
Product Quality and Diversity Berkeley: Marketing Flair Jim Farrer and Tony Pidgley, Encourages innovation the Groups Managing Director, Financial Strength Rewards entrepreneurial flair founded Berkeley over a Nurtures its strong brands quarter of a century ago.
Never forgets the demands of a cyclical industry Berkeley has been one of the outstanding successes of the Has built a sound capital base land development industry.
Invests in new opportunities 2 www.
co. uk 1 The Pumphouse, New River Village, Berkeleys vision is delivered through a number of strongly Hornsey, N8 branded divisions.
These are managed in an autonomous 2 Leybourne Lakes, Larkfield, Kent 3 Salamanca Square, Albert Embankment, SE1 manner, but each is able to draw on the financial strength 4 Brewery Square, Clerkenwell, EC1 and management experience at the heart of the Group.
3 4 One of the most respected property Crosby takes a leading role in the renaissance This is the Groups dedicated commercial developers in London and the South-East of cities outside of the South-East with major property developer and investor, with successes of England.
With 25 years of experience, its developments across the Midlands and the to its name such as the award winning portfolio includes contemporary apartments, North of England.
redevelopment of Gunwharf Quays in traditional townhouses, conversions Portsmouth.
of period buildings and a range of mixed-use developments.
Gunwharf Quays, one of Berkeley Homes key This is a company established by the Group This is the Groups dedicated developer of regeneration sites, recently beat 180 other to create new sustainable settlements key worker and student accommodation.
entries to win English Partnerships coveted and help meet agreed housing needs in It delivers well designed and conveniently Partnership in Regeneration Award alongside the countryside.
located affordable homes that key workers a BURA British Urban Regeneration and students can feel proud of.
This is a joint venture company founded in St John Homes operates exclusively in the 1997, between The Berkeley Group and outer North London boroughs and surrounding In 2002, St George became the first property Thames Water.
It has gained a formidable counties.
St John Homes will be focusing on developer to be awarded the prestigious reputation for introducing a new level of large-scale regeneration projects.
innovation to home building in London and the South-East.
