MANAGERS REPORT INTRODUCTION With the FTSE All-Share Index up by 12.8% in total return terms, 2004 witnessed a continuation of the recovery in the UK stockmarket that began in 2003.
Small companies as measured by the Hoare Govett Smaller Companies Index Excluding Investment Companies HGSC XIC rose by 20.7% and thus surpassed their larger peers for a fifth year in six.
ASCoT enjoyed a strong year in both absolute and relative terms, recording a total return of 28.7%.
INVESTMENT BACKGROUND Credit should be given where credit is due.
The US economy was largely responsible for a year of above average global economic expansion: its GDP growth was almost two and a half times higher than that of the Euro area.
The American expansion has familiar foundations.
Domestically, in an environment of historically low interest rates, consumer spending has continued apace and the personal savings rate has moved close to zero.
A widening budget deficit has provided additional stimulus, as government spending has risen and taxes have fallen.
A third element has been the continuing symbiosis with the economies of East Asia, as dollars spent by American consumers on imports from those countries have been recycled to the US through purchases of dollar assets, in particular government bonds.
While this happy combination has fostered a robust economic recovery, it has been achieved with the assumption of risk and is precariously reliant on the maintenance of imbalances within the global economy.
The past year has witnessed challenges to the status quo.
Perhaps the most notable development in that regard has been the continued slide in the dollar, which in 2004 fell by a further 7% against the euro to leave it 39% below its October 2000 peak.
Weakness in the dollar is not entirely unexpected: a corollary of the mutually beneficial relationship between the US and East Asia is a widening American current account deficit, which is forecast to exceed 6% of GDP in 2005.
Though the dollars status as reserve currency might slow the process, history suggests that a deficit of this size is unsustainable and that currency devaluation is not an uncommon solution.
Such a course of action is not, however, without risk: it invites a competitive response from other nations and, by reducing the overseas appetite for dollar assets, jeopardises a key element of the relationship between the US and East Asia.
In the context of the dollars slide and the present rate of economic expansion, US monetary policy appears relatively loose: despite five increases from mid year 2004, interest rates remain close to the rate of ination.
In part, this might reect concern about the sustainability of growth, particularly in view of the rapid ination in the price of oil and other commodities.
Driven by anxiety about supply from the Middle East and also recovering demand, the oil price rose dramatically in 2004: though down by roughly one fifth from its October peak, it ended the year up by roughly one half from its January level.
The UK, while not immune from these global developments, has enjoyed a degree of insulation.
Its indigenous oil supply has brought offsetting benets, while the impact of oil price ination has been alleviated by the large proportion of the petrol price that is accounted for by tax.
Moreover, given that oil is traded in dollars, sterlings 7% rise in 2004 against the US currency provided some mitigation.
However, in undermining the profitability of those British companies exporting to or with subsidiaries in the US, sterlings resilience is not wholly good news.
The strong currency also serves to add extra rigour to the monetary conditions in the UK and may mean that interest rates do not need to rise as far as would otherwise have been the case.
Though inationary pressures remain evident in rising input prices and wage costs, there are indications that the five rate increases since November 2003 are having their intended effect on activity, with the rate of house price ination starting to fall.
A steady cooling of the housing market should be welcomed.
While its implications for consumer 10 MANAGERS REPORT spending are negative, other sectors of the economy appear capable of taking up the strain.
It would appear that the Chancellors commitment to his golden rule need not compromise the Governments spending plans.
And, more encouragingly, the corporate sector is in good health.
Similar to their American counterparts, British management teams have spent the last two years focused on strengthening balance sheets and restoring profit margins.
profits as a proportion of GDP have now returned to levels similar to those of 1999 and the corporate sector has recorded a financial surplus i. e. it has reduced debt in each of the last ten reported quarters.
Companies are therefore in a good position to step up their levels of investment or, in the absence of sufciently attractive opportunities, return cash to shareholders in the form of dividends and share buybacks.
At the very least, the UK corporate sector appears more able today to withstand the headwinds of rising interest rates, input cost pressures and currency gyrations than was the case two years ago.
INVESTMENT PERFORMANCE Small companies recorded a year of strong absolute and relative gains, with the HGSC XIC up by 20.7% in total return terms, eight percentage points ahead of the FTSE All-Share Indexs return.
Such a performance in the face of rising interest rates is noteworthy.
Although recent research suggests that the small company universe has lower financial gearing than the large, it is biased towards sectors such as Retail, Building and Engineering whose revenues are more exposed to the vagaries of the economic cycle.
Traditionally, therefore, rising interest rates, which usually herald a slowdown in economic activity, have tended to lead to periods of small company under-performance.
The following factors are worthy of consideration in trying to understand the present resilience of small companies.
First, with the Bank of England now independent, interest rates may be set more proactively than was previously the case and, accordingly, may not have to rise as far.
Furthermore, by virtue of the focus on cost control and cash generation noted above, small companies entered the present phase of monetary tightening with lower debt levels than at comparable points in previous cycles and were able to report strong results throughout 2004.
Indeed, evidence available to your Managers suggests that small companies raised their dividends more quickly than did their larger peers.
Finally, the impact of the weaker dollar has had a more direct effect on the profitability of larger companies, which tend to have more extensive operations in the US.
Small companies, by contrast, rely more on European markets, which is not wholly positive given the sluggish economic performance in much of Europe.
Whenever seeking to explain the relative performance of small and large companies, the contrasting index proles should be taken into account.
The large company universe has a remarkable degree of concentration in just four sectors: at the end of 2004, Banks, Oil & Gas, Pharmaceuticals and Telecoms represented 50% of FTSE All-Share Index, up from 30% ten years earlier.
These sectors accounted for just 8% of the small cap universe.
Indeed, the UKs 10 listed Banks alone are worth almost two and half times the HGSC XIC s 662 companies.
Therefore, irrespective of the merits of the small company worlds many businesses, the fortunes of a small number of big companies can, in any given period, determine the relative performance and valuation of small against large.
It is worth noting that this situation seems likely to become more extreme if, as is expected, the full value of the Royal Dutch Shell group of companies is included in the FTSE All-Share Index later this year.
ASCoT fared well against this background, generating a total return of 28.7%.
The following paragraphs and numerical Performance Attribution Analysis give some detail as to how this performance was achieved.
11 MANAGERS REPORT Performance Attribution Analysis 12 Months to 31 December 2004 Basis Points Stock Selection 830 Sector Selection 137 Attributable to the portfolio of investments 967 Cash 67 Undistributed Revenue 51 Management Fee charged to Capital 59 Total Attribution 892 Note: 100 basis points 1%.
Total Attribution is the difference between the capital only performance of the net asset value and the Benchmark Index i. e. net asset value 26.20%: Benchmark Index 17.28%: difference is 8.92% being 892 basis points.. Sector selection was responsible for 14% of the portfolios out-performance.
It was appropriately aligned i. e. either a lower exposure than the benchmark in those sectors that performed poorly or a higher exposure in those that performed well in 20 of the 31 sectors that constitute the HGSC XIC.
One sector, however, dominated: Oil & Gas accounted for 86% of the contribution from sector selection.
The portfolio entered 2004 with a signicantly greater exposure than the benchmark to this sector, which was up by 76% over the year.
Information Technology Hardware made the only other noteworthy contribution to sector selection, with the portfolios relatively low weighting being justied by the sectors 23% fall.
As testament to the caprices of the stockmarket, these two sectors were the most damaging to ASCoTs performance in 2003..
When assessing the suitability of a stock for ASCoTs portfolio, your Managers focus on understanding the underlying business and on determining an appropriate entry price.
Consistent with this, it can be observed that in periods of good relative performance ASCoT tends to enjoy a greater contribution from stock selection, which measures the performance of the portfolios investments in each sector against that sectors benchmark return.
This was the case in 2004, when stock selection accounted for 86% of the portfolios out-performance..
In any year, a portfolio of 116 companies will, inevitably, yield a number of accidents as some businesses fail to match the stockmarkets expectations.
Perhaps reecting the benign trading conditions that prevailed in 2004, the portfolio did not endure many such mishaps: the impact of the most poorly performing stock was less than one third of 2003s worst performer.
At the other end of the spectrum, 2004s top ten winners cumulatively accounted for 39% of the portfolios rise, against 31% in 2003.
Of these top ten contributors, seven were companies that were in the list of ASCoTs largest 20 investments at the beginning of the year..
The importance of these larger holdings highlights the dual tasks of stock selection: first the identication of attractively valued companies and then the allocation to those companies of an appropriate amount of investors capital.
The allocation of capital is typically not an isolated event but takes place over time as greater familiarity with the companies is gained and as the stockmarket offers opportunities to add to holdings.
The dynamic nature of the process is perhaps evident in the five year average holding period of ASCoTs top ten winners in 2004.
ASCoT benefited from a good year for corporate activity within the small company world.
Nine holdings were acquired, with another three subject to mergers.
As was the case in 2003, the buyers tended to be other corporates, which can often cite synergies with their existing businesses to justify paying higher prices than private equity houses.
In addition to these outright takeovers, ASCoT also benefited from share repurchases by 12 of its holdings.. As was agged in last years Managers Report, returns of capital, whether through dividends, share repurchases or takeovers, have been offset by new issuance of equity.
There were 21 initial public offerings IPOs in the HGSC XIC last year, up from 8 in 2003.
ASCoT ended the year with holdings in five businesses that oated in 2004.
This level of participation is unusual since IPOs are often priced at levels that your Managers do not believe reect the risks of investing in companies untested in the quoted arena.
While the valuations of the five companies noted previously were sufciently compelling to warrant an allocation of capital, they cumulatively represented just 2.6% of the portfolio at the end of the year to reect greater unfamiliarity.
It is worth noting that IPO frequency within ASCoTs benchmark was as nothing compared with the frenzied activity in the Alternative Investment Market AIM, which, excluding investment companies, accepted 271 new issues in 2004..
The portfolios dividend experience has been encouraging.
There were 116 companies in the portfolio at the end of 2004.
Of these, it is the policy of 11 not to pay a dividend.
A further four were IPOs during the year and have not yet commenced paying dividends, though have indicated an intention to do so.
Of the remaining companies, three cut their payouts, 14 held them unchanged and 84 reported increases.
The median company within the 101 raised its dividend by 8.9%.
Although this gure does not fully reect ASCoTs actual receipts, since the portfolio is actively managed and a specic rate of dividend growth is not targeted, the analysis does hint at the underlying health of many businesses within the small company universe.
INVESTMENT OUTLOOK The UK stockmarket has enjoyed two consecutive years of real returns substantially in excess of the 5-7% level that can be reasonably expected over the long term.
The FTSE All-Share Indexs 60% total return, in nominal terms, since its low in March 2003 reects a resumption of robust economic growth in much of the world as low interest rates have had their desired effect.
Companies have seen this improving demand coincide with the benets of their cost cutting actions to produce a period of strong profit and dividend growth.
As ever, however, there are challenges looming to this felicitous union of rising revenues and falling costs.
In particular, the growth outlook is clouded by the process of rebalancing within the US economy that has been evident in the dollars pronounced weakness.
It is not clear, however, that the dollar alone can alter the American consumers fondness for spending.
Adjustment to higher savings and calming of inationary pressures may well require further tightening of monetary policy to bring real interest rates rmly into positive territory.
Such an adjustment might provoke two concerns for equity investors.
First, with corporate profits as a proportion of GDP nearing cyclically high levels, profit progression might be undermined by a slowing of demand growth.
Secondly, tighter monetary conditions and, in the extreme, renewed concerns about deation might call into question the valuation that investors would be prepared to accord to these profits.
Indeed, higher interest rates would jeopardise the viability of a plethora of investment strategies that over recent years have relied on cheap debt to finance positions in higher yielding but inherently riskier assets.
These speculative strategies have led to historically exaggerated valuations in asset classes such as property, corporate bonds and, in some parts of the world, equities.
13 MANAGERS REPORT It would be unreasonable to expect the UK, as an open economy, to remain unaffected by these broad global trends.
However, a degree of comfort can perhaps be taken from stockmarket valuations that appear modest within the international context.
At the end of 2004, the FTSE All-Share Index traded on a historic PE of 17.3x and on a yield of 3.1%, on both measures roughly in line with the average over ASCoTs life.
Following their strong performance of recent years, small companies are valued in line with large.
31 December 2004 31 December 2003 Characteristics ASCoT Benchmark ASCoT Benchmark Number of Companies 116 662 110 731 Weighted Average Market Capitalisation 349m 374m 341m 334m Price Earnings Ratio Historic 14.5x 16.1x 12.8x 15.0x Net Dividend Yield Historic 2.7% 2.3% 3.1% 2.6% Dividend Cover Historic 2.5x 2.7x 2.5x 2.6x However, by virtue of the size and diversity of the small company universe, your Managers do not suffer from a paucity of attractively valued investment opportunities.
This is reected in ASCoTs portfolio, which at the end of 2004 had both a lower PE and a higher yield than its benchmark.
Moreover, the 10% discount of the portfolios PE to that of the HGSC XIC compares favourably with a 7% average over ASCoTs history.
In putting this portfolio together, your Managers do not believe that the quality of the underlying businesses has been compromised.
Accordingly, it might be hoped that ASCoT can emerge in good condition from the challenges of the coming year.
Sadly, these challenges will not be confronted under the stewardship of Bill Hughes, who is due to retire from ASCoTs Board at the forthcoming AGM, having served as Chairman since launch in December 1990.
Your Managers would like to thank Bill for his exemplary execution of the Chairmans role, which has been evident in the astuteness of his questioning, the prudence of his counsel and his willingness to look through the short term whims of the stockmarket to the creation of long term value for ASCoTs investors.
