DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors have pleasure in submitting the Annual Report and Accounts of the Company for the year to 31 December 2004.
PRINCIPAL ACTIVITY AND STATUS The Company is an investment company as dened in section 266 of the Companies Act 1985 and has been approved by the Inland Revenue as an investment trust, under section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988, up to 31 December 2003.
It is the opinion of the Directors that the Company has subsequently conducted its affairs so as to enable it to continue to obtain such approval.
A review of the Company business during the year is contained in the Chairmans Statement and the Managers Report.
CONTINUATION OF THE COMPANY AND GOING CONCERN BASIS The Company has no xed duration.
However, in accordance with the Articles of Association an   and at every third subsequent Annual General Meeting that the Company continues to manage its affairs as an investment trust.
If such resolution is not passed, the Directors will prepare and submit to Shareholders for approval by special resolution proposals for the unitisation or other reconstruction of the Company.
In putting forward such proposals the Directors will seek, inter alia, to provide Shareholders with a means whereby they can defer any liability to capital gains tax on their investment at that time.
If these proposals are not approved, Shareholders will, within 180 days of the relevant Annual General Meeting, have the opportunity of passing an ordinary resolution requiring the Company to be wound up.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future as the Directors are not aware of , detailedabove, wouldnotbepassed.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS 000 000 Revenue available for dividends 13,085 Interim dividend of 3.75p per Ordinary Share paid 3 September 2004 3,705 Proposed final dividend of 7.25p per Ordinary Share payable 4 March 2005 to Shareholders on the Register at close of business on 4 February 2005 7,164 10,869 Transferred to revenue reserve 2,216 DIRECTORS The Directors who held ofce at 31 December 2004 and their interests in the Shares of the Company as at that date and 1 January 2004 or date of appointment if later were as follows: Ordinary Shares Directors Nature of Interest 2004 2003 W Y Hughes beneficial 36,000 31,000 H N Buchan beneficial 14,330 14,330 M L A Chiappelli beneficial 20,000 10,000 J E G Cran beneficial 26,000 20,500 Prof P R Marsh beneficial 10,000 5,000 Dr W S Nimmo beneficial 10,000 D R Shaw beneficial 10,000 10,000 As at date of appointment being 16 July 2004.
As stated in the separate Corporate Governance Report, the Board wishes to go beyond the minimum requirements of the Companys Articles of Association, The Combined Code and the AITC by having all Directors seek re-election every year.
Therefore, all Directors retire at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 23 February 2005.
Messrs Buchan, Chiappelli, Cran, Shaw and Prof Marsh and Dr Nimmo offer themselves for re-election and election, and biographical details for each are shown on page 6.
Mr Hughes will not be offering himself for re-election and the Board takes this opportunity to thank him for his valuable contribution since the Companys inception in 1990.
ELECTRONIC PROXY VOTING In January 2004, the Shareholder Voting Working Group recommended that at least all FTSE 350 Index constituents introduce electronic voting capabilities.
In line with this recommendation, your Board is pleased to offer electronic proxy voting, including CREST voting capabilities, in connection with the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
You may therefore complete the enclosed form of proxy and return it to Capita Registrars, the Companys registrar, or alternatively, you may register your vote on-line by visiting the Capita Registrars website at www.
In order to register your vote on-line, you will need to enter your name, postal code and ICV code which is given on the form of proxy.
If you are a member of CREST, you may register the appointment of a proxy by using the CREST electronic appointment service.
For further details refer to the CREST manual.
Completion of a form of proxy or the appointment of a proxy electronically will not stop you attending the meeting and voting in person should you so wish.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING SPECIAL BUSINESS Purchase of Own Shares The current authority of the Company to make market purchases of up to 14.99% of the issued Ordinary Shares of theCompany expiresat the end of the Annual GeneralMeeting.
Resolution12, as set out inthe notice of the Annual General Meeting, seeks renewal of such authority until the Annual General Meeting in 2006.
The price paid for shares will not be less than the nominal value of 1p per share nor more than 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for the shares for the five business days immediately preceding the date of purchase.
Any shares purchased under the authority will be automatically cancelled thereby reducing the Companys issued share capital.
There are no outstanding options warrants to subscribe for equity shares in the capital of the Company.
Subject to the requirement that purchases by the Company of its own shares will only be made at a level which enhances NAV, the principal objective of any such purchase will be to seek to sustain as low a discount between the Companys NAV and share price as seems possible.
Accordingly, it is the Boards intention to use the share purchase facility within the guidelines established from time to time by the Board.
Articles of Association The Companies Act 1985 Electronic Communications Order 2000 provides that the appointment of a proxy may, notwithstanding any provision to the contrary in a companys articles, be contained in an electronic communication sent to an address notied for that purpose.
The Directors believe that it is in the interests of the Company and Shareholders that Shareholders have the option to appoint proxies electronically and have therefore made the arrangements described above to allow Shareholders to .
TheDirectors believe it is desirable that the articles are clear and reect the applicable legislation rather than potentiallybeing overridden by it.
The Directorsare therefore  tothearticlesof association set out in resolution 13 to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting, which will specifically permit the electronic appointment of proxies.
21 DIRECTORS REPORT MANAGEMENT Aberforth Partners are Managers and Secretaries to the Company.
These services can be terminated by either party at any time by giving six months notice of termination.
Compensation fees would only be payable in respect to this six month period if termination were to occur sooner.
Aberforth Partners receive a quarterly management fee, payable in advance, equal to one-fifth of one per cent.
of the value of thetotalassets less all liabilitiesofthe Company andaquarterly secretarial fee, payable inadvance, of 14,054 excluding VAT per quarter during 2004.
The secretarial fee is adjusted annually in line with the Retail Prices Index.
Both these fees are subject to VAT which is currently irrecoverable by the Company.
The Board considers the Companys investment management and secretarial arrangements on an ongoing basis and a formal review is conducted annually by the Audit and Management Engagement Committee the Committee.
The Committee considers the following topics in its review: investment performance in relation to the investment policy and strategy: the continuity of personnel managing the assets and reporting to the Board: the level of service provided in terms of the accuracy and timeliness of reports to the Board: and, the frequency and quality of both verbal and written communications with Shareholders.
Following the most recent review the Board, upon the recommendation of the Committee, is of the opinion that the continued appointment of Aberforth Partners as investment managers, on the terms agreed, is in the best interests of Shareholders.
SUBSTANTIAL INTERESTS IN SHARE CAPITAL The Board has been informed of the following substantial interests in the issued share capital of the Company as at 20 January 2005.
Percentage Interested person Held Newton Investment Management Limited 8.6 The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc 3.8 Legal & General Investment Management 3.3 CREDITORS PAYMENT POLICY The Companys creditors payment policy is to agree terms of payment before business is transacted, to ensure suppliers are aware of these terms and to settle bills in accordance with them.
The Company did not have any trade creditors at the year end.
AUDITORS Ernst & Young LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in ofce as auditors and a resolution proposing their re-appointment will be put to the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
By Order of the Board Aberforth Partners, Secretaries 14 Melville Street, Edinburgh EH3 7NS 20 January 2005 22
