COMPANY SUMMARY PERFORMANCE SINCE INCEPTION ON 10 DECEMBER 1990 Absolute Performance Log Scale gures are total returns and have been rebased to 100 at 10 December 1990 BENCHMARK INDEX The Companys performance is measured against the total return on the Hoare Govett Smaller Companies Index Excluding Investment Companies HGSC XIC.
This comprises the bottom 10% of all UK quoted companies by market value which at 1 January 2005 included some 662 companies, the largest market capitalisation of which was 767 million and the aggregate market capitalisation of which was 114 billion.
RISK The Board believes that the Company has a relatively low risk prole in the context of the investment trust industry.
This belief arises from the fact that the Company has a relatively simple capital structure: invests only in small UK quoted companies: has never been exposed to derivatives and does not intend any such exposure: and outsources all the main operational activities to recognised, well-established rms.
Investment in small companies is generally perceived to carry more risk than investment in large companies.
While this is reasonable when comparing individual companies, it is much less so when comparing the volatility of returns from diversied portfolios of small and large companies.
The Board believes the Companys portfolio is diversied.
In addition, since returns from small and large companies are not perfectly correlated, there is an opportunity for investors to reduce risk by holding portfolios of both small and large companies together.
MANAGEMENT FIRM Aberforth Partners are contracted as the investment managers and secretaries to the Company.
Both of these contracts can be terminated by either party at any time by giving six months notice of termination.
Aberforth Partners manage 1.5 billion invested in small UK quoted companies and further information on the rm is set out on page 7.
2 COMPANY SUMMARY MANAGEMENT AND SECRETARIAL FEES The Company pays a quarterly management fee, in advance, equal to 0.2% of the total net assets of the Company at the end of each calendar quarter.
No management fee is charged on any short or long term borrowings used for investment purposes.
This equates to an annual fee of approximately 0.8%.
However, the total fee paid each year may be slightly higher or lower than 0.8% depending on movements in the value of the Companys assets during the year.
The total fee paid for the year to 31 December 2004 was 3,813,000.
The Company also pays a quarterly secretarial fee, in advance, of 14,054, equal to an annual fee of 56,216.
This fee is adjusted annually in line with the Retail Prices Index.
Both these fees are subject to Value Added Tax which is currently irrecoverable by the Company.
SHAREHOLDERS FUNDS AND MARKET CAPITALISATION At 31 December 2004 Ordinary Shares Shareholders Funds 544.6m Market Capitalisation 515.8m CAPITAL STRUCTURE At 31 December 2004, the Companys authorised share capital consisted of 333,299,254 Ordinary Shares of 1p of which 98,809,788 were issued and fully paid.
There were no changes during the year.
At 31 December 2004, the Company was not geared and had no long-term debt outstanding.
The Company does, however, have a bank debt facility of 80 million which the Company can use as gearing at any time.
WIND-UP DATE The Company has no xed duration.
However, in accordance with the Articles of Association, an ordinary resolution will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 23 February 2005 and at every third subsequent Annual General Meeting that the Company continues to manage its affairs as an investment trust.
Further details are set out on page 20.
ISA STATUS The Companys Ordinary Shares are eligible for inclusion in the Stocks and Shares component of an Individual Savings Account.
PEP STATUS The Companys Ordinary Shares qualify for investment in a Personal Equity Plan and the Company intends to maintain this qualication.
AITC The Company is a member of The Association of Investment Trust Companies AITC.
