BG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 Operating and financial review Future prospects Future key projects Long-term growth Exploration: wells planned 2005 For the longer term future additional projects will come from three main streams of NORTH SEA business activity: CANADA ITALY AREAS OF Enhancement of value in PALESTINIAN AUTHORITY existing core assets: Capturing the growth potential of LNG: and SPAIN Creating future value through exploration.
MAURITANIA BRAZIL EGYPT THAILAND TRINIDAD INDIA 30 BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT CORE ASSET ENHANCEMENT allow import capacity to increase from The oil and gas industry benefited from Existing assets in the UK North Sea and in 21 mtpa in 2009 to 35 to 40 mtpa from higher oil and gas prices during 2004.
Kazakhstan are examples of assets where early in the next decade.
The market The Group believes that there are a incremental investments will add value.
access this offers will in turn underpin number of important factors specific In the North Sea, new prospects close development on the supply side, including to the natural gas business that will to existing hubs can be quickly tied into fide-bottlenecking of the existing plants sustain the positive business environment delivery infrastructure, reducing costs and and from new trains at Egyptian LNG and for gas.
In 2004, the US-based Energy lead times and thereby driving good returns.
For the longer term a range of Information Administration EIA In Kazakhstan, the Karachaganak gas greenfield opportunities are under review.
predicted that the compound annual condensate field will be a major driver to EXPLORATION growth rate for global gas consumption BG Groups future production potential The long-term growth programme is also between 2000 and 2025 will substantially through fide-bottlenecking, additional supported by continuing acquisition of exceed those of the other principal condensate processing trains and through exploration acreage in both core assets fossil fuels see graph on page 9 for developing an additional gas project.
our developing markets of Brazil and India was the rationale for the acquisitions in we are looking at additional opportunities Against a background of continuing growth 2004 in Mauritania, Trinidad and Canada.
to further develop our T&D business and in demand, key drivers of government Key prospects in the UKCS, Norway, Egypt in the Philippines we also plan to enhance energy policies around the world include and Brazil have the potential to add to our existing power position.
concern over security of supply and the the material reserves discovered at the LNG GROWTH need to address climate change.
In this beginning of 2005 in the Manatee field context, the Group believes that gas will The growth potential of the LNG portfolio in Trinidad.
have an increasingly important role to has the distinctive features of both play, as it is both more abundant than expansion capacity and flexibility around oil and also results in the lowest carbon timing to allow supply and demand dioxide emissions for a given energy output developments to be synchronised.
Underpinning these Groups ability to offer partners and advantages are the improvements in governments firm market access today the cost structure of gas supply that is opening up new opportunities.
The will continue to ensure the price expansion options embedded within the competitiveness of gas in the marketplace.
Groups portfolio have the potential to
