BG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 Operating and financial review Business overview Group-wide activities A leading player in the global energy market, BG Group is a rapidly Integrated Gas Major growing business with operations in over 20 countries over five continents.
BG Group is principally engaged in exploration and production and the development Connecting gas Secure competitively and supply of existing and emerging to high value markets priced resources gas markets around the world.
Gas Build and access markets Equity reserves discoveries often require complex Serve customers Contracted resources chains of physical infrastructure and commercial agreements to deliver the gas to markets and BG Group has proven skills and experience in creating value from these chains.
Skills to succeed across the gas chain Exploration and Production E&P BG Group has secured long-term contracts are generally entered into with 8 BG Groups high-performing E&P distribution franchises in areas where a government entity or state company activities are the centre of gravity for governments encourage the building of and are sometimes entered into with the Group, with a focus on gas.
gas distribution networks, e. g. the 30 year private owners.
These arrangements concession agreement for Comgas in Brazil.
usually take the form of licences or BG Group has a highly  sharing contracts PSC.
focused culture and is an industry leader Distribution businesses also provide in production growth, unit operating access to the end customer, which BG Groups other activities are also costs and finding and development F&D provides incremental opportunities subject to a broad range of legislation a costs.
Exploration excellence has been e. g. BG Groups Iqara businesses in Brazil and regulations in the various countries key to the Groups success, with a 64% and India which supply co-generation in which the Group operates.
exploration and appraisal success rate in units to customers for electricity and heat.
Many of the countries in which the Group 2004 and more than doubling our proved Power Generation does and expects to do business have reserves since the end of 1999.
Power generation is a key driver of gas recently developed, or are in the process Liquefied Natural Gas LNG demand and BG Groups expertise in this of developing, new regulatory and legal In just three years from securing capacity sector is valuable both in terms of BG structures with a view to helping their gas rights at the Lake Charles regasification Groups own power business and in and power markets grow within a clear terminal in the USA, BG Group has understanding gas industry dynamics.
Additionally, BG Group has a strong portfolio of established itself as one of the leading the Groups operations within the companies in North American LNG modern gas power plants which can European Union EU may be subject to importation.
The USA is the largest and provide high levels of efficiency and EU legislation including Competition law.
flexibility, valued by our customers.
one of the most attractive gas markets in the world and BG Group has a strong Regulatory Environment position with its regasification capacity BG Groups E&P activities are conducted rights at Lake Charles and Elba Island.
The in many different countries and are Group is also developing regasification therefore subject to a broad range of terminals in the UK and Italy.
The Group legislation and regulations.
These cover also has liquefaction plants in Trinidad and virtually all aspects of E&P activities, is developing plants in Egypt.
including, for example, licence award or Transmission and Distribution T&D acquisition, production rates, royalties, BG Group draws on expertise in T&D to pricing, environmental protection, export, invest in strategic assets in developing gas taxes and foreign exchange.
The terms markets to secure high growth and good and conditions of the licences, leases and returns.
Economic development in Brazil contracts under which the Group holds its and India is rapidly increasing demand for gas and oil interests vary from country to gas and power.
These licences, leases and a For an explanation of how BG Group calculates its finding and development costs refer to the definitions on page 149.
