BG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 Corporate governance Group Executive Committee and Company Secretary 1 3 5 2 4 6 46 A description of the Group Executive 3 Ashley Almanza 41 5 Jrn Berget 52 Committee is given on page 42.
Chief Financial Officer Executive Vice President BG Advance 4 Charles Bland 55 1 Frank Chapman 51 Jrn Berget joined BG Group plc in Executive Vice President Policy & Chief Executive November 2004 when he was appointed Corporate Affairs Executive Vice President, BG Advance.
2 William Friedrich 56 Charles Bland joined BG plc in 1999.
He is responsible for the continuing Deputy Chief Executive and He is responsible for government and development of the Groups strategic General Counsel public affairs, brand and marketing, technical and commercial capabilities.
communications, corporate responsibility Before joining BG Group he worked with See page 44 for biographical details.
He was Shell in various roles and has previously appointed to his current position in 2002 worked in Argentina, the Netherlands, having previously been President, Peru, Oman, Brunei and the UK as well BG Kazakhstan, and Vice President, as the US and Norway.
Before joining BG he worked in UK government, holding 6 Peter Duffy 43 various posts in the Ministry of Defence.
Executive Vice President Human Resources Peter Duffy joined BG Group plc in 2001, when he was appointed to his current position with responsibility for all matters relating to human resources strategy and policy.
He has extensive international human resource management experience, particularly in the area of organisation development, performance and change management.
He previously worked for TRW Inc. LucasVarity plc, and British Aerospace plc.
BG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 7 9 11 8 10 12 47 7 Stuart Fysh 48 9 Dave Roberts 44 11 Rick Waddell 45 Executive Vice President & Managing Executive Vice President & Managing Executive Vice President & Managing Director Mediterranean Basin and Africa Director Asia and the Middle East and Director South America Stuart Fysh joined BG plc in 1998 and was Acting Executive Vice President and Rick Waddell joined BG Group plc in 2002 appointed Executive Vice President in Managing Director North West Europe when he was appointed to his current November 2003 with responsibility for the Dave Roberts joined BG Group plc in position.
Based in So Paulo, he is Groups activities in Egypt, Tunisia, Italy and January 2003 when he was appointed to responsible for all upstream and Spain and development activities elsewhere his current position, with responsibility for downstream activities in South America, in the region.
He was appointed Vicethe Groups activities in India, South East including Comgas in So Paulo and President BG Egypt in June 2001 and prior to Asia, the Middle East and Kazakhstan.
He MetroGAS in Buenos Aires.
He is a former that he was Vice-President BG Thailand, assumed his acting EVP role for North senior vice president of Enron Corporation Singapore and Malaysia.
He previously spent West Europe from January 2005.
He was for Latin America and was regional 17 years with the mining, steel and petroleum previously adviser to Chevron Texacos logistics manager for South America with conglomerate BHP, where his various roles vice chairman and director of strategy Wal-Mart International.
included commercial, business development, management for Texacos worldwide corporate planning and research & upstream business.
He has extensive 12 Ben Mathews 38 development.
He has lived and worked in experience in surface and sub-surface Company Secretary Australia, Pakistan, India, Singapore and Egypt.
engineering and technical leadership, Ben Mathews joined BG Group plc in 2002 operations and general management.
and is responsible for all matters relating to 8 Martin Houston 47 the Board, its committees, governance and Executive Vice President & Managing 10 Peter Hughes 48 risk management.
He was appointed Director North America, Caribbean and Executive Vice President Company Secretary on 9 November 2004.
Global LNG Group Strategy and Development He previously worked for National Grid Martin Houston joined British Gas in 1983 Peter Hughes joined BG Group plc in Group plc, British American Tobacco plc and was appointed Executive Vice President January 2005 when he was appointed to and .
He was appointed to his current his current position.
His primary position in September 2003 and is based in responsibility is for developing BG Groups Houston.
Prior to his first EVP appointment long-term strategy.
Prior to joining BG in 2000, he held a number of technical and Group, he was Vice President, Strategy and commercial posts predominantly with an Portfolio for BP Gas, Power & Renewables.
He played a leading role Before this he worked in a range of other in the development of the LNG industry in international roles, including working for Trinidad and was chairman of Atlantic LNG the European Commission in Brussels and from 1996 to 2000.
His most recent positions for Cambridge Energy Research Associates have included President and General CERA as Head of their European Energy Manager of BG Trinidad and Tobago, Director and PanEurAsia Groups, based in Paris.
He of LNG and Vice President of Strategy and also held a number of different positions Portfolio Development.
He is a non-executive during a previous association with BP, director of Severn Trent Plc and a fellow of including international assignments in the Geological Society of London.
Contents 49 Directors report 69 Analysis of cash movement 51 Remuneration report 70 Notes to the accounts 61 Auditors report 110 Results restated under 62 Principal accounting policies International Financial Reporting 64 Consolidated profit and Standards loss account 120 Supplementary information 65 Consolidated statement of total gas and oil recognised gains and losses 125 Historical production 66 Balance sheets 126 Five year financial summary 67 Movement in BG Group 132 Shareholder information shareholders funds 140 Notice of meeting 68 Consolidated cash flow 146 Cross-reference to Form 20-F statement 147 Index 68 Reconciliation of net borrowings 148 Presentation of non-GAAP 69 Analysis of changes in financing measures and glossary during the year 149 Definitions
