Board of Directors John Windeler Aged 61 Peter Barton Aged 67 Richard Pym Aged 55 Chairman Deputy Chairman and Senior Group Chief Executive Appointed to the Board of Independent Director Appointed to the Board of Alliance Alliance & Leicester plc in October Appointed to the Board in May & Leicester in September 1993 1996, John Windeler has extensive 1998, Peter Barton is a solicitor, as Group Finance Director, experience in international money investment banker and a Deputy Richard Pym became Managing and securities markets, formerly Lieutenant of Greater London.
Director, Retail Banking in 2001 as Executive Vice President of His previous career in the financial and was appointed Group Chief Irving Trust Bank, Group Chief services industry included 9 years Executive in 2002.
A Chartered Financial officer at the National with Lehman Brothers Accountant, his previous career Australia Bank and Chief Executive International and 4 years with was with Thomson McLintock & of that banks UK insurance Robert Fleming & Co. His other Co, British Gas plc, BAT Industries division.
He is also a nondirectorships include F&C US plc and The Burton Group plc.
executive director of BMS Smaller Companies plc and the He became a non-executive Associates Limited and RM plc.
Guinness Trust Group, of which director of Halfords plc in May he is Vice Chairman.
He is also 2004, and was a non-executive Chairman of Howard fide Walden director of Selfridges plc from Estates Limited.
David Bennett Aged 42 The Honourable David Brougham Mike McTighe Aged 51 Group Finance Director Aged 64 Non-Executive Director Appointed to the Board in January Non-Executive Director Appointed to the Board in June 2000, David Bennett is responsible Appointed to the Board in 2000, Mike McTighe is currently for financial accounting, planning May 2000, David Brougham has a director of London Metals and reporting, strategic planning, served as Chairman of Chartered Exchange Holdings Ltd and Pace group property services and Trust plc and as an executive Micro Technology plc, and group risk.
He has many years director at Standard Chartered, maintains a small portfolio of experience in the financial sector, where he was on the Board from chairmanships of private equity as Finance Director of Cheltenham 1993 until 1998.
He is a director backed companies.
He was & Gloucester plc and then as an at Hampden Holdings Limited.
formerly Chairman & CEO of Executive Director of the National Carrier 1 International SA, and Bank of New Zealand Ltd. before that Executive Director & Chief Executive, Global Operations of Cable & Wireless plc.
Prior to these appointments, he spent 5 years with Philips of the Netherlands, 5 years with Motorola, and 10 years with GE.
22 Alliance & Leicester Board of Directors Michael Allen Aged 67 Richard Banks Aged 53 Jane Barker Aged 55 Non-Executive Director Managing Director, Non-Executive Director Appointed to the Board in Wholesale Banking Appointed to the Board in January January 2000, Michael Allen was Appointed to the Board in 2004, Jane Barker is a Chartered President, Laundry and Cleaning February 1998, Richard Banks Accountant and Finance Director Products, Procter & Gamble has responsibility for Wholesale of Equitas Limited, the company Europe, and Group Vice President Banking, including the set up to reinsure and run off of The Procter & Gamble Commercial Banking and Treasury the 1992 and prior years non-life Company, having held a number businesses.
He was previously liabilities of Lloyds of London of senior management positions in Distribution Director, Retail Syndicates.
She is also a member the Group.
He is Chairman of Banking, having held a number of the Council of the Open Fiske plc and until March 2004, of senior positions in Alliance & University and Chair of the was a non-executive director of Leicester Commercial Bank plc Audit Committee of the Open Safeway plc.
formerly Girobank plc since he University.
Her previous roles have joined the Company in 1987. included being Finance Director of the London Stock Exchange.
Chris Rhodes Aged 41 Margaret Salmon Aged 57 Jonathan Watts Aged 50 Managing Director, Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Retail Banking Appointed to the Board in Appointed to the Board in May Appointed to the Board in June July 2004, Margaret Salmon 2000, Jonathan Watts is Deputy 2002, Chris Rhodes became is a Fellow of the Institute of Chairman of Hutchison Network Managing Director, Retail Banking Personnel Development and Services and a member of the in October 2003.
He was a Non-Executive Director of Advisory Boards of Telegraph Hill previously the Groups Operations Kingsher plc.
She is also Partners and Exony.
Previously he Director, and has held a number Chairman of the Sector Skills was Managing Director of COLT of senior positions with the Group Development Agency and a Telecommunications, Europes since he joined in 1988, including Director of the University for largest business telephony, Deputy Managing Director and Industry.
Her previous executive data and internet company Finance Director of Alliance & roles have included being Chief and held senior positions in the Leicester Commercial Bank plc Executive, BBC Resources Ltd UK and overseas in a number formerly Girobank plc.
and Group Personnel Director of telecommunications and of The Burton Group.
technology companies, including National Band Three Ltd, Aircall Holdings, Sintrom Plc, Datapoint Corp and Control Data Corp.
