14 This section of our report gives a review of the portfolio which, at the year end, contained 363 investments.
The hoop diagrams below give snapshots of the whole portfolio, first by geography and then by sector.
In the narrative, we list all the investments held in Resources and Basic each sector reviewed which had a year end value Industries greater than 0.1% of the total portfolio valuation.
The exceptions are the sections on investment Capital Goods companies and fixed income where we show all the holdings.
In all, investments equal to 94% of the portfolio by value are shown.
Consumer Goods and Products The table at the top of page 25 summarises the investment changes over the year.
The classification table on page 25 gives a breakdown of the main Services industries in each sector and the percentage of the portfolio held in each geographical area.
As we have Financials explained on pages 12 and 13, some assets are managed on this geographical basis, but others are Investment Companies managed from a global sector perspective.
Fixed Income Investment Changes m UK 799 Classification of Europe 147 The portfolio North America 307 Investments by geography Japan 65 Rest of World 158 Total 1,476 m Resources and Basic Industries 297 Capital Goods 187 Consumer Goods and Products 253 The portfolio Services 324 by sector Financials 340 Investment Companies 40 Fixed Income and Other Net Assets 35 Total 1,476 Figures as at 31 January 2004 Portfolio Review 15 Resources and Basic Industries Oil, Chemicals and Resources m Tight markets and speculative activity in commodity futures Shell Transport & Trading 44.6 BP 42.8 contributed to rising metal and ore prices.
The higher demand for Rio Tinto 15.1 many base resources is in large measure due to Chinas numerous BHP Billiton 14.0 infrastructure projects.
Looking forward, some softening in the pace Exxon Mobil 11.2 of development in China is anticipated, but world economic activity John Wood Group 10.4 is likely to remain healthy, helping to sustain demand.
In the mining Total 7.3 sector we strengthened positions through additions to Rio Tinto and Air Liquide 4.5 BHP Billiton and two relatively new Chinese holdings, Yanzhou Coal PetroChina 4.1 Schlumberger 3.3 and Jiangxi Copper.
British Vita 2.7 The oil price exhibited a different price pattern.
Demand was similarly RPM International 2.6 strong, but, despite this, prices lagged.
An unexpected re-classification Woodside Petroleum 2.5 Johnson Matthey 2.2 of reserves caused our large investment in Shell to perform Burlington Resources 2.1 disappointingly.
Valuations now reflect many of the specific concerns BG Group 2.1 that investors hold.
It is our belief that Shells overall resource base Shin-Etsu Chemical 2.1 can still be profitably exploited.
Croda 2.1 Linde AG 1.9 We carried out modest additions to PetroChina, CNOOC, Burlington BOC Group 1.7 Resources and BG Group.
In chemicals, we sold ICI and reinvested Other Holdings 14 12.0 into new holdings which included BOC.
Total 191.3 m Construction and Building Materials Despite fears that house prices would go into reverse, the UK housing Persimmon 14.3 Wolseley 7.2 market performed strongly.
Prices did fall in the higher end markets Aggregate Industries 4.3 of South East England, but the Midlands, the North East, Wales and Siam Cement 3.2 Scotland all experienced strong growth.
Looking forward, a crash Lafarge 3.2 seems unlikely, but the market is less of a clear one way bet for Crest Nicholson 3.2 house builders.
In this context, company strategy is increasingly Marshalls 2.9 important to stock selection, and mergers are also possible.
Crest Anhui Conch Cement 1.6 Other Holdings 3 3.2 Nicholson, which is decreasing its dependence on the London market, is one holding to which we are adding.
Total 43.1 Building material demand is benefiting from global recovery.
A new holding is Anhui Conch Cement, the largest cement producer in China which is benefiting from spending on infrastructure.
We reduced our holding in Lafarge following its rights issue which we believe to have been poorly justified.
Wolseley has also been reduced as its shift towards acquisitions to achieve growth may increase risk.
16 Portfolio Review m Utilities Regulatory reviews in UK and Europe add to the risk associated with National Grid Transco 7.9 Scottish & Southern 7.0 most of our holdings in this sector.
However, valuations are Scottish Power 6.4 reasonable and initial soundings point to an encouraging regulatory Huaneng Power 6.3 result.
The economic outlook also appears broadly supportive.
We Kelda Group 5.7 participated in United Utilities rights issue which will assist it to Consolidated Edison 4.5 upgrade its asset base, against which the company should hopefully Beijing Datang Power 4.0 earn a favourable return.
We also added to National Grid Transco, Constellation Energy 3.8 Scottish Power and Scottish & Southern but sold Suez, and United Utilities 3.2 Australian Gas Light Company 2.8 Autostrade was taken over.
Hawaiian Electric 2.4 Our exposure to Huaneng Power and Beijing Datang Power, where the WPS Resources 2.4 fundamental investment case continues to be very strong, was Hong Kong & China Gas 2.2 Hong Kong Electric 2.0 increased.
We also purchased a new holding in Hong Kong & China Other Holdings 2 2.2 Gas which looked undervalued following a period of poor investor Total 62.8 sentiment during the SARS crisis, and which offers exposure to the growing Chinese market as well as to recovery in Hong Kong.
In this sector, yields are attractive and dividends are being increased, albeit modestly.
Capital Goods m General Industrial Pentair 4.9 Pentair, a diversified US company and our largest industrial holding, Denway Motors 3.4 continued to perform well in its key professional tool and fluid Swire Pacific 3.0 technology product lines.
However, its share price lagged many cyclical Toyota 2.4 companies whose share prices rebounded from extremely depressed Hyundai 2.3 levels.
In the long run, Pentair has the advantage of a better track Keppel 2.0 record and established market positions on which to build.
FCC 1.9 Lear 1.6 Elsewhere, we carried out a number of changes.
A new holding was Honda 1.5 established in US car interior specialist, Lear Corporation.
We Other Holdings 10 9.4 switched from Delphi to fund the purchase.
We maintained our Total 32.4 exposure to Japanese auto companies as they continue to gain profitable market share globally.
Denway Motors of China is an affiliate of Honda, positioned to exploit increasing car ownership in mainland China, and so we increased our holding.
In the aerospace sector we reduced troubled BAE Systems by selling a portion of our convertible holding during the year.
17 Electronics and Engineering m This sector also has a high share of cyclical businesses.
Many are very Canon 11.4 General Electric 8.9 well-run companies, with good industrial positions and attractive Keyence 5.4 yields.
With these attributes in mind we increased our holdings in Sandvik 4.8 Sandvik, Kidde and Bodycote.
The bearings industry is also Renishaw 4.7 interesting, as it is experiencing consolidation, improved pricing and Hoya 4.7 a more rational approach to capacity additions.
This led us to Spirax-Sarco Engineering 4.3 purchase a holding in the Swedish manufacturer, SKF.
Kidde 3.9 Illinois Tool Works 3.5 We added to the steel processor, Worthington Industries, a company SKF 3.5 not exposed to the legacy issues dogging steel manufacturing.
It is Bodycote 3.1 modestly valued, has an above average yield, and a long track record Worthington Industries 2.9 of paying increased dividends.
Grainger 2.6 Matsushita Electric 2.3 Intense competition caused us to dispose of Sony and to redeploy the Ushio 2.2 proceeds into the precision lighting company Ushio and the global Emerson Electric 2.1 air-conditioning manufacturer Daikin Industries.
Daikin Industries 1.7 Mabuchi 1.6 York International 1.5 Other Holdings 6 5.0 Total 80.1 Information Technology m The backdrop improved after three extremely challenging years with Microsoft 11.6 Cisco Systems 7.4 demand for technology products increasing and share prices Intel 6.9 rebounding.
New digital devices in the consumer sector sold well in First Data 5.9 both emerging and mature economies, and initial signs of increased Sage 5.3 business investment offer some encouragement for the outlook.
Nokia 4.9 Motorola 3.6 It was also encouraging to note a better trend in the alignment of Texas Instruments 3.2 shareholders versus managers interests.
Microsofts initiation of SAP AG 3.2 dividend payments and the abandonment of stock options are Samsung Electronics 2.6 prominent examples.
Corporate activity increased as companies aim Oracle 2.4 for size and for new markets but over-capacity in the important semiFlextronics 2.2 conductor and telecom equipment segments remains to be addressed.
Jabil Circuit 2.1 Dell 2.0 In the US, we reduced Intel and Dell due to valuation concerns and Analog Devices 1.8 used the proceeds to increase software investments that benefit from Thomson 1.6 higher levels of corporate expenditure.
Additions included Oracle and Other Holdings 11 8.1 Microsoft and a new holding in Check Point Software which provides Total 74.8 security products to businesses around the world.
18 Portfolio Review Consumer Goods and Products m Beverages, Foods, Household and Tobacco Diageo 17.5 Share price performances were mixed across this broad group.
Tobacco Unilever 12.5 stocks returned over 40%, as an improvement in the US legal Reckitt Benckiser 9.7 environment eased long term solvency concerns.
Spirits companies British American Tobacco 7.4 benefited from good demand in most markets.
However, food Pepsico 6.3 manufacturers continued to experience difficult selling and pricing Altria 5.6 conditions.
This was exacerbated by the Atkins phenomenon driving Allied Domecq 5.4 demand for low carbohydrate foods.
Most global food manufacturers Nestl 5.1 Fosters 3.0 are only now entering this market in a meaningful way.
Holdings in Geest 2.7 Unilever and Nestl were reduced.
Scottish & Newcastle 2.3 Reckitt Benckiser managed to avoid overpriced acquisitions, and BAT Malaysia 1.9 hence was able to raise the dividend for the first time since the Kao Corporation 1.8 Kraft 1.7 merger in 1999.
This caused the share price to rise and we reduced Fraser & Neave 1.6 our large holding on valuation grounds.
We recycled the proceeds into Other Holdings 7 7.9 Allied Domecq, BAT and Diageo.
They have equally good prospects Total 92.4 and look undervalued.
Our Chinese holding, Peoples Food, a meat processor, was increased following SARS-induced share price weakness.
m Healthcare and Pharmaceuticals There were some positive developments in the industry: new drug GlaxoSmithKline 42.6 Abbott Laboratories 14.8 approvals increased, particularly for biotech drugs, and latterly Johnson & Johnson 10.9 pharmaceutical sales growth accelerated, producing an overall sales Aventis 10.4 increase of 8%.
However, the sector lagged, including, unfortunately, Amersham 8.0 our major holding, GlaxoSmithKline.
We took the opportunity to Bristol-Myers Squibb 7.8 increase our holding in it on a low valuation, convinced of its long Novartis 7.4 term prospects.
UCB 6.6 Merck 5.6 Looking ahead, US Medicare reform affects much of the industry.
Its Takeda Chemical 5.1 main aim is to improve health cover for seniors, which should boost Gyrus Group 4.7 drug sales.
However, growing healthcare costs worldwide represent a Celltech 4.6 major funding challenge to governments and initiatives are underway, Altana AG 3.4 Fresenius 3.2 including discounts designed to contain spending.
Our focus is to Baxter International 3.1 invest in companies producing innovative products.
Cardinal Health 2.8 We cut the amount invested in the sector, reducing exposure to Merck Alcon 2.6 UnitedHealth 2.5 and Johnson & Johnson and selling SSL International, Xenova and Zimmer Holdings 2.1 Medco.
New investments include HCA, the American hospital chain, Igen 2.1 and Baxter International, through its 7% convertible bond.
We.. Rhon-Klinikum 2.0 increased Abbott Laboratories, Gyrus Group and Celltech.
Steris 2.0 Gedeon Richter 1.9 HCA 1.7 Other Holdings 4 2.9 Total 160.8 19 Services Retail m The UK economic backdrop remains supportive of consumer spending, Wal-Mart 13.0 Tesco 11.3 but the potential for higher interest rates on high levels of household GUS 9.5 debt does carry risks.
At the company level, intense corporate activity Home Depot 8.3 saw Debenhams, Selfridges and GUSs catalogue division being taken Next 5.6 private.
There is currently an ongoing bid for New Look.
Consolidation Kingfisher 4.5 of the UK food retailing industry is also underway, following the Marks & Spencer 3.4 Competition Commissions clearance of Wm Morrisons takeover New Look 3.1 of Safeway.
Sainsbury 2.8 Walgreen 2.6 Across Europe, retail spending was affected by weakness in the major CVS 2.5 economies.
Some recovery is hoped for this year.
Germany offers Pier 1 Imports 2.1 reasonable prospects aided by income tax cuts.
We are building a new Metro AG 1.7 Other Holdings 7 6.1 holding in Metro, Germanys premier retailer, with a growing international business.
Earlier in the year, when trading concerns Total 76.5 appeared overdone, we added to Next and Marks & Spencer.
Safeway and N Brown were sold.
In the US, Wal-Mart lagged its peers in terms of share price but we expect it to benefit from economic recovery and from the fiscal and monetary support for consumer spending.
Brewers, Hotels and Leisure m The key theme for hotels has been one of recovery from a cocktail of Hilton 6.5 Wolverhampton & Dudley 4.6 problems, ranging from terrorism fears and war in Iraq, to economic Intercontinental Hotels 3.9 slowdown and SARS.
In the early part of 2003 this caused share price Greene King 3.8 weakness in Hilton Group but gave a good opportunity to add to that Accor 2.7 holding.
Broad resolution of these issues and global economic Bob Evans Farms 2.7 improvement led to a recovery in hotel stocks.
Whitbread 2.4 Other Holdings 5 5.6 Our core public house holdings, Wolverhampton and Dudley Breweries Total 32.2 and Greene King, enjoyed buoyant trading helped by good weather and minimal exposure to an oversupplied high street.
Six Continents demerged, forming a public house group, Mitchells and Butlers, and a hotelier, Intercontinental Hotel Group, with surplus cash also distributed to shareholders.
New holdings were started in the China and Hong Kong restaurant chain, Caf fide Coral, as it offers good exposure to Asian growth, and in Accor, the French hotelier with strong positions in France and the US.
20 Portfolio Review m Media EMAP 12.8 After two years of decline, global advertising expenditure improved in Granada 6.2 2003.
US economic recovery was the main driver, although European Gannett 5.2 expenditure also grew marginally as confidence returned.
The outlook Reed Elsevier 5.2 is expected to remain positive as global economic growth expands.
Arnoldo Mondadori Editore 4.7 Advertising demand should also benefit from the US general election Pearson 4.6 and the Olympic Games.
Television Franaise 4.1 Carlton 4.1 In the UK, the Communications Bill passed through Parliament.
Its United Business Media 4.1 main effects are the relaxation of the media industrys consolidation Mediaset 3.7 guidelines.
Granada and Carltons merger to form ITV PLC was cleared VNU 3.1 with few conditions and further corporate activity appears likely in Yell Group 2.4 Singapore Press Holdings 2.2 the radio and newspaper industries.
Other Holdings 7 6.6 We increased exposure to more economically sensitive companies by Total 69.0 adding to United Business Media and Granada, and by building new holdings in Television Franaise, the French TV company, Capital Radio, the UK radio broadcaster and Cheil, the leading Korean advertising agency.
These acquisitions were partially funded by reductions in our holdings of EMAP, Pearson and VNU.
m Transport Airlines had a volatile year.
Demand fell due to war in Iraq and the BAA 6.8 Associated British Ports 3.0 SARS outbreak, and then recovered on resolution of these issues and Forth Ports 2.5 better global growth.
Structurally, the airline industry remains First Group 2.2 unattractive due to oversupply and high cost structures.
We do not Zhejiang Expressway 1.8 hold any airlines, preferring to gain exposure to the long term growth Other Holdings 3 2.0 in air travel through BAA, the airport operator.
BAA has additional Total 18.3 growth potential via the development of Terminal 5 at Heathrow and the new runway at Stansted.
We increased our holding earlier in the year.
Our exposure to port operations through AB Ports and Forth Ports offer attractive growth potential through development opportunities.
AB Ports in particular is seeking permission to establish a deep water container facility at Dibden Bay in Southampton.
Our US holding in United Parcel Services was sold.
The shares reached an excessive premium following buying by tracker funds after being admitted to the main US market index.
21 Support Services m Many companies in this area benefit strongly from improving Compass 10.2 economic growth.
With this expectation, investors bought into Electrocomponents 6.2 Hays 6.0 recruitment companies in the second half of the year as Michael Page Premier Farnell 5.4 and Hays reported some improvement in demand.
Sysco 5.0 Share prices of the relatively less cash-generative companies, exposed Brambles Industries 4.6 CDW Computer Centers 4.2 to longer term growth influences, did less well.
We took advantage by China Merchants Holdings 3.4 adding to Compass and Serco on very reasonable valuations.
Pactiv 2.9 Improving economic growth and continuing government spending Serco 2.8 continue to support outsourcing companies.
Securitas was sold given Michael Page 2.8 its persistent difficulties in the US guarding market.
Secom 2.4 Other Holdings 3 2.6 Holdings in CDW, Pactiv and China Merchant Holdings were also Total 58.5 increased.
China Merchants is very well placed to participate in Asian expansion through its port operations in Hong Kong and China.
We invested in two new companies, Republic Services, the US waste haulier and Patrick, the Australian logistics and port company, another beneficiary of Asian growth.
Telecommunications Services m European mobile operators benefited from strong earnings growth, Vodafone 34.1 BT Group 9.1 greater capital discipline and increased cash flow.
These positives Verizon Communications 5.2 were offset by reductions in termination charges, following another Telefonica 4.8 tough regulatory review.
China Mobile 3.1 A resumption of large capital expenditure is likely as infrastructure is SBC Communications 2.9 Telefonos fide Mexico 2.2 built to enable the provision of new services.
In the UK, competitive America Movil 2.0 price pressure may increase as 3, owned by Hutchison, the Hong Bellsouth 1.8 Kong conglomerate, tries to build market share.
Our holding in MMO2 AT&T Wireless Services 1.6 was sold as we believe it is the most vulnerable to this competition.
Other Holdings 2 2.3 Large European operators continue to lose fixed line market share.
BT Total 69.1 and others have responded by diversifying their income sources and cutting costs.
Positively, this has led to increased dividends from BT and Telefonica and commitment to progressive dividend policies.
AT&T Wireless is a new US holding, The companys cashflow is encouraging, and expectations for the US mobile phone market are more realistic.
22 Portfolio Review Financials m Banks Royal Bank of Scotland 43.2 Net interest margins continue to be pressurised by increased HBOS 26.2 competition, regulatory change and low interest rates, although Barclays 19.9 recent monetary tightening has provided some relief.
In this HSBC 15.5 environment, banks must optimise their non-interest income, cost Lloyds TSB 14.3 control, credit quality and capital allocation.
In both the UK and US, Standard Chartered 12.6 there are growing concerns about the consumer and mortgage lending BNP Paribas 5.4 markets.
Accordingly, lower quality investment banks exposed to a Commonwealth Bank of Australia 5.3 better capital market environment have generally been outperforming ABN Amro 4.8 retail banks of late.
Wells Fargo 4.7 We added to Barclays, Lloyds TSB, Royal Bank of Scotland and TCF Financial 4.4 Bradford & Bingley and reduced HBOS.
In the US, consolidation was UniCredito Italiano 3.9 Bradford & Bingley 3.7 to the forefront with the Bank of America-FleetBoston Financial and Bank of America 3.7 JP Morgan Chase-Bank One mega-mergers.
We added to Comerica, a UBS 3.5 US bank exposed to late-cycle commercial lending.
Japanese banks Northern Trust 3.5 bounced back strongly as the reform process and local economy Socit Gnrale 3.4 gathered steam, causing our cautious position to hurt performance.
Siam Commercial Bank 3.0 In Asia, we added to the Thai banks Kasikornbank and Siam Comerica 2.9 Banco Santander Central 2.8 Commercial Bank.
In Europe, we sold Hypo Real Estate Group after its Bank One 2.6 strong performance and reduced UniCredito Italiano.
FleetBoston Financial 2.5 Nordea Bank 1.9 Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria 1.8 Kookmin Bank 1.7 Kasikornbank 1.6 Commerzbank 1.6 Other Holdings 7 6.3 Total 206.7 m Insurance In life and pensions markets, investor confidence is starting to Aviva 15.8 Marsh & McLennan 10.9 recover but the regulatory climate remains difficult.
However the CNP Assurances 7.1 sector remains highly geared to rising equity markets, and dividend Prudential 6.3 cuts now seem less likely.
The long term demographic arguments Legal & General 6.1 remain supportive.
During the year, we added to Aviva but sold the American International Group 4.8 European life assurers, Aegon and Banca Fideuram.
Protective Life 2.7 Old Republic International 2.1 In the property and casualty area, premium rate increases are still a Sampo 2.1 feature, more so in liability than in property lines where conditions Allianz 2.1 are less buoyant.
The adequacy of some claims reserves, such as those Axa 1.9 for asbestos and environmental pollution in the US, remain in Partnerre 1.7 question.
During the year, we reduced AIG, reinvesting the proceeds Other Holdings 3 2.1 into Old Republic, a mid-sized US insurer with a modest valuation.
In Total 65.7 Europe, we added to Allianz on its rights issue.
23 Real Estate m The UK property sector performed strongly, largely due to the Slough Estates 13.8 Cheung Kong 4.8 proposed introduction of tax-efficient Real Estate Investment Trusts Sun Hung Kai Properties 3.1 REITs.
Such vehicles may sharply reduce the discount to net asset Cousins Properties 2.8 value at which most property companies trade, including our largest Henderson Land Development 2.4 holding, Slough Estates.
Strong investment demand was fuelled by Keppel Land 1.5 investors taking advantage of low interest rates, whilst on the China Overseas Land 1.5 occupier side, rental demand for retail space was buoyant, and both Other Holdings 1 1.1 the industrial and West End office markets recovered.
However, excess Total 31.0 supply is still depressing the City office market.
In the US, a stronger office rental market benefited our holding in Cousins Properties.
In Greater China, we bought Henderson Land and added to Sun Hung Kai Properties, Cheung Kong and China Overseas Land & Investment, as Hong Kongs economy and property market recovered and Chinas surged ahead.
The sale of the Hong Kong conglomerate, Hutchison Whampoa, partly funded those purchases.
In Singapore, we initiated a holding in Keppel Land.
Speciality and Other Finance m Against a backdrop of improving economic and stock market prospects Alliance Trust Finance ATF 18.1 for many Asian countries, we added to our holdings in Hong Kong Alliance Trust Savings Exchanges & Clearing and in Singapore Exchange, the operators of the ATS 10.5 securities and derivatives exchanges in these two important financial Hong Kong Exchanges 3.7 centres.
In Thailand, robust domestic demand is contributing to Other Holdings 4 3.2 strong growth in motor vehicle sales, and we added to our holding in Total 35.5 Siam Panich Leasing which specialises in motor vehicle financing.
Information about ATF and ATS appears elsewhere in this report.
24 Portfolio Review Investment Companies m Our investment company holdings are held mainly to gain exposure to Schroder Ventures International 6.7 markets or sectors which we feel are attractive and offer additional Candover Investments 6.1 diversification, but which we consider may be less efficient for us to Standard Life European access directly.
The holdings listed here, with the addition of the Private Equity 5.0 holding of the preference stock of the Second Alliance Trust which is Aberforth Smaller Companies 3.7 shown in the Fixed Income section below, represent all the UK Balanced Property Trust 3.6 investment companies in our portfolio.
Some holdings are managed F&C Latin American 2.7 Merrill Lynch World on a sector basis, such as Merrill Lynch World Mining, with Resources, Mining Trust 2.6 and UK Balanced Property Trust, as part of the Real Estate sector.
Eastern European Trust 2.1 Our major purchase was a convertible issue by Schroder Ventures, Dunedin Buyout Fund 1.3 The Korea Fund 1.1 part-funded by the sale of our holding in 3i.
Korea Europe was Falcon Investment Trust 1.0 switched to the better valued Korea Fund.
The UK smaller companies Genesis Chile Fund 0.9 trust, Throgmorton, was sold and a new holding in emerging markets Martin Currie Pacific Trust 0.9 was Eastern European Trust.
Our exposure to private equity expanded Electra Active Management 0.9 with modest draw-downs for Dunedin Buyout and Albany Partners.
JP Morgan Fleming Japan 0.6 Taiwan Fund 0.6 Albany Ventures Fund 0.3 Central European Growth 0.2 JP Morgan Fleming Indian 0.2 Total 40.5 Fixed Income m Preference stocks Our fixed income exposure is mainly concentrated in UK financial HBOS 9.25% 6.8 National Westminster 9% 6.6 preference stocks.
Despite the general rise in interest rates, the Abbey National 10.375% 5.5 capital value of the portfolio increased by 4.4% over the year as Aviva 8.375% 3.8 corporate spreads tightened in response to improving credit quality General Accident 8.875% 3.2 trends, providing a total return in excess of 11%.
This compares with HBOS 9.75% 2.7 a total return of 5.2% on the MSCI Euro Sterling Corporate Index over Standard Chartered 7.375% 2.6 the same period.
National Westminster 8.125% 1.6 Halifax 6.125% 0.9 Whilst our core holdings remained largely unchanged, we sold the Aviva 8.75% 0.9 small residue of minor holdings during the year to focus on those Second Alliance Trust 4.5% 0.3 which are more significant.
Total 34.9 We expect that 2004 will be more difficult in terms of capital return against a background of higher short term interest rates in response to the continuing economic recovery.
However, the yield component remains intact.
However, the companies in which we invest are exposed to currencies and economies throughout the world.
