8 Investment is our primary activity, and is directed towards our objective of providing the core investment for those seeking a long term store of increasing value.
Investment Team Investment Team Our investment department is headed up by the Investment Investment Approach Director, Alan Young, along with Chief Investment Manager, Colin Beveridge and two Senior Investment Managers, Grant Investment Decisions Lindsay and Neil Tong.
The team includes an economist, three other investment managers, and a number of portfolio managers, together with the investment analysts who provide the research coverage across our portfolio.
Investment Approach Our overall objective is to provide the core investment for those seeking a long term store of increasing value.
To meet this objective, our investment approach focuses on the search for good value within high quality companies, which maintain sound management, strong market positions, good cash flow and the ability to pay a growing dividend.
Our belief is that the risk attached to our portfolio is potentially lowered both by this approach and by the extent to which we can attain diversification across geographical regions and industrial sectors.
Investment Decisions The diagram on the next page illustrates the process by which our investment decisions are made.
Stock selection is central to our approach and is the predominant driver.
Surrounding the stock selection discipline, we track economic and political developments in all countries in which we invest 28 at the year end.
We also do this in those countries or regions where we are considering investment.
In addition, we monitor closely any emerging or expected investment themes concerning individual industries, the corporate sector as a whole, or equity markets around the world.
The environment in which we operate is highly fluid, in terms of existing and expected political factors, regulation, commercial law and technological change.
Information relating to each of these aspects is fed into our asset allocation process providing a top down view of the relative attractiveness of different asset classes, and we cross reference this against information from brokers and other sources.
This process and its content are monitored by our board of directors.
We formally present our investment strategy to the board at least twice a year, but discuss progress and necessary changes to our strategy monthly.
Investment s n o i t a u l a V k c o t S & r I o n v t e s c t m e e n S t, T h t e e m e k s r o M I a s n c n i p i M t o a i u l i l o t t P a f o n c r d n o o a l f a m 9 Within our equity portfolio, managers and analysts complete an Our managers and analysts travel widely to meet the management extensive analysis of individual stocks which includes the use of of companies in all regions of the world, and to attend our own dedicated worksheets that enable us to compare conferences and seminars.
This is essential in order to remain companies on a like-for-like basis.
The worksheets are a tool in well informed of the latest company and industrial developments.
making an informed judgement as to whether individual stock Our investment approach is geared towards identifying core or sector valuations are reasonable, and in forecasting profits holdings with good long term growth potential.
We seek out of which dividends are paid.
companies which are strong enough to withstand difficulties Decision making involves looking at the activities of companies, brought about by an ever changing background of economic in which we are considering investment, in their wider context cycles, corporate trends and volatility in capital markets.
These and in addition to evaluating a companys management includes factors can influence significantly the level of risk attached to reviewing its policies and behaviour on issues of social our portfolio over short time horizons, but have tended to responsibility and environmental impact.
These factors are prove less marked over long periods.
considered in an appropriate and balanced manner when we An account of the present economic background follows on page make our initial investment decision and on a continuing basis.
10, followed by a discussion of the key issues facing the corporate We may engage in dialogue with the companies on particular sector and developments in the major equity markets.
Our issues and, if not satisfied, may vote against the investment outlook is on page 11 followed, on pages 12 and 13, recommendation of the board of a company in which we hold an by details of how our assets are currently allocated and managed.
Such factors also contribute to decisions to divest.
