12 This section describes how our investment outlook has influenced our recent stock selection.
Asset Allocation Asset Allocation Our investment outlook is relatively positive ahead of the US Presidential election in November 2004, but becomes more Global Sectors cautious as we look beyond that into 2005.
Once both fiscal and monetary policy are tightened in the US, it will be necessary for Investments Managed other regions to drive global activity forward.
Any further depreciation of the US Dollar in the year ahead will add to the Regionally pressures on both Europe and Japan to address the structural problems which presently impede the flexibility of these economies.
Stock Selection We still believe that the best long term returns will come from investment in real assets through active businesses.
For this The Twenty Largest reason we remain invested primarily in equities and we increased our exposure by a net 47.7m during the past year.
Having a Investments global perspective enables us to spread the risk associated with equity investment across a wide selection of countries and sectors, building an increasingly diverse portfolio of individual companies.
As explained in the description of our investment decision making process, we focus predominantly on strong companies with good management, the potential for long term growth in profits and with the ability to pay growing dividends.
Global Sectors More than 50% of our assets are managed on a global sector basis, which means that we evaluate opportunities for investment by looking at a business sector as a whole, disregarding domestic boundaries.
This approach enables us to focus on important industry trends which are occurring across the whole world.
It also gives us the ability to compare company valuations on an international basis and to base our stock selection primarily on a companys industrial positioning.
The issue of where a company is listed is a secondary factor.
The graph below illustrates the recent performance of these particular sectors on a Sterling adjusted basis.
Global Sectors - Sterling Adjusted 31 January 2003 to 31 January 2004 150 IT 140 Financials 130 120 Oil 110 100 Pharmaceuticals 90 Feb Mar Apr May June July Aug Sept Oct Nov Dec Jan Source: Thomson Financial Datastream How the Assets are Managed 13 During the financial year to 31 January 2004, we invested a net Stock Selection 8.2m into that portion of our portfolio managed on a global The table below shows our largest holdings and the detailed sector basis.
We focused primarily on resources and basic review of our portfolio follows on pages 14 to 25. industries, where we invested 7.9m, encouraged by significant infrastructure developments in Asia and the consequent demand The Twenty for metals and resources.
We also added a net 2.9m to Largest Investments m financials, focusing predominantly on the UK.
We made net sales in health care and pharmaceuticals, reducing our exposure Shell Transport & Trading 44.6 to several US holdings in anticipation of US Medicare reform.
In Royal Bank of Scotland 43.2 the information technology sector we increased our exposure to BP 42.8 GlaxoSmithKline 42.6 software and service companies in the US and UK, but this was Vodafone 34.1 offset by sales of some of our hardware related investments.
HBOS 26.2 Barclays 19.9 Investments Managed Regionally Diageo 17.5 Aviva 15.8 Although more than half our portfolio is managed on a global HSBC 15.5 sector basis, this approach may not be suitable for many sectors Rio Tinto 15.1 which have a domestic rather than an international bias.
A good Abbott Laboratories 14.8 example is the retail sector where trading and profits are Lloyds TSB 14.3 closely linked to conditions in the local economy, and where Persimmon 14.3 formats rarely travel well across international boundaries.
We BHP Billiton 14.0 continue to manage these sectors on a geographical basis, Slough Estates 13.8 Wal-Mart 13.0 paying particular attention to the expected economic, industrial EMAP 12.8 and stock market influences in each individual country.
Standard Chartered 12.6 Over the last year we increased our exposure to UK industries Unilever 12.5 by a net 18.4m, focusing our activity in the media sector This list excludes the Companys holding in its subsidiary, Alliance Trust Finance where recent legislation is expected to encourage further Limited ATF, which amounted to 18.1m gross, or 6.1m net of the loan which ATF has advanced to the Company see note 8 on page 48 and note 17 on page 50. corporate activity.
We also increased our exposure to beverage companies and utilities, both of which offer attractive opportunities.
In Asia, we have been particularly encouraged by Chinas recent and expected economic growth and gained exposure to this not just through Chinese companies but also through companies located elsewhere in Asia.
The graph on this page illustrates the relatively strong performance achieved by stock markets in Thailand, China, Hong Kong and Taiwan.
We invested a net 26.8m into the rest of the world during our financial year, focusing purchases on opportunities in real estate stocks, construction related activities and support services.
We also reduced our exposure to US industries by 4.6m.
Asian Markets - Sterling Adjusted 31 January 2003 to 31 January 2004 220 200 Thailand 180 160 China 140 120 Hong Kong Taiwan 100 80 Feb Mar Apr May June July Aug Sept Oct Nov Dec Jan Source: Thomson Financial Datastream
