3 History, Investment Policy and Risks History Investment Policy The Alliance Trust PLC can trace its origins back to the 1870s To achieve the Companys objective, we seek long term growth when various land mortgage companies, including the Oregon in both capital and income by: and Washington Trust Investment Company, were established Investing in both quoted and unquoted equities across in Dundee.
In 1888, these companies came together as the the globe.
We are not wedded to any index nor to any Alliance Trust.
rigid geographical, sector, or industry, asset allocation.
From its start as a leading mortgage provider and land Investing internationally in preference shares, and in debt developer in the United States, the Company began also securities including government and corporate bonds.
to invest in fixed interest securities.
Investing in other assets, including property, and other By the mid 20th century the Company had divested itself investment vehicles.
of its land mortgage business, retaining some land and Retaining the ability to borrow, as we have done from mineral rights in various areas of the United States.
By time to time, and thereby to gear our portfolio.
this time the Company was invested largely in equities, both quoted and unquoted, with some debt securities.
Investing in subsidiary and associated businesses which allow us to expand into other related activities with the The Company continues to be predominantly an objective of enhancing stockholder value.
Alliance Trust international equity investor, whilst retaining the power Savings is an example of this policy.
to invest in other asset classes in order to meet its objective.
Risks The Company is an investment company with investment Investment in any asset has associated risk.
It employs its own staff to manage its limits this through a wide spread of investments.
It continues to develop and engages minimal gearing prevents the magnification of the impact of in a broader range of activities than most investment market volatility on our assets.
We retain the ability to use trust companies.
derivative instruments which we recognise may increase risk.
Objective To be the core investment for those seeking a long term store of increasing value.
