10 This section focuses on the main economic, corporate and equity market events which took place during our financial year and gives our investment outlook.
Economies Economies The first few months of our financial year were marred by the war in Iraq and the outbreak of SARS in Asia, both of which Companies had a negative impact on confidence around the world, at the business, consumer and investor level.
By the summer months, following the end of the war and the containment of SARS, Equity Markets business confidence was beginning to return, most notably in the US where both monetary and fiscal policy remained Investment Outlook particularly supportive.
This improvement in sentiment resulted in a rise in orders and production levels which boosted profits, eventually encouraging the increase in investment spending which had been so long awaited.
The recovery of the US economy brought with it an expansion in its budget deficit and further deterioration in its trade account, raising questions over the long term financing of these deficits and putting significant downward pressure on the US Dollar, as illustrated in the graph below.
During our financial year, the US Dollar fell 12% in trade weighted terms, characterised by an 11% fall against Sterling, a 12% decline against the Yen and a 14% drop against the Euro.
This depreciation of the US Dollar has increased the competitiveness of US exporters and should help protect US employment, a key issue in the run up to the Presidential election in November.
Asian economies eventually recovered from the negative impact of SARS on both business and tourist related travel.
Export activity has also picked up significantly in recent months as the US economy recovered.
This is most notable in China, which has the additional advantage of a currency fixed to the depreciating US Dollar.
The question now being asked is whether this increased export activity will be sufficient to raise employment and income levels, stimulating domestic spending which is a necessary condition for this recovery to become US Dollar, Sterling, Yen and Euro - Trade Weighted 31 January 2003 to 31 January 2004 110 Euro 105 Yen 100 Sterling 95 90 Dollar 85 Feb Mar Apr May June July Aug Sept Oct Nov Dec Jan Source: Thomson Financial Datastream Investment Background 11 sustainable.
Although there are some encouraging signs that market indices rose 28% in both Europe and Japan and the this will occur in Asia, the picture is still far from clear in appreciation of the Euro and Yen boosted these gains even Europe where unemployment remains high, both fiscal and further, to 33% and 31% respectively.
The UK market rose 27% monetary policy are relatively tight, and the appreciation of the over the year, held back by the more defensive nature of many Euro is threatening future export growth.
The forthcoming of its main companies.
accession of Eastern European economies to the EU may help At the sector level, technology stocks returned to favour, stimulate demand within the region.
boosted by evidence of a recovery in capital spending.
The FT UK companies are also grappling with the impact of the falling World technology index rose more than 42% over the year, US Dollar, but UK domestic demand has remained relatively retracing much of its decline of the previous 12 months.
robust, underpinned by the low level of unemployment and the Prospects of a cyclical recovery also enabled general industrial wealth effects associated with the recovery in equities and stocks to perform well, rising more than 35% during our ongoing strength in the housing market.
Interest rates have financial year.
been raised already in the UK, ahead of the upward moves expected around the world as the recovery progresses.
Investment Outlook We expect economic growth to continue over the next few Companies months, as both fiscal and monetary policy will remain Conditions for many companies improved significantly during relatively loose in the US ahead of the Presidential election in our financial year.
Increased demand, led by the US, produced a November.
Beyond that point it may prove necessary for other recovery in profitability which helped to boost business regions to drive global activity forward, but this would require a confidence.
However, firms remained cautious on the whole, significant recovery in domestic demand in both Europe and achieving profits growth predominantly through cost cutting, using Japan.
Both areas still have some structural problems to cash flow gains to strengthen balance sheets and taking advantage address, particularly when currency appreciation threatens to of cuts in interest rates to refinance debt at lower levels.
In addition, the policy stimuli which were necessary to generate economic recovery in the US have The recovery in profits and sentiment led eventually to an caused imbalances there to worsen, leaving the US Dollar still increase in capital spending, particularly in technology related vulnerable to downward pressure.
Although layoffs have decreased, firms have been may be required in the year ahead, but it is critical that these reluctant, so far, to hire new workers, particularly in the moves are smooth as volatility would cause additional problems.
western economies where labour costs are high.
One of the main consequences of globalisation has been fierce competition Equity valuations rose over the year in anticipation of a strong stemming from Asia, limiting pricing power around the world, recovery in company profits and this left some equities looking even as demand grows.
Many western companies are still choosing relatively expensive by historical standards.
Profits growth to relocate in Asia, particularly China, to exploit its lower labour should hopefully slow to a more sustainable pace over the next costs and thereby increase both competitiveness and profitability.
We would then expect stock markets to appreciate This trend could remain in place for some time, limiting steadily, if at a slower rate than we have seen recently.
employment and income growth in the developed economies.
Increased takeover activity may offer opportunities for additional returns.
Equity Markets The graph on the right illustrates the gains made in equity Equity Markets - Sterling Adjusted markets during our financial year, on a Sterling adjusted basis.
31 January 2003 to 31 January 2004 This progress followed three consecutive years of declining 135 Europe markets, one of the longest bear markets in history, which had 130 Japan resulted in many stock market indices halving from their peak 125 UK levels.
Since March 2003, markets have made good progress, 120 reflecting the easing of geopolitical concerns following the war US 115 in Iraq and growing confidence in the economic recovery and 110 prospects for corporate profitability.
105 100 The US market performed best in local terms, rising 32% over 95 our financial year, but the depreciation of the US Dollar reduced Feb Mar Apr May June July Aug Sept Oct Nov Dec Jan this to just 19% on a Sterling adjusted basis.
The main equity Source: Thomson Financial Datastream
