16 AMLIN PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2004 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW UNDERWRITING TONY HOLT UNDERWRITING DIRECTOR The combination of Amlins underwriting expertise and a consistent philosophy of delivering gross underwriting profits is an extremely important differentiator of Amlin from its peers.
There are many aspects to the formulation months of the expiry of each risk.
The THE DFA MODEL of a strong underwriting philosophy and it is advantage of this is that we are able to assess important to get it right at a strategic portfolio any repricing needs faster than in respect of The DFA model predicts a range of possible level and also at a detailed transactional level.
We will also be less prone to outcomes for each class of business based upon The key aspects of Amlins philosophy are the reserving difficulties which still plague so historic and potential variability in claims.
running thousands of simulated results we can ascertain the likelihood of possible outcomes.
CLAIMS TAIL % OF GROSS PREMIUM INCOME This can be shown by the curve below, with the PROFIT FOCUS Source: Amlin vertical axis showing the density of occurrences Underwriting, and particularly the ability to therefore likelihood and the horizontal axis Short assess and price risk, is a critical skill set for showing the range of result.
The Group aims to deliver an underwriting profit from each class of business in every year The top of each curve represents the most of underwriting.
The importance of this to likely range of result, the left hand side shows Amlin is emphasised constantly in the planning, the worst result and the right hand side the 85% execution and review of our underwriting.
understood that to produce adequate returns on capital the Group cannot rely solely upon The blue line illustrates the overall result The long tail risk that we underwrite is focused investment returns from premiums written, without the benefit of diversification.
in areas where good actuarial modelling can and that combined ratios must be low enough help determine an acceptable price for risk to generate underwriting returns through the However, the DFA model takes account of or where the risk is catastrophe related, with insurance cycle.
claims arising from accidents rather than Some classes have a tendency to have good disease.
We have a negligible involvement or poor results at the same time, whilst DIVERSITY in areas such as Directors and Officers others are less correlated.
insurance, where systemic developments can Amlins portfolio of business is diverse by type arise, resulting in significant claims, the risk or class of insurance and territorial scope.
We The orange line shows the profit distribution for of which is not capable of proper evaluation aim to balance potentially volatile catastrophe all classes combined, after taking account of at the time of pricing the risk.
type classes such as catastrophe reinsurance or this interdependency.
This illustrates that energy with less volatile classes such as motor variability of result is reduced with diversity.
This diversification provides EXPERIENCE us with returns from several independent lines DFA MODELLING RESULT DISTRIBUTION ANALYSIS Density The classes of business written have been of business which have limited correlation in Source: Amlin developed over many years and new products terms of loss experience and pricing within WORST RESULTS SCENARIO BEST RESULTS SCENARIO 900 are not launched without significant the market cycle.
Analysis carried out on our 800 investigation.
Even then, the premium income portfolio using our Dynamic Financial Analysis 700 600 capacity allocated to a new class would DFA modelling tool shows the strong benefits 500 initially be low and the profile of the class of this diversification on our risk profile.
400 would be built up slowly and carefully over 300 200 several underwriting years in order to build SHORT TAIL FOCUS 100 confidence and knowledge.
Therefore the bulk 0 of the premium income written is on business RANGE Our portfolio is biased in favour of short tail where Amlin has strong knowledge, expertise Result distribution excluding diversification risk.
This means that for a very large part of our Result distribution after diversification and historical data.
This assists in the planning portfolio we will have a high level of confidence and modelling of potential outcomes.
in the expected quantum of claims within 18 Amlins share of Lloyds market AMLIN PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2004 17 LARGER GROSS LINE LIMITS IN 2004 CYCLE MANAGEMENT OF VOLUME Source: Amlin Amlin has a premium income capacity BUSINESS CLASS NORMAL MAXIMUM GROSS AVERAGE GROSS LINE LINE $m WRITTEN $m allocated to each line of business for each Airline 125 60.0 calendar year, but these are not targets.
It is Airport liability 115 40.3 clear for all underwriting staff that underpriced Catastrophe reinsurance 75 5.6 business is to be declined and that gross Energy 35 4.0 underwriting profit takes precedence over Marine hull 15 1.3 volumes of business.
For the syndicate as a Marine liability 85 4.5 whole, this philosophy can be seen in the Large direct and facultative property 40 10.4 reduction in gross premium income and market Property per risk reinsurance 30 3.0 share during the environment of soft pricing.
Specie 55 9.6 SYNDICATE 2001 MARKET SHARE % AND limits and average lines are on per programme basis GROSS ULTIMATE LOSS RATIOS GULR % Source: Amlin 160 8 Some of our larger gross line limits and average need for change and then taking a robust 140 7 120 6 lines written for 2004 are shown in the table position on renewals.
Unless we could carry 100 5 above.
High gross exposures are protected by meaningful price increases we were prepared 80 4 reinsurance.
In the event we carried an 60 3 average rate increase of 19% in this class and 40 2 Limits also exist to control aggregate exposures renewed over 85% of prior year policies in this 20 1 in areas prone to catastrophe risk and potential class, more than we had expected.
0 0 disaster scenarios are regularly modelled and 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 Syndicate Lloyds GULR % Market Share % reviewed to ensure that Amlin remains within REINSURANCE 2001 GULR % specified event limits.
The industrys ability to assess potential catastrophe damage has Reinsurance is purchased to manage individual The graph above shows an analysis of the increased significantly in recent years as more large risk exposures or catastrophe accumulation underwriting performance, as measured by data has become available and modelling and it is a crucial part of controlling volatility gross ultimate loss ratios at 31 December techniques have become more sophisticated.
However, we are clear that it 2003, of Amlins ongoing business over the In 2004, Amlin upgraded its modelling is not an antidote for poor underwriting or period 1993 to 2003. software and increased its dedicated modelling inadequate pricing and all the Groups team to enhance its abilities in this area.
underwriters are aware of the core philosophy The orange line shows Amlins own market that a profit should be able to be made gross share as a percentage of the market over Additionally, underwriting risk is subjected to of reinsurance.
There are three important four tiers of review: conclusions that can be drawn from this chart.
First, Syndicate 2001s ongoing business has a 2004 UNDERWRITING STRATEGY Each risk written is subjected to a peer record of strong outperformance across the review by another member of the underwriting Following the above philosophy, our aim in cycle.
Second, that outperformance is most team or, in the case of motor, compared to a 2004 was to renew as much of our portfolio as strongly visible when market conditions are modelled rate.
This is designed to protect possible while doing our best to hold on to most difficult and overall loss ratios are poor.
against under-pricing of risk and to maintain margin recognising that competition was likely Third, that Amlins market share is highest the quality of our risk portfolio: to erode our pricing power.
We would increase when market conditions are at their most selectivity over new business and were reluctant favourable and, conversely, market share Detailed class or portfolio reviews are carried to follow rates down, being prepared to shed is lowest when loss ratios are at their worst.
out by underwriting management to assess business if rate reductions demanded were too performance of classes and to amend severe.
In pursuing this general approach, we underwriting policy as appropriate: RISK CONTROL managed to contain rate reductions on renewals to only 4% across the Group and were To provide ready access for brokers and clients, Our Business Intelligence and Monitoring successful in renewing over 79% of our we empower our skilled underwriters team, which is independent of underwriting 2003 business.
We also added 159 million to accept risk within a well developed control management, perform detailed quarterly of new business.
Some of our key underwriting performance reviews.
In-depth investigation controls are highlighted below.
of areas performing below expectation is 2004 2004 new carried out so that corrective action can be renewal % of Renewal business premiums 2003 rate premiums A line guide is in place to control the maximum taken where appropriate: and written written change written exposure per risk written.
Line limits vary by m premium % m class, taking account of potential accumulation Expert underwriting reviews are carried out by Non-marine 341.5 81 -5.7 78 and clashes between classes, as well as external consultants to get an independent Marine 93.8 73 0.0 34 according to the experience of each underwriter.
view of our pricing and portfolio management.
Aviation 57.7 75 -0.1 19 Rarely will underwriters use the maximum lines: UK Commercial 127.4 82 -0.5 28 our preference is to attain a broad spread of In 2004 aviation products liability insurance Note: Premiums are net of brokerage risks with relatively low lines as a percentage of was identified as a class requiring corrective overall income.
With the size and diversity of action.
A plan was agreed with both the Syndicate 2001, we believe that our risk profile Divisional and Class underwriters to address is lower than many of our peers.
this which involved educating brokers of the
