AMLIN PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2004 33 Encouragingly, we are still able to find areas to A stated determination by Lloyds to manage SEVEN REASONS WHY AMLIN SHOULD TRADE write new property business at attractive rates.
underwriting activities over the insurance BETTER THROUGH THE NEXT DOWN-CYCLE cycle so as to avoid the poor performance THAN IN THE PERIOD 1997 TO 2000 The renewal seasons for reinsurance risks experienced in the troughs of past cycles: affected in 2004 by windstorms in Japan and 1.
Amlins senior underwriters traded the United States are in April and July Security ratings which remain below the reasonably well through the trough of the respectively and we would expect pricing in desired level for many companies.
However, when we reorganised these areas to improve.
We are also still seeing agencies increasingly focused on financial our business in 2000 we focused our rate increases in a small number of classes return as a measure of long term company ongoing operations around the most such as marine hull and aviation products.
health, we would expect those companies to successful of these underwriters.
Offshore energy rates, which were reducing in exercise greater discipline: 2004, are showing signs of greater stability 2.
The senior underwriters also have more following the larger than originally anticipated Companies are still reporting prior year experience of trading in poor conditions industry losses from Hurricane Ivan.
reserving deficiencies and this is expected than they did last time around.
Reserving inadequacy in the US All in all, 2005 has every prospect of being property casualty industry was recently 3.
Amlins focus on gross profit is well another good underwriting year.
estimated by Fitch to be between $43.5 understood and adhered to.
Previously, billion and $61.5 billion at the end of 2003. there were several philosophies and some Larger investment funds: the Groups cash and Some of this has been recognised in 2004. underwriters had grown their portfolios into investments amounted to 1.3 billion at 31 However, insurance losses arising from the a softening market something to be December 2004.
We believe the investment massive corporate failures such as Enron avoided.
outlook for this year to be reasonable.
and other financial scandals have not, we believe, yet been fully recognised by 4.
Amlin has withdrawn from a number of Lower Lloyds costs: Our Central Fund the industry: and business areas, such as private motor, which contributions have fallen by 8.2 million had poor results in the last soft market.
The industry is showing signs of managing its capital base in recognition of cyclical 5.
The reorganisation in 2000 allowed Amlin The largest threats to our 2005 performance pressures.
For example, among the to restructure its reinsurance programme so are abnormal loss activity and the sterling dollar Bermudian insurers, whose capital and that it became more cost effective.
This exchange rate, given that 52% of our gross surplus has grown significantly over the past resulted in savings equivalent to 5.0% of premium in 2004 was US$ denominated.
three years, there have been over $1.5 billion premium in 2001.
This saving was half of of share buy-backs announced since the the worst loss for Syndicate 2001 in the beginning of 2004.
We believe that the non-life insurance industry For Amlin, the 2006 result will be influenced 6.
Amlins investment return potential is much will remain cyclical, but we are seeing some by 2005 underwriting in the same way that greater than in the last trough of the cycle.
It is too early to 2004 is influencing 2005.
With our strong assess whether this will last as the industrys focus on profit and return on equity, and the 7.
The quality, timeliness and availability capital and surplus builds, but there are some proven experience of our team, we are of management information has been dynamics which should help to sustain confident, without being complacent, of being significantly improved.
This, combined with reasonable margins.
These include: able to continue to deliver good returns relative sharpened monitoring capability, should to the industry.
enable Amlin to manage the business better and to spot any problem areas earlier.
