12 AMLIN PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2004 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW VISION STRATEGY DELIVERY CHARLES PHILIPPS CHIEF EXECUTIVE Our vision for 2009 is to become the global reference point for quality in our markets.
Since October 2000 Amlin has been focussed We expect 2009 to coincide with the bottom of NEW VISION on delivering its Vision for 2005.
In 2000 we the insurance pricing cycle.
Financially, our The progress made to date provides the set out to: aims are to: platform for future success.
During 2004, Deliver a cross cycle return on equity we have set a new Vision for 2009 which is Become the most astute leader of insurance covering the period 2002 to 2009 of at intended to stretch our leadership position in risks, with exceptional risk management least 15%, considerably above our cross cycle the London insurance market.
expertise: cost of equity of approximately 8.5%, and Become recognised by brokers, insureds and Trade profitably through the soft part of the Our aim is to become the global reinsurers for financial strength, durability cycle, something we along with most of our and client responsiveness: reference point for quality in our peers failed to do in the last soft market.
In achieving this we will Become the place to work in the industry: concentrate on: The achievement of these goals will make Deliver excellent returns to shareholders.
Amlin a rare breed in our industry.
We recognise that the most difficult part of Our performance in meeting these objectives is Profit focused underwriting the cycle lies ahead.
However, the Groups detailed in the remainder of this Operating and excellence this is the principal positioning in terms of skills, shared Financial Review.
We have made good progress driver of our financial performance: understanding of underwriting strategy and and this is evidenced by: management information is significantly better than in the last downturn.
Improving our understanding of Syndicate 2001s performance, measured client needs and market trends as average return on capacity for the 2001, The achievement of our Vision and 1 2002 and 2003 years of account, has so that we can target good areas financial goals will require the successful been the highest among the 10 largest of growth in the future: implementation of strategies covering: managing agents in Lloyds a sign of astute underwriting and risk management: Underwriting and the proper contraction of The delivery of first class client exposures as competitive forces drive down In a survey conducted during 2004 among service standards so that we can margins to less attractive levels: some 400 placing brokers Syndicate 2001 grow our appeal to clients and was top ranked for perceived financial attract the quality and volume of Investments, so that we optimise returns strength among Lloyds businesses: from our pool of investment assets up business that we want to underwrite: In a survey of employees conducted by MORI 186% over the past four years in a period in May 2004, Amlin compared extremely when we expect lower underwriting returns: Cycle management, combining favourably against financial services company underwriting, reinsurance, capital norms for employee satisfaction.
Retention of Clients, their needs and our ability to deliver our senior underwriters has been greater than and investment strategies to the level of service to which we aspire: 95% for the fourth year in succession: optimise risk weighted shareholder People, their expertise, experience and returns over the insurance cycle.
Amlins total shareholder return since motivation to meet the standards we require: 1 January 2000, of 96%, has been high relative to insurers internationally.
1 Based on managing agents published results and forecasts as 30 September 2004 AMLIN PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2004 13 CUMULATIVE TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURNS PEER GROUPS Source: Datastream Lloyds North American European Atrium Bermudian AXA 200% BRIT ACE Hannover Re Beazley AIG Munich Re 180% Catlin Chubb RSA 160% Chaucer Everest Re Scor Cox IPC Swiss Re 140% GoshawK Markel Corp ZFS 120% Hardy Partner Re Highway PxRe 100% Hiscox Renaissance Re 80% Kiln St Paul Travellers SVB Transatlantic Re 60% Wellington White Mountains XL Capital 40% 20% 0% 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 Amlin North American Bermudian Lloyds Peer Index ex Amlin European Peer Index Peer Index Infrastructure, in particular our use of prospects of becoming the global reference There are signs of increased discipline in many technology to support our underwriting and point for quality in our markets.
Each area is quarters, although not all.
We are hopeful that client service plans: addressed further in the relevant part of this management in other firms will, as we intend Operating and Financial Review.
to, place a greater focus on maintaining Risk management, so that we can more clearly margins which reflect the risk assumed rather and easily identify risks to the achievement With our focus on quality we intend that we than on growing senselessly.
of our ambitions, giving us more scope to will be in an enviable position to successfully successfully address them: deliver and manage good long term organic At Amlin, we expect to downscale our business growth recognising that, in the period to if margins become unacceptable.
Balance sheet management, so that we 2009, there will most likely be a period of successfully balance the need for capital contraction as insurance rates soften.
Through this next phase our strategy is to support the business over the long term, with intended to deliver year on year growth in the aim of meeting our return on equity target net assets per share.
We also anticipate very NEW PHASE OF THE INSURANCE CYCLE and of continuing to deliver superior total strong free cash flow over the next several shareholder returns.
The insurance rating cycle, having reached a years.
This provides scope for the larger plateau in the first part of 2004, is now into a dividends which we are now paying and the In some areas these strategies are well new phase during which we anticipate a return of surplus capital which, when combined developed.
In others, such as the claims softening of rates and terms.
While this has with more modest growth in net assets per aspects of client service, they are undergoing already started, for now rates remain at share, should help to continue to deliver a detailed review and enhancement so that their acceptable levels and we believe that we will good positive total shareholder return.
implementation gives us the best possible be capable of generating a good return.
