AMLIN PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2004 39 DIRECTORS REPORT The directors of Amlin plc the Company present their report, Shares held by Employee Share Ownership Trust the audited accounts of the Company and the consolidated accounts The trustee of the Groups ESOT, Kleinwort Benson Guernsey Trustees of the Company and its subsidiaries the Group for the year ended Limited, held 4,229,734 shares in the Company on 31 December 31 December 2004.
On 4 March 2005, the ESOTs shareholding was 4,083,651 shares.
All of the changes in the ESOTs Principal activities, corporate and business review shareholding between 31 December 2003 and 4 March 2005 were as a The Groups principal activity is non-life insurance underwriting.
result of exercises of options.
A review of the Groups business, and developments during the year, is included in the Chairmans statement and the Operating and Substantial shareholdings Financial Review OFR.
At 4 March 2005 the Company had been notified of the following holdings of 3% or more of its issued ordinary share capital: Dividends % of An interim dividend of 3.0p 2003: 0.85p per ordinary share was paid Number of shares on 1 November 2004.
The directors propose a final dividend of 5.0p shares held in issue per ordinary share 2003: 1.65p, to be paid on 24 May 2005 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 29 March Fidelity International Limited and 2005.
This makes total dividends for the year of 8.0p per ordinary FMR Corporation 59,539,412 15.1 share 2003: 2.5p.
A scrip dividend alternative is being offered in State Farm Mutual Automobile respect of the final dividend, as it was in respect of the 2004 interim Insurance Company 38,945,955 9.8 and previous dividends.
Details of the shares issued during the year in Barclays PLC 23,866,696 6.0 respect of scrip dividends are included in note 19 to the Accounts.
Legal & General Group Plc companies 11,944,369 3.0 Directors The biographical details of the present directors are set out on pages Based on the shares in issue as at 4 March 2005 of 395,468,235 36 and 37.
Mr Buchanan joined the Board on 22 March 2004 and Messrs Kennedy, Sanders and Stace retired from the Board at the Corporate governance Annual General Meeting on 19 May 2004.
Messrs Kemp, Joslin, Statements on corporate governance, including reports from the Boards Mylvaganam and Taylor, and Lord Stewartby, retire at the 2005 Annual Nomination and Audit Committees, immediately follow this report.
The General Meeting by rotation.
Lord Stewartby, being eligible, offers Directors remuneration report, which includes details of the Boards himself for re-election for a term of office of one year.
Messrs Kemp, Remuneration Committee and is subject to approval by shareholders at Joslin, Mylvaganam and Taylor, being eligible, each offers himself for the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, starts on page 48. re-election for a term of office of three years.
Employment policies Directors interests The Group is committed to keeping employees informed about the The interests of directors and their related parties in the ordinary business through such means as a Group intranet, presentations to shares of the Company, all of which are beneficial, were as follows: staff and management conferences.
An Employee Consultative Forum, made up of representatives of the employees and of senior management, At 4 Mar 2005 and was instituted during the year.
The Group encourages its employees to at 31 Dec 2004 At 31 Dec 2003 develop their full potential by providing opportunities for training and No of shares No of shares professional development.
N J C Buchanan 6,300 n a B D Carpenter 561,463 541,004 The Groups equal opportunities policy aims to ensure that no potential R A Hextall 50,665 18,937 or existing employee receives less favourable treatment because of A W Holt 2,522,518 2,463,441 his her sex, actual or perceived sexual orientation, gender including R W Mylvaganam 3,285 3,189 gender reassignment, marital or family status, age, ethnic origin, C E L Philipps 103,823 103,823 disability, race, colour, nationality, national origin, creed, political Lord Stewartby 46,054 46,054 affiliation, part-time status, or any other condition, unless it can be R J Taylor 15,351 15,351 shown to be legally justifiable.
Copies of the Groups policies on professional qualifications, equal In addition, Messrs Carpenter, Hextall, Holt, and Philipps are deemed, opportunities, family leave and sabbaticals are available on the as employees of a Group company, and therefore potential beneficiaries, Companys website at www.
com or from the Secretary on request.
to be interested in the whole of the holding of the Groups Employee The Groups health and safety policy is publicised to staff through its Share Ownership Trust ESOT, details of which are given below.
intranet and on staff notice boards and is monitored by a staff Health The directors own ESOT and other share options are set out in the and Safety Committee, which reports directly to the Chief Executive Directors remuneration report.
Details of transactions between the who makes an annual health and safety report to the Board.
Group and directors who served during the year are set out in note 32 to the Accounts.
Group employees are encouraged to participate in the Groups pension arrangements, details of which are set out in the Directors No directors have any other interests in the shares of the Group or any remuneration report and in note 9 to the Accounts.
40 AMLIN PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2004 DIRECTORS REPORT The Company also facilitates employees participation in its equity Targets have been set, and performance measured, in a number through direct share ownership and share option schemes, including of environmental areas.
Amlin is a member of Business in the a Sharesave scheme open to all permanent employees.
Environment part of Business in the Community, the business-led campaign for environmental responsibility which assists its members Further information relevant to the Group as an employer is set out in in monitoring and improving environmental performance.
The Groups the People section of the OFR.
Environmental Committee is chaired by a senior executive, David Harris, the Group Operations Director, who is a member of the Board Corporate responsibility of the principal operating subsidiary, Amlin Underwriting Limited, General and reports directly to the Chief Executive.
The Group recognises the potential impact of its dealings not only on shareholders and employees, but also on other stakeholders including Ethical and Human Rights customers, external capital providers, suppliers, creditors and the Lloyds The Group operates a Business Ethics Policy, which sets out the high and wider communities.
Since the previous Annual Report the Board has ethical standards to which the Group is committed in carrying out its been developing its corporate responsibility policies and programmes by business.
The policy is intended to assist in protecting the trust and particular reference to analysis of the Groups impact on each of these confidence of those with whom the Group deals, including particularly stakeholder groups.
As part of this process, the Group has mapped its new that of its customers.
This is of fundamental importance to Amlins Vision in terms of its positive impact on each stakeholder group, and has reputation and business.
participated in Business in the Communitys corporate responsibility survey for the last two years.
The Group Chief Executive has direct responsibility As a UK based insurance business, the Group has no non-UK at Board level for leading the Groups initiatives on all corporate employees and no material physical supply chain originating outside responsibility related matters, with the relevant senior managers the UK.
Thus, although the majority of the Groups premium income reporting to him.
originates from overseas risks particularly from North America, but also elsewhere, most of the potential abuses of human rights that a formal This section summarises some of the areas, in addition to employment policy would address are covered by the Companys commitment to policies, and health and safety, which are covered immediately above, carry out its business according to the laws of the countries in which which are most relevant to the Groups fulfilment of its wider it operates.
Community involvement beyond Lloyds In terms of most of the areas commonly associated with corporate The Group encourages employee involvement in community projects, responsibility, such as the environment, the Groups local communities particularly in conjunction with the Lloyds Community Programme in and its supply chain, the Board considers that the social impact of the the neighbouring London Borough of Tower Hamlets.
Examples of some Groups activities is relatively low.
The major exception is Amlins of the Companys activities in this sphere are given in the People impact as an employer, which is covered in the Employment policies section of the OFR.
section above and in the People section of the OFR.
Risk management The Lloyds community As part of the Groups general risk management review processes, the A key Amlin stakeholder is the Lloyds community and market, as significant risks to the Companys short and long term value arising Amlins performance has a potential impact on perceptions of the wider from social, environmental and ethical matters, and the opportunities Lloyds community.
As Amlin presently operates solely in the Lloyds to enhance value from an appropriate response, are incorporated as a market, it is also in Amlins interest for the market to operate effectively specific consideration.
This review has identified no specific risks in and for its reputation to be sound.
As outlined in the People and this area with other than a low probability of incidence or low potential Infrastructure sections of the OFR, Amlin participates actively in the impact on the Group.
More details of risk management generally are Lloyds community in order to influence the markets performance and included in the Board corporate governance statement.
governance and is at the forefront of a number of initiatives aimed at improving the Lloyds marketplace.
Copies of the Group Environmental Policy, the latest environmental progress report and the Business Ethics Policy are available in the Environmental corporate governance section of investor relations on the Companys Notwithstanding its low overall environmental impact, Amlin recognises website or from the Secretary on request.
the need to manage the impact of its activities on the environment in such areas as internal processes, re-cycling, energy use and encouraging its Charitable activities and donations suppliers and insureds to act responsibly regarding environmental impacts The Group made charitable donations during the year of 34,425 and risk.
The Company adopted a Group Environmental Policy in 2001, 2003: 29,998.
The Groups charities budget is managed by a which it continues to implement and develop.
Charities Committee of staff representatives.
Special consideration is given to community projects and fund raising in which members of staff themselves are involved, as well as to charities involved with children and health in London.
AMLIN PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2004 41 Political donations The Group made no political donations during the year 2003: nil.
The Boards policy is that the Group does not make political donations, other than incidentally in circumstances where an employee might be allowed time off for public service deemed to be political.
The Board does not propose to seek any discretion from shareholders regarding political donations pursuant to the Companies Act 1985 as amended by the Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000.
Supplier payment policy and performance The Groups policy is to pay suppliers in accordance with agreed terms of business.
Whenever possible, purchase orders are placed on the basis of the Groups standard terms and conditions which include provision for the payment of suppliers within 30 days of the end of the month in which the Group receives the goods or in which the services are provided.
Average trade creditors of the Group during 2004, which excludes insurance creditors, represented approximately 28 days 2003: 28 days, based on the ratio of Group trade creditors to the amounts invoiced during the year.
Annual General Meeting The Notice of Annual General Meeting, to be held at noon on Wednesday 18 May 2005 at the offices of the Company at St Helens, 1 Undershaft, London, EC3A 8ND, is contained in a separate circular to shareholders which is being mailed with this report.
Auditors In accordance with Section 385 of the Companies Act 1985, a resolution is to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting for the re-appointment of Deloitte & Touche LLP as auditors to the Company and to authorise the directors to fix their remuneration.
By Order of the Board C C T Pender Secretary 7 March 2005
