20 AMLIN PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2004 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW GEOGRAPHICAL SPLIT OF GROSS PREMIUM 2004 2003 CLIENTS 29% 29% 10% 11% 46% 46% Amlins aim to be the global reference point 6% 5% 1% 1% for quality extends to the client service we offer 5% 5% 1% 1% our brokers and through them, our insureds.
2% 2% In early 2004 we participated, together with 13 Approximately 44% of our business in 2004 MARKET LEADERSHIP other managing agencies, in a London market however, came through only 3 brokers.
We Most of the business we underwrite in our survey of some 400 placing brokers.
Our primary maintain strong and stable relationships with Aviation, Marine and Non-marine divisions aim was to review our client proposition against the major brokers year on year as shown below.
is co-underwritten with other insurers on a the selection criteria which brokers deemed most GROSS PREMIUM INCOME BY BROKER % subscription basis, whereas in our UK important.
Secondly, this was an opportunity to Source: Amlin Commercial division we mostly operate as a check broker perceptions of the Amlin brand 25 sole insurer.
Our investment in expertise and which, having been launched in 1998, is a infrastructure gives us the ability to act as a 20 relatively new brand in the London market.
strong lead underwriter, which means setting 15 the price and conditions for the risks insured.
Brokers perceive 10 Amlin as the market leader in terms of 5 BUSINESS LED IN 2004 % financial strength which after price, was their Source: Amlin 0 most important selection criterion.
We were Aon Marsh Willis Next 7 Other 100 ranked first in terms of usage, with 33% of 12 2002 2003 2004 80 brokers having used Amlin over the previous 49 58 60 12 months.
We were second overall for 67 Outside the London market, we provide a brand awareness, which was a one place variety of insurance to regional brokers and 40 88 improvement on 2002. intermediaries in the United Kingdom and 20 51 42 the Republic of Ireland via our service 33 0 While our service performance is generally companies.
Insurance protection offered UK Commercial Aviation Non-Marine Marine above the market average, the survey indicated includes commercial motor, liability and Lead Sole Follow some areas where we will be seeking to ensure professional indemnity, property and financial that brokers better understand the progress institutions, trade credit, high value equine, BROKERS we have made and to improve further in 2005. cargo and transit, yacht and pleasure craft.
One important client relationship is with Amlin is committed to helping our brokers Additionally, some of our Lloyds brokers the specialist Lloyds brokers who visit our provide excellent service to insureds and we source business for Amlin through regional underwriters daily, either at the Box or in our are continuing to invest significant resource brokers around the world or through managing offices nearby.
We regularly deal with some to achieve this, particularly in relation to general agencies who underwrite risks within 150 Lloyds brokers to provide insurance and infrastructure and process improvements.
strictly set parameters on our behalf.
reinsurance to their global client bases.
INSUREDS PERFORMANCE VS MARKET AVERAGE 2004 Source: Gracechurch Consulting, London market study 2004 Amlin Managing agent average Amlin has developed close relationships with 7.4 many insureds see Air Malta case study, Innovation 7.1 7.5 Speedy policy issuance sometimes over several decades.
Additionally 7.1 7.4 High quality wording 7.3 we provide proportional and non-proportional 7.4 Belonging to Lloyd's 7.4 reinsurance protection to insurers worldwide.
8.1 Trusted by clients 7.8 7.9 Our global client base includes AIG, General Longevity 7.8 8 Easy access to Underwriters Electric, General Motors, Diageo, British 7.8 8.2 Pays claims efficiently 7.8 Airways, Corus, Mitsubishi Corporation, Toyota 7.9 Ownership structure giving confidence 7.8 7.9 and Nissan and many other large and small World class Underwriting decisions 7.9 8.1 Speedy Underwriting decisions companies.
Our broad client base means we 8 8.2 Commitment to paternerships 8 are neither exposed nor beholden to any single 8.3 Empowered Underwriters 8.1 client, industry sector, country or economy.
8.1 UW make good impression 8.1 8.4 Leadership in particular Business Line 8.2 8.6 Financial strength 8.4 02 4 6 8 10 AMLIN PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2004 21 confidence in the quality and speed of after sales to price risk fairly and the resource to assist this ADDING VALUE TO THE CLIENT RELATIONSHIP service and Amlins financial strength.
client with a range of issues.
Airline losses tend to involve significant and Amlin visits Air Malta annually and is encouraged high profile claims, not least for loss of life, so to meet with senior management ranging from the absolute confidence in the insurers ability to meet Chairman to the engineers and pilots.
As Martin these obligations is vital.
All requests and Azzopardi, Head of Fuel and Insurance at Air information are relayed through the Lloyds broker, Malta plc explains: making this a three-way partnership.
Amlin has underwritten insurance for Air Malta over Financial stability, continuity, efficiency and the past 20 years and has lead managed the account As a market leader, Amlin takes responsibility for flexibility in approach rank very high when it for the duration.
We insure everything which needs defining the conditions and a fair price for the comes to the choice of lead insurer for our aviation cover to enable the airline to operate on a daily basis, risks insured, which sets the standard for insurance programme.
Amlin has over the years namely the aircraft hull, service and repair, property, subsequent participants on the slip.
However, been able to demonstrate its capability in providing third party damage and passenger liability.
This airline insurance is not just about annual renewal, all of these at reasonable cost.
This business includes leased aircraft and contractor relationships.
but about the continuous sharing of information relationship is more of a partnership.
between underwriter, broker and insured.
Amlin is Since 1993 Marsh has acted as broker to Air given comprehensive information on future plans Air Malta is a safe airline without a major loss in Malta and selected Amlin to continue to lead such as proposed fleet changes, new types of its history.
In our view it may become a benchmark the business.
As Brian Moore, Chairman of aircraft, new routes, likely changes in passenger in safety for other airlines globally.
Amlin is proud the Aviation and Aerospace Practice of profiles all of which will impact the exposures to remain leader of choice on its insurance.
Marsh, explains: for which Air Malta will need insurance cover.
This decision was made based on our long As lead insurer, Amlin has the infrastructure to working relationship with Amlins aviation team, respond quickly to these changes, the expertise notably our respect for the underwriters ability, expertise.
ASD metal services decided to move to rapidly obtain the necessary trade credit ON-LINE DECISIONS SAVE OUR CLIENTS TIME their account to Amlin in order to obtain a more approval.
Required to deliver goods quickly flexible approach to the cover, derived from a mix from any of their UK sites, each of ASDs 20 of commercial instinct and underwriting expertise.
UK branches has a separate log-in to the Amlin At the start of each policy year, Amlin sets a website and are assured of a swift decision.
klckner & co premium based on projected annual turnover and the type of cover required.
However, with As Brian Kent, ASDs Group Credit thousands of customers, all of whom may owe Manager confirmed: The Klockner & Co Group is one of the worlds money to ASD at any given time, the goalposts The speed and efficiency of Amlins decision leading steel and metal distributors and their are constantly moving.
Our solution is to offer making has enabled us to improve our own UK operation, trading as ASD metal services, a discretionary limit given certain conditions, response times to some business enquiries.
has been a client of Amlin Credit for three years.
whereby they can insure a large number of ASDs primary clients are in the construction smaller accounts without reference to Amlin.
As broker, Aons role once the policy is written related industries, sheet metal, steel fabrication is one of specialist advisor.
They provide advice and general engineering.
As one of our larger For the larger value customers, ASD applies for and information on difficult limits, and claims credit insurance accounts, we negotiate with the limits using Amlin Credits dedicated website.
handling expertise to enable Amlin to service Finance Director and Group Credit manager, Decisions are automatically generated and, if their client efficiently.
While there was initial together with their broker Aon Trade Credit.
subsequent risk analyst involvement is required, scepticism about the introduction of e-business decisions are generally received within 24 hours.
in this sector, it is clear that by balancing this In common with more than 50% of our trade It is worth noting that Amlin Credit was the first with personal intervention as the situation credit accounts, ASD metal services is managed trade credit insurer to launch an online decision demands, Amlin Credit and Aon are providing by our northern regional office in Halifax.
making system in 1998. the best possible service to the ASD metal In the trade credit industry, clients select a risk services Group.
carrier based on several core criteria including Speed of response is vital in ASDs target sectors, financial strength, underwriting and analytical as in order to trade with a new customer they need Over 175 years later, the RNLI is a world-renowned In 2004 Amlin was involved with the liability LONGEVITY AND QUALITY SERVICE BUILD TRUST charity at the cutting edge of safety at sea.
Amlin insurance programme and provided a variety of continues the Lloyds tradition by working closely with specialised covers including marine property and the Institution and the charitys brokers, E. Coleman catastrophe.
Andrew Freemantle MBE, RNLI chief & Co, to underwrite a range of insurance policies.
executive confirms: We are very satisfied with the service that we Amlins relationship with the RNLI began in 1983 have received from our insurers Amlin, particularly when we took on insurance of the substantial motor the speed and efficiency of claims processing.
The Royal National Lifeboat Institution and Lloyds fleet through our Summit subsidiary.
have enjoyed a close relationship dating back to the The combination of lifeboat, crews and support formative years of both organisations, both being In 2001 we were a primary choice to work closely ensure that the RNLI maintains its tradition of fundamental to the UKs maritime environment.
with Colemans in restructuring the portfolio to providing a comprehensive sea rescue service.
Lloyds established a fund to encourage the building provide a tailored package of cover specifically to Amlin are proud to have been selected to and operation of lifeboats to counter ship losses.
meet the needs of the modern RNLI.
With assets underwrite insurance for the Institution This fund provided an impetus to early lifeboat including some 470 lifeboats, 230 lifeboat stations and remain part of that tradition.
building and helped pay for almost 30 lifeboats and 430 vehicles and with around 4,000 volunteers up to the 1820s.
across the United Kingdom and the Republic of Ireland, todays RNLI has a wide range of insurance requirements.
