24 AMLIN PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2004 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW INFRASTRUCTURE DAVID HARRIS OPERATIONS DIRECTOR There is tremendous scope in the London market to improve performance in important areas which should really enhance client service as well as Amlins potential.
This belief is at the heart of our drive to deliver the best infrastructure in the market.
Increasing Amlins attractiveness as a leading provides full workflow and scanning functionality, PROCESS MANAGEMENT underwriter and playing a leadership role in allowing faster turnaround at key stages of our Operational scorecards, introduced for the first the process improvements which can increase underwriting processes, increased process time in 2003, have been improved and have the overall attractiveness of the Lloyds and control and a detailed audit trail which will contributed to the attainment of higher London market requires investment in aid our ambitions to deliver contract certainty performance standards in a number of areas.
Investment is aimed at at the earliest opportunity.
Building on the 34 process key performance indicators are improving performance and increasing success of this for underwriting processes now measured with, on average, over 37% our capacity to handle growth in the we are now turning our attention to its use recording improvements on prior month business over the long term.
in claims management and other areas.
performance over the course of 2004.
A 2004 survey of London market insurers We are well advanced in the development of In 2004 we embarked on a review of our claims by , revealed an a replacement, known as Genus, to our UK organisation and processes.
Based on our work approximate average range for 2004 IT commercial systems which is intended to to date we believe there is considerable scope spend of 6.6% to 9.7%, as a proportion of further consolidate systems while improving for profit enhancement through investing in our total expenditure, excluding outsourced and information, control and client service.
In doing so we will also be staff costs.
Amlins comparable figure against also consolidating the underwriting systems aiming to differentiate our standards of client this range was 9.3%.
for our marine service company operations service where we lead.
and have invested in a more resilient platform, During 2004 Amlin has made large strides in Voyager.
Each of these developments With the FSAs stated requirement for contract a number of areas which will contribute to the will reduce cost and increase capability.
certainty at risk inception within two years, we future resilience of the Group and help it will also be revisiting our plans and strategy in deliver its long term ambitions.
We continued to develop our business continuity this regard.
Having already made progress in planning with simulated walk throughs of a tracking and turning around contract wordings, number of potential disaster scenarios by our AMLIN INFRASTRUCTURE AND CAPABILITY and with our experience in workflow crisis management team resulting in improved management, we believe we are as well In recognition of the gathering pace of change clarity in a number of areas.
Additionally we placed as any in the London market to in our market, Amlin continued to invest in have measured the state of our planning against progress towards this objective.
2004 in its Programme and Project Management best practice standards and are in the process team and techniques so that it is well of applying for accreditation with the PAS56 equipped to manage change, extract benefits compliance standard.
from this change and maintain a leadership position in service and efficiency to ILLUSTRATIVE UNDERWRITING OPERATIONAL SCORECARD complement its underwriting excellence.
Definitions Action Plans Trends Benchmarking With data remaining such a critical element Legend RAG G Within 95% of Indicator No action required of risk pricing and control, we continued to A Within Indr, trend or Closing on Indr 90%, trend Warning R Outside Indicator 90% Requires Action develop our data warehouse during 2004.
Full gross premium and claims analysis capabilities Internal Efficiency and Quality Risk were rolled out across our London market Actual operations and should be available to all areas KPI Indicator Month Last Month Annual RAG of the Group by September 2005.
Our data Risk Live Risk Review % Days 100% 95% 82% G warehouse is a key part of our strategy to Wording Received Agreed % Days 100% 100% 93% G Risk Entry Accuracy % Vol 99% 99% 99% G provide the best quality information to our Risk Partial to Live Days Days 5.0 3.0 3.0 A underwriters and claims teams in a timely Accuracy check to target % Days 99% 94% 97% G manner to support decision making.
% Days 100% 100% 100% G Declarations Posted % Days 100% 100% 100% G Endorsements added % Days 91% 89% 88% A Amlin also introduced a new workflow system Risk Re-Referencing % Vol 95% 95% 95% R during 2004.
Known as WASP, the system AMLIN PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2004 25 BENEFITS OF MAJOR INITIATIVES a technological perspective, Kinnect has successfully engaged both Marsh and Willis Accounting and Electronic as key implementation partners in 2004.
Along LMP Slip Settlement ACORD Kinnect claims files with Amlin, they are represented on the project Contract certainty steering group.
Process efficiency Service to the client ACCOUNTING AND SETTLEMENT Global standards The adoption of international standards, such as ACORD, for messaging between brokers and speed of policy processing and help reduce the insurers is a further important plank in the PROCESS CHANGE AT LLOYDS risks and costs associated with contractual modernisation of the London market and should In addition to enhancing our own capability, uncertainty.
In 2004, Lloyds commenced the improve its international appeal as a Amlin is playing a leading role in supporting quarterly measurement of progress made by marketplace in which it is easy to transact and helping to drive a number of change businesses in reaching 100% compliance with business.
Amlin has been heavily engaged in initiatives which Lloyds is taking to increase the slip requirements, with the overall Lloyds the design work for delivering these standards efficiency, effectiveness, consistency and market performance improving some 6% to 87% into the Lloyds market.
In late 2004, market transparency across the London market.
Amlins performance has been wide support for this was received and in better than the market average throughout 2004.
February 2005, financing for a project called LMP SLIP Accounting and Settlement was committed Significant progress has been made during 2004 KINNECT by Lloyds, its agencies and the London with the implementation of the LMP slip, an Amlin has been closely involved with the company insurance market.
Completion initiative originally born out of the London Kinnect project from the outset.
Kinnect aims of the project is planned for 2006.
Market Principles first aired in 2000.
This is to increase efficiency in the placing process, an important step towards the goal of contract which is closely linked to the goal of contract ELECTRONIC CLAIMS FILES certainty at inception, which will help increase certainty.
An extremely ambitious project from One of the most important parts of an insurers service offering is its claims capability.
Today, claims files are walked around the market by NUMBER OF KPIs MEASURED Source: Amlin claims brokers.
In 2004, Lloyds and its major 40 participants agreed to develop an electronic 35 claims repository which should result in greater 30 clarity and speed of claims assessment, as well 25 20 as dramatically increasing efficiency and 15 reducing frictional costs.
With the electronic 10 claims files and a Lloyds repository which is 5 0 planned to be operational in 2006, relevant Jan-04 Feb-04 Mar-04 Apr-04 May-04 Jun-04 Jul-04 Aug-04 Sep-04 Oct-04 Nov-04 Dec-04 information will be available on-line.
Amlin is a prime mover in the adoption of PERCENTAGE OF MEASURED KPIs IMPROVEMENT OVER PREVIOUS MONTH Source: Amlin electronic claims settlement.
We have already completed a successful pilot of a claims repository, working with the CLASS messaging 75 system and one of our major brokers.
Indeed, 50 we are currently building this capability into our workflow management systems so that 25 we can roll out the use of electronic claims files across our London Market operations 0 Jan-04 Feb-04 Mar-04 Apr-04 May-04 Jun-04 Jul-04 Aug-04 Sep-04 Oct-04 Nov-04 Dec-04 by mid 2005.
