Our new convenience Appliance store stocking fridges, Range of barbecue items including store format freezers, fridgefreezers and microwaves.
Creating the ultimate high street convenience store Our popular meal deals remain an Confectionery, soft drinks, hot New ranges of fresh produce, chilled food and important feature.
fresh bread 450 more grocery lines Extended opening hours Kitchen gadgets, laundry aids, pet care, baby accessories, stationery, pocketNew extended grocery lines including money toys, sewing accessories and ethnic ranges.
Frozen food moved to upright cabinets to improve access and display.
Chilled island, selling fish, meat and pies.
Fresh bread baked on the premises.
Kiosk selling cigarettes and lottery tickets.
New check-outs with wider access for Newspapers, drinks and snacks.
Chilled fresh fruit and vegetables.
The Big Food Group plc The Big Food Group plc 1 10 0 Retail The Iceland chain consists of 748 well-located high street stores with a loyal customer base of 3.4 million customers a week.
Our programme of change is improving our ability to compete in the attractive convenience sector of the grocery market.
We are developing our offer by extending our range of grocery, chilled and fresh products and rolling out our new formats.
Meanwhile our market-leading position in frozen food means Iceland is well placed to serve customers with unbeatable meal deals and exciting new products.
Business to business Our wholesale businesses comprise Booker, the UKs leading cash and carry operator serving 438,000 independent retailers and caterers, and Woodward, a foodservice business supplying 21,500 catering outlets.
Each business has made impressive progress in launching a range of new products and services successfully trialled last year.
These have been researched and targeted to help customers businesses thrive.
As a result, Booker is now achieving sustained growth in sales, driven in particular by the continued roll-out of its Premier fascia to 1,455 independent retailers.
Woodward is moving forward rapidly with a full ambient offer now available throughout the country and an enhanced sales force to serve customers better and drive growth.
12 The Big Food Group plc The Big Food Group plc 13 Left, 438,000 independent retailers and caterers buy from Booker.
Business to Below, celebrity chef Gordon Ramsays Master Classes are hugely popular with our independent catering customers.
business Left, 1,455 independent retailers now operate under the Premier fascia.
Right and below, Booker focuses on providing products and services that help our customers to trade better.
Booker A major development for our customers this year was the launch We have revitalised Bookers product development programme Booker is at the heart of the UKs neighbourhood grocery store of Category Business Planning CBP.
This is a tool that has to improve the appeal of its offer.
Our Chefs Larder range sector.
We play a key role in supporting independent retailers been extensively used by the multiples which, through our strong for caterers was relaunched and segmented into distinct suband provide them with the offers and promotions they need relationships with major suppliers, we have made available to brands including new Chefs Larder Premium, to give chefs a to compete in todays increasingly competitive market.
It helps retailers to understand customer top-quality choice to add to their menus.
We have also improved act on their behalf as the long-established champion of the purchasing patterns and to structure their range and layout to our fresh meat offers by lengthening the maturation period on independent retailer in the face of encroachment into the best effect.
We carried out extensive research in independent store our extra-mature Welsh beef and enhancing cutting specification convenience sector by the supermarket multiples.
environments and have produced blueprints for each category.
on Welsh lamb to improve value for our customers.
The results have been very rewarding, with the soft drinks launch Booker is now receiving sustained investment to progress.
At the seeing significant sales uplifts.
Our relationships with our customers are paramount and our heart of this is an emphasis on understanding the needs and Branch Managers know many of them personally.
Bookers Master ambitions of independent retailers and caterers.
This gives it Soft drinks were followed by the launch of CBP in the wines, Class demonstrations in partnership with celebrity chef Gordon renewed focus on serving customers with a new range of products beverages and dairy categories.
CBP will be rolled out to most Ramsay are helping to develop these relationships further.
They and services that will help their businesses trade better.
The categories during the current year.
We are working closely with have proved to be hugely popular with hundreds of independent launch of our new strapline Your Success Counts is a key major suppliers who are helping drive the changes, including caterers across the country and are helping to drive sales.
It is part of our communication to our Unilever, Diageo, Cadbury, Wrigleys and Masterfood.
customers that the success of their businesses really matters to us.
The introduction of our Spend and Save scheme at the start of Premier now the UKs thirdOur closer relationships with major suppliers are enabling us to the year set an industry-leading standard on customer discounts.
A major success at Booker over 2003 04 was the roll-out achieve first to market status in many areas of new product Our new approach links discounts directly to the volume largest and fastest-growing of our Premier symbol group package now operated by 1,455 launches.
Recent examples include Wrigleys Extra Mint and purchased in a wholly transparent way.
Customers have welcomed independent retailers.
Premier is now the third-largest and fastestCadburys Double Decker With Nuts.
As a result, our customers its clarity and say its a real help to their businesses and another symbol group growing symbol group in the UK and Bookers like-for-like sales are given a real competitive edge.
important reason for trading at Booker.
to its Premier customers were up 8.0% over the last year.
TheIndependent retailers fascia enables independent neighbourhood stores to benefit from Delivered wholesale is a growing sector of the market and we are Cost control and efficiency gains continue to be key as we build supported with new salesBookers bulk buying, promotional packages, sales and marketing developing our service in this area to provide customers with the sales.
For instance, the successful establishment of our Finance support.
This includes sales data analysis that helps them to back-up they need.
Shared Service Centre led to savings through the closure of development toolkit, understand the scale of opportunity among their customers.
Elsewhere we have combined Last year we successfully trialled a key element of our delivered branches to improve the cost efficiency of our wholesale estate.
marketing roadshows and We continued to innovate to build on our success with Premier.
This scheme means products like milk This led to four branch closures and the consolidation of this Representatives from our national sales force visit customers on a and bread can be delivered to the retailer direct from more than business into upgraded neighbouring branches.
regular newsletter regular basis, our transactional website gives easier access to our 20 participating suppliers.
Booker negotiates beneficial rates and offers and we have developed effective two-way communications compiles a complete weekly invoice.
It has now been rolled out to Our investments and our new initiatives have produced a rapid New delivery hub offers weekly through our customer magazine Talking Shop.
These improvements aim to support our gives an insight into developments at Premier and in the overall independent business customers and help them grow, even during deliveries within a two-hour marketplace.
It also provides news on product developments and Our new delivery hub, a specialised ordering and delivery site, was tougher market conditions.
time slot other innovations and it allows members to share successes.
We launched during 2002 and is being trialled with retailers from have introduced a range of back-up services including free NVQ 14 branches.
It offers professional, secure weekly deliveries within Category business planning training for Premier store staff in areas such as food hygiene.
a two-hour time slot, backed by a dedicated customer service team and electronic order capture via the Booker website.
launched for our customers 14 The Big Food Group plc The Big Food Group plc 15
