Retail Iceland store refurbishment programme accelerated: 142 of our stores now operate in one of the new formats 1,455 independent retailers trade under our Premier fascia Like-for-like sales to Premier customers up 8% Sales-based ordering systems extended Seven gold awards won at British Frozen Foods Federation Awards: our ice-cream chocolates won Best Overall Product 34 different meal deals offered 80,000 deliveries made each week 1,300 retailers use our drop-shipment service Foodservice 55 new sales colleagues recruited for Woodward Fresh-fish processing unit opened at Birmingham Full temperature range of products launched at Woodward National capability for ambient and chilled grocery fulfilment New wins in national accounts Chefs Larder range relaunched Our Malt House Vintners wines won 75 medals at the International Wine Challenge Support services Finance shared service centre operational HR and payroll systems implemented Configuration of Master Data project completed Joint distribution centre became operational Radio-frequency picking introduced at Booker distribution centres 25 suppliers signed up to Co-Managed Inventory Launch...
The Big Food Group plc The Big Food Group plc 1 1 Financial Chairmans highlights statement Londis Corporate social responsibility Total net sales: 5,151.6m Our strategy includes developing relationships with independently Progress has been made on our corporate social responsibility operated convenience and neighbourhood stores.
The possible CSR programme with the establishment of policies across key 2003: 5,060.9m acquisition of Londis presented us with an opportunity to extend business areas.
These policies are underpinned by our ethical our support to 2,000 additional independent retailers.
stance and together they are helping us drive the businessOperating profit : 75.3m forward within the principles of sustainable development.
In the 2003: 62.4m However, as announced on 2 June 2004, the Board was unable year the CSR programme has included the review of potential to progress the potential acquisition.
The Board has adopted a dual approach to Profit before tax : 50.1m managing the area, through the risk management procedure and We will continue to concentrate on the successful development through the CSR Committee.
2003: 37.1m of our Premier fascia as we extend our relationships with independent convenience and neighbourhood stores across Our CSR policies and principles are now included on our website.
Adjusted earnings per share: We have successfully launched many of the country.
This annual report includes a detailed review of the CSR activities the initiatives to create a strong, fully in the year and the progress that we have made towards complying 15.2p 2003: 9.3p integrated food group following the trials Results with the ABI Disclosure Guidelines on Social Responsibility.
before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items completed and reported on last year.
We Profit before taxation was 27.6m, compared with 14.5m in the are maintaining our momentum, despite previous year.
Governance an increasingly competitive grocery trading We continue to ensure our internal controls and processes are environment in which the pace of change This result was underpinned by the progress of our businesses.
robust and reflect current thinking in corporate governance.
has heightened in recent months.
Importantly, We are pleased with the continued performance of the newAs an example we have carried out a full performance evaluation we are realising planned returns from the format Iceland stores which was reflected in Icelands improving of your Board, its committees and the directors.
This will become strategic investments we have already made.
sales through the greater part of the year.
Booker delivered a an annual process and will make a significant contribution We now need to pick up the pace of investment range of customer initiatives in a more demanding sales towards continually improving the efficiency and effectiveness in order to compete effectively in the future.
environment while Woodward made significant gains in line with of your Board.
Strategy Outlook When we formulated our strategy, we recognised that we Dividend We are implementing our plans while recognising that price operated in a fast-moving industry and that your Board would A final dividend of 1.9p is proposed, bringing the total dividend deflation and further consolidation will be important features of need to undertake formal and frequent reviews of our progress for the year to 3.0p.
The final dividend is payable on 23 July the grocery market.
We are focused on serving our customers in taking account of the significant structural change going on in 2004, to shareholders on the register at 25 June 2004. the higher-growth retail convenience and foodservice sectors.
Colleagues As we continue to develop and execute our customer-facing 03 04 03 04 This clearly included Morrisons successful bid for Safeway and Mike Coupe resigned from the Board on 28 May having overseen strategies, we must ensure that our operating efficiencies are Turnover m Profit before tax, a number of acquisitions of convenience store chains by the the launch of our retail strategy including the initial roll-out of our maximised to support the best possible offer to our customers.
amortisation of goodwill supermarket giants.
We were disappointed that the OFT successful new store formats.
We are pleased to have recruited We have already made progress on cost efficiencies in a number and exceptional items m decided not to refer the Tesco acquisition of Adminstore Andy Clarke to take over as Managing Director of Iceland to of areas and in 2004 05 we will improve the distribution to the Competition Commission as the long-term impact of such continue this strategic development.
Andy, who joined the Board network and tackle store labour costs in anticipation of the takeovers could significantly reduce consumer choice in the future.
on 26 April, comes with deep experience of food retailing with substantial increase in the minimum wage from October.
Our Asda and Morrisons and will bring an extra dimension to our determination to unlock the value from two fundamentally We recognise that our long-term ability to compete in this operational skills.
attractive business streams, high street neighbourhood retailing changing market will depend on developing the Groups offers and foodservice, remains as strong as ever.
in tune with customer needs and at affordable prices which flow Alan McWalter joined the Board on 19 September as a nonfrom large-scale buying strength.
We are confident that our executive director.
Alan has wide experience of retailing which will strategy of a fully integrated food group focusing on the high be of great benefit to the Board.
At the same time, we accepted street neighbourhood retail sector and the growing foodservice the retirement of Alan Smith, who had been a non-executive market will continue to grow shareholder value in the future.
director since the merger which formed the Big Food Group in June 2000.
George Greener Chairman The Board would also like to thank our 30,000 colleagues throughout the Group for their hard work and commitment to our customers, together with their dedication and enthusiasm in implementing our strategic plans.
03 04 03 04 Adjusted earnings per share Operating profit before Pence amortisation of goodwill and exceptional items m 2 The Big Food Group plc The Big Food Group plc 3 9.3 5,060.9 15.2 5,151.6 62.4 37.1 50.1 75.3 Strategy Chief Executives April 2001 to March 2002 April 2002 to March 2003 April 2003 to March 2004 April 2004 to March 2005 Platform for growth Launch New territory Stabilise review: Launch Iceland well received.
Booker achieved growth for the second year running We are now rolling out improvement programmes across the Like-for-like sales were up 0.7% for the year as a whole.
Sales as it developed its offers and service capabilities in line with our business to realise efficiency savings by applying Group processes were 1,544m 2003: 1,510m and operating profit was strategic plans.
that leverage our new technology platforms.
initiatives are being embedded across the Group as we develop A key success was the high level of take-up of our Premier the talents of our colleagues to achieve our objectives.
Meanwhile During the year we continued to roll out the new store formats symbol group package.
By the end of the year, 1,455 independent in logistics we are realising greater effectiveness through trialled in 2002 03, completing the refurbishment of 100 retailers were operating under the Premier fascia.
Like-for-like sales structured changes and the application of new technology.
This additional stores across the UK.
These new-format stores are growth to this group was 8.0% during the year.
Premier is supports all our plans through the more efficient delivery of our designed to be more in tune with our customers modern now the third-largest and the fastest-growing symbol group of products.
We are working closely with suppliers on a Group-wide lifestyles.
They feature extended fresh and chilled ranges with independent retailers in the UK.
basis on initiatives such as category management.
Meanwhile a marginally smaller frozen food participation in a more inviting e-auctions are helping to reduce costs on the purchase of shopping environment.
The returns being achieved from this At the start of the year we launched an innovative discount-bycommodity products and Group services.
programme are very encouraging and we are accelerating the rate volume scheme called Spend and Save.
This is an industry-leading Total net sales were 5,151.6 of store refits to improve our competitive position.
It is expected initiative that brings transparency to discounts by linking them Industry consolidation that a further 150 stores will be converted during 2004 05.
This directly to volume of sales.
It is an important innovation that We continued to operate in a highly competitive and rapidly 2003: 5,060.9m generating and our other initiatives are designed to capture greater value has totally redefined our customer relationships and helped to consolidating industry.
The acquisition of Safeway by Morrisons, from this well established high street brand.
as well as the consistent efforts made by Tesco and Sainsbury to operating profit before strengthen their positions in the convenience food sector, have all In the year we also opened three new stores in our new formats.
The launch of many other initiatives followed during the year.
contributed to increasing price pressures in the high street.
We goodwill amortisation and We unfolded our new strapline Your Success Counts.
This points believe that unchecked further consolidation will have a negative We have 3.4 million customers a week and we have conducted a to our focus on the businesses of our independent retail and long-term impact on consumer choice.
However, the strategy we exceptional items of 75.3m major programme of customer research which clarified our appeal catering customers and how we are working hard to help them have in place means our own business can adapt and progress in to mums shopping on a budget.
We have developed our Mums succeed.
We also launched our Category Business Plans these this new environment.
2003: 62.4m Are Heroes campaign to communicate how our proposition are blueprints that govern ranges and store layout and which can The interest charge was similar supports their role as family providers.
significantly boost sales for our retail and catering customers.
Colleagues We have made good progress towards strengthening the appeal to last year and there were no Iceland is a market leader in frozen food.
This important category We introduced the technology platforms to facilitate the proper of our retail and wholesale brands and improving our customers is a key area of authority for us and provides the foundation for implementation of our delivery services, drop shipment and the satisfaction.
This is entirely due to the skills and commitment of net exceptional operating costs much of our promotional and new product activity.
These initiatives will now pick up pace and help us our colleagues across the Group and I would like to thank them meal deal promotions are particularly popular, providing a capture a growing share of the expanding delivered sector of the for their continued dedication during the year.
Earnings per share were 8.4p different meal every fortnight for a family of four at a budget price.
The future 2003: 3.5p and adjusted Our Home Shopping and Home Delivery services continue Woodward Foodservice We operate in the attractive convenience segment of the grocery to develop, making 80,000 deliveries per week.
We are focusing Woodwards sales increased by 24% over the year to 119m.
The market with 748 Iceland high street stores and 1,455 Premier earnings per share were 15.2p on improving the efficiency of both services.
business is still in its development phase and 2003 04 was neighbourhood stores.
This part of the market is growing and 2003: 9.3p a year of significant investment to support the expansion of its we have a leading position with over 2,000 stores.
Following a Overall like-for-like sales improved throughout the greater part capabilities into a national operator with a full product range.
strategic investment our foodservice business is growing rapidly Average net debt was 251m of the year with Christmas trading benefiting from increased This included the roll-out of a multi-temperature range having and winning customers in this developing sector.
We have availability of our successful Party Fayre range and our exceptional established and completed our ambient distribution capability.
demonstrated that our strategic initiatives, such as extended Christmas Meal Deal.
chilled ranges, and better delivery formats can contribute Our investment in Woodward underpins our strategy to build a positively to our sales performance.
Meanwhile the integration Booker strong third force in the Foodservice sector.
A position supported of our Group functions is re-enforcing the ability of our customerTotal sales were 3,488m 2003: 3,455m : with profitable nonby the Groups central services and expertise in food.
Now, as the facing businesses to compete successfully in this market.
tobacco sales up 0.7% on a like-for-like sales basis.
Operating percentage of food spend outside the home rises, Woodward is profit improved to 57.6m.
equipped to continue to build market share.
A generally more demanding trading environment was During the year we won important contracts from Jurys Doyle compensated for by the continued rapid growth of our Premier Hotels, Out of Town Restaurants, London and Edinburgh Inns fascia, promotional activity and improved tobacco sales.
Bill Grimsey Chief Executive In addition we made progress with our delivery hub at Wolverhampton providing a centralised wholesale ordering and Integration distribution centre and our drop shipment programme which Our integrated food group strategy is designed to support our enables direct delivery to retailers from suppliers.
We also customer-facing businesses with efficient and lower-cost support launched a number of new chilled and fresh ranges which were platforms.
4 The Big Food Group plc The Big Food Group plc 5 Retail Our core shoppers are mums who want to provide nutritious and interesting food for their families, often on a tight budget, and we aim to make life easier for them.
Our detailed new-product research includes customer tasting panels.
Iceland Our core shoppers are mums who want to provide nutritious and Over the year we accelerated our refurbishment programme interesting food for their families, often on a tight budget, and at Iceland and, by the year end, 142 stores traded in the new we aim to make life easier for them.
Our new national television formats.
These stores continue to deliver planned sales uplifts advertising campaign launched in October featured the Mums in a wide variety of local competitive and demographic locations Are Heroes strapline.
We are building this positioning as we across the country.
It is expected that a further 150 stores will transfer a proportion of our marketing spend in-store to tell be converted during 2004 05. customers of the great choices on offer as they shop.
This includes better point-of-sale displays, signage and store layouts and the Each of our new Iceland formats offers our core frozen ranges, launch of the Iceland magazine, in November, featuring new including our fabulous meal deals and a wider range of fresh and promotions, products and recipes.
chilled foods, groceries and sandwiches.
Our two customer delivery options remain important services.
Our Core Plus format stores extend this range to include spirits, We were the first grocery chain to introduce home delivery toiletries, baby products and ethnic foods.
Our Convenience stores where customers can buy in-store and then have their shopping add fresh bread, newspapers and flowers to the mix.
Meanwhile the development of our iceland.
co. uk home satisfying local customer needs by offering the right choice in the shopping service continues.
Telephone ordering is very popular, right place and always at the right price.
These refurbished stores while on-line shopping grows.
Deliveries are free to customers are less reliant on promotional activity given their more compelling who spend more than 40. offers.
However, promotions do continue to be an important component of our overall offer.
During the year we ran 34 different As an aid to our store managers we have introduced an unbeatable meal deals.
These give a family of four a complete internal electronic database.
This will improve communication, meal at a budget price.
Our Christmas offer was a notable success, development initiatives and information flow among our comprising a prawn cocktail starter, a 10lb turkey, vegetables and 18,000 colleagues at Iceland.
a pavlova pudding, all for an amazing 10.
We sold 200,000 of these incredible Christmas meal deals in one week.
At Iceland we are now moving into a new phase in the development of this important high street brand.
The launch of so Product innovation and range extension are at the heart of our many initiatives, all ultimately designed to serve customers better, approach to revitalising the business.
Last July we were pleased means our offer is becoming much more in tune with modern to win seven Gold awards at the British Frozen Foods Federation lifestyles.
From the layout of our new stores and the new products Awards and our ice-cream chocolates won the Best Overall we sell, to our many support initiatives, Iceland has a new focus Bindu Ganatra is 34 years old, a full-time mum and married with Christine Gray, also 34 years old and with three children, works Product category.
New products are designed following detailed and a new place in the lives of the families we serve.
She shops at Icelands Rushden town centre store.
full time as a primary school teacher in Leicester and shops at customer research with consumer tasting panels.
We want to She says: Icelands Bell Grave Gate store.
She visits Iceland once a month.
provide products that suit their fast-changing lifestyles and almost Expert 300 new products were launched during the year.
For example, Expert, our logistics and appliance care business, also made I use frozen food a lot so, of course, I go to Iceland for it.
As the experts in frozen food, our new frozen salmon fillet in sauce can be microwaved from the progress during the year.
This company, which employs some 450 Like lots of other people, I think theyre good for frozen Iceland is the logical place to shop.
freezer to provide a high-quality meal in minutes.
Meanwhile our colleagues and 350 sub contractors, delivers and repairs large food and its a nice place to shop.
In fact its just right Extremely Creamy range of ice creams, launched last summer, domestic appliances for Iceland customers and customers of for people like me!
I get paid monthly and its easy to budget for groceries this way.
took a 6.6% share of the national luxury ice cream sector.
The third party retailers and manufacturers.
Expert Logistics had its There are so many good offers at Iceland, such as buy-one-getextension of our fresh and chilled ranges included the launch of busiest year ever with a 15% increase in deliveries.
The company I shop at Iceland because its good value for money, and theres one-free and half-price offers.
The staff at the local store are very Bigger Eat 500g chilled meals at an unbeatable price of 1.49, has also improved service levels to industry leading standards.
a good variety of items, particularly vegetarian.
There are excellent friendly and efficient, they are chatty and make you feel very or three for 4.
The first time fix rate in appliance repairs reached 80% and special offers especially the buy-one-get-one-free and the threewelcome.
Expert Logistics achieved a greater than 90% delivery success for-5.
All our own-brand products are produced to demanding standards.
Efficiency gains were achieved through the closure of our Christines kids love the whole takeaway pizza range: They have Iceland was the first supermarket to ban GM ingredients and all parts warehouse at Milton Keynes and the absorption of this work Bindu usually does a large shop at Iceland once a month, on lots of sauce, theyre very tasty, and dont taste like theyve been products carry Icelands Food You Can Trust motif.
into our Radcliffe logistics warehouse.
We were pleased to a weekday evening, when her husband, a computer programmer, frozen.
secure accounts in Expert Logistics with Beko and Empire Stores is at home to look after the kids.
Occasionally, she pops in for and in Expert Appliance Care with the Bernstein Group, Nardi odd items during the day when she has time.
The kids also enjoy the barbecue chicken and ice cream that and John Lewis.
comes in a range of flavours the attractive packaging really My favourite is the vegetarian lasagne, its rich and filling with appeals.
My kids love Iceland ice cream, its their favourite pudding because its so tasty.
7 The Big Food Group plc 8 The Big Food Group plc
