Foodservice Right, the restaurant at Jurys Doyle Hotel, Imperial Wharf, London, an account won during the year.
Below, the chef at the hotel discusses supplies with our Woodward sales representative.
Left, the Chefs Larder range is now in the Woodward product portfolio making this Left, Woodward is able to supply restaurant important brand available to a new group chefs with the creative meal solutions they of customers.
Below, Woodward can now supply a range of ambient, chilled and frozen products on a national basis.
Woodward Foodservice Woodward product portfolio making this important brand Woodward now delivers Woodward is expanding rapidly in an attractive long-term growth available to a new group of customers.
We are continuing to invest to extend its added-value fresh fish, cut to order, services and product range.
We have recruited and trained 55 Innovative product development is critical to retaining and new field sales colleagues to achieve full national coverage and developing our customer base in the fast-moving catering sector.
on a next-day basis a higher level of customer service.
Restaurant chefs require creative meal solutions while our institutional customers want improved meal ingredients.
We have throughout the UK Our telesales and national account teams were also reinforced worked closely with supplier partners to develop products across Chilled and ambient centres to support and grow national account opportunities.
Recently the range based on a sound understanding of our customers.
we were pleased to secure accounts with Jurys Doyle Hotels, opened at Kingswinford and Out of Town Restaurants, London and Edinburgh Inns and As part of The Big Food Group, Woodward is able to pass on Swallow Hotels.
the buying benefit of the Groups scale while remaining close Bellshill to its customers and offering a flexible tailor-made service.
An important development for Woodwards customers is the new The Woodward network ensures that at any point of contact The Chefs Larder range fresh-fish processing unit in Birmingham.
This can deliver fresh Woodward can add real value to the professional caterer, from fish, cut to order, on a next-day basis anywhere in the UK.
advice through the customer development team to range added to portfolio Encouraging sales and customer feedback led to trials on a similar development supported by the technical and marketing team.
In addition to a full range of products, Woodward offers ancillary We opened cross-docking platforms at Bracknell and Hatfield services that include menu planning, help with costing, and where larger loads can be broken down onto smaller delivery point-of-sale print and design.
Customers have welcomed these vehicles.
This will extend our capability in frozen food into the points of difference and say they deliver tangible benefits to South East and so complete national coverage.
launched our chilled and ambient distribution capability with the opening of depots at Kingswinford and Bellshill.
These changes Woodward is a rapidly growing third force in the foodservice mean we can now supply a range of ambient, chilled and frozen sector supported by the Groups central functions and in-depth products on a national basis.
An important collaborative aspect expertise in food.
As the catering market expands, Woodward of this launch is the inclusion of the Chefs Larder range in the is well-positioned to build market share.
16 The Big Food Group plc The Big Food Group plc 17 Integrating We have made significant progress in reducing distribution and transport costs by creating a more efficient and improving infrastructure.
We made significant progress over the past year in realising our strategy to create a fully integrated group of food companies.
At the heart of this structure are Group functions that support our consumer-facing businesses.
We continue to work hard to ensure these functions are centres of excellence and highly cost effective, to derive the maximum benefits for our customers.
Across the business we are standardising processes and now have continuous improvement programmes under way which will deliver further cost savings.
The establishment of a Finance Shared Service Centre last year meant we could integrate our accounting systems and save costs.
We are also bringing our payroll and HR systems onto one IT platform.
We are increasingly utilising this to host other Group functions, Master Data and sales-order processing.
Our Master Data project is the key IT platform that supports the roll-out of many of our strategic initiatives.
It will be the backbone of our IT infrastructure and will enable all our businesses to use Above, left, we opened new chilled and share data, including that on product, pricing and customers.
Above, our Finance Shared Service Centre and ambient centres at Kingswinford at Deeside is now fully operational.
One important module of the Master Data programme deals with Left, sales-based ordering is now in place Left, we have introduced radio-frequency customer information.
We have integrated this into our Booker at Iceland and being rolled out at Booker.
picking at all Booker distribution centres.
business so that we can track its customer relationships from a central database.
This will facilitate the roll-out of our delivery During the year we introduced radio-frequency picking at all Our e-auction procurement programme has also continued to We are standardising processes hub and drop shipment initiatives.
Other modules will be our Booker distribution centres.
This will produce cost savings by make important savings across the Group this year.
Combining integrated into activities at Booker over the coming year.
reducing the error rate on order picking.
We have also improved the buying needs of all our businesses and support functions across the business the productivity of our transport infrastructure.
A Paragon we are able to negotiate significant savings.
Thirty-four auctions We have made significant progress in integrating our logistics transport planning system, introduced in Iceland, has been rolled were held, producing savings of 9m which we can pass on Our Master Data project will capability, to reduce distribution and transport costs by creating out across the whole Group.
This automates route planning to to customers.
At the core of this work has been save time and mileage.
Meanwhile our backhauling initiative is enable our businesses to use a review of the Group network strategy to produce a blueprint another important step in reducing road miles.
This utilises empty A key strength of our Group is the functions that support our that identifies efficiencies and supports future growth plans.
trailers returning to distribution centres from stores to collect business units.
Our efficiency gains and technical advances are and share data goods from suppliers en route.
These programmes not only reduce now being integrated across the business, helping us achieve real Sales-based ordering is now fully operational at Iceland and cost but also reduce pollution to improve the environment of the improvements to the benefit of all our customers.
Sales-based ordering is is being rolled out at Booker.
It is improving availability and communities in which we operate.
improving availability and reducing stock levels.
Our first joint distribution centre at Livingston, which distributes to both Booker and Iceland in Our Co-Managed Inventory initiative has made significant reducing stock levels Scotland and northern England, is now fully operational under progress during the year.
Twenty-five suppliers are now involved, a single management team.
We have also taken the management including Nestl, Coca-Cola and Sun Valley.
This scheme gives Improved logistics save time of a distribution centre in-house and reduced the number them transparency of overall stock levels within the Groups of third-party logistics providers.
supply chain and allows them to improve responsiveness and and mileage, and reduce generate cost savings.
pollution 18 The Big Food Group plc The Big Food Group plc 19
