Working together Our new Group Curriculum provides a resource to identify and put in place the right personal development plan for HR initiatives, introduced in 2002 03, each colleague, across the Group.
measured and evaluated Group-wide bonus scheme launched, which links reward to performance Graduate recruitment programme introduced Far left, our Group Curriculum identifies and Our 30,000 colleagues across the Group are our During this year we have measured and evaluated the HR puts in place the right development plan for most important asset.
Their commitment to initiatives we introduced in 2002 03.
Our Backchat survey is an each colleague.
creating a fully integrated food group is crucial excellent way of gaining feedback from colleagues and is now Left, below left and bottom, new products to achieving our strategic objectives.
We asked 30,000 colleagues to respond are developed as a result of working closely to a questionnaire and we received an outstanding 88% response with our suppliers.
We believe the way we behave towards each other is crucial to rate.
Backchat has highlighted an increase in job satisfaction, Below, our consultants give advice and our success.
Our ideas on the sort of company we want have with particular areas of improvement in people development, support to our Premier customers.
given rise to our Group goals and principles.
These govern our performance recognition and communication.
relationships with each other and the outside world.
We have three goals to help us achieve our vision: Colleagues now have personal development plans tailored to their individual needs.
We recognise that people learn and develop in A Great Place to Work Teamwork and professionalism different ways, so our new Group Curriculum provides a resource will create the right environment to be successful and to get to identify and put in place the right plan for each colleague.
The satisfaction from a job well done: Curriculum sets out how they can improve performance in their First Choice for Customers Motivated and proud colleagues existing roles or prepare for the next stage in their career.
will forge stronger relationships with our customers, by better focusing on their needs, delivering exceptional service and Colleagues throughout The Big Food Group have clear objectives going that extra mile: and linked to our overall strategic plans and they are assessed against Make Profits to Share As we attract new customers, and they these.
This assessment process is exactly the same, right across and existing customers spend more money with us, we will the Group, and includes our directors.
A common approach is increase our profits to share with our colleagues and shareholders.
central to building a Group-wide culture.
We have also launched a Group-wide bonus scheme that links reward to performance of Colleagues across the Group are encouraged to embrace six individuals as well as to the wider business and introduced GEM principles of working together to help ensure we make the right awards for colleagues who Go that Extra Mile.
decisions and choices: Senior management bands have a Group Careers Club programme Say it as it is and listen To encourage frank exchange and which develops high performing colleagues who will respond feedback: to new challenges as their careers progress.
It teaches strategic Be the best at whatever you are good at To encourage business knowledge, thinking and skills, to equip them for training and development: operating at a higher level.
In addition, our Talent Management Measure how we are doing and recognise success To Workshops evaluate and compare senior colleagues, so we can ensure control and reward star performances: identify and fast-track talented individuals.
We have implemented Dedicated to customers To focus on customer satisfaction a graduate recruitment programme, initially in our logistics at a profit: function, which will help develop talent for the future.
A new Team up and beat the competition To encourage Group-wide magazine, Just the Job, publishes all vacancies and co-operation across the Group: and encourages development across the Group.
Find a better way To encourage and foster innovation as part of everyday working life.
Putting the importance of our people at the heart of our business is the driving force behind our business strategy and This year we developed systems and processes to support our the improving service we are able to offer our customers.
We reinforced these, as well as our business initiatives, with our management teams at a series of autumn conferences, and celebrated success by highlighting the achievements of individuals and teams.
20 The Big Food Group plc The Big Food Group plc 21 Opposite, at Booker the British Farm Standard logo helps customers identify British products.
Corporate social We are cutting down on the use of packaging waste, with reusable responsibility plastic trays for fresh meat and poultry deliveries.
Around 60,000 crates are used every week.
Every crate journey effectively replaces one cardboard box.
Above, our trucks and milk cartons carry Breast Cancer Campaign was our colleagues missing persons information in co-operation chosen charity for 2003 04.
A series of with the National Missing Persons Helpline.
events, including the London Marathon and the Cape Challenge, below, raised Left, we encourage older workers to join 530,000. our Group.
The Big Food Group is committed to theHuman rights We recognise that we have a responsibility to Managing impacts principles of sustainable development and ensure good human rights in our own operations and those of One key improvement has been to integrate CSR policy into the business ethics.
These are managed through our suppliers.
We commissioned an independent social audit Groups risk management structure.
The Risk Register has been the corporate social responsibility CSR with a sample of our supplier base as a valuable first step.
revised to reflect social, ethical and environmental risks and these programme to take account of the effect of This led to the development of an ethical code of practice.
are now managed through a dual approach via the CSR Forum our operations on society and the environment, and the Risk Management Group.
This process ensures the Board to the satisfaction of our key stakeholders.
Employees We are committed to supporting the development is regularly informed of impacts and opportunities through the of our colleagues and to ensuring a positive and stimulating CSR Committee and the Audit Committee.
The Board has established a set of policies and principles for workplace.
The diversity of our workforce is an important asset.
six key CSR areas: Customers, Communities, Suppliers, Human We were awarded the Two Ticks symbol for our positive practices During the year we refined our process for managing our Rights, Employees and Environment.
These policies now underpin for disabled workers at Iceland and aim to replicate this across relationships with stakeholders, particularly special interest the Group goals and principles, providing an ethical steer to our theGroup.
We are also focused on recruitment and retention organisations and investor groups.
This has resulted in more operations.
The programme has continued to be developed in of older workers to become an Age Positive employer in the closely-managed interactions and, in many cases, facilitated line with the ABI guidelines on social responsibility.
Our family-friendly policies provide initiatives greater disclosure.
year considerable progress has been made in adding to existing such as flexible working and childcare vouchers to create a good practice, particularly within our six key CSR areas: better work life balance.
Looking ahead With a raft of new initiatives in progress we will now focus on Customers The principles of our customer relations policy driveEnvironment The Group commissioned an independent ensuring we successfully embed CSR into our business and that us to deliver excellent products and services.
Our commitment environmental audit to help understand our environmental our employees, suppliers and business partners reflect this is to provide stores and branches that are easy to shop and that impacts.
This sought to identify any gaps in legislative commitment.
The Group will continue to explore further areas for offer customers high-standard products at consistently great value.
compliance and a structure for an environmental management development to manage our risks effectively and to maximise the system EMS.
The recommendations of this report are now potential opportunities and benefits that CSR can bring.
Following Communities The Big Food Group has a solid history of being processed and the establishment of an EMS is in progress.
this first year of the programmes implementation, the Group supporting charities and the Groups colleagues chose the We expect to be able to report fully on this area in 2004 05. will report on CSR in greater detail in 2004 05 and will include Breast Cancer Campaign as the Charity of the Year 2003 04. appropriate measures to highlight progress across the six key areas.
Stores, branches, depots and call centres organised local raffles As a matter of course our operations are geared to managing our and fun days alongside national events such as the London environmental impacts and best practice is applied throughout Independent consultants Article 13 reviewed the Groups Marathon and a Cape Challenge expedition to South Africa.
Our transportation and use of refrigeration equipment CSR activities in 2003 04.
They have provided an audit 530,000 has been raised through the impressive efforts are key areas for focus.
The Vemis vehicle-monitoring system verification statement which can be viewed on the Group website, of colleagues and the generosity of those in our business is in place at each depot to ensure all vehicles are operated www.
co. uk, together with further information community.
to optimum efficiency to reduce fuel consumption.
Vehicle on the Groups CSR programme.
emissions are reduced by optimising specifications and selecting Right, Iceland colleagues learn cardio Suppliers Effective business relationships that are mutually fuel-efficient vehicles that conform to the latest EU classification.
pulmonary resuscitation CPR carried out by Northern Ireland charity Chest Heart beneficial are key to the success of The Big Food Group: We endeavour to maximise the life of all refrigeration equipment and Stroke Association.
they are both a business and a CSR objective.
We used the and to minimise the risk of gas emissions, by ensuring high opportunity of our second Institute of Grocery Distribution standards of maintenance are adhered to.
We aim to ensure the Suppliers conference to discuss our CSR plans.
This was effective use of energy in our refrigeration units and to reduce followed by a letter to all suppliers outlining our approach consumption and costs without compromising service.
Our Expert and inviting comment and participation in the programmes Care business is equipped with CFC recovery tools in order to development.
The first step was the development of new recycle gases from customers' old fridges and freezers.
We have contractual terms and conditions to ensure our business also commissioned the Carbon Trust to help us identify further relationships are based on clear, open and honest dealings.
22 The Big Food Group plc The Big Food Group plc 23
