Aviva plc 2004 Board of directors 1.
Wim Dik 66 Independent non-executive director Appointed to the board in 1997, becoming chairman in 1998.
Appointed to the board in 1999, having served as chairman Currently vice-chairman Europe at Rothschild banking, chairman of of Nuts Ohra, a Dutch insurer acquired by the group in 1999.
Reuters Founders Share Company Limited, AB Kinnevik media and Currently chairman of the supervisory board of Casema Holding BV Swedish Ships Mortgage Bank banking and a member of the telecommunications and Tele Atlas NV information systems, a supervisory board of Lagardre SCA media and technology.
member of the supervisory board of ABN AMRO NV banking, Chairman of the European Financial Services Roundtable and of the a non-executive director of Unilever NV and Unilever plc consumer and Rothschild pension funds.
Former executive chairman of AB Volvo of LogicaCMG plc computer services.
Former Minister for Foreign Trade automotive.
Chairman of the nomination committee.
in the Netherlands, a former chairman of Nederlandse Unilever Bedrijven BV consumer and former chairman and chief executive officer of KPN 2.
Richard Harvey FIA 54 Group chief executive Royal Dutch Telecom telecommunications.
A former chairman of the Appointed group chief executive in April 2001.
Joined Norwich Union in supervisory board of Holland Casino gaming and a former member 1992, holding senior positions in New Zealand and the UK before of the supervisory boards of TNT Post Group mail services and joining the Norwich Union board in 1995 and becoming group chief Vos Logistics transport.
Member of the nomination and executive of Norwich Union in 1998.
Chairman of the Association of remuneration committees.
Member of the nomination committee.
Richard Karl Goeltz 62 Independent non-executive director 3.
George Paul DL 65 Deputy chairman and Appointed to the board in May 2004.
Currently non-executive director senior independent non-executive director of the Warnaco Group Inc, Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation Appointed to the board in May 2000 as deputy chairman.
Joined the Freddie Mac, New Germany Fund Investment trust and a director of Norwich Union board as a non-executive director in 1990, becoming The London School of Economics and Political Science.
Currently non-executive chairman of Agricola Group financial officer of American Express Company, NatWest Group plc Limited agricultural and JPMorgan Fleming Overseas Investment Trust and The Seagram Company Ltd and a former member of the plc asset management and a non-executive director of Notcutts Limited Accounting Standards Board UK.
Member of the audit and horticulture.
A former chairman and chief executive officer of Harrisons remuneration committees.
It is the intention that Mr Paul will retire from the board on or before 31 December 2005.
Andrew Moss 46 Group finance director remuneration committee.
Appointed to the board in May 2004 upon joining the company.
Previously director-finance, risk management and operations in 4.
Guillermo fide la Dehesa 63 Independent non-executive director Lloyds insurance and has held a number of senior management Appointed to the board in May 2000.
Joined the board of Norwich positions in HSBC plc.
Union as a non-executive director in 1999.
Currently non-executive chairman of Avivas operations in Spain, non-executive vice-chairman 8.
Carole Piwnica 47 Independent non-executive director of Goldman Sachs Europe banking and a director of Campofrio Appointed to the board in May 2003.
Currently non-executive consumer, Unin Elctrica Fenosa utility, Bank Santander Central  affairs for Tate & Lyle plc Hispano banking and Telepizza consumer.
Chairman for the Centre agriculture industrial and a former chairman of Amylum Group of Economic Policy Research.
Former chief executive and director of agriculture industrial.
A member of the New York and Paris bars, Banco Pastor banking.
A former deputy governor of the International practising law in Europe and the United States specialising in mergers Monetary Fund and the World Bank, a former deputy general manager and acquisitions, and EU regulatory matters.
Member of the audit of the Bank of Spain and former Secretary of State of Finance in Spain.
Philip Scott FIA 51 Executive director 13.
Elizabeth Vallance 59 Independent non-executive director Appointed to the board in May 2000.
Joined Norwich Union in 1973, Appointed to the board in May 2000.
Joined the board of Norwich held a number of senior positions and was appointed to the board Union as a non-executive director in 1995.
Currently Fellow of of Norwich Union in 1993.
Currently responsible for the groups Queen Mary College University of London, chairman of Council continental European and international life assurance and long-term of the Institute of Education University of London, vice-chairman of savings business and fund management operations.
Former chief the Health Foundation, non-executive director of Charter Pan European executive and executive chairman of Norwich Union Life Avivas life Trust plc asset management, member of the Committee on Standards assurance and long-term savings business in the UK.
in Public Life, and a director of The Medical Protection Society.
A former non-executive director of HMV Group Limited music retail and former 10.
Lord Sharman of Redlynch OBE 62 chairman of both the NHS Advisory Committee on Distinction awards Independent non-executive director and Clinical Excellence awards.
It is the intention that Dr Vallance will Appointed to the board in January 2005.
Currently chairman of retire from the board on or before 31 December 2005.
Member of the Aegis Group plc media services, deputy chairman of Group 4 remuneration committee.
Securicor plc security services, an independent non-executive director of BG Group plc utility and Reed Elsevier plc publisher and a 14.
Andr Villeneuve 60 Independent non-executive director member of the supervisory board of ABN AMRO NV banking.
Appointed to the board in 1996.
Non-executive chairman of Euronext A former independent non-executive director of Young & Co. s Liffe financial services, a non-executive director of United Technologies Brewery PLC and AEA Technology plc.
Former chairman of Corporation aerospace and a director of the Institut Franais fide KPMG International.
A former executive chairman of Instinet Corporation securities broker, a former executive director of Reuters plc 11.
Patrick Snowball 54 Executive director media and a former chairman of Promethee.
Member of the Appointed to the board in March 2001 as chief executive of Norwich nomination and remuneration committees.
Union Insurance Avivas general insurance operation in the UK.
Currently responsible for the groups worldwide general insurance 15.
Russell Walls 61 Independent non-executive director operations and the provision of shared services across the UK.
Previously Appointed to the board in May 2004.
Currently a non-executive a director of Norwich Union, appointed in October 1999, having joined director of Signet Group plc retail and the senior independent that company in 1994. non-executive director of Stagecoach Group plc transport.
A former group finance director of BAA plc transport, Wellcome plc 12.
Derek Stevens 66 Independent non-executive director pharmaceuticals and Coats Viyella plc textiles.
Former non-executive Appointed to the board in 1995.
Currently non-executive chairman director of Hilton Group plc leisure and the Mersey Docks and of The Airline Group Limited transport, non-executive director of Harbour Company.
Member of the audit committee.
NATS Holdings Limited transport, a member of the financial sector committee of the Accounting Standards Board, chairman of The Royal Richard Whitaker LLB, DMS, FCII Academy of Arts Pension Scheme board and a trustee of the Rothschild Group company secretary pension funds, a member of the Council of the Institute of Education at the University of London, a member of the fundraising advisory board of VSO charity and chairman of The Travel Foundation charity.
A former director and chief financial officer of British Airways Plc transport, a former finance director of TSB Group plc banking and a former chairman of the trustees of British Airways pension schemes.
Chairman of the audit committee and of Aviva Staff Pension Trustee Limited.
43 Board of directors Aviva plc 2004 Contents 45 Directors report 71 Consolidated statement of total 47 Corporate governance recognised gains and losses 50 Audit committee report 71 Reconciliation of movements in 52 Nomination committee report consolidated shareholders funds 53 Directors remuneration report 72 Consolidated Group balance sheet 63 Independent auditors report 74 Consolidated cash ow statement 64 Accounting policies 75 Company balance sheet 67 Consolidated profit 76 Notes to the accounts and loss account 112 Five year review Technical account 114 Introduction to International long-term business Financial Reporting Standards 68 Consolidated profit 127 Independent auditors report to and loss account Aviva plc on the preliminary IFRS Technical account consolidated financial statements general business at 1 January 2004 69 Consolidated profit 128 Alternative method of reporting and loss account long-term business Non-technical account 146 Independent auditors report to 70 Pro forma reconciliation of Group the directors of Aviva plc on the operating profit to profit on alternative method of reporting ordinary activities before tax long-term business profits 147 Aviva Group of companies 148 Shareholder information 44
