Aviva plc 2004 Long-term savings We have focused on improving cost-efficiency over the past two years, an important factor in sustaining our profitability.
This, along with our operating model, customer service improvements and geographical spread, has put us in a strong position to benefit from further market upturns.
Avivas leading market positions in the UK and continental Europe mean we are well-placed for further growth.
Our operations in the developing markets of Eastern Europe and Asia provide us with excellent opportunities for the long term.
Business strategy Distribution Our long-term savings business is the groups major engine for growth, We believe that a strong multi-distribution capability is a fundamental accounting for 73% of total net premiums written.
Our strategy is to part of offering choice and excellent service to our customers.
achieve profitable growth by providing customers with a wide choice Independent advisers continue to be our largest source of new business, of high-quality products through a mix of distribution channels.
providing around 47% of worldwide sales.
Bancassurance is important, We operate in a combination of mature and developing markets, which generating 23% of the groups business, and is the dominant sales offer excellent opportunities for both short-term and long-term growth.
channel in a number of our markets.
Direct sales represent 26% of the We have leading businesses in the UK and continental Europe, and total and partnerships with non-banking organisations provide the more recent businesses in India, China and Eastern Europe where we remaining 4% of sales.
see opportunities for substantial long-term growth.
Our diverse and Our strategy is to align our distribution model to each market and our cost-efficient business model puts us in a strong position to benefit distribution mix continues to evolve as we develop our businesses.
from further market upturns, particularly with the need for increased retirement savings in many countries.
We share product knowledge and Multi-distribution capability distribution expertise across the group to benefit all our businesses.
In more developed markets, such as the UK, the Netherlands and France, we have built the capacity to meet customer demand for a Market position wider choice of products sold in a variety of ways, including through Aviva is one of the leading providers of life and pensions in Europe, independent advisers.
the UKs largest long-term savings company, and has a leading In the UK, independent financial advisers IFAs continue to be our bancassurance business in the Spanish life market.
Norwich Union main channel, producing around 75% of sales.
In the run-up to consolidated its position as the UK leader, and continues to focus on depolarisation, we have announced multi-tie agreements with leading retaining its position while growing both value and market share.
It has IFA networks Bankhall, Sesame and Milleld, the Portman Building over six million customers.
We have grown our Spanish business Society, Barclays and Fidelity.
considerably in the past few years and we have a life market share of around 10%.
Our distribution platform is supported by our joint venture bancassurance agreement with The Royal Bank of Scotland Group, a Hibernian consolidated its position as Irelands number three life and strategic partnership with Tesco, and sales through 19 building societies.
pensions company, with a market share of 11%.
We are also among the top five in the Netherlands, Poland, Turkey, Lithuania and Singapore, We are also building our new product development capability.
Norwich among the top 10 in France, Italy, Belgium, Romania, Australia and Union is developing a market-leading wrap proposition through India, and have significant operations in the United States and Germany.
Lifetime, now a Norwich Union subsidiary company following an Our long-term savings operations in India and China are developing increased equity investment in October 2004.
This provides an IT service well, with large potential for growth over the longer term.
platform that allows financial advisers to manage and transact a range of different client investments online.
Through Lifetime we aim to secure new distribution relationships, open new revenue channels through fees charged, and further strengthen relationships with our distribution partners.
Including share of associates premiums.
08 Aviva plc 2004 Life and pensions premium income after reinsurance million 2000 14,848 2001 17,590 2002 18,172 2003 19,035 2004 20,205 17% Growth in bancassurance new business sales Aviva France sells through a mix of tied agents, brokers, a salaried sales We operate a joint venture in India with Dabur Group, one of that force, direct operations and a partnership with Frances largest savings countrys largest groups of companies.
About 70% of our sales are association, AFER.
In addition, our bancassurance partnership with generated through six bancassurance partnerships with ABN AMRO, Crdit du Nord, launched in October 2004, has greatly strengthened our American Express, Bank of Bahrain and Kuwait, Canara Bank, distribution capability in what is the main sales channel in the French Lakshmi Vilas Bank and, most recently, Punjab & Sind Bank.
The joint venture has access to the banks Through our bancassurance partners, corporate agents and brokers, 1.3 million customers for the sale of long-term savings products.
Aviva products are now available in more than 130 locations around the country.
Our direct sales force has also grown and now comprises In the Netherlands, Delta Lloyds bancassurance joint venture with ABN more than 3,000 specialist financial planning advisers.
AMRO has brought significant benets to sales volumes and profitability.
This channel sells life and general insurance products and is an Our joint venture in China with COFCO to sell life and pensions important part of what we believe is an industry-leading approach in products through banks, direct sales, brokers and agents continues the choice we offer to customers.
We also sell through independent to expand.
In addition to our operation in Guangzhou, we opened advisers under our Delta Lloyd operating brand and directly to customers branches in Beijing and Chengdu in September 2004. through our OHRA brand.
Our agreement with MKB Nederland, the Bancassurance Dutch organisation advising small and medium-sized businesses on Aviva has a leading position in bancassurance distribution.
We generate pension schemes, gives us access to an important part of the market significant sales volumes through our agreements across a number of with significant potential for growth.
Bancassurance has become a highly important source of new In Ireland, Hibernians key strength is its leading position in the broker business in recent years reected by the new agreements we have market, through which its life and pensions products are predominantly recently entered into.
It is an integral part of our strategy in some sold.
We are experiencing an environment of increased regulation, but countries, and the dominant channel in others.
expect brokers to continue to be the main distribution channel, and aim Our Italian and Spanish bancassurance businesses present us with strong to increase our market share.
growth prospects as market penetration for life and pension products In Australia, independent advisers are the main channel for distribution.
still remains at relatively low levels.
Navigator, our online investment platform, has also been very effective Sales through our bancassurance partners in Italy UniCredito Italiano, in winning new business.
In the United States we have a network Banca Popolare di Lodi Group, Banca delle Marche and Banche Popolari of agents and brokers, and distribution agreements with several Unite account for over 90% of our new business sales in that country.
We have extended our agreement with Banche Popolari Unite to include a further 380 branches, with sales starting in early 2005.
Our Spanish bancassurance business contributes over 95% of our total new business sales in that market and gives us access to 10 million customers through 3,800 branches.
Our partners Bancaja, Unicaja, Caixa Galicia, Caja Espaa and Caja fide Granada provide a strong presence in the fastest-growing regions of Spain.
Our bancassurance partnerships with DBS in Singapore and Hong Kong continue to develop, and we have a leading position in the developing broker market.
09 Long-term savings Aviva plc 2004 Long-term savings continued Worldwide new business sales billion 2000 13.5 2001 15.0 2002 14.6 2003 14.9 2004 17.2 Direct sales Performance Business generated through direct sales forces, by phone and over the Many of our businesses outperformed in their market, particularly in internet provides a valuable stream of income in many of the countries continental Europe, despite some tough economic conditions.
We see this as an important channel for more Worldwide long-term savings new business sales were higher at commoditised products due to the low cost base.
This reected improving confidence Our businesses in the emerging markets of Central and Eastern Europe in some markets, while others remained difficult.
Life and pension use specialist direct sales forces as their main distribution method, new business sales were up at 15.6 billion 2003: 13.8 billion.
but we are also looking for opportunities to diversify distribution as A good performance by our continental European businesses saw an customer preferences and demands change.
increase in new business life and pensions sales of 22% to 7.8 billion 2003: 6.6 billion.
Continental European new business sales account Customer service for half of our total life and pension sales and over half of We are committed to delivering excellent service to our customers.
our operating return on a European embedded value EEV basis.
We are driving best practice throughout our business by sharing Pre-tax EEV operating return was 1,611 million 2003: 1,496 million, expertise, and have achieved good standards of service across our driven by improved new business contribution and increased returns on life businesses.
a higher value of assets at the start of the year.
The higher new business We continue to reinforce the improvement made in the UK, which contribution amounted to 706 million 2003: 646 million and was reected in the retention of our three-star rating in the Financial reected growth in the UK, France and the Netherlands.
In Ireland, Hibernian earned a UK recognition of excellence award from the European Foundation of Total new business sales, including investment products and Quality Management, and was overall winner at the Irish Quality and sales through our UK equity release business, were 7.9 billion Excellence Awards 2004.
Investor confidence returned slowly and the overall We have established a major operational site in Pune, India, which market was broadly at.
We increased business levels against 2003 but employs around 600 people and provides us with enhanced service remain selective about where we compete.
We are aiming to build capability and exibility.
Customer service levels in India are ranked long-term sustainable business with good margins rather than chase on a par with those in the UK, where we have seen consistent sales volume.
improvements following a series of initiatives focused on raising We continue in talks with the UK government about the future standards.
At the beginning of 2004 we began a process excellence development of the UK long-term savings market.
During the year we programme reviewing over 50% of our major processes in the UK, had conrmation of the price cap for stakeholder products.
While not resulting in service and quality improvements together with significant as much as we had hoped for, it creates potential for us to sell a cost savings.
We also launched market-leading technology for greater number of products.
During the final quarter of 2004 we point-of-sale and tele-underwriting for term assurance and mortgage took a number of actions to reposition our pension product offering.
We reduced commission levels on individual stakeholder pensions and We shall continue to build on these initiatives during 2005, giving us introduced a new non-stakeholder personal pension for greater exibility to improve our customer service.
the full advice market giving customers the opportunity to pay for their advice through fees, commission or a combination of both.
We will continue to design and manage our pricing and commission structures to attract appropriate volumes and value of business.
10 Aviva plc 2004 Life operating return million 2000 1,533 2001 1,665 2002 1,524 2003 1,496 2004 1,611 We are one of only three significant remaining players in the with-profit Total new business sales of unit-linked funds almost doubled to market and expect to benefit from a continued ight to quality as 698 million 2003: 358 million, against overall growth of around customers seek the reassurance of trusted brands.
We are also 34% in the unit-linked life and savings market.
The unit-linked building business in the unit-linked market where there is evidence proportion of our total new business sales increased year-on-year of returning confidence.
This reected our strategy of promoting unit-linked investments to our customers, supported by steadily Sales of bonds were up 21%, and sales of investment funds improving stock markets.
supported via our bancassurance joint venture with The Royal Bank of Scotland Group RBSG rose by 26%.
During 2005 we plan to launch Following the French governments introduction of a new pension a stakeholder child trust fund product through a relationship with The framework, Aviva France launched its Plan dEpargne Retraite Populaire Childrens Mutual, and are developing a stakeholder medium-term PERP in June 2004.
Sales to date of the PERP product have been savings plan.
moderate, as higher net worth individuals, who are the target market for Aviva France, have yet to embrace annuity type products.
We reported an operating return of 551 million 2003: However, the publicity surrounding the launch of the governments 597 million, which reected higher new business contribution and pension reforms was used to stimulate investment in other existing returns on assets, offset by increased lapse experience and costs products, in particular regular premium savings plans.
associated with implementing regulatory change and the restructuring of our UK business.
We continued our drive to achieve cost efficiencies and reduce operating expenses while preparing our back ofce teams to In 2004 Norwich Union consolidated its market-leading position combine the in-force and future business generated by the and starts 2005 with a greater degree of confidence in the market.
Some further market growth is expected over the next 12 months with a stronger pick-up beyond then, and we are confident that our Ireland multi-distribution capability, strong brand and wide product range will Investor confidence in Ireland is returning only slowly, despite more enable us to capitalise on this.
Unit-linked sales have been similarly slow to recover.
Hibernian reported total new business sales of 269 million 2003: France 250 million.
Operating return was 40 million 2003: 57 million Our long-term savings business in France, which serves some reecting increased competition and a change in lapse assumptions 1.5 million customers, reported total new business sales of 2.5 billion in certain product classes.
2003: 2.0 billion and an operating return of 286 million 2003: 228 million.
This business is positioned for further growth Pensions business is the main sector in the Irish market.
Our focus following the launch of our bancassurance partnership with on winning new pensions business resulted in an increase in single Crdit du Nord, and the continuation of a strong relationship premium sales to 149 million 2003: 137 million and regular with our long-term partner, AFER.
premium sales to 48 million 2003: 46 million.
Sales of personal retirement savings account PRSA products remained low, in line New business sales of single-premium euro funds through the AFER with experience across the industry.
However, the publicity from savings association increased by 23% to 1,389 million 2003: these products has boosted sales of pensions business overall.
Encouraging signs for this partnership included a significant increase of 38,000 new AFER members.
On a European embedded value EEV basis.
On an achieved profits basis.
11 Long-term savings Aviva plc 2004 Long-term savings continued Worldwide new business sales by distribution channels 4 1 3 2 1 Independent advisers 8,073m 2 Bancassurance 4,022m 3 Direct 4,432m 4 Partnerships with non-banking organisations 697m Total 17,224m Life regular premium sales increased to 18 million 2003: 16 million, Netherlands, including Belgium and Luxembourg reecting an increase in protection business and additional new Delta Lloyd achieved a 32% increase in life and pensions new business premiums on existing Special Savings Incentive Account SSIA policies.
This included improved sales of 238 million 2003: 227 million from our bancassurance In the third quarter of 2004, we launched a web-enabled new business partnership with ABN AMRO in the Netherlands, where bonds and system, Write Now.
This system will deliver improvements to the quality regular premium mortgage products were particularly successful.
and efficiency of our service to brokers in processing new business sales.
Operating return improved strongly to 277 million 2003: Italy 198 million.
New business sales in Italy increased to 1,574 million 2003: Sales were also higher through our intermediary and direct channels, 1,453 million, ahead of modest market growth.
This included with a strong improvement in group pensions new business.
Total life sales through our bancassurance partnerships of 1,458 million sales were higher at 563 million 2003: 420 million, with improved 2003: 1,245 million.
Operating return improved to 79 million sales of bonds and savings products.
Unit-linked products became more 2003: 70 million.
attractive to investors as equity markets showed more stability.
The proportion of bancassurance new business is expected to increase Cost control remains a key focus for our Dutch business.
Our shared when our agreement covering additional branches of Banche Popolari service centre for administrative functions will be expanded to bring Unite starts in early 2005. further economies of scale.
In May 2004 we outsourced Delta Lloyds Aviva is one of the most cost-efficient providers in the Italian information and communication technology ICT infrastructure services, bancassurance market.
Our business model allows us to maintain which is expected to bring further savings.
Life sales in Belgium a low ratio of expenses to premiums.
increased, reafrming our position as a top 10 provider in the market.
Spain Other European operations We achieved good underlying growth in Spain, with new business sales Total new business sales from our other European operations were up 16% to 1,657 million 2003: 1,464 million.
This excludes one-off 848 million 2003: 576 million, reecting growth in life and pension sales of 242 million 2003: 149 million from a large bulk pension sales across all our other European territories.
In Turkey we are achieving good growth and are now the second-largest Total sales through our bancassurance partnerships were 1,579 million provider in the life market and third-largest in the pensions market.
We are also seeing growth in Aviva Vida y Sales of individual pensions increased encouragingly and we will enter Pensiones, which sells through professional intermediaries and a direct the group pension market in 2005. sales force, supported by a branch network.
Sales in Germany were 218 million 2003: 163 million, benefiting In line with our strategy of pursuing profit over volume, our focus from sales of tax-efficient products ahead of the introduction of a during 2004 was to sell higher-margin protection products rather than revised tax regime in 2005. traditional savings plans.
Operating return increased to 180 million 2003: 165 million.
We continue to keep our costs low in both Spain and Italy by using a factory company in each country to produce and administer bancassurance products.
This operating model provides considerable cost and scale efficiencies.
12 Aviva plc 2004 Geographical analysis of pre-tax life operating return 3 1 2 1 UK 551m 2 Continental Europe 977m 3 Rest of world 83m Total 1,611m CU Polska remains a leading provider in Poland, with a share of the life In India our joint venture with Dabur Group is developing well.
market of around 14% measured by premium income and 28% of We are ranked eighth among private providers.
During 2004 we the private pensions market measured by assets under management.
launched a series of unit-linked funds, with encouraging initial sales.
Sales of life products increased but sales of mutual funds were lower.
Our 26% share of new business sales was 5 million 2003: 2 million.
However, following accession to the European Union, the economic Our joint venture life and pensions business in China, Aviva-COFCO, outlook looks more positive.
expanded during 2004 and now operates in three cities.
Our 50% share We saw strong growth in Lithuania, including good sales of pension of new business sales was 3 million 2003: 1 million.
Sales through Norwich Unions Dublin-based offshore life and savings business were 110 million Outlook 2003: 82 million.
We saw some improvement in world markets in 2004, and expect this to continue through 2005.
This improvement has led to increasing International operations customer confidence, although it has been slower to return than Total new business sales through our International operations were expected in some places, most notably in the UK.
We did however see 1,008 million 2003: 951 million.
further signs of growth returning in the UK during the second half of Our business in Australia reported life and pension new business sales 2004, and we anticipate that this momentum will continue into 2005. of 230 million 2003: 230 million, with encouraging sales of our We have focused on improving cost-efficiency over the past two years, corporate pension products.
Unit trust sales rose as customer sentiment an important factor in sustaining our profitability.
This, along with our improved in line with more stable equity markets.
During 2004, financial operating model, customer service improvements and geographical advisers voted Aviva equal first in Australias largest independent study spread, has put us in a strong position to achieve growth and improve of the life insurance and wealth management industry.
profitability as we benefit from further market upturns.
Our established Sales of single premium xed annuities in the United States continue businesses in the UK and Europe offer further opportunities for growth to be affected by the low interest rate environment, which was while our operations in the developing markets of Eastern Europe and reected in reduced total sales of 359 million 2003: 538 million.
Asia provide excellent prospects for the long term.
We are maintaining price disciplines and revising our product terms as appropriate.
In Singapore and Hong Kong we enjoyed increased new business sales through our bancassurance partnership with DBS.
Sales in Singapore were focused on higher-margin regular premium products supported by a successful single premium product launch during the third quarter.
In Singapore we have around 50% of the regular premium bancassurance market and lead the employee benets and healthcare business, and the developing broker market.
In Hong Kong, total new business sales of primarily single premium products also increased strongly.
13 Long-term savings Aviva plc 2004 Fund management Funds under management by value billion 2000 220 2001 209 2002 208 2003 240 2004 273 The investment and distribution activities of our fund management businesses are concentrated in markets where our expertise means we can compete against the best.
We are focusing on improving investment performance, building on the progress made in the past 12 months.
Business strategy Avivas in-house fund management businesses operate on behalf of Morley Fund Management shareholders, policyholders and institutional clients, with the aim of Morley is one of the largest UK-based fund management houses, generating superior investment performance.
Our operations in the UK, managing a wide range of asset classes, including equities, bonds and France and the Netherlands support our long-term savings businesses property.
It provides fund management expertise to Aviva businesses, by investing funds on their behalf.
external pension funds, public sector organisations and public and private companies.
We continue to develop our business internationally and to focus on our core strengths in fund management.
Our aim is to lead in our chosen Morley is committed to providing a fund management business capable markets through our research and investment expertise.
of competing against the best in our chosen markets.
Our focus is on delivering consistent outperformance in our core asset classes of panMarket position European equities, xed income, property, and through strategic asset Although some stability returned to global equity markets during 2004, allocation.
We also specialise in socially responsible investment, private the second half witnessed a period of some stagnation.
There are, equity, alternative investments and global and emerging market equities.
however, signs of investor confidence slowly returning, particularly in As a leading institutional investor, we recognise our responsibilities as continental Europe.
a major shareholder and take an active interest in the companies in which we invest.
We are the second-largest UK-based fund manager, among the top five in Ireland through Hibernian and a leading fund manager in the We have made significant progress in reshaping our business through Netherlands through Delta Lloyd.
We also have significant fund our initiative with JPMorgan to create a ground-breaking investment management businesses in France and as an investment platform administration service.
We have transferred almost 200 employees to provider in Australia through Navigator.
JPMorgan Investor Services, allowing us to focus on our core capabilities of the manufacture and distribution of investment products in our target Performance European markets.
Total retail investment sales improved 44% to 1,629 million During 2004 we continued to centralise our international equity fund 2003: 1,141 million, with good performances in the UK, management operation, transferring our US equity fund management Luxembourg and Australia.
and analysis function from Boston to London.
Fund administration for Worldwide assets under management at the end of 2004 increased to our Irish subsidiary, Hibernian Investment Managers, has been moved 273 billion 2003: 240 billion, reecting the benefit of new business from Dublin to London.
We have also announced the closure of our ows and improved investment markets.
Operating profit, on a Singapore ofce.
modied statutory solvency basis MSSB, rose to 43 million 2003: 10 In 2004, Morley secured 2.2 billion of new funded external mandates million.
This included profits of 20 million 2003: 14 million from the 2003: 3.1 billion from our institutional and retail UK-based businesses.
management of group internal life funds.
The improvement in profits In addition, we secured 1.1 billion of new funded external mandates reected higher fee income and lower operating costs.
in respect of property partnership vehicles, 0.7 billion from overseas operations, and 0.3 billion from pooled pensions business.
Our expertise in asset allocation was acknowledged when we won an innovative mandate to manage the asset mix of a 200 million pension fund.
The breadth and quality of our property operation was recognised when we were voted property fund manager of the year in Property Weeks Property Awards 2004.
14 Aviva plc 2004 44% Increase in worldwide sales of investment products during the year A number of new funds were launched during 2004, including Awards won in 2004 included best provider with a large range of funds property partnership vehicles, a pan-European equity fund and a new over one, three and five years from La Tribune Standard & Poors Aviva Multimanager fund of funds that can be sold across Europe.
the first time this has been achieved.
We won seven awards from We are launching the Central European Property Fund, which will invest Le Revenu, one of Frances leading investment magazines, for fund in commercial property in the developing markets of Poland, Hungary management performance over three and 10 years, and our AFER SFER and the Czech Republic.
We continue to build on our hedge fund fund earned the AGEFI grand prix for our diversied funds.
capability with the planned launch in early 2005 of the Central We have 45 billion of assets under management, most of which European Long Short Fund, aimed at European institutional investors are invested on behalf of our own operations.
Operating profit was and high-net-worth individuals.
We have also been promoting 17 million 2003: 13 million.
specialist xed income products to meet increasing interest from pension fund consultants.
Netherlands and Belgium Delta Lloyd is among the leading fund managers in the Netherlands, Morleys operating profit of 12 million 2003: 3 million for its with an increase in assets under management to 36 billion institutional and retail UK-based businesses was an encouraging result.
Within the Aviva group results there are additional profits of 12 million 2003: 6 million from other Morley businesses, including our pooled The inow of new funds grew strongly, driven by an increase in funds pensions business and overseas operations.
This brings the total Morley from retail investors and a series of large mandates won by Delta Lloyd group profit to 24 million 2003: 9 million for the year.
Asset Management, including a270 million from the Dutch Xerox Pension Fund.
Assets under management for Morleys global operations increased to 134 billion.
Navigator Navigator is a one of Australias largest investment portfolio Other UK administration services, with 4.0 billion of combined funds under In addition to mutual fund sales under the Morley brand, we sell retail administration.
Isas, unit trusts, open-ended investment companies Oeics and structured products under the Norwich Union and The Royal Bank Sales increased to 648 million 2003: 617 million as more stable of Scotland Group RBSG brands.
investment markets saw a gradual improvement in investor confidence.
Sales through our Navigator business in Singapore were 13 million The operating result from our Norwich Union business improved to a 2003: 8 million.
profit of 5 million 2003: loss of 3 million as a result of lower costs.
Our joint venture with RBSG reported an operating loss of 7 million Outlook 2003: loss of 6 million, due to significant upfront costs associated We saw some improvement and stabilisation in world markets during with the sale of regular premium investment products.
2004, leading to a gradual return of investor confidence.
UK sales We concentrate our investment and distribution activities in markets Total sales of retail investment products through Morley and Norwich where our expertise means we can compete against the best.
We will Union were 789 million 2003: 577 million.
Our share of sales continue to focus on improving investment performance, building on through our collective investment joint venture with RBSG was the progress made in the past 12 months.
France Aviva Gestion dActifs maintained its reputation for strong investment performance, with over 65% of our funds in the top quartile for returns over three years.
Our excellent investment performance was once again widely recognised in the financial press.
15 Fund management Aviva plc 2004 General insurance Geographical analysis of pre-tax general insurance operating profit Our general insurance operations continue to focus on 1 product and distribution innovation, as well as looking to 3 extend our product offerings to non-insurance products where clear synergies are identied.
This, along with our scale and strength of our brand, means we are confident of achieving our long-term goal of delivering 2 sustainable results.
1 UK 832m 2 Continental Europe 295m 3 Rest of world 199m Total 1,326m Business strategy Among developments in 2004 were our new three-year partnership Our general insurance businesses are focused on their core strategy of with HSBC to provide household insurance products and the renewal of disciplined underwriting, product innovation, excellent customer service our partnership with Abbey.
Norwich Union is in advanced negotiations and strict cost control.
Our overall aim is to deliver a strong and with Barclays to become their sole provider of general insurance sustainable operating result from our chosen markets of personal lines products.
This deal will include the provision of household products and and small and medium-sized commercial lines.
We have set a group adds to the Barclays motor and travel business that we already COR target of 100% in each of the three years from the start of 2004. underwrite.
We have a strong multi-distribution capability using, where possible, a In France, we operate through Aviva Assurances, which sells through range of sales channels in each market.
Providing choice is a key factor a network of 840 tied agents: Eurol, the second-largest direct in meeting our customers changing needs and, along with high insurance business in the French market for which our partnership standards of service and a range of innovative products, this will with Crdit du Nord is an important source of business: and La Paix, allow us to maintain our leading market positions and sustain our a subsidiary of Aviva Assurances specialising in legal protection.
Distribution of our general insurance products in the Netherlands, where Delta Lloyd sells through intermediaries and OHRA serves direct Market position customers, has been enhanced by our bancassurance partnership with Aviva is the leading general insurer in the UK, where Norwich Union has ABN AMRO.
Our shared service centre, which supports intermediaries a market share of 14%, and in Ireland, where Hibernian has a market and direct customers, continues to deliver efficiencies as part of our share of around 20%.
We are the second-largest insurer in Canada, with a 9% market share, In Ireland, Hibernians multi-channel capacity is an important strength in are among the top five in the Netherlands, and have a significant a market primarily focused on sales via brokers.
We continue to expand business in France.
our direct capability, with 20% more direct policies in force during 2004.
Multi-distribution capability Aviva Canada sells a broad range of traditional personal and small A key part of our strategy is to use a range of distribution methods commercial insurance products through a network of independent appropriate to individual markets.
We offer our customers choice in brokers.
In addition, in 2003 we launched our first corporate partner the way they do business with us, while ensuring that our distribution relationship with Loblaws, Canadas largest supermarket chain, under methods meet their needs and make buying our products as the highly regarded Presidents Choice brand.
This partnership continues straightforward as possible.
Norwich Union has a multi-distribution approach, which enables us to build upon the strength of our brand and maintain strong positions in the broker, corporate partner and direct markets.
We are focused on growing sales through our direct operation with 22% growth in premiums in 2004.
During 2004 we closed our Hill House Hammond high street broking operation and are on track to deliver around 500,000 policies into our direct operation, at a cost of 50 million.
16 Aviva plc 2004 1,326m General insurance operating profit from continuing operations 2003: 911 million.
General insurance net written premiums from continuing operations million 2000 8,356 2001 7,850 2002 7,805 8,524 2003 8,815 2004 Customer offering A key achievement during the year for Aviva Assurances in France was We believe that high standards of customer service and satisfaction are completing the rollout of our dedicated web portal to the entire crucial.
Our strategy is to offer our customers innovative products at a network of agents.
This online tool is a valuable means of streamlining fair price, backed by high-quality service.
communications between agents and ourselves, thereby improving the service delivered to the customer.
In a survey by Professional Broking magazine, Norwich Union was voted the best insurer for service.
We were the Insurance Times general We are also pursuing a strategy to distribute life products, particularly insurer of the year for the second year running and won the category unit-linked savings, through our Aviva Assurances network.
We are for most trusted insurance company in the Readers Digest 2004 trusted undertaking specialised agent recruitment and training initiatives as brands awards, underlining the success of our Quote Me Happy part of a managed programme of expansion.
In Ireland, we have begun to roll out a series of customer service In March 2004, Norwich Union launched its digital ood maps, which initiatives during 2005 including the Provisional Licence Holder initiative give us a better understanding of ood risks, and enable us to offer as part of the Ignition inexperienced driver lifecycle solution.
We are also household insurance to 600,000 more properties in high-risk areas.
adopting geocoding across our property accounts.
This process will TM With Pay As You Drive, we have reached our target to recruit provide us with more information on the locations of our exposures, over 5,000 customers in the UK to pilot this new approach to motor and the associated risk of ooding and other perils, and assist us in our insurance.
We have launched a Pay As You Drive Young Drivers underwriting decisions and pricing.
product aimed at customers aged 18-21.
Young drivers now have the In Canada, our focus on delivering a high standard of customer service chance to get more affordable insurance premiums, which will be based is reected in the complimentary feedback our claims team has received on when and how often they drive their car.
from policyholders about its claims service.
In 2005 testing will begin on Increasing the range of services that we offer beyond insurance is an Autograph, an innovative programme that enables drivers to track their important part of our strategy to provide solutions more tailored to daily driving habits and to gain potential premium discounts.
In August 2004 we purchased HPI Group, the UKs leading independent provider of vehicle information and checking Performance services.
This acquisition strengthens our position as a service provider Our general insurance operations had another strong year in 2004, and grows our non-insurance income.
despite market conditions becoming increasingly competitive, particularly across our commercial lines business.
Our disciplined Other initiatives include Norwich Union Rescue, our vehicle breakdown approach to underwriting and pricing, coupled with efficient claims service, which continues to expand with more than 270,000 customers handling and strict cost control, enabled us to deliver a consistently at the end of 2004.
Sales of Physiofast, which offers fast-track recovery strong operational result.
treatment as an add-on to our UK motor policies, increased signicantly.
Volumes of our home emergency products also rose.
17 General insurance Aviva plc 2004 General insurance continued General insurance operating profit before tax million 2000 330 2001 876 2002 881 911 2003 2004 1,326 We achieved an excellent combined operating ratio COR of 97% Our balanced personal and commercial portfolio allows us to 2003: 100%, with strong performances across all of our businesses.
achieve sustainable operating results through the underwriting cycle.
We beat our group COR target, which is to deliver 100% in each of the Personal lines business is keenly priced but we are achieving small rate three years from the start of 2004.
COR broadly expresses the total of increases.
These, allied with an increase of over 55 million in claims claims costs, commission and expenses as a percentage of premiums, costs savings through our supply chain management, have enabled us and is one of our key performance measures.
Operating profit of to sustain profitability.
Although the level of competition in commercial 1,326 million 2003: 911 million was an excellent result, reecting lines has grown, our focus on the small and medium-sized business our disciplined underwriting and the action we have taken to reduce sector, and rigorous underwriting, enable us to increase rates and retain costs and improve operational efficiency.
Worldwide net premiums our target business.
Our retail operation achieved strong growth in written increased to 8.8 billion 2003: 8.5 billion.
Our focus remains to deliver operational efficiencies through cost We achieved an expense ratio of 10.0% 2003: 10.5%.
Our substantial reductions and continuing efficiency improvements across product investment in operational efficiency, including our offshore capability in delivery, administration and claims handling.
We continue to develop India, and product development initiatives, create competitive advantage innovative products to meet customers changing needs and help and help to provide a sound platform for future profitability.
France During the year we expanded our call and claims offshore processing Our business in France reported an operating profit of 32 million operations to service our UK general insurance business, with around 2003: 35 million, with net premiums written of 524 million 2,600 jobs created overall at the end of 2004.
We also began the 2003: 515 million.
We achieved an improved COR of 101% 2003: process of extending the cost and service benets from the UK across 102% through our selective rating approach, underwriting discipline our other general insurance businesses, with a number of jobs created and strict cost controls.
We are focused on continuing to drive down offshore in 2004 to service our Canadian business.
UK Ireland Norwich Union Insurance in the UK contributes 62% of Avivas general Hibernian reported a strong operating result of 153 million 2003: insurance business sales.
Quality and consistency of earnings are central 91 million on net premiums written of 545 million 2003: to our strategy.
Our cost-efficient processes help to ensure that we 611 million.
This performance reected signicantly lower than remain profitable and competitive in a challenging environment.
expected claims and resulted in an improved COR of 87% 2003: 97%.
The Irish market remains very price competitive, with continuing The success of our strategy is demonstrated in an improved operating pressure from politicians and lobby groups for providers to reduce rates profit of 832 million 2003: 676 million and a 6% year-on-year and lower their profits.
The government is taking steps to reduce motor growth in net premiums written to 5.4 billion 2003: 5.1 billion.
claims costs which will be reected in lower premiums to drivers.
Better-than-expected weather benefited the result by 50 million 2003: 30 million.
We achieved an excellent COR of 97% 2003: 99%.
18 Aviva plc 2004 97% Group combined operating ratio 2003: 100%.
Hibernian extended its penalty points initiative from August 2004 to We have launched Aviva Autograph, an exclusive new programme offer drivers without penalty points on their licences an additional 7.5% which records a policyholders driving habits using data-gathering premium discount, bringing the total discount to 17.5%.
We extended equipment installed in the vehicle and calculates their insurance our highly successful Ignition inexperienced driver scheme to selected premium.
Autograph will be piloted in Ontario from the first quarter provisional licence holders caught up in the current backlog in the of 2005. driving test system.
We have also begun a project to take advantage of Our efficient claims operations continue to use technology and shared the ood insurance expertise across the Aviva group, which will benefit experience from around the group to achieve low costs and high Irish home and commercial property insurance customers.
This included creating a number of jobs Netherlands offshore in 2004 to service our Canadian business.
In the Netherlands operating profit was 71 million 2003: 35 million Asia on higher net premiums written of 719 million 2003: 563 million.
In September 2004, we agreed to sell our Asian general insurance Net premiums written for business sold through ABN AMRO increased operations to Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance Co Limited for 250 million, strongly, primarily as a result of converting previously brokered business a multiple of 3.5 times book value.
These operations comprise our to our account from 1 January 2004.
Delta Lloyd achieved an improved general insurance businesses in Singapore, Malaysia, Thailand, Indonesia, COR of 95% 2003: 101%.
Hong Kong, the Philippines, Marianas, Macau and Taiwan.
The sale is A number of products were updated and new products launched expected to complete in stages, with the first stage having completed during the year to complement our existing offering.
Our focus is on on 28 February 2005. the personal insurance sector, primarily motor and household policies, and on small commercial business, particularly in the income protection Outlook and absenteeism sectors, where we believe a profitable market will We continue to adhere to our strategy of delivering consistent continue to grow.
performance and sustainable profits across the cycle.
We achieved a COR of 97% in the year, beating the groups COR target, which is Canada to achieve 100% in each of the three years from the start of 2004.
Aviva Canada, our second-largest general insurance business, reported We have also delivered further cost savings through improved a COR of 97% 2003: 108% and operating profit of 152 million efficiency in distribution and claims handling.
This reected improvements in claims frequencies and lower costs following the governments auto reforms.
In addition Our general insurance operations continue to focus on product and the profit reected an improvement in the results from the Involuntary distribution innovation within their core insurance businesses, as well Auto Pools and the non-recurrence of 70 million reserves strengthening as looking to extend our product offerings to non-insurance products in Pilot, one of our subsidiaries, in 2003. where clear synergies are identied.
This, along with our scale and the strength of our brand, means we are confident of achieving our There have been concerns over motor insurance costs in Canada.
long-term goal of delivering sustainable results.
Motor insurance reforms and changes in legislation have been completed in a number of provinces, which provides a more stable environment in which to price our products profitably.
