Aviva plc 2004 Directors report 3 The directors submit their report and accounts for Aviva plc, together 225 million ordinary shares, up to 100 million 8 4% preference shares 3 with the consolidated accounts of the Aviva Group of companies, for and up to 100 million 8 8% preference shares.
This authority was not the year ended 31 December 2004.
The directors corporate governance used during the year and at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and remuneration reports are set out on pages 47 and 53. shareholders will be asked to renew these authorities for another year.
Details are contained in the Notice of Meeting.
The Company held no Review of operations, current position and future prospects Treasury shares during the year.
Details of the Groups operations for the accounting period, its current position and future prospects are contained in the Chairmans Directors statement, Group Chief Executives review, operating review and The names of the present members of the Board and their biographical financial review set out on pages 2 to 41. notes appear on pages 42 and 43.
Principal activities Philip Twyman retired from the Board on 31 March 2004 upon reaching Aviva plc is the holding company of the Aviva Group of companies.
his normal retirement date and Anna Catalano resigned from the close The principal activities of the Group are life assurance and long-term of the Annual General Meeting on 27 April 2004. savings business, asset management and all classes of general insurance On 3 May 2004 Richard Goeltz and Russell Walls were appointed to through its subsidiaries, associates and branches in the UK, continental the Board and on 14 January 2005 Lord Sharman of Redlynch was Europe and Ireland, North America, Asia and Australia.
appointed to the Board each as an independent non-executive Details of material acquisitions and disposals made by the Group during director.
Andrew Moss joined the Board on 10 May 2004 as Group the year are contained on pages 86 to 88.
As these directors joined the Board after the date of the last Annual General Meeting they will, in accordance with the Going concern Companys articles of association, retire at the forthcoming Annual After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that General Meeting and, being eligible, offer themselves for election by the Company and the Group as a whole have adequate resources to shareholders.
Andrew Moss has a service contract with a Group continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, company, details of which can be found on page 56. they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
The directors retiring by rotation in accordance with the articles of Results association at the Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, offering The Group results for the year are shown in the Consolidated profit and themselves for re-election are Guillermo fide la Dehesa, Wim Dik, loss account on pages 67 to 69.
Derek Stevens and Andr Villeneuve.
None of these directors have a Dividend service contract with a Group company.
The directors are recommending a final dividend of 16.00 pence 2003: George Paul and Elizabeth Vallance, independent non-executive 15.15 pence per share which, together with the interim dividend of directors, were re-elected by shareholders at last years Annual General 9.36 pence 2003: 9.00 pence per share, produces a total dividend for Meeting.
As they have both served in excess of nine years with the the year of 25.36 pence 2003: 24.15 pence per share.
The total cost Company, or one of the legacy companies, they will retire and seek of dividends for 2004, including preference dividends and direct re-election again at this years meeting.
However, in line with the Boards capital instrument appropriation will amount to 598 million 2003: plans to renew and refresh its composition, it is the intention that, if 562 million, leaving 459 million to be transferred to reserves re-elected, these directors will retire on or before 31 December 2005.
Directors interests The final dividend for 2004 will be paid on 17 May 2005 to all holders Other than a deed of indemnity between each director and the of ordinary shares on the Register of Members at the close of business Company and service contracts between the executive directors and a on 18 March 2005.
The Companys Scrip Dividend Scheme will be Group company, no director had a material interest at any time during available to shareholders in respect of the payment of the final dividend.
the year in any contract of signicance with the Company or any of its In addition, a local currency payment service will be available to subsidiary undertakings.
shareholders residing in certain participating countries outside the UK.
Further details of these arrangements can be found within the Details of directors remuneration, service contracts and interests in the shareholder information on page 148. shares of the Company are set out in the Directors remuneration report on page 53.
Share capital The ordinary share capital of the Company was increased by Substantial shareholdings 25.1 million ordinary shares during the year as a result of shares issued As at 8 March 2005, the Companys register of substantial shareholdings under the Groups employee share plans and the Aviva Scrip Dividend maintained in accordance with the provisions of Section 211 of the Scheme.
At 31 December 2004 the issued ordinary share capital totalled Companies Act 1985 showed that the holdings exceeding the 3% 2,282 million shares.
Details of the share capital and shares under option disclosure threshold were those of Barclays Plc which held 98,669,290 as at 31 December 2004, and shares issued during the year, are given in ordinary shares, representing an interest of 4.32%, and Legal & General note 30 on pages 96 and 97.
Group Plc which held 84,829,941 ordinary shares, representing an interest of 3.72% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company.
At the forthcoming Annual General Meeting shareholders approval will be sought to increase the Companys authorised share capital Group employees from 950 million to 1.45 billion and 1700 million by the creation of The Groups statement on its employees is set out on pages 20 and 21.
500 million new preference shares of 1 each and 700 million new In summary, the Groups commitment to communication and dialogue preference shares of 11 each.
Under the terms and conditions of the with employees continues.
A strong emphasis is placed on the provision direct capital instruments issued by the Company on 25 November 2004 of news through a variety of media, including intranets both a the Company will have the option to issue these new classes of Group-wide intranet, Arena, and local business unit intranets, preference share should certain events occur.
Further details are set Aviva radio, which can be accessed via mobile phone or computer, out in the notice of the Annual General Meeting.
Employees have opportunities to voice their Authority to purchase own shares opinions and ask questions through intranet sites and climate surveys.
At the Annual General Meeting held on 27 April 2004 shareholders Face to face briengs and team meetings are actively encouraged and renewed the Companys authority to make market purchases of up to are held in all business units across the Group.
45 Directors report Aviva plc 2004 Directors report continued Corporate Social Responsibility CSR was over 4.6 million 2003: 4.6 million, as measured in accordance Aviva defines corporate social responsibility CSR as embracing with Business in the Communitys PerCent Standard.
corporate performance in respect of standards of business conduct, In 2004, the Groups community investment in the UK totalled 3.4 million human rights, the environment and health and safety as well as the 2003: 3.2 million of which 1.3 million 2003: 1.3 million was in the promotion of good and fair relations with employees, customers, form of cash donations to charitable organisations.
The Companys policy suppliers and the community.
The Group recognises that these issues regarding charitable giving in the UK is to support local charities and present it with both opportunities and risks.
community organisations particularly in the areas of the country in which Trust and integrity are integral to the wellbeing of a financial services the Group has significant operations.
The Company allocates a part of its company and therefore the Group sees CSR as presenting a vital budget to matching contributions raised by staff and also to providing business opportunity.
The CSR section of the annual report which gives financial support to charities and communities where members of staff further details of the programme and how the Group is exploring give a personal commitment in terms of their time.
In addition, the opportunities in this area can be found on pages 22 and 23.
Aviva also Company provides a significant level of support to a small number of prepares a separate CSR report each year which includes full details of national charities.
During 2004 the Company continued its commitment the Groups CSR programme and the progress achieved during the year.
to Breakthrough Breast Cancer, Cruse Bereavement Care and The Princess A copy of the printed summary of the CSR report is available from the Royal Trust for Carers and, in addition, supported the Association of Group Company Secretary and the full report may be viewed on Childrens Hospices, which was chosen by staff in the UK as their charity www.
of the year and NCH, the childrens charity.
At the end of 2004 the Group made a substantial donation to the Asian Tsunami appeal.
In terms of managing CSR risks, the Group has an established system of business risk management which is embedded into its business planning Political donations and performance monitoring processes.
This system includes the No political donations were made in the UK or elsewhere during the management of risks relating to social, environmental and ethical SEE year 2003: nil.
It is the Companys policy not to make donations to matters.
Further details of this process are contained within the Audit political organisations or for political causes, and it has no intention of Committee Report on pages 50 and 51.
During the year this process did changing this policy.
not identify any purely SEE risks which were considered to be critical to At the 2004 Annual General Meeting, shareholders passed a resolution the Groups operations.
authorising the Board to incur expenditure, up to an aggregate limit of The Group reports annually on progress in accordance with the Forge 100,000 per annum for the following four years, on activities which management and reporting guidelines for banks and insurers and duly fall under the Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act PPER.
respects the disclosure guidelines issued by the Association of British This piece of legislation introduced a very broad denition of political Insurers.
Governance of the programme is subject to both a regular expenditure, such that some of the activities undertaken throughout schedule and continual review.
The Board observes plans and progress the Groups businesses could now fall within that denition.
The Board annually, whilst the annual meeting of Avivas CSR Review Group brings sought shareholders authority so as to avoid any inadvertent breaches together representatives from the Aviva head ofce, the businesses, partner of the PPER.
The Board does not believe that the Group has incurred non-governmental organisations and auditors to review the Groups any such political expenditure in the past year.
Quarterly reviews are also carried out by a CSR Steering Creditor payment policy and practice Group, which includes senior management from the principal businesses.
It is the Groups policy to pay creditors when they fall due for payment.
The Groups businesses review their progress and undertake a self assessment Terms of payment are agreed with suppliers when negotiating each of their performance annually.
This assessment is subject to an external transaction and the policy is to abide by those terms, provided that the assurance review which in 2004 was carried out by Ernst & Young LLP.
suppliers also comply with all relevant terms and conditions.
Employee practice Aviva plc, the holding company of the Group, has no trade creditors.
Aviva Group companies are committed to providing equal opportunities In respect of Group activities in the UK, the amounts due to trade to all employees, irrespective of their sex, sexual orientation, marital creditors at 31 December 2004 represented approximately 21 days of status, creed, colour, race, ethnic origin or disability.
The commitment average daily purchases through the year 2003: 29 days.
extends to recruitment and selection, training, career development, Auditor exible working arrangements, promotion and performance appraisal.
In accordance with Section 385 of the Companies Act 1985, a resolution In the event of members of staff becoming disabled, every effort is is to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting for the reappointment made to ensure that their employment with the Group continues and of Ernst & Young LLP as auditor of the Company.
A resolution will also to provide specialised training where this is appropriate.
be proposed authorising the directors to determine the auditors Health and Safety remuneration.
The Audit Committee reviews the appointment of the The health and safety of staff is a priority and is reviewed at regular auditor, its effectiveness and its relationship with the Group, including intervals.
Each business unit has an appointed health and safety the level of audit and non-audit fees paid to the auditor.
Further details representative, whose role is to bring to the attention of senior on the work of the auditor and the Audit Committee are set out in the management any areas of concern that should be addressed within Audit Committee Report on pages 50 and 51. the health and safety programme.
Annual General Meeting Information on health and safety matters is communicated to staff through The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held on the normal communication channels.
Under the Groups Health and Safety 26 April 2005 at The Barbican Centre, Silk Street, London EC2Y 8DS Policy the Group Chief Executive is accountable for health and safety.
A separate document accompanying the Annual Report and Accounts contains the notice convening the Annual General Meeting Standards of Business Conduct and a description of the business to be conducted thereat.
The Group operates a Standards of Business Conduct Policy which provides guidance for every employee, Group-wide, to act with integrity By order of the Board in all business relationships.
Charitable donations Richard Whitaker Aviva has continued to support community initiatives and charitable Group Company Secretary causes worldwide and the total Group commitment during the year 8 March 2005 46
