Directors Andrew Barker Richard Brewster Richard Killingbeck James Morley Michael Moule Francis Sumner David Thomas Andrew Barker Chairman Age 59 was involved in the financial services industry for 20 and a director from 1987 to 1991.
For the past ten appointed as a director in 1979 and became years, primarily as a fund manager.
The early part of years until his retirement he has been a director of Chairman in 1983.
He has been involved in his career was spent with Cazenove & Co on the investment trusts at Henderson Global Investors and investment management for more than 30 years North American desk.
He subsequently moved to served on the board of Henderson plc from 1996 to having joined Foreign & Colonial Management Ltd in Morgan Grenfell Asset Management and was 1998.
He was also responsible for managing the 1970.
He was a director of Foreign & Colonial seconded for most of this period to Morgan Grenfell investment portfolio of Law Debenture from 1987 to Ventures, which is a provider of private equity finance, Capital Management in New York.
He is currently a director of Foreign & Colonial from 1980 to 1998.
He was responsible for Foreign to the United Kingdom he joined River & Mercantile Eurotrust plc, Lowland Investment Company plc and & Colonials North American investments from 1985 Investment Management as a director with Old Mutual South Africa Trust plc.
until he retired from Foreign & Colonial in 2000.
His responsibility for the management of the North former directorships include Foreign & Colonial American Investment Trust.
In 1994 he joined Francis Sumner Age 62 was appointed as a Investment Trust PLC, Graphite Enterprise Trust PLC Singer & Friedlander Investment Management.
He spent most of his working life and the National Provident Institution NPI.
He is a 2001 he was appointed as Chief Executive of the as a City solicitor specialising in corporate finance.
past chairman of the Association of Investment Trust investment management company.
He was for many years a partner in Norton Rose, Companies.
He is currently the chairman of Bankers having been one of his plc clients.
He is International Biotechnology Trust plc and of British James Morley FCA Age 55 was appointed as a currently the Deputy Chairman of the Crown Agents, Portfolio Trust plc.
He is a director of JP Morgan director in 1994.
After qualifying as a chartered Vice Chairman and a council and executive Fleming Mid Cap Investment Trust plc, Gartmore accountant with Arthur Andersen, he has spent most committee member of the City and Guilds of London Absolute Growth and Income Trust plc and of Utilico of the last 27 years in the travel and financial services Institute and a council member of the Assessment Investment Trust plc.
industries, firstly with Avis Europe and then with and Qualifications Alliance.
Guardian Royal Exchange, the international composite Richard Brewster FCA Deputy Chairman Age insurance company.
In both cases as Group Finance David Thomas FIA Age 60 was appointed as a 59 was appointed as a director in 1991, chairs the Director.
Following the acquisition of GRE by AXA in director in 2000.
He was Director and General Audit Committee and became Deputy Chairman in 2000, Mr Morley left to become Group Finance Manager of Investments of The Equitable Life 2003.
Having qualified as a chartered accountant Director of Arjo Wiggins Appleton.
In June 2002 he Assurance Society until April 2001.
For two years he has spent the last 30 years in industry.
From was appointed Group Finance Director of Cox from August 1996 he was Chairman of the 1983 he was CEO of D. S. Smith plc until 1991 Insurance Holdings.
Mr Morley is also a non-executive Investment Committee of the Association of British when he became CEO of Jarvis Porter plc until director of W S Atkins plc, where he is Chairman of Insurers and at that time was also a member of the 1998.
Since then he has extended his interests in the Audit Committee.
Hampel Committee on Corporate Governance.
In corporate finance and private equity investment and addition he sat on the Institutional Investors is currently CEO of Interbrandpro Holding GmbH, Michael Moule Age 58 was the manager of Advisory Group of The Stock Exchange for several an international promotional print and speciality Bankers from 1977 to June 2003 and joined the years and was a member of the Lord Chancellors board business.
His other non-executive interests Board in 1982.
He has worked in the investment Honorary Investment Advisory Committee which are as a consultant to Pridie Brewster Corporate world since 1963 and has been involved with assisted the Public Trustee.
Currently, he is a Finance and as Deputy Chairman of 3i Smaller investment trusts since 1967 when he was a trainee trustee of the pension fund for the staff of Quoted Companies Trust plc.
analyst with the Standard Trust.
From 1970 to 1993 Westminster Abbey and is Chairman of the Abbeys he worked for Touche Remnant, a leading manager Investment Committee, as well as being an of investment trusts.
He was the manager of The City Richard Killingbeck Director Age 42 was investment adviser to the Staffordshire County of London Investment Trust plc from 1982 to 1991 appointed as a director in 2003.
He has been Council Pension Fund.
Member of the Management Engagement Committee Member of the Audit Committee Member of the Nomination Committee Management Alex Crooke Tim Stevenson Antony Gifford Michael Wood-Martin Wendy King The portfolio is managed by Alex Crooke who is engaged full time in investment trust management.
He is assisted by Tim Stevenson Europe, Antony Gifford North America and Michael Wood-Martin Japan.
Wendy King acts as the Company Secretary and is the representative of Henderson Secretarial Services Limited, the corporate secretary to the Company.
