About Barclays We are a major global financial services 78,000 people, we move, lend, invest provider engaged in retail and commercial and protect money for over 18 million banking, credit cards, investment banking, customers and clients worldwide.
wealth management and investment Our primary goal management services.
We are one of the To deliver top quartile total shareholder largest financial services companies in the return relative to our peers, consistently world by market capitalisation.
com 2 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2004 UK Banking Barclaycard Delivers banking solutions to Barclays UK retail and business Is a multi-brand credit card and consumer lending business banking customers.
It offers a range of integrated products and with an increasing international presence, and is one of the services and access to the expertise of other Group businesses leading credit card businesses in Europe.
through a variety of channels comprising: the branch network, In the UK, Barclaycard manages the Barclaycard branded credit automated teller machines, telephone banking, online banking cards, Barclays branded consumer loans, mostly Barclayloan, and relationship managers.
and also comprises FirstPlus, Clydesdale Financial Services and UK Retail Banking comprises Personal Customers, Mortgages, Monument.
Barclaycard Business processes card payments Small Business and UK Premier.
It serves some 14 million personal for retailers and merchants and issues cards to corporate customers, 273,000 Premier banking customers and 566,000 customers.
Outside the UK, Barclaycard International has Small Business customers, through 2,061 branches.
businesses in the United States, Germany, Spain, Greece, Italy, Portugal, Republic of Ireland and across Africa.
UK Business Banking provides relationship banking to the Groups larger and medium business customers in the UK, and has Barclaycard has 15.6 million cards in issue.
Barclays Capital Private Clients A leading global investment bank which provides large Serves affluent, high net worth and corporate clients, corporate, institutional and government clients with solutions primarily in the UK and continental Europe, providing to their financing and risk management needs.
private banking, offshore banking, stockbroking and asset Activities are primarily divided between two areas: Rates, which management services, as well as financial planning services includes fixed income, foreign exchange, commodities, emerging to a broader customer base.
Private Clients includes the markets, money markets sales, trading and research, prime closed life assurance activities.
brokerage and equity-related activities: and Credit, which includes Private Clients has over 300,000 affluent and high net worth origination, sales, trading and research relating to loans, debt clients, and includes Barclays Stockbrokers, which is the largest capital markets, structured capital markets, commercial mortgage execution only broker in the UK.
backed securities, private equity and large asset leasing.
International Barclays Global Investors BGI Provides a range of banking services, including current One of the worlds largest asset managers and a leading accounts, savings, investments, mortgages and consumer global provider of investment management products loans to personal and corporate customers across Spain, and services, serving over 2,600 institutional clients in 48 Portugal, France, Italy, the Caribbean, Africa and the countries, with over 700bn assets under management.
BGI is the global product leader in Exchange Traded Funds In total, International serves 2.2 million customers through iShares, with over 100 funds available for institutions and 841 international branches in 16 countries.
Barclays Spain individuals trading in ten markets worldwide.
serves 500,000 customers, and Barclays Africa and Middle East operates through 230 branches and has 1.4 million customer accounts.
For further information on business performance see pages 106 to 112 3
