Barclays PLC Annual Report 2004 Business description UK Banking International UK Banking delivers banking solutions to Barclays UK retail and International provides a range of banking services, including current business banking customers.
It offers a range of integrated products accounts, savings, investments, mortgages and consumer loans to and services and access to the expertise of other Group businesses.
personal and corporate customers across Spain, Portugal, France, Italy, Customers are served through a variety of channels comprising: the the Caribbean, Africa and the Middle East.
International also includes branch network, automated teller machines, telephone banking, the results of the FirstCaribbean business, accounted for as an online banking and relationship managers.
UK Banking is managed associated undertaking.
through two business areas, UK Retail Banking and UK Business Banking.
Barclaycard Barclaycard is a multi-brand credit card and consumer lending business UK Retail Banking with an increasing international presence and is one of the leading UK Retail Banking comprises Personal Customers, Mortgages, Small credit card businesses in Europe.
The bringing together of these businesses In the UK, Barclaycard operates the Barclaycard branded credit cards, enables the building of broader and deeper relationships with both Barclays branded consumer loans particularly Barclayloan and also existing and new customers.
Personal Customers and Mortgages comprises FirstPlus, Clydesdale Financial Services and Monument provide a wide range of products and services to over 14 million retail credit cards.
customers, including current accounts, savings, mortgages, and general insurance.
Small Business provides banking services to 566,000 Outside the UK, Barclaycard International is active in the United States, small businesses.
UK Premier provides banking, investment products Germany, Spain, Greece, Italy, Portugal, Republic of Ireland and across and advice to some 273,000 affluent customers.
The acquisition of the US credit card issuer, Juniper Financial Corporation, was completed on 1st December 2004.
Juniper provides a UK Business Banking platform for the expansion of Barclaycards international business into UK Business Banking provides relationship banking to the Groups larger the US credit card market.
and medium business customers in the United Kingdom.
Customers are Barclaycard Business processes card payments for retailers and served by a network of relationship and industry sector specialist merchants and issues cards to corporate customers.
managers who provide local access to an extensive range of products and services, as well as offering business information and support.
Barclaycard works closely with other parts of the Group, including Customers are also offered access to the products and expertise of UK Retail Banking, UK Business Banking and International, to leverage other businesses in the Group, particularly Barclays Capital.
Private Clients and International Barclays Capital Private Clients and International manages Barclays wealth Barclays Capital is a leading global investment bank which provides management operations and the Groups international retail and large corporate, institutional and government clients with solutions commercial banking activities.
It is managed as two distinct to their financing and risk management needs.
The Barclays Capital business model focuses on a broad span of financing and risk management services.
It services a wide variety Private Clients of client needs, from capital raising and managing foreign exchange, Private Clients serves affluent, high net worth and corporate clients, interest rate and commodity risks, through to providing technical primarily in the UK and continental Europe, providing private banking, advice and expertise.
offshore banking, stockbroking and asset management services, as well as financial planning services to a broader customer base.
Private Activities are primarily divided between two areas: Rates, which Clients comprises two businesses: International and Private Banking: includes fixed income, foreign exchange, commodities, emerging and Wealth Solutions which includes Barclays Financial Planning, markets, money markets sales, trading and research, prime brokerage Barclays Stockbrokers and the Gerrard business, which was acquired in and equity related activities: and Credit, which includes origination, 2003.
Through Wealth Solutions, Private Clients delivers investment sales, trading and research relating to loans, debt capital markets, products to UK Retail Banking.
Private Clients also includes the closed structured capital markets, commercial mortgage backed securities, life assurance activities.
private equity and large asset leasing.
89 Business description Barclays Global Investors The financial services industry has undergone consolidation in recent Barclays Global Investors BGI is one of the worlds largest asset years, as companies involved in a broad range of financial services managers and a leading global provider of investment management have merged, and this is expected to continue.
This consolidation products and services.
could result in competition becoming more intense, as firms continue to compete with companies that may be larger, better capitalised or BGI offers structured investment strategies such as indexing, global have stronger local presences in certain geographies.
asset allocation and risk controlled active products, including hedge funds.
BGI also provides related investment services such as securities Supervision and Regulation lending, cash management and portfolio transition services.
In Barclays is an international financial services group involved primarily addition, BGI is the global product leader in Exchange Traded Funds in Banking, Investment Banking and Asset Management, and has iShares, with over 100 funds for institutions and individuals trading operations in some 60 countries.
The Groups operations, including its in ten global markets.
BGIs investment philosophy is founded on overseas offices subsidiary and associated undertakings, are subject to managing all dimensions of performance with a consistent focus on rules and regulations, including reserve and reporting requirements controlling risk, return and cost.
and conduct of business requirements imposed by the relevant central banks and regulatory authorities.
Head Office Functions and Other Operations Head office functions comprise all the Groups central costs, including In the UK, the Financial Services Authority FSA is the independent the following areas that fall within Central Support: Executive body responsible for the regulation of deposit taking, life insurance Management, Finance, Treasury, Marketing, Communications, Human and investment business.
From 31st October 2004, the FSA assumed Resources, Strategy and Planning, Internal Audit, Legal, Corporate responsibility for the regulation of mortgage lending, sales and Secretariat, Tax, Compliance and Risk.
Costs incurred wholly on behalf administration and from 14th January 2005, for the sale and of the business units are recharged to them.
administration of general insurance contracts.
The FSA was established by the Government and it exercises statutory powers under the Transition Businesses comprise discontinued South American and Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 FSMA.
Middle Eastern corporate banking businesses and other centrally managed Transition Businesses.
These non-core relationships are Barclays Bank PLC is authorised by the FSA to carry on a range of managed separately with the objective of maximising the recovery regulated activities within the UK and is subject to consolidated from the assets concerned.
In its role as supervisor, the FSA is seeking to ensure the safety and soundness of financial institutions with the aim of Central items include internal fees charged by Barclays Capital for strengthening, but not guaranteeing, the protection of customers.
structured capital markets activities, income from the management of the Groups operational premises, property related services and other The FSAs continuing supervision of financial institutions authorised central items including activities which support the operating business.
by it is conducted through a variety of regulatory tools, including the collection of information from statistical and prudential returns, Competition and Outlook reports obtained from skilled persons, visits to firms and regular The Barclays Group operates in a number of highly competitive meetings with management to discuss issues such as performance, environments.
Competitors include other banks, brokerage firms, risk management and strategy.
investment banking companies, credit card companies, mortgage Under the FSAs risk-based approach to supervision, the starting companies, leasing companies, and a variety of other financial services point for the FSAs supervision of all financial institutions is based and advisory companies.
on a systematic analysis of the risk profile for each authorised firm.
The UK market remains highly competitive and innovative.
The FSA has adopted a homogeneous risk, processes and resourcing Competition comes both from incumbent players and new market model in its approach to its supervisory responsibilities known as the entrants.
The landscape is expected to remain highly competitive in all ARROW model and the results of the risk assessment are used by the our businesses.
Barclays remains at the forefront of market innovation FSA to develop a risk mitigation programme for a firm.
The FSA also to introduce new propositions to the market, and we are confident promulgates requirements that banks and other financial institutions that the Groups portfolio of businesses, combined with a focus on are required to meet on matters such as capital adequacy see Capital improving franchise health and the continued application of valueratios on pages 114 and 115, limits on large exposures to individual based management principles, will stand the Group in good stead entities and groups of closely connected entities, and liquidity.
to meet the challenges ahead.
Banks, insurance companies and other financial institutions in the UK The recent growth in the UK economy may weaken in the short term, are subject to a single financial services compensation scheme the driven by a cooling in the consumer market in response to a more Financial Services Compensation Scheme where an authorised firm subdued housing market and also by a weaker international economy.
is unable or is likely to be unable to meet claims made against it due The US economy is expected to be more subdued, partly because of oil to its financial circumstances.
Different levels of compensation are price strength but also because of the need to resolve imbalances in available to eligible claimants depending upon whether the protected the economy, in particular the federal and current account deficits.
claim is in relation to a deposit, a contract of insurance or protected This may have important implications for growth, interest rates and investment business.
The manager of the Scheme is able to make an exchange rates around the world, and particularly for Continental offer of compensation or, in respect of insurance contracts, offer to Europe, where growth has been dependent on exports.
continue cover or provide assistance to an insurance undertaking to 90 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2004 allow it to continue insurance business in accordance with the rules of which once in effect, will further shape and influence the UK the Scheme.
Most deposits made with branches of Barclays Bank PLC regulatory agenda.
Formal consultation is a key aspect of the UK within the European Economic Area EEA which are denominated in Governments reform programme and the Group has been reviewing sterling or other EEA currencies including the euro are covered by and, where relevant, commenting on proposals both directly and the Scheme.
Most claims made in respect of designated investment through industry associations.
business will also be protected claims if the business was carried on The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision and the European from the UK or from a branch of the bank or investment firm in Commission have also issued a revised framework for the allocation another EEA member state.
The Scheme establishes the maximum of regulatory capital for credit risk and to introduce a capital adequacy amounts of compensation payable in respect of protected claims: for requirement for operational risk.
These bodies recognise that a more eligible protected deposit claims, this is 31,700 100% of the first sophisticated approach is required to address both financial innovation 2,000 and 90% of the next 33,000 and for protected investment and the increasingly complex risks faced by financial institutions.
The business, this is 48,000 100% of the first 30,000 and 90% of the revised Basel Capital Accord and the EU Capital Requirements Directive next 20,000.
There is no maximum limit for protected insurance are expected to be phased in from the end of 2006. claims.
The first 2,000 of a valid claim is paid in full together with 90% of the remaining loss.
Recent Developments Outside of the UK, the Group has operations and main regulators As announced on 23rd September 2004, Barclays is in discussion located in continental Europe in particular, France, Germany, with Absa Group Limited Absa, a leading South African bank, in Spain, Portugal and Italy local central banks and other regulatory connection with a possible partial offer for a majority stake in Absa.
authorities : Asia Pacific various regulatory authorities including the A due diligence exercise has been completed and Barclays has Hong Kong Monetary Authority, the Japanese FSA and the Monetary submitted applications to the South African regulators to approve the Authority of Singapore : Africa, where the Groups operations are possible transaction.
It is not known how long the approval process will headquartered in Johannesburg, South Africa The South African take.
The discussions may or may not lead to an offer being made.
Reserve Bank and the United States of America the Federal Reserve On 20th January 2005 Barclays announced that it had made an offer to Board and the Securities and Exchange Commission.
acquire the wealth business of ING Securities Bank France, consisting In the United States, Barclays PLC, Barclays Bank PLC and certain of ING Ferri and ING Private Banking, subject to consultation with US subsidiary undertakings, branches and agencies of the Bank are employee representative bodies and finalising terms.
subject to a comprehensive regulatory structure, involving numerous On 3rd February 2005, Barclays announced its plans to consolidate its statutes, rules and regulations, including the International Banking Act core general insurance business from two suppliers to one and that of 1978, the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended, the discussions are well advanced with Norwich Union to provide services Foreign Bank Supervision Enhancement Act of 1991 and the USA across the home, motor and travel insurance portfolio.
Barclays also PATRIOT Act of 2001.
Such laws and regulations impose limitations on announced that it has agreed in principle to purchase 90% of Gresham the types of businesses, and the ways in which they may be conducted, Insurance from Legal & General.
Barclays currently owns the remaining in the United States and on the location and expansion of banking 10%.
At the same time negotiations are under way for the sale of business there.
The Banks operations are subject to extensive federal Gresham Insurance to Norwich Union.
and state supervision and regulation by the Federal Reserve Board FRB, the State of New York Banking Department NYSB and the On 4th February 2005, Barclays announced it had signed an Office of the Comptroller of the Currency OCC.
The deposits of agreement with ForeningsSparbanken also known as Swedbank Barclays Bank PLC branch are insured by the FDIC and subject to to form a joint venture to provide credit cards in the Nordic market, its regulations.
The Investment Banking and Asset Management subject to confirmatory due diligence and regulatory approvals.
operations are subject to ongoing supervision and regulation by On 17th February 2005, BSkyB and Barclaycard signed an agreement the Securities and Exchange Commission SEC as well as a to launch a Sky-branded credit card which will be fully integrated with comprehensive scheme of regulation under the US federal securities interactive television.
laws, as enforced by, for example, the National Association of Securities Dealers NASD and the OCC.
The UK has implemented the various requirements imposed by the European Union Directives on such matters as the carrying on the business of credit institutions and investment firms, capital adequacy, own funds and large exposures.
These form part of the European Single Market programme, an important feature of which is the framework for the regulation of authorised firms.
This framework is designed to enable a credit institution or investment firm authorised in one European Union member state to conduct banking or investment business through the establishment of branches or by the provision of services on a cross-border basis in other member states without the need for local authorisation.
A number of other European Community Directives are being introduced, for example the Market Abuse Directive and the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive 91
