Barclays PLC Annual Report 2004 Directors report Directors Report and Leigh Clifford were appointed as non-executive Directors with Profit Attributable effect from 1st September 2004 and 1st October 2004, respectively.
The profit attributable to shareholders for the year amounted to Sir Peter Middleton and Sir Brian Jenkins both retired from the Board 3,268m, compared with 2,744m in 2003. on 1st September 2004, at which time Matthew W Barrett became Chairman and John Varley became Group Chief Executive.
Dame Dividends Hilary Cropper, who served as a Board member since 1998, died on The final dividends for the year ended 31st December 2004 of 15.75p 26th December 2004.
Christopher Lendrum retired from the Board per ordinary share of 25p each and 10p per staff share of 1 each have on 31st December 2004. been approved by the Directors.
The final dividends will be paid on 29th April 2005 in respect of the ordinary shares registered at the Retirement and Re-election of Directors close of business on 25th February 2005 and in respect of the staff In accordance with its Articles of Association, one-third rounded shares so registered on 31st December 2004.
With the interim down of the Directors of Barclays PLC are required to retire by dividends of 8.25p per ordinary share and of 10p per staff share that rotation at each Annual General Meeting AGM, together with were paid on 1st October 2004, the total distribution for 2004 is 24.0p Directors appointed by the Board since the last AGM.
The retiring 2003: 20.50p per ordinary share and 20p 2003: 20p per staff share.
Directors are eligible to stand for re-election.
In addition, under the UK The dividends for the year absorb a total of 1,538m 2003: 1,340m.
Combined Code on Corporate Governance, every Director should seek re-election by shareholders at least every three years.
Dividend Reinvestment Plan Ordinary shareholders may have their dividends reinvested in Barclays The Directors retiring by rotation at the 2005 AGM and offering PLC ordinary shares by participating in the Dividend Reinvestment themselves for re-election are Matthew W Barrett, David Arculus, Plan.
The Plan is available to all ordinary shareholders provided that Sir Nigel Rudd and John Varley.
In addition, Sir Andrew Likierman and they do not live in, or are subject to the jurisdiction of, any country Leigh Clifford, who were appointed as Directors since the last AGM, where their participation in the Plan would require Barclays or The will be offering themselves for re-election at the 2005 AGM.
Dr Jrgen Plan Administrator to take action to comply with local government Zech, who joined the Board in 2002, will be retiring at the AGM and is or regulatory procedures or any similar formalities.
Any shareholder not seeking re-election.
wishing to obtain details of the Plan and a mandate form should Directors Interests contact The Plan Administrator to Barclays at The Causeway, Directors interests in the shares of the Group on 31st December 2004, Worthing, BN99 6DA.
Those wishing to participate for the first time according to the register maintained under the Companies Act 1985, in the Plan should send their completed mandate form to The Plan are shown on page 39.
The register is available for inspection during Administrator so as to be received by 8th April 2005 for it to be business hours at the Groups Head office and will be available for applicable to the payment of the final dividend on 29th April 2005. inspection at the 2005 AGM.
Existing participants should take no action unless they wish to alter their current mandate instructions, in which case they should contact Directors Emoluments The Plan Administrator.
Information on emoluments of Directors of Barclays PLC, in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and the Listing Rules of the United Share Capital Kingdom Listing Authority, is given in the Corporate Governance During the year, Barclays PLC purchased in the market for cancellation Report on pages 31 to 39 and in Note 46 to the accounts.
140.1 million of its ordinary shares of 25p at a total cost of 699m as part of its programme of returning excess capital to shareholders.
Activities These transactions represented some 2.17% of the issued ordinary Barclays PLC Group is a major global financial services provider share capital at 31st December 2004.
As at 28th February 2005 the engaged in retail and commercial banking, credit cards, investment latest practicable date for inclusion in this report, the Company had banking, wealth management and investment management services.
an unexpired authority to repurchase further shares up to a maximum The Group operates through branches, offices and subsidiaries in the of 930.4 million ordinary shares of 25p.
The activities of the Group are described on pages 89 and 90 and developments in the Groups business during the year and The ordinary share capital was increased by 31.0 million ordinary an indication of likely future developments are analysed in the shares during the year as a result of the exercise of options under the Financial review on pages 92 to 121, with additional information on SAYE and Executive Share Option Schemes.
At 31st December 2004 potential risk factors discussed on pages 42 and 43. the issued ordinary share capital totalled 6,454 million shares.
Community Involvement Substantial Shareholdings The total commitment for 2004 was 32m 2003: 32.8m.
As at 28th February 2005, the Company had not been notified of any major interests in its shares as required by sections 198 to 208 of the Barclays committed 29.5m in support of the community in the UK Companies Act 1985.
2003: 29.4m and 2.5m was committed in international support 2003: 3.4m.
UK commitment includes 11.2m of charitable Board Membership donations 2003: 9.9m.
The membership of the Boards of Directors of Barclays PLC and Barclays Bank PLC is identical and biographical details of the current Barclays is a member of the Percent Club a group of companies that members are set out on pages 16 to 18.
Roger Davis, Gary Hoffman, have undertaken to ensure that donations to the community over time Naguib Kheraj and David Roberts were appointed as executive amount to at least 1% of their UK pre-tax profit.
Directors with effect from 1st January 2004.
Sir Andrew Likierman 19 Directors report Barclays has an extensive community programme covering many It is also recognised that in addition to its employees, Barclays has countries around the world.
The Group provides funding and support responsibilities towards all persons on its premises, such as customers, to over 6,500 charities and voluntary organisations, ranging from contractors, visitors and members of the public, and will ensure, as far small, local charities like Coyote Theatre in Teesside, UK to as is reasonably practicable, that they are not exposed to risks to their international organisations like Sightsavers International.
We also have health and safety.
a very successful employee programme which in 2004 saw more than The Board HR and Remuneration Committee will receive regular reports 25,000 employees and pensioners worldwide taking part in Barclayson Health and Safety from the Human Resources Director.
supported volunteering and fundraising activities.
Further information on our community involvement is given on pages 12 and 13.
Creditors Payment Policy Barclays policy follows the DTIs Better Payment Practice Code, copies Political Donations of which can be obtained from the Better Payment Practice Groups No political donations were made during the year.
At the AGM in 2002 website at www.
The Code states that a company shareholders gave a four-year authority for Barclays Bank PLC and a should have a clear, consistent policy, adhered to by the finance and number of other subsidiaries to make political donations and incur purchasing departments, that payment terms are agreed at the outset political expenditure up to a maximum aggregate sum of 250,000 and payment procedures explained to suppliers, that bills are settled in per annum as a precautionary measure in light of the wide definitions accordance with payment terms agreed with suppliers, that complaints in The Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000. are dealt with quickly and that suppliers are advised of disputes.
These authorities have not been used and it is not proposed that the Barclays values its suppliers and acknowledges the importance of Groups long-standing policy of not making contributions to any paying invoices, especially those of small businesses, promptly.
Normal policy is to pay all small business purchases within 30 days.
Employee Involvement Paragraph 12 3 of Schedule 7 to the Companies Act 1985 requires Barclays is committed to ensuring that employees share in the success disclosure of trade creditor payment days.
Disclosure is required by the of the Company.
Staff are encouraged to participate in share option Company, rather than the Group.
The Groups principal trading subsidiary and share purchase schemes and have a substantial sum invested in in the UK is Barclays Bank PLC, the accounts for which are prepared Barclays shares.
under Schedule 9 of the Companies Act 1985.
The components for the trade creditor calculation are not easily identified in Schedule 9.
Employees are kept informed of matters of concern to them in a However, by identifying as closely as possible the components required variety of ways, including the corporate news magazine, the intranet, by the Schedule, the trade creditor payment days for Barclays Bank briefings and mobile phone SMS messaging.
This is an arithmetical Barclays is also committed to providing employees with opportunities calculation and does not necessarily reflect our practice, which is to share their views and provide feedback on issues which are described above, nor the experience of any individual creditor.
An annual Employee Opinion Survey is undertaken The Auditors with results being reported to the Board HR and Remuneration The Board Audit Committee approves and reviews the appointment Committee, and roadshows and employee forums take place.
of the external auditors, as well as their relationship with the Group, In addition, Barclays undertakes regular and formal Group, business unit including monitoring the Groups use of the auditors for non-audit and project specific consultations with Amicus, our recognised union.
services and the balance of audit and non-audit fees paid to the auditors.
More details on this can be found on pages 23 and 24 and Note 5 to Equality and Diversity the accounts.
Having reviewed the independence and effectiveness of Barclays is committed to giving full and fair consideration to the external auditors, the Committee has recommended to the Board applications for employment from people with disabilities and to that the existing auditors,  LLP, be continuing the employment of staff who become disabled and reappointed.
 LLP have signified their arranging any appropriate training to achieve this.
willingness to continue in office and ordinary resolutions reappointing Barclays respects and values people from all backgrounds and is them as auditors and authorising the Directors to set their committed to becoming a more inclusive organisation with a remuneration will be proposed at the 2005 AGM.
workforce that reflects the markets we serve.
The Annual General Meeting The Barclays Equality and Diversity programme covers employee, The AGM will be held at The Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre on customer, supplier and community activities, wherever appropriate.
The Notice of Meeting is included in a separate document sent to shareholders with this report.
Health and Safety Barclays is committed to ensuring the health, safety and welfare of its By order of the Board employees and, as far as is reasonably practicable, to providing and maintaining safe working conditions.
This commitment goes beyond just fulfilling its statutory legal obligations: the Bank has a wish to be proactive Lawrence Dickinson in its management of health and safety in the workplace, and recognises Company Secretary that this will strengthen both its physical and human resources.
