Corporate governance Accountability and audit Accountability and Audit The Directors consider that, in preparing the accounts on pages 124 Going Concern to 224 and 228 to 237, and the additional information contained on The Directors confirm they are satisfied that the Company and pages 27 to 39, the Group has used appropriate accounting policies, the Group have adequate resources to continue in business for the consistently applied and supported by reasonable and prudent foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going judgements and estimates, and that all accounting standards which concern basis for preparing the accounts.
they consider to be applicable have been followed.
Internal Control The Directors have responsibility for ensuring that the Company and The Directors have responsibility for ensuring that management the Group keep accounting records which disclose with reasonable maintain an effective system of internal control and for reviewing accuracy the financial position of the Company and the Group and its effectiveness.
Such a system is designed to manage rather than which enable them to ensure that the accounts comply with the eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can Companies Act 1985. only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material The Directors have general responsibility for taking such steps as are misstatement or loss.
Throughout the year ended 31st December reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to 2004, and to date, the Group has operated a system of internal control prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
which provides reasonable assurance of effective and efficient operations covering all controls, including financial and operational Signed on behalf of the Board controls and compliance with laws and regulations.
Processes are in place for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks facing the Group in accordance with the guidance Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
The Board regularly Matthew W Barrett reviews these processes through the Board Committees.
10th March 2005 The Directors review the effectiveness of the system of internal control annually.
An internal control compliance certification process is Disclosure Controls and Procedures conducted throughout the Group in support of this review.
The The Group Chief Executive, John Varley, and the Group Finance effectiveness of controls is periodically reviewed within the business Director, Naguib Kheraj, conducted with Group Management an areas.
Quarterly risk reports are made to the Board covering risks of evaluation of the effectiveness of the design and operation of the Group significance including credit risk, market risk, operational risk, Groups disclosure controls and procedures as at 31st December 2004, and legal and compliance risk.
Regular reports are made to the Board which are defined as those controls and procedures designed to ensure Audit Committee by management, Internal Audit and the compliance that information required to be disclosed in reports filed or submitted and legal functions covering particularly financial controls, compliance under the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is recorded, processed, and operational controls.
Reports covering risk measurement summarised and reported within specified time periods.
As of the standards and risk appetite are made to the Board Risk Committee.
date of the evaluation, the Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director concluded that the design and operation of these disclosure The key document for the Groups internal control processes is the controls and procedures were effective.
No significant changes were record of Group Governance practices which describes the Groups made in our internal controls or in other factors that could governance and control framework and details Group policies and significantly affect these controls subsequent to their evaluation.
The record of Group Governance practices is reviewed and approved on behalf of the Group Chief Executive by the Group Governance and Control Committee.
Further details of risk management procedures are given in the Risk management section on pages 44 to 85.
The system of internal financial and operational controls is also subject to regulatory oversight in the United Kingdom and overseas.
Further information on supervision by the financial services regulators is provided under Supervision and regulation on pages 90 and 91.
Statement of Directors Responsibilities for Accounts The following statement, which should be read in conjunction with the Auditors report set out on page 122, is made with a view to distinguishing for shareholders the respective responsibilities of the Directors and of the auditors in relation to the accounts.
The Directors are required by the Companies Act 1985 to prepare accounts for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and Group as at the end of the financial year and of the profit or loss for the financial year.
