18 Bradford & Bingley plc Annual Report & Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2004 Board of Directors as at 21 February 2005 Rod Kent Chairman Rod age 57 joined the Board in September 2002 and became Chairman in November 2002.
He was Managing Director of Close Brothers for some 28 years, during which time he led the management buy-out in 1979 and took the company public in 1984: he remains a Non-executive Director of Close Brothers Group plc.
He is also Chairman of Grosvenor Limited, a Nonexecutive Director of Grosvenor Group Limited, Whitbread Group plc and a Trustee of The Esmee Fairbairn Foundation.
He is Chairman of the Nominations Committee.
Steven Crawshaw Group Chief Executive Steven age 43 joined Bradford & Bingley from Lloyds TSB in 1999 as Flotation Director before he was appointed to the Board in January 2002 taking responsibility for Group Strategy, HR & IT.
He became Managing Director, Lending in January 2003.
He was appointed Group Chief Executive in March 2004.
He is a member of the Nominations Committee.
Ian Cheshire Non-executive Director Ian age 45 joined the Board in August 2003.
He is Chief Executive, International and Development at Kingfisher plc having been an Executive Director since June 2000.
Since joining Kingfisher in 1998, he has been Group Director of Strategy & Development and, from May 2000, Chief Executive of e-Kingfisher.
Before joining Kingfisher he worked for Boston Consulting Group, Guinness plc and a number of retail businesses including Sears plc.
He was previously a Non-executive Director of Hit Entertainment plc.
He is a member of the Audit Committee and Remuneration Committee.
Nicholas Cosh Non-executive Director Nicholas age 58 joined the Board of Bradford & Bingley Building Society in July 1999 and the plc Board in April 2000.
He is a chartered accountant and was formerly Group Finance Director of a number of companies including JIB Group plc, MAI plc and Charterhouse Japhet plc.
He is a Nonexecutive Director of ICAP plc, Computacenter plc, Kiln plc and Hornby plc.
He is a member of the Audit Committee and the Nominations Committee.
George Cox Non-executive Director George age 64 joined the Board of Bradford & Bingley Building Society in March 2000 and the plc Board in April 2000.
He is a member of the Supervisory Board of Euronext and a Director of Short Brothers plc and Enterprise Insight Ltd. Former appointments include Director General of the Institute of Directors, Chairman and Managing Director of Unisys Ltd, Chief Executive of P-E International plc, Non-executive Director of the London International Financial Futures Exchange LIFFE and Managing Director of Butler Cox plc.
He is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, a member of the Nominations Committee and the recognised Senior Independent Director.
19 Bradford & Bingley plc Annual Report & Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2004 Robert Dickie Group Operations Director Robert age 45 joined Bradford & Bingley on 2 January 2003 and was appointed to the Board in August 2003.
He joined from Zurich Financial Services Group UK Ltd where he was Managing Director, UK Enterprise.
Prior to this, Robert held a variety of roles at National Australia Bank which he joined from Clydesdale Bank plc.
He is responsible for operational areas including IT, telephony, customer service operations, human resources and property.
Louise Patten Non-executive Director Louise age 51 joined the Board in December 2003.
She is currently Non-executive Chairman of Brixton plc and a Non-executive Director of Great Universal Stores plc and Somerfield plc as well as a senior adviser to Bain & Co. She began her career at Citibank and remained in financial services until 1993, when she joined the management consultancy, Bain & Co, as a Partner.
Her previous experience as a Non-executive Director includes the Hilton Group plc.
She is a member of the Remuneration Committee and Nominations Committee.
Rosemary Thorne Group Finance Director Rosemary age 53 joined the Board of Bradford & Bingley Building Society in November 1999.
She was appointed to the plc Board in February 2000.
She previously held several senior financial positions including Group Finance Director of J Sainsbury plc and Group Financial Controller of Grand Metropolitan, subsequently Diageo plc.
She is a Non-executive Director of Cadbury Schweppes plc and a member of the Financial Reporting Council and the Financial Reporting Review Panel.
Stephen Webster Non-executive Director Stephen age 52 joined the Board in May 2003.
He is Group Finance Director of Wolseley plc, the building materials distribution company.
He is a chartered accountant and was formerly a Partner at Price Waterhouse.
He is a member of the Hundred Group Financial Reporting Committee.
He is Chairman of the Audit Committee.
20 Bradford & Bingley plc Annual Report & Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2004 2004 marked another successful year for our specialist lending business with continued growth and improved profits.
Tim Dawson Managing Director, Mortgage Express Our Lending business Bradford & Bingleys Lending business develops and manufactures a range of lending products primarily secured on residential property.
We do not participate in the unsecured consumer lending markets.
Our residential lending activity focuses on a range of niche areas providing mortgages for individuals who need a more specialist product than those available in the mainstream market.
Typical mortgages include: Buy-to-let providing loans to landlords and property investors: Self-cert loans for individuals who have more complex income streams, including the self-employed and those with more than one job: and Lifetime loans enabling customers to gradually release the equity they have built up in their main residence.
