British Empire Securities and General Trust p. l. c. Investment Managers Review Macarthur Coal was the Companys best performing holding this year.
The Australian metallurgical coal miners share price has reacted positively to a very tight coking coal market.
Internal demand in China has reduced supply for export.
The three and five year performance is as reported in the Chairmans Statement.
In the nineteen years since the rights issue in 1985, NAV total return has shown a 966.5% gain, compared to an AITC Global Growth average of 503.1% and a return on the MSCI World Index of 442.1%.
During the year, British Empires NAV rose 24.5% and the share price rose 30.1% on a total return basis.
The NAV outperformed the Datastream Global Growth Investment Trust Index by 12.3 percentage points and the MSCI World Index by 15.6 percentage points on a total return basis.
Strong global GDP growth and low rates underpinned a second year of rising equity markets.
Low rates in the United States sent investors scrambling for higher yielding, or perhaps, just potentially higher returning speculative assets.
The extent to which rises in the markets reflect positive fundamentals or are due to carry trade speculation is unclear.
Either way, we have seen rising NAVs and a narrowing of discounts in many of our stocks over the past year.
Recently, we have taken some profits and our net cash position has increased to 5.3%.
The major gainers are as follows: Macarthur Coal 196%, Jardine Strategic 78%, Wendel Investissement 52%, Beni Stabili 50%, Atlantis Japan Growth 45%, Danubius Hotels 43%, Hansa Trust 39%, Eastern European Trust 37%, FFP 35%, Galeries Lafayette 34%, Orkla 34%, GBL 31%, European Asset Value 31%, Prospect Japan Fund 27%.
The pendulum of investor sentiment swung further away from pessimism and towards optimism over the past year in equity markets.
Reflationary and cyclical companies did well in the first half and we benefited from this trend in Japan, 10 Annual Report & Accounts 2004 emerging markets and mining stocks.
During the second half of the year, progress in these areas became more difficult and it has become apparent that growth is facing headwinds in the form of higher energy prices and higher interest rates.
Global growth and also profits growth seem to have already peaked for this cycle.
Investors in reflation plays have had to try to balance a loss of cyclical momentum against longer term structural positives.
The most important development of the next decade will likely be the rise of China as an industrial power.
Investors have been fretting about the possibility of a slump in Chinese demand this year or next.
While the Chinese authorities have been using administrative measures to rein in over-investment, growth has so far remained robust.
The latest official figures show fixed investment growing at 28% for the first 9 months of 2004 and GDP growing at 9.5%.
Commodity suppliers to China have so far seen no let up in demand.
Among the beneficiaries of Chinas remarkable growth are energy producers, mining companies and the economies that are exposed to raw materials production.
These are long term themes that we expect to be relevant for the next few years.
Slowing cyclical momentum may cause a correction which would be a buying opportunity for China related themes.
Eurazeo is the The imbalances in the global economy have yet to be resolved but ultimately favour a product of the merger rebalancing of purchasing power and demand away from the US and towards the earlier this year of Rue growing economies of Asia.
No serious attempt is being made to reduce the US Imperiale and Eurazeo.
The company is budget deficit, which stands at $415bn compared with a $236bn surplus 4 years ago.
focusing its efforts on The US current account deficit, now running at just under 6% of GDP, will be private equity investments in France.
corrected at some point and will likely involve a sharp fall in the US$.
So long as Eutelsat pictured is nations are competing to weaken their currencies, gold is of interest.
one of the worlds leading operators of communications Corporate governance trends are improving in two of our key investment areas satellites.
Eurazeo European investment holding companies and UK investment trusts.
The move towards invested into Eutelsat in April 2003 and it is the simplification of investment holding company structures in Europe is continuing.
largest single investment During the past year we have benefited from a reorganisation of the listed investment in Eurazeos private holding companies in the Lazard and Rothschild groups.
Over the past year, we have had reconstructions in three of our Investment Trust holdings: Capital Opportunities Trust, Eastern European Trust and Henderson Electric and General Trust.
In December, the Capital Opportunities Trust was reconstructed and we redeemed our shares for NAV minus costs after having bought the trust on a discount in the mid-teens.
Eastern European Trust is a good performing trust that had a continuation vote in 2004.
After consultations with shareholders, the Board of the trust offered a tender to purchase 25% of the ordinary shares at a discount of 5% to NAV.
The tender allowed us to sell 34.5% of our holding in Eastern European Trust at a discount much lower than our entry level or the prevailing 11 British Empire Securities and General Trust p. l. c. Investment Managers Review continued market level at that time.
Henderson Electric and General Trust has also announced a tender offer, for 50% of their shares at a discount of 5% to NAV after deducting some costs.
At the same time, the Board has switched the management contract to Taube Hodson Stonex.
We wrote last year that we were in consultation with the Board of Henderson Electric and General Trust on the issues of performance and discount.
We are supportive of the changes made and believe that the supply and demand for the trusts shares should be better balanced in the future.
Investment trusts are now under the requirement, according to the modified listing rules, to make a statement as to, whether the continuing appointment of the investment manager on the terms agreed is in the best interests of shareholders, together with a statement of the reasons for this view.
We believe this has had the effect of focusing minds on the Boards of trusts that have underperformed over the long term.
The result should be a reduced tolerance for sustained underperformance and more corporate activity in the sector.
Portfolio Review Wendel bought a 37.4% interest in Legrand alongside Investment Holding Companies 27.8% private equity firm KKR.
Eurazeo Legrand pictured is the world leader for key The merger this year of Rue Imperiale and Eurazeo is the culmination of a component systems for restructuring process that has resulted in the elimination of three of the four Lazard electrical installation and holding companies existing in 2000.
Eurazeo rose a relatively modest 12% during the information networks.
It has 18% of the global year but, with the prospect of a divestment of the interest in Lazard, strong results market for switches and from the private equity interests and, not least, considerable upside in the Lyon and 15% for wire management products.
Marseilles property estates, the potential for asset growth and significant buyback activity looks promising.
Wendel Our holding produced a spectacular performance for the second year running as the strongly implemented focus on private equity paid off in terms of net asset value growth.
The investment in Legrand in 2002 then the largest private equity transaction in Europe appears to have been exceptionally well-timed.
The recent flotation and divestment of BioMerieux and investment in publisher Editis ex-Lagardere has been followed by the announced intention to buy the remaining 66% of Bureau Veritas, one of Wendels great long term successes.
Such performance and activity suggests the discount currently 23% should narrow further.
Francarep Francarep is a French investment holding company with direct private equity investments, listed French stocks and property in France, Germany and Poland.
In September 2004, its 74% shareholder Paris Orleans announced an all share offer for 12 Annual Report & Accounts 2004 the minorities, whereby shareholders in Francarep would receive shares in Paris Orleans.
Paris Orleans main asset, apart from the Francarep holding, is a 50% stake in Rothschild Concordia BV, which in turn owns stakes in the recently integrated international Rothschild banking businesses.
Following completion of the merger expected at the end of October 2004 the banking interests will represent approximately half the value of the company and the other half would be represented by the Francarep investment portfolio.
Ackermans & van Haaren Ackermans & van Haaren is a Belgian investment holding company with interests in dredging, private banking, recruitment and private equity.
It had a disastrous time in 2002 and early 2003 with problems in most of its areas of focus.
Disputes with the Indonesian government affected its dredging business.
Major write-downs on its private equity portfolio impacted on its NAV, and finally the timing of its investment into a European temporary recruitment agency coincided with an economic slowdown in Europe.
We bought into the company on a wide discount and a share price down approximately 50% from its peak.
Progress has been made in resolving its disputes with the Indonesian government: the private equity portfolio is achieving valuation surpluses on disposals, and the environment for the recruiting business appears to be improving.
We estimate it is now trading on a discount of 20%.
Hong Kong based Hang Lung Group Investment Trusts 21.7% currently has 4 Discounts are generally lower today than they were one year ago in the Investment properties in development that it is Trust sector.
Despite this general trend, there are always opportunities.
Global selling into a recovering Growth trusts were trading on discounts approaching 20% earlier in the year.
The company is also a underlying holdings are liquid and the risk of holding them may have diminished as property investor with the underperformance of large vs. small and mid cap stocks in most markets may be 30% of its portfolio in coming to an end.
In addition to our holding in Henderson Electric and General Shanghai Plaza 66, Shanghai pictured.
Trust, we have bought positions in Witan and Scottish Investment Trust.
Henderson Electric and General Trust Asset Value Investors became the largest shareholder in Henderson Electric and General Trust last year with our holding eventually reaching 12.9% British Empire owned 9.0%.
We were concerned that the trust was not performing and the discount was too wide.
The Board took decisive action in September and replaced the investment manager as well as putting in place a tender for 50% of the ordinary shares to remove the overhang of stock.
The discount narrowed from 17% to 7% following the announcement.
Hansa Trust Good stock picking and a narrowing discount have led to a very good performance from Hansa over the year.
Large positions in Ocean Wilsons, Glenmorangie and Cairn Energy have led the way.
13 British Empire Securities and General Trust p. l. c. Investment Managers Review continued Property-related 10.8% Western European property markets have re-rated on the back of a search for yield and the introduction of tax-efficient REIT structures in many markets.
The European Asset Value Fund has benefited from these trends.
In Asia, the property markets are in many cases just recovering from their Asian crises and SARS related lows.
We are positive on property in Hong Kong, Singapore and Tokyo and are seeking to buy into these areas at discounts through the listed markets.
Hang Lung Group Hang Lung Group is a Hong Kong listed property company whose principal asset is a holding in another Hong Kong property company called Hang Lung Properties.
The majority of Hang Lungs portfolio is invested in Hong Kong.
However, approximately 30% of the investment portfolio is invested in China.
We estimate that Hang Lung Group is trading at a discount of 37% to its net asset value.
We bought into the Prospect J REIT, European Asset Value Fund which invests into The fund invests mainly in property investment companies in Western Europe.
The Tokyo residential property, pre-IPO on a strong performance has been driven by legislation in France and, the prospect of portfolio yield of 5.9%.
similar legislation elsewhere allowing tax efficient real estate investment structures.
This is very attractive in the Japanese context and compares Socit fide la Tour Eiffel favourably with listed Socit fide la Tour Eiffel has been transformed into an active French property company Japanese REITs which yield below 4%.
that invests mainly in regional France.
The attraction of this area of the market is the relatively high yields that these properties produce, which should feed through to a high dividend yield on the shares.
The iconic Tower was transferred to the City of Paris in 1979.
Commodity Resources 10.9% Sharp corrections in commodity prices have occurred from time to time this year as investors worried that the major source of growth in demand, the Chinese economy, was cooling.
We take the view that the industrialisation of China will inevitably result in higher demand for many commodities and we are trying to position ourselves in commodities in which we believe there are supply constraints.
Coking coal and nickel are two of our favourite commodities.
Macarthur Macarthur Coal produces metallurgical PCI coal in Queensland, Australia.
The expansion of steel production in China has left producers worldwide competing for access to metallurgical coal.
Price settlements for next year are forecast to be extremely strong.
Macarthur is trading 20% below its net present asset value.
14 Annual Report & Accounts 2004 LionOre LionOre is a Canadian listed nickel miner with operations in Australia and Botswana.
A recently concluded deal to acquire the nickel assets of MPI should allow a 50% increase in production and be earnings accretive.
Japan 12.3% The Japanese equity market has stalled in recent months but the economy should continue to recover next year.
We believe there is still value in Japanese smaller companies and that restructuring should drive returns higher.
Prospect Japan Italian property Prospect Japan is an investment trust investing in smaller Japanese companies.
The company Beni Stabili is making manager has a good track record and this is reflected in the discount to NAV which progress in its asset narrowed over the year to approximately 5% - amongst the lowest in the sector.
management arm in launching new third party funds aimed at Prospect J REIT the institutional and Prospect J REIT is a limited partnership investing in residential property in Tokyo.
The assets managed Tokyo property prices have begun to increase in value following their extended in a joint venture with downturn.
There are signs that demand is strengthening and this should feed through Banca Intesa are showing strong to higher rental and capital values.
The fund plans an IPO on the Tokyo Stock performance and Exchange early next year.
The JREIT sector of the market has performed well as contributing to profits Japanese institutional and retail investors search for yield.
15 British Empire Securities and General Trust p. l. c. Investment Managers Review continued Emerging Markets 4.9% Emerging markets outperformed their developed counterparts for the third year running.
Emerging markets generally are no longer as desperately cheap as they were relative to developed markets and we have taken some profits.
Danubius Hotels A recovery in Hungarian tourism drove the share price of this hotel chain higher last year.
The company has had a difficult couple of years following the global travel decline post 9 11.
Occupancy is now picking up and we believe the market cap significantly undervalues the companys property assets.
Mersey Docks above and below Edinburgh Dragon operates the Port of The manager of Edinburgh Dragon, Jeremy Whitley, has recently relocated to Liverpool and 3 other port operations in the Singapore to join Hugh Young and his successful team at Aberdeen.
Increased shipping Asian markets and believe that the discount differential of more than 7% to Aberdeen volume is boosting revenues and profits.
The property division is accelerating the Liquidity 11.5% redevelopment of redundant dockland This is held in the form of short dated British Government securities and cash deposits into residential and with banks.
The company has strong cashflows and has a stated intention of buying back shares.
16 Annual Report & Accounts 2004 Geographic Profile Gross Assets of 461.4m were distributed on a look-through basis as follows: Continental Europe 27.9%, UK 24.8%, Asia Pacific 13.8%, Japan 12.3%, Canada 4.8%, EMEA 4.9% and Liquidity of 11.5%.
Net Asset Value Total Returns: % Change Since 30 06 85 10 years 5 years 3years 1 year British Empire 967 187 75 48 24 AITC Global Growth 503 98 3 10 13 MSCI World 442 77 14 -1 9 Source: AITC, Fundamental Data and Datastream Outlook Rising equity markets over the past two years have left very few overlooked and oversold sectors and markets.
The rising tide has lifted all boats.
We must be careful not to compromise on quality in search of value at this stage of the cycle.
Some of the companies which appear cheap today in relation to their assets have assets of deteriorating profitability and questionable liquidation value.
These are not our typical good quality assets at a discount.
We will have to maintain our investment discipline and this may mean a higher cash weighting at some stage if opportunities are not sufficiently attractive.
Improved corporate governance should mean, however, that there is more scope for the narrowing of discounts than in the past.
New value opportunities will emerge as they always do if we are patient.
John Pennink Asset Value Investors Limited 17 November 2004 17
