British Empire Securities and General Trust p. l. c. Report of the Directors The Directors present their report and the audited financial statements for the year ended 30 September 2004. Review of the Business A review of the Companys activities is given in the Chairmans Statement on page 4 and the Investment Managers Review on page 10.
Auditors A resolution to re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as the Companys auditor will be put to the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Results and Dividends The income of the Group for the year amounted to 9,168,000.
After expenses, interest and taxation, there remains a balance of 3,651,000 which the Directors have appropriated as follows: Company Group 000 000 Revenue available for dividends 3,653 3,651 Interim dividend of 0.40p per Ordinary Share paid on 11 June 2004 640 640 Recommended final dividend payable on 7 January 2005 to Shareholders on the Register as at 3 December 2004: - Final dividend of 1.30p per Ordinary share 2,081 2,081 Transferred to revenue reserve 932 930 Principal Activity and Status The Company is registered as a Public Limited Company in terms of the Companies Act 1985.
The Company is an investment company under Section 266 of the Companies Act 1985.
Status The Company is an investment trust and a member of the Association of Investment Trust Companies.
The Company has been approved as an investment trust company under Section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 for the year ended 30 September 2003.
The Directors are of the opinion, under advice, that the Company has conducted its affairs for the year ended 30 September 2004 so as to be able to obtain approval as an investment trust under Section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 for that year.
The Company is a qualifying trust for the purposes of Personal Equity Plans and Individual Savings Accounts.
Subsidiary Companies The Company owns one active dealing subsidiary, BEST Securities Limited.
In the year to 30 September 2004, BEST Securities Limited made a loss before taxation of 2,246 2003 - loss 26,703.
All other subsidiaries are in liquidation as at the year end see page 39 - note 9.
Directors The present members of the Board are listed on page 23.
Sir David Kinloch retired as a Director at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting on 15 December 2003.
Following his appointment to the Board on 15 December 2003, Mr JM May will retire at the Annual General Meeting and being eligible, offers himself for election.
The Board, having reviewed his nomination, supports the election of Mr May on the grounds of the valuable contribution he has already made to the Boards stewardship of the Company during his 24 Annual Report & Accounts 2004 first year of appointment.
Mr IS Robertson and Mr JC Walton will retire at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Mr Robertson being eligible and having the full support of the Board will offer himself for re-election at the Meeting.
After 20 years service to the Company, Mr Walton has decided not to stand for re-election and will retire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting.
The interests of the current Directors and their families in the securities of the Company as at 30 September 2004 are set out below: Ordinary Shares Ordinary Shares Loan Stock Loan Stock 30 9 04 1 10 03 30 9 04 1 10 03 IS Robertson 25,000 25,000 P Allen 5,000 5,000 R Blomfield-Smith - - PSS Macpherson 40,000 - JM May - - JC Walton 369,952 363,937 Mr J C Waltons holding includes 262,000 Ordinary Shares 2003: 249,000 held for his benefit in the Asset Value Investors Limited Pension Scheme Throughout the year ended 30 September 2004 the Manager operated under the terms of an agreement with the Company.
The terms of the agreement were changed during the period, as detailed in the Chairmans Statement in the Interim Report issued in May 2004.
A summary of the terms of the new agreement is given below.
Mr JM May is a Director of Caledonia Investments plc which owns 19.90 per cent.
of the Ordinary Shares of the Company.
Mr JC Walton is Chairman and a shareholder of Asset Value Investors Limited AVI, the Companys investment manager.
Mr Walton has a service contract with AVI subject to twelve months written notice of termination given by either party.
Save as aforesaid, no Director was a party to or had an interest in any contract or arrangement with the Company.
Substantial Interests in Share Capital At 11 November 2004 the following holdings representing more than 3 per cent of the Companys issued share capital had been reported: Number of Percentage Shares held Held Caledonia Investment plc 31,856,530 19.90 Axa SA and Group Companies 12,768,656 7.98 Legal and General 5,949,320 3.72 Funds under the management of ISIS Asset Management 5,561,739 3.47 The Cayzer Trust Company Limited is deemed to be interested in a total of 31,856,530 Ordinary Shares representing 19.90 per cent of the issued Ordinary Share capital by virtue of its interest in Caledonia Investments plc.
The Investment Manager AVI is the Companys appointed Investment Manager.
Under the terms of a Management Agreement, effective from 1 October 2003, the Manager is entitled to a base management fee of 0.55% of the net assets of the Company at the end of the previous financial year, increasing to 0.6% in any financial period in which the Company out-performs the benchmark or under-performs by no more than 5%.
The first 0.3% of the base management fee will be charged to revenue, with the remainder of the base management fee and any performance fee being charged to capital.
25 British Empire Securities and General Trust p. l. c. Report of the Directors continued The new fee will also include a performance element under which the Manager will be paid 4% of any out-performance in the net asset value per share on a total return basis over the benchmark, the Thomson Financial Datastream Global Growth Investment Trust Index, at the year end with a cap on aggregate fees of 1% per annum.
The previous management fee was calculated on gross assets, however, the Board believes that calculating management fees on net assets, rather than gross assets, reduces the risk to Shareholders which might arise from the use of excessive gearing and more clearly aligns the Managers interests with those of Shareholders in achieving an increase in the net assets of the Company.
The Directors have reviewed the performance of the Manager and are satisfied that the continued appointment of the Manager on the terms agreed is in the best interests of Shareholders and the Company.
The Management Agreement is terminable on a minimum of one years notice by either party.
Corporate Governance The Board consists entirely of non-executive Directors, the majority of whom are independent of the Companys Investment Manager.
Arrangements are in place to ensure the level of corporate governance is appropriate to an investment trust and, taking account of the matters referred to below, the Company has complied with the Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code.
Section 1 of the Code has been complied with throughout the period covered by this Report.
The Board notes the Association of Investment Trust Companies code of corporate governance for investment trusts and adheres to its principles and recommendations except where otherwise disclosed.
A revised Code was issued in July 2003, effective for financial years commencing on or after 1 November 2003.
The Board is reviewing the impact of the additional requirements of the revised Code and will take appropriate measures to ensure compliance with it.
The Management Agreement between the Company and AVI sets out the matters over which the Investment Manager has authority and the limits above which Board approval must be sought.
All other matters are reserved for the approval of the Board of Directors.
The Board receives full details of the Companys assets, liabilities and other relevant information in advance of Board meetings.
The Board meets formally at least nine times a year: however, the Investment Manager and Company Secretary stay in more regular contact with Directors on a less formal basis.
Individual Directors have direct access to the Company Secretary and may, at the expense of the Company, seek independent professional advice on any matter that concerns them in the furtherance of their duties.
After making enquiries and bearing in mind the nature of the Companys business and assets, the Directors consider that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
The Directors welcome the views of all Shareholders and place great importance on communications with Shareholders.
Board representatives and the Investment Manager meet with the Companys major Shareholders throughout the year.
The Board recommends that Shareholders attend the Companys Annual General Meeting on 16 December 2004 and use the opportunity to ask questions of their Board and the Investment Manager, either formally at the Meeting or informally at the buffet luncheon afterwards.
At the Annual General Meeting the Investment Manager will make a presentation to Shareholders covering the investment performance and strategy of the Company.
Owing to the short period of time between the Companys annual report and accounts becoming available and the calendar year end, the Company is unable to comply with the recommendation in the Code that the accounts be sent out at least 20 working days prior to the Annual General Meeting.
26 Annual Report & Accounts 2004 In relation to the use of the Companys voting rights in respect of investee companies the Investment Manager, in the absence of explicit instruction from the Board, is empowered to exercise discretion in the use of the Companys voting rights in the best interests of the Company.
Since all Directors are non-executive, the Company is not required to comply with the principles of the Code in respect of executive Directors remuneration.
Instead, the Board has appointed a Management Engagement Committee which comprises three independent Directors, Mr IS Robertson Chairman, Mrs R Blomfield-Smith and Mr PSS Macpherson.
The function of this committee is to ensure that the Investment Manager complies with the terms of the Management Agreement and that the provisions of the Management Agreement follow industry practice, remain competitive and in the best interests of Shareholders.
A senior non-executive Director has not been appointed as all the Directors are non-executive and the Board considers that each of the Directors has different qualities and areas of expertise on which they may lead.
The Nomination Committee comprises the full Board and is convened for the purpose of considering the appointment of additional replacement Directors.
During the year the Board appointed one new non-independent non-executive Director, Mr JM May.
The Nomination Committee interviewed Mr May prior to making their recommendation, following which the Board appointed him a Director on 15 December 2003.
All newly appointed Directors receive tailored training and induction.
The Board considers that, in view of its non-executive nature, it is not appropriate for the Directors to be appointed for a specified term of no more than three years as recommended by the Code.
The Articles of Association require that one third of the Directors retire by rotation at each Annual General Meeting and the Board intends to abide by the spirit of the Code by ensuring that each Director stands for re-election at least once every three years.
The Board is not of the view that serving as a Director for nine or more years automatically results in that Director losing their independence.
However, after nine years of service, a Director will be subject to annual re-election.
The Audit Committee operates within clearly defined terms of reference and comprises Mr PR Allen Chairman, Mrs R Blomfield-Smith, Mr PSS Macpherson and Mr IS Robertson.
In summary the Audit Committees main functions are: To review and monitor the internal financial control systems and risk management systems on which the Company is reliant: To consider annually whether there is a need for the Company to have its own internal audit function: To monitor the integrity of the interim and annual financial statements of the Company by reviewing and, challenging where necessary the actions and judgements of the Investment Manager and Administrator: To meet with the external Auditors to review their proposed audit programme of work and the findings of the Auditors.
The Committee also uses this as an opportunity to assess the effectiveness of the Audit process: To make recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment of the external Auditors and to approve the remuneration and terms of engagement of the external Auditors: To monitor and review annually the external Auditors independence, objectivity, effectiveness, resources and qualification.
The Board is ultimately responsible for the Companys system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Following publication of Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code the Turnbull guidance, the Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Company.
This process has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of this Annual Report and Accounts and, is regularly reviewed by the Board and accords with the guidance.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control.
In particular, it has reviewed and updated the process for identifying and evaluating the significant risks affecting the Company and policies by which these risks are managed.
The significant risks faced by the Company are: 27 British Empire Securities and General Trust p. l. c. Report of the Directors continued financial: operational: compliance: and risk management.
The key components designed to provide effective internal control are outlined below: The Investment Manager prepares forecasts and management accounts which allow the Board to assess the Companys activities and review its performance: The Board and Investment Manager have agreed clearly defined investment criteria, specified levels of authority and exposure limits.
Reports on these issues, including performance statistics and investment valuations, are regularly submitted to the Board.
The Investment Managers evaluation procedure and financial analysis of the companies concerned include detailed appraisal and due diligence: As a matter of course the Investment Managers compliance department continually reviews the Investment Managers operations.
Written agreements are in place which specifically define the roles and responsibilities of the Investment Manager and other third party service providers: At its September and November meetings, the Audit Committee carried out assessments of internal controls for the year ended 30 September 2004 by considering documentation from the Investment Manager and the Administrator, Phoenix Administration Services Limited, including their compliance function and taking account of events since 30 September 2004.
The results of the assessments were then reported to the Board at the next Board meeting: The Board has considered the need for an internal audit function but, because of the compliance and internal control systems in place at the Investment Manager and the Administrator, has decided that reliance can be placed on their systems and procedures.
Internal control systems are designed to meet the Companys particular needs and the risks to which it is exposed.
Accordingly, the internal control systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and, by their nature can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against mis-statement and loss.
Since the year end evaluations of the performance of the Board as a whole, the Committees and individual Directors were undertaken using carefully structured questionnaires.
The evaluations were led by the Chairman who, after receiving analyses of the results of the questionnaires, met to discuss the findings with each Director individually.
The performance of the Chairman was assessed from discussion with the other members of the Board, led by Mr PSS Macpherson as the next most senior Director to the Chairman.
The Board are satisfied from the results of the evaluation that the structure, mix of skills and operation of the Board are satisfactory.
Creditor Payment Policy The Companys payment policy is to settle investment transactions in accordance with market practice and to ensure settlement of supplier invoices in accordance with stated terms.
The Company did not have any trade creditors at the year end.
Statement of Directors Responsibilities The Directors are required to prepare financial statements for each financial period which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group as at the end of the financial period and, of the return of the Group for that period, all in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards.
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and ensuring that the financial statements referred to above are contained therein.
28 Annual Report & Accounts 2004 The Directors are also responsible for ensuring that adequate accounting records are maintained, that the assets of the Company and the Group are safeguarded and, for taking such steps for the detection and prevention of fraud and other irregularities as are reasonable in the circumstances.
The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis, appropriate accounting policies have been used and consistently applied, reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates have been made in their preparation and, all applicable UK accounting standards have been followed.
Special Business at the Annual General Meeting Resolution 7 - Authority to allot Shares In order that a company can allot Shares or other relevant securities, it must have Shareholder authority under Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985.
The authority may be general and unconditional or for a specific purpose and, may be sought for any length of time up to a maximum of five years.
Under this Resolution the Company seeks general and unconditional authority to allot Ordinary Shares of 10p each up to an aggregate nominal value of 2,400,000, representing approximately 15 per cent of the Ordinary Share capital currently in issue.
The authority sought would expire at earlier of the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2005 or 15 March 2006 unless otherwise renewed, varied or revoked.
The Directors would only exercise the authority granted if they considered it to be in the best interests of the Company.
Resolution 8 - Authority to issue Shares outside of pre-emption rights The Directors are seeking to renew their limited authority to allot Shares other than on a pre-emptive basis.
This authority will be limited to issues of new Shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of 800,400 being approximately 5 per cent of the Ordinary Share capital currently in issue.
The Directors would only issue new Shares pursuant to this authority if they believe it is advantageous to the Companys Shareholders to do so and in no circumstances would result in a dilution of net asset value per Share.
Resolution 9 - Share Buy-Back Facility A resolution will be proposed to renew the Directors authority to make market purchases of the Companys Shares in accordance with the provisions contained in the Companies Act and the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
Accordingly, the Company will seek authority to purchase up to a maximum of 23,996,005 Ordinary Shares representing 14.99 per cent of the current issued Share capital at a minimum price of not less than 10p per Share being the nominal value and a maximum price of not more than 5 per cent above the average market values of the Shares for the preceding five business days.
The Directors do not intend to use this authority to purchase the Companys Shares unless to do so would result in an increase in the net assets per Share and would be in the best interests of Shareholders generally.
The authority being sought would last until 15 March 2006 but the Board intends to seek a renewal of the authority at the Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2005.
Registered Office: By Order of the Board, Bennet House For and on behalf of 54 St Jamess Street Phoenix Administration Services Limited London Secretary 17 November 2004 29
