Annual Report & Accounts 2004 Investment Manager Asset Value Investors Limited Asset Value Investors Limited AVI, the Companys investment manager, specialises in quoted undervalued asset securities.
The company manages, in addition to British Empire Securities, The European Asset Value Fund SICAV, CF Asset Value Investors Global Fund OEIC, AVI Value Fund LLC and certain endowment funds.
Funds under management have grown from 6 million in 1985 to above 800 million today.
On 30 September 2003 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC sold AVI to the management of AVI.
John Pennink AVI aims to deliver superior returns while minimising risks and, specialises in is a Chartered Financial securities that for a number of reasons may be selling on anomalous valuations.
Analyst CFA and is Chief Executive Officer Favoured investments: of Asset Value Investors and the Fund Manager are not heavily promoted and therefore are not well known: responsible for the sell on wide discounts to estimated asset value: and British Empire Securities own quality assets that are expected to appreciate.
AVI has long experience in the undervalued assets arena, particularly in: the closed-end fund sector: property and hotels: and the European investment holding company sector.
Over the long term, each of AVIs funds has significantly outperformed their respective benchmark indices.
British Empire has recently won several awards: Investment Week 1st place - Global including US, Investment Trust of the Year Awards, 2004.
The Association of Investment Trusts Commended - The Best Information to Shareholders Award - Best Generalist Annual Report, 2004.
Bloomberg Money Investment Awards Highly Commended - Best International Generalist Trust, 2004.
Standard & Poors 1st place - Five Years UK Investment Trusts Global Growth Sector out of 27 funds 2003.
1st place - Three Years UK Investment Trusts Global Growth Sector out of 29 funds 2003 for the second year running.
The Company retains its Standard & Poors 5 star ranking.
Money Observer 1st place - Best Global Trust, Investment Awards 2003 for the third year running.
AITC Best Annual Report in its category 2003.
