Caledonia Investments plc 07 Annual report 2004 Objectives and strategy Objectives Competitive advantages Caledonia aims to achieve a long term total shareholder return Caledonia believes that its history and strategy deliver the in excess of the FTSE All-Share, while maintaining a progressive following key competitive advantages: annual dividend, through a focused portfolio of significant stakes in companies where it believes there to be good opportunities Favoured access Caledonias long established and for building value.
valuable reputation as a supportive long term investor attracts a strong deal flow of opportunities not always Caledonia measures its performance over the long term by available to others, which enables it to be highly selective comparing its total shareholder return against the FTSE All-Share in its investments.
Total Return index over five and ten year periods.
Long experience Caledonias management team has long Strategy experience of proactively working with the management Caledonias strategy is to invest in and actively manage teams of investee companies to identify and promote significant stakes in 30 to 40 companies and situations where business growth opportunities.
it believes there to be good opportunities for building value.
Active management will usually be achieved by working closely Self-management Caledonias portfolio is largely selfand constructively with the investee management, often through managed, thereby reducing third party fees and ensuring board representation, as a long term supportive shareholder.
that performance gains accrue to Caledonias shareholders.
Risk is managed by holding a diversified portfolio, with at least Where investments are made in managed funds, Caledonia 50% of the portfolio in quoted securities or liquid assets.
seeks to secure a stake in the asset management business, Caledonia self-manages its portfolio, using in-house expertise, to enhance further potential returns.
as well as using third party managers who specialise in particular asset classes or geographical areas.
Progressive dividends Caledonia has a substantial level of distributable reserves to support its progressive dividend Caledonia seeks new investments with a typical size of 10m policy for the foreseeable future.
Although Caledonia usually aims to have an influential minority stake it will, on occasion, be prepared to take a controlling interest where it believes that this will maximise shareholder value.
When considering an investment opportunity, particular care is taken in appraising the capabilities and commitment of the management team of the prospective investee company.
The anticipated total return from the investment, the strategy in relation to it, and the overall risks, are carefully analysed as part of the investment process.
Caledonia will invest part of its portfolio in third party managed funds.
Again, a core skill is its ability to assess the capabilities and commitment of the fund management team and Caledonia will often seek to obtain a significant stake in the management company, thereby potentially enhancing returns to shareholders.
Caledonia seeks to work closely and constructively with the management of companies that it has backed and to make available the considerable experience of its own team to help the investee companys management to address the business issues.
The strategy for each investment, including the returns and the timing of eventual disposal, is reviewed regularly.
Investments are realised when it is believed that the funds released can provide better long term returns, but in a manner consistent with Caledonias reputation as a supportive long term investor.
Whilst the source of funding for new investments generally comes from its own resources, Caledonia may at times seek to enhance returns by taking on moderate levels of gearing.
Tight control is exercised over costs, notwithstanding Caledonias active and participative management style.
Cost containment is significantly aided by managing the large majority of investments through the in-house management team.
