Caledonia Investments plc 12 Annual report 2004 Investment review Financial Close Brothers valuation: 203.2m: holding: 17.6% Caledonia has a history of success Close Brothers is the largest independent quoted merchant bank in the UK.
Caledonia has been a supportive shareholder with investments in financial in Close Brothers since 1986, a fact that highlights both our long term investment approach and our ability to identify sound services and our active involvement management.
Caledonia plays an active role at Close Brothers with a non-executive directorship.
The success of this investment in the development of many has resulted in it becoming our largest holding by value.
Over the year, the performance of the shares has been strong, rising 64% financial services businesses has and far outstripping the rise in the FTSE All-Share index of 27%.
In addition, Close Brothers paid a dividend of 26p per share for given us an extensive knowledge its financial year to 31 July 2003 out of earnings per share before goodwill amortisation of 41.0p.
Our weighting Close Brothers released its interim results for 2004 at the of 34% is greater than the FTSE beginning of March.
The results demonstrated the continued steady organic growth of its lending activities and, following the All-Share weighting of 24% and end of the long bear market, the improved fortunes and outlook for its investment banking operations.
Overall, group operating reflects our belief in the sectors profits before taxation and goodwill amortisation rose by 46% to 57.8m and earnings per share before amortisation of goodwill long term prospects.
year, the value of our holdings in Banking profits, which represented around 52% of group operating profits, rose by 10% compared with the same period financial services companies has a year earlier.
The loan book grew by 11% and bad debt charges remained stable.
Meanwhile, investment banking profits more risen by 60%, compared with an than doubled compared with the first half of 2003.
The asset management division saw funds under management grow to increase of 27% in this sector of 5.0bn at the end of January 2004, with net new funds totalling 300m.
Within corporate finance, activity improved in mergers the FTSE All-Share.
and acquisitions, and market making profits doubled, reflecting the strong rise in the equity market and increased private client confidence.
Caledonia Investments plc 13 Annual report 2004 Rathbone Brothers ISIS Asset Management valuation: 34.9m: holding: 11.3% valuation: 19.2m: holding: 6.3% This has been a good year for Rathbones, one of the UKs leading ISIS is one of the ten largest UK fund management businesses private client discretionary fund management businesses.
Over and aims to be one of the top five by 2007.
Caledonia has been our year to 31 March 2004, the share price rose by 68%, making a significant investor in ISIS and its forerunners Ivory & Sime it one of our best performing investments.
The company and Friends, Ivory & Sime since 1994.
A Caledonia director has announced an unchanged dividend of 26p per share for its year been the chairman since 1995.
Funds under management have ending 31 December 2003.
Caledonia originally identified grown from 3.0bn in 1994 to 63.5bn at the end of December Rathbones as an investment opportunity, because of its strong 2003.
Like many asset management companies, the shares have and highly regarded management, and in 1995 we bought a stake risen strongly since the stock market bottomed in March 2003, of 8%.
We have a representative on the board.
increasing in value by 45% during the year to 31 March 2004.
The company paid an unchanged dividend for its 2003 financial year In the year ending 31 December 2003, Rathbones funds under of 11p per share.
This compared with a rise in the FTSE 100 index of 13.6% over the same period.
During the During 2003, ISIS saw a significant improvement in its financial year, the company had particular success in attracting mandates performance, with earnings per share before amortisation of from charities and its excellent investment performance has goodwill and exceptional items increasing by over 15% to 12p.
continued to attract funds into its unit trust business, where Operating margins increased from 28.2% to 32.7%, reflecting funds under management at its year end stood at over 500m.
in part the companys focus on cost control as well as the These encouraging trends, together with a focus on managing successful integration of Royal & SunAlliance Investments, costs in the business, led to a 12.4% increase in earnings per which it acquired in 2002. share before goodwill amortisation to 38.1p.
2003 saw a number of initiatives to grow the business.
A combination of improved investment performance, underpinned by focused advertising and significant profile building exercises in the media, has resulted in a number of ISIS retail funds being added to the recommendation lists of leading independent financial advisers.
ISIS also successfully launched a new listed investment company, the ISIS Property Trust, which invests directly in UK commercial properties.
More recently, the company has signed heads of agreement to acquire an equity stake in Cardinal Capital Partners, which is a new business focused on the rapidly growing sector of alternative investments.
Caledonia Investments plc 14 Annual report 2004 Investment review Financial SVB Holdings Polar Capital valuation: 15.5m: holding: 5.3% valuation: 6.1m 28.0m including funds : holding: 24.6% SVB is a Lloyds insurance business, focusing on longer tail In January 2001, Caledonia co-founded Polar Capital with three speciality lines, such as financial institutions cover, directors highly respected fund managers.
Our ability to help them in and officers liability and professional indemnity, as well as formulating the Polar Capital structure, obtaining FSA approvals shorter tail property insurance, aviation re-insurance and some and recruitment of its key personnel, illustrates well our ability marine risks.
Its shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange, to play a constructive role in the formation of a business that has but have traded at a discount to net tangible assets since the shown impressive growth.
Funds under management have grown events of 11 September 2001.
Premium rates turned up sharply substantially over the year and totalled US$2.2bn at the year end.
after those losses and SVB has benefited from this.
Polar Capital is a research driven fund management company, Before May 2003, Caledonia had no exposure to the insurance providing a highly entrepreneurial environment for talented underwriting sector, but believed that there were good managers within a structure that offers a level of marketing, opportunities available.
We agreed to act as a cornerstone administrative and operational support normally only found in investor in SVBs placing and open offer in May 2003, and much larger organisations.
With 29 investment professionals following a further strengthening of its management team last on the staff, Polar Capital manages US$0.7bn in hedge funds summer, bought further shares in the market, taking the total and the balance in long-only funds.
Polar Capitals funds under cost to 9.1m.
In November 2003, we subscribed 4.9m towards management can be broken down as follows: US$1.0bn in its 50m sterling convertible bond issue.
technology funds, US$0.8bn in the Japanese portfolio and US$0.4bn in various European and UK products.
SVB announced its results for 2003 in mid March, which were in line with market expectations, in spite of making substantial Caledonia owns 24.6% of the company, with the staff owning the further additions to underwriting reserves for 2001 and prior years.
balance, and is represented on the board of the management Caledonia has had board representation since January 2004. company and the boards of its funds.
As a result of the success and profitability of the business, the value of our investment Marketform increased from 3.6m to 6.1m during the year.
The cost of our valuation: 15.1m: holding: 26.8% investment in Polar Capital was 2.4m.
Established in the 1980s, Marketform is an unquoted Lloyds insurance business with substantial management ownership.
It specialises in medical malpractice and other specialist classes of liability underwriting business for clients outside the USA.
Marketform manages the business of a consortium of medical malpractice underwriters on a fee and profit commission basis and participates in the consortium through Syndicate 2468, for which it is also the managing agent.
Premium rates for Marketforms classes of business hardened after 11 September 2001.
In autumn 2003, Caledonia became a minority shareholder through an investment of 15m in equity and loan capital designed to enable Marketform to take additional underwriting capacity in advantageous market conditions.
Caledonia has two representatives on the board.
Results for 2003 have been in line with expectations and the outlook for premium rates remains attractive.
Caledonia Investments plc 15 Annual report 2004 Oval valuation: 4.5m: holding: 34.0% UK commercial insurance broking is a fragmented industry with many participants.
Oval is a company formed to bring together the best of these, buying regional broking businesses for a mixture of cash and its own shares, whilst retaining the value of local relationships.
A growing market share should enable the group to benefit from economies of scale and better terms of trade from insurers.
RP Hodson, a substantial commercial broking and financial services business based in Wakefield, was Ovals first acquisition, completed in October 2003.
Ovals second acquisition, signed in April 2004, is Bland Bankart, a leading commercial broker with offices in Leicester, Nottingham, Birmingham, Luton and London.
Caledonia has participated in Oval by subscribing a total of 15m for ordinary shares and convertible loan stock, 30% of which was called up at 31 March 2004.
Caledonia has two representatives on the Oval board.
Eddington Capital valuation: 0.7m 17.7m including funds : holding: 50.0% Eddington Capital was established in 2003 and is another example of Caledonia co-founding a business in the fund management arena.
As a specialist in high return fund of hedge funds, Eddington Capital launched its flagship Triple Alpha Fund on 1 September 2003, which Caledonia seeded with 15m.
So far, the performance of the Triple Alpha Fund has been promising, increasing by 13.5%, net of all fees, in the first seven months.
Eddington Capital, based in London, is a joint venture between its management and Caledonia.
Caledonia is represented on its board.
Caledonia Investments plc 16 Annual report 2004 Investment review Leisure and media Kerzner International valuation: 143.9m: holding: 20.2% Caledonia has experience of the Kerzner International KI is a leading developer, owner and operator of luxury resort hotels worldwide.
Caledonia backed the leisure and media sector through management team when Sun International Hotels now KI was founded in 1994.
Over the year, the shares have risen by 95% its involvement in the hospitality, in dollar terms and, during the year, we have offset some of the negative impact of a weaker dollar by partially hedging our print and broadcasting industries.
Caledonia has had board representation since the outset.
Our confidence in the long term KI recently reported a strong set of results for the year ended 31 December 2003.
Adjusted earnings per share were US$2.36, prospects of this sector has led an increase of 15% over the previous year, due primarily to Paradise Island, Mohegan Sun and a lower interest expense.
to a weighting greater than the At Paradise Island in the Bahamas, the companys flagship operation, KI achieved record gross revenue and EBITDA for the FTSE All-Share index, at 20% second consecutive year.
Over the KI owns 50% of Trading Cove Associates, which receives a 5% participation in the gross revenues of the recently expanded year, our holdings have increased Mohegan Sun Casino complex in Connecticut, USA, owned by the Mohegan Tribe.
Gross revenues grew strongly in 2003, rising in value by 49%, compared with by 14%.
KIs share of the fees was US$35.7m.
an increase in the leisure and In February 2004, KI announced the official opening of the One&Only Palmilla, which is its latest addition to the One&Only media companies in the FTSE brand.
The company has transformed one of the best-known properties in the Los Cabos region of Mexico into an unparalleled All-Share index of 40%.
In addition to good trading results with continued growth shown by the first quarters figures, KI has a number of important developments in the pipeline.
A further US$800m expansion is planned for Paradise Island and in Dubai, where the One&Only Royal Mirage management contract continues to perform well, a new Atlantis, The Palm, Jumeirah, is planned in conjunction with a local partner.
This new Atlantis would comprise a 1,000 room hotel together with an extensive water theme park.
In the UK, KI was recently granted a gaming licence to enable it to move forward with its first casino, in Northampton.
It also holds a 37.5% interest in the BLB consortium which has bid for Wembley plc.
Caledonia Investments plc 17 Annual report 2004 A G Barr The Sloane Club valuation: 12.0m: holding: 9.4% valuation: 9.3m: holding: 100% A G Barr is a Scottish-based manufacturer, marketer and The Sloane Club is a residential members club, based in the heart distributor of soft drinks, which includes well known brands such of Chelsea.
Caledonia bought the Club in 1993 on a long lease, as Irn-Bru, Tizer and Orangina.
Profits for its year to 31 January both as a property investment and because of its trading 2004 improved by a satisfactory 13% to 13.8m, due to the good potential.
It has been enlarged and modernised and currently summer and tighter cost control.
Earnings per share rose by has a membership of around 3,750.
In January of this year, 14.0% to 49.9p and the dividend increased by 10.4% to 25.5p.
a 1m programme to upgrade the rooms and install air Cash increased substantially to 25m during the year, reflecting conditioning was commenced, with completion planned for the not only excellent trading, but lower investment than usual, summer season.
Caledonia provides the chairman of The Sloane although the company anticipates increasing capital expenditure Club and is actively involved in its management.
to provide efficiencies for the future.
The share price rose 34% over our year to 31 March.
Towards the end of the year, the financing structure of The Sloane Club was changed, with the Club taking on bank borrowing of Caledonia has a long association with the management, where 14.0m and returning funds to Caledonia, thereby reducing our a number of changes have recently taken place.
Robin Barr, equity value by this amount.
In addition, there was a small chairman and chief executive for 26 years, has divided these reduction in valuation reflecting the downturn in activity.
roles, remaining chairman and appointing a new chief executive.
Whilst membership has remained stable, profitability has been Radio Investments adversely affected by a slowdown in the number of overseas valuation: 11.3m: holding: 39.5% visitors.
In common with many clubs, The Sloane Club has Caledonia has been a cornerstone investor in Radio Investments reciprocal arrangements with overseas clubs, however, their since 1989 and throughout this period has had board members are being deterred from visiting London by a representation.
Caledonia currently provides Radio Investments combination of the strength of sterling and the perceived risk non-executive chairman.
Investing in Radio Investments of terrorist activity.
provided Caledonia with an indirect interest in Capital Radio, the UKs largest commercial radio operation.
In 1998, Radio Investments placed its stake in Capital Radio, realising a profit on cost of over 40m, part of which was distributed to shareholders.
Radio Investments currently has interests in 22 smaller radio stations and has become a market leader in the independent local radio sector.
Recent trading has been healthy with Radio Investments returning to profitability in the 18 month period to March 2004.
This was driven by a combination of cost containment and good revenue growth in an improving advertising environment.
In the near term, Radio Investments should benefit from further increases in advertising spending and it is well positioned to take part in any consolidation in the radio sector.
Since the year end, the sale of Radio Investments has been announced, by means of an accelerated IPO.
Following completion, Caledonia expects to receive about 13.6m, net of costs, for its shareholding in the company.
Caledonia Investments plc 18 Annual report 2004 Investment review Industrial and services Paladin Resources valuation: 37.4m: holding: 11.1% Caledonias experience in the Paladin is an independent oil and gas producer with assets in the UK, Norwegian and Danish sectors of the North Sea, industrial and services sector Indonesia and Tunisia.
Caledonia developed an association with the management of Paladin in the early 1990s when they dates back many decades, giving successfully developed, and eventually sold, Clyde Petroleum.
us the expertise to work closely The management have set demanding targets for both production and reserves and have strategically positioned the company as with management teams.
Despite the natural partner for oil majors wanting to dispose of assets.
A targeted exploration programme supplements this strategy.
this, good opportunities in this Paladin completed another highly successful year with pre-tax sector have been difficult to find profit rising from 66.0m to 84.8m.
This translated into a 15% rise in earnings per share to 8.92p.
Caledonia took the opportunity and, as a result, only 15% of our to increase its shareholding to 11.1%, by participating in Paladins placing and open offer in January 2004, the proceeds of which investments are in this sector, contributed towards the US$153m purchase of a package of North Sea interests from BP and Amerada Hess.
compared with 21% for the FTSE Paladins share price has risen by 46% during our year to All-Share index.
However, we 31 March 2004 and the company recently increased its full year dividend by 5% to 1.575p per share for its financial year ended have made follow-on investments 31 December 2003. in activities where we see value Offshore Logistics Bristow valuation: 20.9m: holding: 5.8% opportunities.
Over the year, Offshore Logistics Bristow is the worlds largest provider of helicopter transportation services to the oil and gas industry.
our holdings have increased in Caledonia has been connected with this industry for many years, initially through Bristow Helicopters, which, since 1996, has been value by 12%, compared with an associated with Offshore Logistics, the NYSE listed helicopter operator.
During the year to 31 March 2004, the companys increase in the industrial and shares rose by 28%.
services companies in the FTSE In February this year, Offshore Logistics reported diluted earnings per share of US$0.86 for the three quarters to 31 December 2003, All-Share index of 22%.
compared with US$1.39 for the comparative period, after charging US$0.28 per share of reorganisation and recapitalisation costs and after US dollar weakness on non-dollar denominated revenues.
In an extremely competitive industry, with powerful and demanding customers, the company is taking further steps to maintain its pre-eminent position through new fleet introductions, customer and safety orientated initiatives and a drive for increased efficiencies.
During the year, loan stock of 6.5m was repaid and we received a further 6.4m following a capital reorganisation of Bristow.
These repayments reduced the net carrying value of our investment.
Amber Industrial valuation: 12.8m: holding: 100% Amber is a specialty chemicals business, traditionally focusing on silicone compounding, aerosol products and specialist industrial consumables.
However, Amber is currently in discussions to sell its aerosol division and this sale should be concluded by the early part of the summer.
There has also been further expansion within the silicone division, with the acquisition of Engineered Polymers Inc, and the building of a new facility in Richmond, Virginia.
Trading profits were down by 40%, however this included some significant one-off costs related to stock write-offs, the expansion of the silicones division and the potential sale of the aerosol division.
As a result, Ambers valuation has been reduced to 12.8m.
Caledonia Investments plc 19 Annual report 2004 Wallem Sterling Industries valuation: 10.7m: holding: 74.4% valuation: 10.0m: holding: 100% Wallem is a leading diversified shipping services business based Sterling Industries is the holding company for three core in Hong Kong.
Its activities encompass ship and cargo broking, businesses.
Sterling Hydraulics is a manufacturer of hydraulic ship management and ship agency services.
Caledonias valves primarily used in construction and off-road machinery.
investment in Wallem was made in 1992, following a long Process Combustion Corporation is a specialist thermal association with the Wallem management.
The valuation of this engineering company providing thermal solutions for pollution investment has risen by over 3m during the year, reflecting its control and Bloom Burners is a manufacturer of burners for the strong operating performance in buoyant markets.
iron, steel and aluminium industries.
Wallem is geographically well positioned to take advantage of Trading has been stronger at Sterling Hydraulics with the the rapid growth in Chinese trade.
The company produced good beginnings of a recovery in demand.
Process Combustion has results in its last financial year ended 30 September 2003 and also had a successful year, incorporating two small but strategic against a background of a very active shipping sector, it is acquisitions and winning further projects for the current year.
producing strong results in its current financial year.
The Bloom has had a difficult year with the steel industry starting off continued global economic recovery, coupled with Wallems in a very depressed state, but now with strong steel prices, mills long standing presence in Asia, augurs well for the company.
are working flat out, which bodes well for the current year.
The investment in a new facility in China is on course and Bloom Easybox China recently won its first local order.
valuation: 10.6m: holding: 99.2% Easybox is a self storage business currently operating in Italy Melrose Resources and Spain, which was established by Caledonia in 2000 with a valuation: 9.7m: holding: 6.7% 49.6% joint venture partner.
The management team had previously During the year, we have built up a shareholding in this oil and successfully developed Abacus Self Storage, a Caledonia gas exploration and production company.
Melrose operates subsidiary which was sold in 1998 for a substantial profit.
During principally in Bulgaria and Egypt, but also owns stakes in US the year, Caledonia bought out the joint venture partner.
Whilst individual sites are trading well, Easybox itself has yet Over the past 12 months, Melrose announced significant to reach critical mass and is seeking further sites, which is exploration successes in Egypt, which have been rapidly brought continuing to prove difficult.
During the year, it added one site in on stream.
An aggressive drilling programme is in place for 2004 Milan, taking the total number of facilities to six, and is currently to take advantage of these successes and expand the Egyptian appraising a further site in Rome.
In Bulgaria, where the company has interests in three 100% owned concessions, work has recently finished on a pipeline and onshore process plant, with first production expected in April 2004.
Further exploration will be undertaken in Bulgaria throughout the year.
In the US, Melrose is concentrating on developing its working interests, with an eye to a step change in production over the next two to three years.
For 2003, Melrose announced a small profit on turnover of 7m and earnings per share of 6.3p, compared with a loss of 13.6p in 2002.
Production during the year increased 127% to 2,600 barrels of oil equivalent per day at year end and there was a 46% increase in reserves to 42m barrels of oil equivalent.
Caledonia Investments plc 20 Annual report 2004 Investment review Property Quintain Estates & Development valuation: 38.3m: holding: 7.0% Caledonias history of property Quintain is a property investment and development company with a proven track record.
It specialises in commercial investment has gained us valuable properties with challenging financial characteristics.
The shares have performed strongly during the year, rising by 87% and knowledge of this sector.
We outperforming both the FTSE All-Share index and the FTSE property sector index.
invest in both property assets and Two of Quintains special projects are at the Greenwich Peninsula in property management teams.
and Wembley, which, combined, make one of the largest urban regeneration programmes in the UK.
At Wembley, Quintain owns Our weighting in property 55 acres surrounding, but not including, the new National Stadium and at the Greenwich Peninsula it owns 18.5 acres of land as well companies is 9%, compared with as a 49% stake in Meridian Delta, which has rights to develop the 190 acre site.
5% in the FTSE All-Share index, Edinmore which represents quoted property valuation: 12.7m: holding: 100% Edinmore is a wholly owned property trading company with a companies only and not profit sharing arrangement with the management.
Edinmore has established an excellent reputation, which brings opportunities properties held through not always available to others.
Caledonia provides loan funding and is actively involved in investment decisions.
Over the year, During the year, Edinmore bought 19m of new properties and our holdings have increased in resold 18m which, net of costs and management fees, generated a pre-tax return to Caledonia of 1.6m.
The bulk of the value by 40%, compared with an remaining trading stock is expected to be sold in the second half of the current year.
increase in the property companies in the FTSE All-Share index of 56%.
Caledonia Investments plc 21 Annual report 2004 Savills valuation: 10.0m: holding: 3.8% Savills is a property agency and advisory company.
Recognising the strength and calibre of the management team, and the potential for value creation, Caledonia built up its stake mainly in early 2003.
During our financial year, the shares performed very strongly, rising by 213%.
Savills results for its financial year to 31 December 2003 showed a strong growth in the business, with operating profits of 36.5m up 25% on the previous year.
One of Caledonias directors is a non-executive director of Savills.
Buckingham Gate valuation: 9.3m: holding: 100% Caledonia acquired 30 Buckingham Gate in 2001 for its headquarters as the scale of our activities had outgrown the former City office.
The property is a seven floor office building and is in a prime West End location.
Caledonia occupies four floors, with the remaining space let out.
As well as being our head office, this allows us to let space, and thereby provide easy access, to some of our investee companies.
During the year, external loan finance of 6.5m was put in place for this investment, to repay a loan from Caledonia, thereby reducing the valuation of our investment.
In addition, an external valuation of the building caused a further small reduction in value.
Caledonia Investments plc 22 Annual report 2004 Investment review Managed general funds British Empire Securities valuation: 76.6m: holding: 19.7% Caledonia has particular expertise British Empire Securities is a UK investment trust whose objective is to achieve capital growth through a focused portfolio in identifying, supporting and of investments, particularly in companies whose share prices stand at a discount to estimated underlying asset value.
encouraging asset management Caledonia has actively backed British Empire Securities and its management since 1991, when we took a significant stake in the teams, which we often back company.
Since that date we have had board representation.
with an investment in the British Empire Securities is the best performing investment trust over five years, in terms of share price total return, in the AITC management company as well global growth sector.
The trust trades on a very low discount to its net asset value, which at the end of March 2004 was 4.8% as in the managed fund.
Our compared with 15.2% for the global growth sector as a whole.
The net asset value of British Empire Securities rose by 50.8% weighting of 21% in managed and its total shareholder return was 61.3% for the year ended 31 March 2004.
This compared with a total shareholder return general funds is greater than the of 31.0% for the FTSE All-Share index.
2% of investment companies that The company recently announced that it had won two industry awards.
It achieved first place in Investment Weeks Investment make up the FTSE All-Share index, Trust of the Year Awards Global including US category and it also achieved first place in the Global category of the Moneywise as a substantial proportion of our investment trust awards 2004. interests in managed funds are Aberforth Partnership fund valuation: 32.9m: holding: 25.5% structured as limited partnerships This limited partnership has a remit to acquire significant shareholdings in smaller UK listed companies and to work with or offshore investment funds.
boards and managements to release latent value.
At launch in March 2001, Caledonia committed 25m to this 163m geared Over the year, our holdings have fund and the full commitment was drawn down by 31 March 2003.
The net cost of our original investment was reduced to increased in value by 53%, 19m by March 2004 as a result of realisations by the partnership and distributions to the limited partners.
compared with an increase in As at 31 March 2004, the fund had investments in twelve the managed general funds companies and, based on realised and unrealised gains, had generated an IRR of some 26% since launch, significantly companies in the FTSE All-Share outperforming the FTSE All-Share index.
Caledonia is represented on the advisory committee.
Caledonia Investments plc 23 Annual report 2004 Polar Capital funds valuation: 21.9m 28.0m including holding in manager Caledonia has an investment in both Polar Capital and a number of its investment funds.
Our investment in the management company is described on page 14 and our investments in the Polar Capital funds are described below.
The majority of our Polar Capital fund investments are in hedge funds, which aim to generate a positive return substantially above the market risk free rate, irrespective of market conditions.
These funds have performed well, returning between 12% and 24% over the year.
During the year, and in anticipation of a weakening dollar, we have moved out of US dollar and into sterling denominated funds.
We also invested an additional 2.7m in the new European hedge fund.
We also hold a 5.9m investment in the long-only Global Technology Fund, which increased in value by 106% over the year, substantially outperforming the NASDAQ 100.
Eddington Capital fund valuation: 17.0m 17.7m including holding in manager Caledonia has an investment in both Eddington Capital and in its Triple Alpha Fund.
Our investment in the management company is described on page 15 and our 15.0m investment in the Triple Alpha Fund is described below.
The Eddington Capital Triple Alpha Fund uses a multi-strategy fund of hedge funds approach and seeks to return 20% per annum net to investors.
Fund selection is both qualitative and quantitative and aims to combine exceptional fund managers with intelligent portfolio construction.
The performance of the Triple Alpha Fund has been promising, increasing net asset value by 13.5%, net of all fees, in the first seven months.
