D R Wilson FCA Chairman Non-executive, audit committee chairman Mr Curran was appointed Chairman in May 1999 having previously been Mr Wilson was appointed to the board of Candover in March 1994.
Until Chief Executive since 1991 and, before that, Deputy Chief Executive and a December 2002, he served as Chief Executive of Slough Estates plc, one of director of Candover since July 1982.
Prior to joining Candover in May 1981, the UKs largest investment property companies, where he had previously he was a managing consultant with Coopers & Lybrand Associates and then been Group Managing Director and, before that, Finance Director.
Prior to an investment manager with what is now Cinven.
He is a non-executive joining Slough Estates in 1986, he held senior appointments at Cadbury director of Greggs plc.
Schweppes PLC and Wilkinson Match Limited.
He is a non-executive director of Westbury plc.
G E Grimstone Non-executive Deputy Chairman, remuneration committee chairman, 5.
A P Hichens MBA Senior Independent Director Non-executive, nominations committee chairman Mr Grimstone was appointed to the Candover board in July 1999, and Mr Hichens joined the board of Candover in December 1989 and became Deputy Chairman in May 2004.
Formerly an Assistant Secretary became Deputy Chairman in January 1991.
He stepped down as Deputy at HM Treasury responsible for the UKs privatisation policy, Mr Grimstone Chairman in May 2004, and remains a non-executive director.
He is latterly held a number of senior appointments in the Schroders group, Chairman of D. S. Smith plc and is a member of the Takeover Panel.
He is including Vice Chairman of worldwide investment banking activities.
also a non-executive director of JPMorgan Fleming Income & Capital He is a non-executive director of Dairy Crest Group plc, RAF Strike Investment Trust Plc and a director of WaterRower UK Limited.
He was Command, Standard Life Assurance Company and the Tote, and is previously a Managing Director and Chief Financial Officer of Consolidated Chairman of F&C Smaller Companies plc.
Mr Grimstone assumed the Gold Fields.
Mr Hichens is 68. role of Senior Independent Director in May 2004.
G D Fairservice MBA Non-executive Director Mr West was appointed to the Candover board in December 1985 and is a Mr Fairservice joined Candover in March 1984, was appointed to the board former Managing Director of Lazard Brothers and Chief Executive of Lazard in July 1986, was made Deputy Chief Executive in January 1991, then Deputy Investors.
He was previously Managing Director of Globe Investment Trust Plc.
Mr Fairservice stepped down as Deputy Chairman He is Chairman of Gartmore Fledgling Trust plc, New City High Yield Trust plc, in May 2004.
Before joining Candover, Mr Fairservice spent eight years with Jupiter Second Enhanced Income Trust plc and Rurelec plc and a non-executive ICFC now 3i followed by two years with the British Technology Group now director of Aberdeen New Dawn Investment Trust plc, British Assets Trust plc, BTG plc.
Global Natural Energy plc and various unquoted companies.
20 Candover Report and accounts 2004 45 Member of the remuneration committee Member of the audit committee Member of the nominations committee 7 8 7.
N A Lethbridge M S Gumienny ACA Non-executive Managing Director Mr Lethbridge was appointed to the Candover board in January 2003.
Mr Gumienny was appointed joint Managing Director of Candover Mr Lethbridge was previously a senior partner in London of Babcock & Brown, Investments plc in March 1998 and resigned in December 2002.
He is a a global investment bank specialising in the acquisition, management joint Managing Director of Candover Services Limited, the principal operating and arrangement of asset and project financing worldwide.
Previously company in the Candover Group, and of Candover Partners Limited, Mr Lethbridge was a director of J. Henry Schroder Wagg, where he carried the manager of various investment funds.
Prior to joining Candover in out numerous privatisation and project financing assignments.
He also January 1987, he qualified as a chartered accountant with Price Waterhouse.
worked with the Saudi International Bank and earlier spent nine years with the Transactions led by Mr Gumienny include the acquisition of Bourne Leisure World Bank in Washington DC.
He is a non-executive director of Partnerships Holdings Limited, the buyout of Swissport from Swissair Group AG, the UK plc and director of Capital Accumulation Limited.
Mr Lethbridge is 55. formation of Aspen Insurance, and the buyout of Gala Group.
He is a nonexecutive director of a number of unquoted companies in the Candover portfolio.
C Russell FSIP FCA Non-executive Mr Russell was appointed to the Candover board in May 2004.
Mr Russell C L P Chevrillon MBA is an associate of GaveKal Research and a director of Investec High Income Managing Director Trust plc, the Korean Fund Inc, Enhanced Index Funds pcc and the LIM Mr Chevrillon joined Candover as joint Managing Director of Candover Japan Fund.
He was formerly a director and Head of Overseas Businesses at Partners Limited, the manager of various investment funds, in December Gartmore Investment Management plc.
Prior to Gartmore, he was a Holding 2002.
Candover has worked closely with him on transactions for over five Board director of the Jardine Fleming Group in Asia.
Mr Russell is 56. years, jointly completing the buyouts of MC International and Picard Surgels with Chevrillon Associs.
Mr Chevrillon founded Chevrillon Associs, a leading French investment company, in 1992.
Prior to that he was General Manager Senior management of Investment Banking for France for Salomon Brothers SA, which he joined in 1986, and Finance Director of Gaumont.
Mr Chevrillon started his career C J Buffin ACA in 1976 with JP Morgan Investment Banking.
Managing Director Mr Buffin was appointed joint Managing Director of Candover Investments plc in March 1998 and resigned in December 2002.
He is a joint Managing Director of Candover Services Limited, the principal operating company in the Candover Group, and of Candover Partners Limited, the manager of various investment funds.
He joined Candover in September 1985 from Deloitte Haskins & Sells, where he spent two years in the investigations and corporate finance departments after qualifying as a chartered accountant.
Mr Buffin has been responsible for a number of transactions which have led to Stock Exchange listings or trade sales.
