Investments have been valued by the Valuation policy directors in compliance with the principles of the revised British Venture Capital Association Valuation Guidelines, which took effect on 1st August, 2003.
Where appropriate, a marketability discount, in the range of 10% to Principles of valuation of unlisted investments 30% may be applied to the investment valuation, based on the likely Investments are stated at amounts considered by the directors timing of an exit, the influence over that exit, the risk of achieving to be a reasonable assessment of their fair value, subject to the conditions precedent to that exit and general market conditions.
overriding requirements of prudence, where fair value is the amount at which an asset could be exchanged between knowledgeable, When investments have obtained an exit either by listing or trade willing parties in an arms length transaction.
sale after the valuation date but before finalisation of Candovers relevant accounts interim or final, the valuation is based on the exit All investments are valued according to one of the following bases: valuation subject to an appropriate discount to take account of the time period between valuation and exit dates.
cost less any provision required : earnings multiple: In arriving at the value of an investment, the percentage ownership is sale price: calculated after taking into account any dilution through outstanding price of recent investment: or warrants, options and performance related mechanisms.
Principles of valuation of listed investments Investments are only valued at cost for a limited period after the date Investments are valued at mid-market price or the conventions of of acquisition, otherwise investments are valued on one of the other the market on which they are quoted, subject if appropriate, to bases described above, and generally the earnings multiple basis of marketability discounts where there is a risk that the holding may valuation will be used unless this is inappropriate, as in the case of not be able to be sold immediately or where formal restrictions on certain asset-based businesses.
When valuing on an earnings multiple basis, profits before interest Valuation review procedures and tax of the current year will normally be used, depending on Valuations are initially prepared by the relevant investment executive.
whether or not more than six months of the accounting period These valuations are then subject to review by senior management remain and the predictability of future profits.
Such profits will be and external auditors, prior to approval by the directors.
adjusted to a maintainable basis, taxed at the full corporation tax rate and multiplied by an appropriate and reasonable price earnings multiple.
This is normally related to comparable quoted companies, with adjustments made for points of difference between the comparator and the company being valued, in particular for risks, earnings growth prospects and surplus assets or excess liabilities.
Where a company has incurred losses, or if comparable quoted companies are not primarily valued on an earnings basis, then the valuation may be calculated with regard to the underlying net assets and any other relevant information, such as the pricing for subsequent recent investments by a third party in a new financing round that is deemed to be at arms length.
In cases where an exit is actively being sought, then any offers from potential purchasers would be relevant in assessing the valuation of an investment and are taken into account in arriving at the valuation.
