2 Cattles plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004 Profile of the Group Consumer Division appropriate sensitivity when they schedule more suited to the customers experience financial difficulties.
The role played The consumer division comprises success of this strategy is demonstrated by LCUs is fundamental to maintaining Welcome Financial Services, Welcome by the divisions achievement of our overall credit quality and arrears Car Finance, Progressive Insurance continuing stability in its customers management.
Company, Dial4aloan, Shopacheck arrears levels and its bad debt charge.
Financial Services and The Lewis Group.
Welcome Car Finance provides direct The division serves more than 650,000 distribution motor finance.
Progressive All applications for direct repayment credit customers from 294 separately located Insurance Company manages the are initially screened centrally using our business centres and 37 Local Collection bespoke customer relationship groups insurance portfolio consisting Units LCU throughout the UK.
Applications principally of payment protection, health, which successfully pass this initial life and mechanical breakdown The divisions product range includes screening are then subject to a rigorous insurance.
Dial4aloan brokers consumer unsecured and secured personal loans pre-lending process, including the credit applications to both external and hire purchase credit facilities sold to verification of information provided by lenders and other parts of the consumer consumer credit customers.
Amounts potential customers and an assessment division.
The Lewis Group provides a full advanced to our customers are typically debt recovery service for external clients of other commitments which the applicant small unsecured loans 1,400, hire and the consumer division.
may have, in order to confirm that the loan purchase for cars 4,800, secured is both appropriate and affordable.
loans 8,100 and short term home Corporate Division A final underwriting decision is taken by collected advances 300.
Loans are The corporate division provides working a local branch manager or, in certain repayable over periods ranging from capital finance to small and medium cases, by a senior underwriter at our 23 weeks to 3 years, or longer in the sized enterprises in the business central processing units in Nottingham case of secured advances.
The presence of our branches community.
A variety of repayment methods are in our customers local communities Cattles Invoice Finance, based in available to our customers including enables our staff to maintain a closer Manchester, Leeds, Oxford, Glasgow monthly, fortnightly or weekly direct debits contact with them and to respond with and Maidstone provides invoice factoring through the banking or post office systems understanding to changes in their short and sales ledger management services.
and over the counter payments at one of term financial circumstances.
In addition, a Prior to their disposal on 14 January When customers experience a longer home collection service is provided for 2005, Cattles Commercial Finance and term adverse change in their financial small value, short term advances.
Cattles Commercial Leasing, based in position, account management is Hull, provided asset backed leasing, hire Our strategy of maintaining credit quality is transferred from the local branch to a purchase and block discounting facilities.
underpinned by our policy of responsible specialist LCU branch.
The LCU is then lending and treating customers with able to establish a revised repayment Cattles plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004 3 Serving Local Communities in the UK Geographical coverage of business centres
