Cattles plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004 33 Annual Bonus The targets which trigger annual cash bonuses are set by the Remuneration Committee.
In 2004 these targets comprised the following three internal measures of performance: i the groups actual earnings per share EPS growth: ii funds utilisation efficiency as measured against budget: and iii the achievement of each directors personal objectives.
The maximum potential bonus payment to executive directors in respect of the year ended 31 December 2004 was restricted to 75% of their basic salary, with a maximum of 50% of basic salary being payable in respect of EPS growth, 15% in respect of funds utilisation efficiency and 10% in respect of the achievement of personal objectives.
For 2005, to reect the Committees new policy of setting basic salary levels by reference to the median as opposed to between the median and upper quartile, and to make a greater proportion of the executive directors remuneration packages performance-linked, the maximum annual bonus opportunity has been increased to 100% of basic salary, with a maximum of 75% being payable in respect of EPS growth, 15% in respect of funds utilisation efficiency and 10% in respect of the achievement of personal objectives.
For the maximum bonus to be payable, the executive directors must achieve targets that are even more demanding than those that have triggered the payment of maximum bonuses in the past.
In addition, to further align the interests of the executive directors and shareholders, any bonus earned over 75% of basic salary will be deferred into shares which will not be received by the executive directors for a further three years.
These deferred shares will count for the purposes of the Matching Shares element of the new Long-Term Incentive Plan described below, but will not be subject to further performance conditions.
Bonuses do not form part of pensionable earnings.
Long-Term Incentives New Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP As part of the recent review of the structure of the executive directors remuneration, the Committee concluded that shareholder approval should be sought at the annual general meeting in May 2005 to adopt a new LTIP to replace the Restricted Share Scheme which expired in 2004.
The Committee believes that the basic structure of the Restricted Share Scheme i. e. the grant of conditional awards of free shares that are subject to EPS growth targets which also measure the companys performance against other companies is appropriate and provides a good link between management performance and reward.
As a result, the proposed new LTIP reects many of the principles of the Restricted Share Scheme.
However, it has also been designed to: l Encourage key executives to build and maintain a significant shareholding in the company: and l Bring the companys long-term incentive arrangements more into line with market and best practice.
This will be achieved by: l Introducing a Matching Shares element to the LTIP, thereby linking a substantial part of the potential rewards available under the LTIP to the investment by senior executives of part of their annual bonus in the companys shares: l Introducing a formal share ownership guideline for executive directors: l Reducing, as compared to the current Restricted Share Scheme, the percentage of awards that vest for threshold performance: and l Requiring the satisfaction of more challenging in light of the markets expectations EPS growth targets for full vesting of awards as compared to the Restricted Share Scheme.
34 Cattles plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004 Report of the Board on Directors Remuneration Further details of the new LTIP are set out in the accompanying circular.
In summary the new LTIP will have two elements, a conditional award of Performance Shares and an award of Matching Shares linked to the investment in Cattles shares of annual bonus of up to 37.5% of salary.
The normal maximum award level under the Performance Shares element will be 100% of basic salary per annum.
The maximum matching ratio under the Matching Shares element will be two Matching Shares for every invested share on a gross basis.
Awards will vest subject to the satisfaction of stretching EPS growth-based performance conditions over a xed three year period from grant, with the targets for the first awards made under the LTIP being EPS growth of the Retail Price Index RPI 20% at which point 30% of an award vests to RPI 35% at which point awards vest in full.
However, final levels of vesting can be adjusted by reference to the companys EPS growth compared to the average EPS growth of companies in the FTSE 250 Index calculated by dividing the Index by the price earnings ratio of the Index over the same three year period.
The Remuneration Committee considers that these performance conditions are appropriate as they encourage the companys senior management team to deliver sustained exceptional EPS growth, with EPS being a widely used statistic in gauging the companys performance and in valuing its shares.
The Committee considered the use of a Total Shareholder Return TSRbased performance condition, but did not believe that there was a sufficient number of directly comparable companies against which it would be appropriate to compare the companys TSR performance.
The Committee is satisfied that the sliding scale of real EPS growth targets of RPI 20%-35% is appropriate and sufciently challenging for the following reasons: l While the upper EPS growth hurdle of RPI 35% is marginally lower, in absolute terms, than the upper EPS target required for full vesting under the current Restricted Share Scheme as set out on page 35, the Committee is mindful of the need to reect the fact that, as the company matures, its expected EPS growth will also mature.
That said, it should be noted that it is the Committees policy to set the upper EPS growth target in excess of market expectations.
l Only 30% of new LTIP awards will vest for achieving the minimum threshold level of EPS growth of RPI 20%.
Pursuant to the last award made under the Restricted Share Scheme, 50% of that award vests for achieving the minimum threshold level of EPS growth.
l The EPS growth targets set for the new LTIP are signicantly more challenging, in absolute terms, than the vast majority of EPS growth targets applied by other companies.
The Remuneration Committee believes that share ownership by executive directors and senior executives strengthens the link between their personal interests and those of shareholders, and provides the opportunity for longer term motivation and retention.
The companys policy is that the executive directors are required to build up and retain a shareholding in the company, primarily from their long-term incentive arrangements, equivalent to their annual salary.
Restricted Share Scheme This scheme, established in 1994, was structured to provide longer term incentives for the attainment of improved group performance over an extended period.
The participants include the executive directors and some other key senior executives who are best placed to influence such performance.
In relation to the awards made contingently under the scheme, each participant was notionally awarded shares up to one times basic annual salary each year.
The number of long term incentive shares which a participant ultimately receives will depend upon performance over a period measured by real growth in EPS.
EPS is calculated on the same basis as stated in the groups financial statements, subject to the Committee making such adjustment as it sees t to take account of any material short term effect arising from an acquisition or any exceptional item of profit or loss in the groups financial statements in a particular year.
Any such adjustment to EPS by the Committee would be made in consultation with the external auditors.
Cattles plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004 35 The shares will not vest absolutely in the participants until after the end of three years and then only if they are still in the groups employment at that time.
The rules cover the possibility of shares vesting at an earlier date in the event of death, or employment ceasing because of injury, disability or normal retirement.
In the event of a change of control of the company, any shares already awarded as a result of the performance goals having been attained will vest in the participants.
Any balance of the notional award for future accounting periods will not vest.
The participants have no voting rights or entitlements to dividends in respect of the shares until they vest.
EPS must grow by a minimum pre-determined amount, set by the Remuneration Committee at the time of the award, over a three year performance period before participants will become entitled to any shares.
Target earnings growth is as follows: Three year Notionally awarded Earliest vesting date target earnings growth January 2002 April 2005 45% i January 2003 April 2006 45% i January 2004 April 2007 45% i i In excess of the increase in the RPI to the extent that it exceeds 5%.
The provisional award of shares is established by comparing the actual earnings growth achieved by the company against the predetermined target set for the relevant period.
The maximum award will be made where the target has been met or exceeded.
If the earnings growth achieved by the company is less than the target, then the provisional award will be reduced on a straight line basis, such that where the earnings growth is less than 50% of the target in respect of awards made in 2002, and 66.67% of the target in respect of awards made in 2003 and 2004, no provisional award is made.
When the provisional award has been calculated, the earnings growth achieved by the company is then compared with the average earnings growth achieved by the constituent companies included in the FTSE All Share Index and the Speciality and Other Financials Index.
If the earnings growth achieved by the company is less than that achieved by the constituent companies of either index, the provisional award is reduced by 1% for every 4% by which the earnings growth of the company falls below that of the constituent companies in either index.
The provisional award may be reduced by a maximum of 25% as a result of this comparison.
Equally, if the earnings growth achieved by the company exceeds that achieved by the constituent companies of either index, then the provisional award is increased by 1% for every 4% by which the earnings growth of the company exceeds that of either index, subject to the original notional award not being exceeded.
The Committee may vary or make such other adjustments to the performance conditions applying to awards which have already been granted to reect changes in accounting standards provided that the varied conditions are fair and reasonable.
The scheme operates in conjunction with an employee benefit trust as will the new LTIP, the trustee of which is Cattles Trustee Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of Cattles plc.
The directors of the trustee company are the members of the Remuneration Committee, all of whom are independent non-executive directors of the parent company, and none of whom is a beneciary under the scheme.
On the grant of notional awards under the scheme, the Trust purchased sufficient shares in the market to satisfy such awards, hence there was no issue of new shares.
On the vesting of awards under the scheme, the Trust transfers the appropriate number of shares to the participants.
The Trust will at no time hold more than 5% of the issued share capital of Cattles plc.
The scheme was funded by loans from the company to the Trust, which then acquired Cattles plc shares for the purpose of the scheme.
It is intended that the same policy will be adopted in relation to the operation of the new LTIP.
36 Cattles plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004 Report of the Board on Directors Remuneration Sharesave Scheme This scheme was approved in 2003 and enables all employees, including executive directors, with more than two years service at the date of invitation, to enter into a SAYE savings plan.
At the end of five years, participants can exercise an option to acquire shares in the company at a xed price determined at the start of the savings contract in accordance with the scheme rules.
The exercise of options under this scheme is not subject to any performance conditions, in accordance with Inland Revenue rules.
The timing of invitations under this scheme is determined by the Board acting upon the recommendation of the Committee.
As at 31 December 2004 options to subscribe for 1,609,126 ordinary shares remained exercisable under the Sharesave Scheme.
Share Incentive Plan The Share Incentive Plan was introduced in 2003.
It is open to all eligible UK employees, including executive directors, and is an Inland Revenue approved all employee share plan.
Each year an amount is set aside as determined by the Board acting upon the recommendation of the Committee.
The amounts attributable to eligible employees are determined by a formula linked to their salaries and the profit performance of the group.
The maximum award to any one employee during a year is 3,000.
Executive Share Option Schemes Grants of options to senior executives of the group have been made by the Committee under two schemes.
These are the Cattles Executive Share Option Scheme 1994, an Inland Revenue approved scheme, approved by the shareholders in 1994, which has now expired, and the Cattles Executive Share Option Scheme 1996, approved by the shareholders in 1996.
The 1996 scheme was introduced to enable grants of options to be made, where appropriate, in addition to those granted under Inland Revenue approved schemes.
The exercise of options under both schemes is dependent upon the achievement of EPS-based performance criteria.
As at 31 December 2004 options to subscribe for 307,550 and 152,350 ordinary shares remained exercisable under the Cattles Executive Share Option Scheme 1994 and the Cattles Executive Share Option Scheme 1996 respectively.
Executive directors and senior executives have not participated in the Executive Share Option Schemes since being invited to participate in the Restricted Share Scheme referred to above.
No executive director has options outstanding or unexercised under either the 1994 or the 1996 schemes.
Shareholder approval will also be sought at the annual general meeting in May 2005 for the establishment of the Cattles Executive Share Option Scheme 2005, to replace the Cattles Executive Share Option Scheme 1994, which has expired and the Cattles Executive Share Option Scheme 1996, which will expire shortly.
The maximum award level under the Cattles Executive Share Option Scheme 2005 will be 100% of salary, although it is likely that awards will be made at lower levels.
Options will be subject to EPS growth targets over a single three year period.
Further details of the Cattles Executive Share Option Scheme 2005 are set out in the accompanying circular.
The executive directors and senior managers who participate in the new LTIP will not be granted options under the Cattles Executive Share Option Scheme 2005, save where exceptional circumstances exist such as senior recruitment which result in the Committee considering it appropriate to grant both options under the Cattles Executive Share Option Scheme 2005 and the LTIP.
International Financial Reporting Standards The Committee is mindful of the effect of the transition to International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS on the EPS-based performance conditions used in the annual bonus scheme, the LTIP, the Restricted Share Scheme and the Executive Share Option Schemes.
The Committee will ask the companys auditors to review the conversion of the EPS growth targets from UK GAAP to IFRS to ensure an accurate comparison.
Cattles plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004 37 Pension and Life Assurance Arrangements S P Mahon, J J Corr and I S Cummine have individual personal pension plans into which the company has contributed 20% of basic salary.
M W G Collins is a member of the Cattles Staff Pension Fund and is subject to the statutory pension cap.
He therefore receives payments representing 20% of the difference between his basic salary and that cap for contribution to additional pension schemes.
No other payments to directors are pensionable.
Cattles Staff Pension Fund is a funded, Inland Revenue approved, final salary occupational pension scheme with a contribution rate of 5% of pensionable salary from the employee.
Its main features, which apply to all members on the same terms, are: i pension is payable at normal pension age of 65 at 1 60th of final pensionable salary for each year of pensionable service up to a maximum of 40 60ths ii death in service life assurance cover is provided at four times pensionable salary iii pension is payable in the event of early retirement due to ill health and to spouse on death of member.
The directors are provided with death in service life assurance cover of four times basic salary.
The Committee is aware of the impending changes to pensions legislation and will keep under review the companys pension provision in light of this and market practice generally.
Performance Graph of Total Shareholder Return Five Years to 31 December 2004 In the opinion of the directors, the FTSE 250 index is the most appropriate index against which the total shareholder return of Cattles plc should be measured because it is an index containing similar sized companies to Cattles plc.
The graph shows the value of 100 invested in Cattles plc on 31 December 1999 compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 250 index.
The result is that Cattles plc has outperformed the FTSE 250 index, on that basis, over the following five years: 160 140 120 100 80 60 40 20 0 31 Dec 1999 31 Dec 2000 31 Dec 2001 31 Dec 2002 31 Dec 2003 31 Dec 2004 Cattles FTSE 250 Total Shareholder Return Re-based 31 December 1999 38 Cattles plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004 Report of the Board on Directors Remuneration Service Contracts It is the companys policy that executive directors service contracts should be rolling contracts requiring a notice period of one year to be given by the company and six months to be given by each director.
Each of the executive directors entered into service contracts, including these terms, on the date of their appointment to the Board.
In order to reect changes in other terms agreed since the original service contracts were entered into and to incorporate changes in employment legislation, the executive directors entered into new service contracts on 5 March 2003.
The company has the right to terminate a directors employment by paying to the director the remuneration which he would have been entitled to receive from the company in respect of the relevant period of notice.
If a director ceases to be employed, for any reason, by the company before the end of the financial year, any bonus payment will be at the sole discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
It is the Committees policy that, when determining the amount of any compensation paid to a departing director, the Committee will take into account the directors obligation to mitigate his loss, to the extent it is possible to do so under the terms of the relevant contract.
Non-executive Directors Non-executive directors are appointed for an initial period of three years, although either the company or the director may terminate the appointment by giving six months written notice.
They are subject to re-election at an annual general meeting at least every three years in common with all directors.
They do not have service contracts and may not participate in any bonus scheme, share scheme, pension scheme, car scheme or healthcare scheme operated by the company.
The dates of their letters of appointment are: B Cottingham 30 June 1999: D A Haxby 22 June 1999: N N Broadhurst 23 March 2001: and F Dee 30 June 2004.
In 2004 the basic non-executive directors fee calculated by reference to practice adopted in the market generally and taking account of the time commitment and the responsibilities of the non-executive directors was 38,000, with D A Haxby receiving an extra 10,000 fee for his services as Senior Independent Director and chairman of the Remuneration Committee and N N Broadhurst receiving an extra 10,000 fee for his services as chairman of the Audit Committee.
Reasonable expenses that they may incur in the furtherance of their duties are repaid by the company.
Audited Information Aggregate Directors Remuneration The following table sets out the basic salary, annual bonus and benets in kind for each of the executive directors and the fees of the non-executive directors in respect of the year ended 31 December 2004 together with comparative gures for the preceding year.
Cattles plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004 39 Directors Long-Term Incentives Restricted Share Scheme Participation in this scheme is as follows: Share Amount No.
In respect of those shares notionally awarded on 1 January 2002, the performance criteria have been attained and the shares will vest in the directors in April 2005.
The performance criteria attaching to the Restricted Share Scheme are set out in the fourth to seventh paragraphs of the Restricted Share Scheme section of this report on page 35.
As at 1 January 2004 the employee benefit trust owned 1,269,056 shares.
On 5 January 2004 the employee benefit trust acquired 253,704 shares at prices ranging from 337p to 341.5p and on 6 April 2004 the employee benefit trust acquired 77,195 shares at a price of 341.5p.
On 6 April 2004 the employee benefit trust transferred 310,890 shares on the vesting of awards under the scheme.
As at 31 December 2004 the employee benefit trust owned 1,289,065 shares.
40 Cattles plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004 Report of the Board on Directors Remuneration Sharesave Scheme Ordinary shares under option granted to executive directors under the Sharesave Scheme SAYE are as follows: Exercised Market price Realised gain Date 1 January during 31 December Exercise price at exercise on exercise from which Expiry 2004 the year 2004 p date p 000 exercisable date Executive Directors S P Mahon 5,549 5,549 285.6 01.12.08 01.06.09 M W G Collins 6,510 6,510 259.2 371.5 7 J J Corr 5,549 5,549 285.6 01.12.08 01.06.09 I S Cummine 2,867 2,867 200.9 01.12.06 01.06.07 I S Cummine 3,418 3,418 285.6 01.12.08 01.06.09 Total 23,893 6,510 17,383 No options have been granted or have lapsed during the year.
The mid-market price of the companys shares at 31 December 2004 was 367p and the range during the year was 282.75p to 386.75p.
Share Incentive Plan Allocations under the Share Incentive Plan represent the market value of shares at the date of appropriation to the trustees on behalf of the directors, relating to the allocation from profits of the previous year.
2004 2003 000 000 Executive Directors S P Mahon 3 3 M W G Collins 33 J J Corr 33 I S Cummine 33 Total 12 12 Directors Pension Entitlements Company contributions during the year were as follows: 2004 2003 000 000 S P Mahon 94 84 M W G Collins 26 22 J J Corr 46 42 I S Cummine 61 55 Cattles plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004 41 Set out below are the Listing Rules and Companies Act disclosures providing details of the Cattles Staff Pension Fund benets to which executive directors are entitled at 31 December 2004.
Additional Additional accrued accrued benets Transfer value Transfer value Increase in benets earned in the at 31 at 31 transfer value earned in the year net of Accrued December December Increase in less directors year i ination i entitlement 2004 2003 transfer value contribution 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Executive Director M W G Collins 2 2 14 97 79 18 13 i Under the Listing Rules disclosure requirements, additional accrued benets earned in the year exclude ination.
Under the Companies Act disclosure requirements, ination is included.
The accrued pension entitlement shown in respect of M W G Collins is the amount that would be paid each year to the director in the form of a pension on retirement at age 65 in the event of him having left service at the end of the year.
The accrued entitlement includes, where relevant, entitlements earned as an employee, prior to becoming a director, as well as those earned for qualifying services after becoming a director.
The increase in the accrued entitlement is the difference between the accrued benefit at the year end and that at the previous year end.
Transfer values have been calculated on the basis of actuarial advice in accordance with Actuarial Guidance Note GN11.
The transfer values of the accrued entitlement in respect of qualifying services represent the value of assets that the pension scheme would need to transfer to another pension provider on transferring the schemes liability in respect of the directors pension benets that they earned in respect of qualifying services.
They do not represent sums payable to individual directors and, therefore, cannot be added meaningfully to annual remuneration.
The increase in the transfer value less directors contributions is the increase in the transfer value of the accrued benets in respect of qualifying services during the year after deducting the directors personal contributions to the scheme.
Approval This report was approved by the Board on 18 March 2005 and signed on its behalf by: David Haxby Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 18 March 2005
