18 Cattles plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004 Directors and Secretary Cattles plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004 19 4 57 6 9 8 3 1 2 1 Barrie Cottingham, FCA, ATII.
Appointed Chairman appointed to the Board 2001.
Prior to Senior independent non-executive May 1999.
Non-executive director of joining the company was finance director.
Non-executive director of Vp plc and Dew Pitchmastic PLC.
From 1991 until his Formerly a senior partner of Coopers held senior finance positions in a retirement in 1995 he was the & Lybrand.
variety of listed and private managing partner of the London companies.
Appointed to the 5 Ian S Cummine, Chief Operating 8 Frank Dee, Age 54.
Appointed Chief Officer Consumer Division.
Chairman of Joined the company in 1994 when director of Leeds & Holbeck Building National Cares and Yorkshire Cares.
Welcome Financial Services Limited Society and Speedy Hire plc and Previously a member of the UK board was acquired.
Appointed to the non-executive chairman of and chairman and senior partner of Board 1998.
Prior to the setting up of Chasemount Limited and The the northern region of Welcome, of which he was a Original Factory Shop Group Limited.
co-founder, held senior positions in Previously held senior executive roles the credit industry.
in a variety of companies in the retail 3 Mark W G Collins, FCA.
Joined the 6 Norman N Broadhurst, FCA, company in 1996 and appointed to FCT.
Appointed to the Board 9 Roland C W Todd, MA Oxon, the Board 1998.
Chairman of Chloride Group Solicitor.
Company Secretary and for Yorkshire and Humber.
Prior to plc and Freightliner Limited and also Legal Counsel.
Joined the joining the company was finance a non-executive director of Old company and appointed Company director of Brooke Industrial Mutual plc, Tomkins plc and United Secretary and Legal Counsel 2004.
Previously finance Prior to joining the company was a director of Railtrack Group plc.
partner in the Leeds office of the law firm DLA.
Member of the Nomination Committee Independent non-executive and member of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees
