8 Cattles plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004 Chief Executives Review continued 2004, contributing to an increase of over Dial4aloan now represent 18% of all consumer division operated from 294 8% in the consumer divisions total hire broker introduced secured loan business locations across the UK.
purchase sales for the year.
to the consumer division and this has contributed to an increase of 15% in the Feedback on the quality of our products Dial4aloan, our specialist consumer divisions total secured lending during and services is important to us and credit broker, remains focused on the the year.
this continues to be obtained by secured loan market and continues to independent consultants on a monthly be one of the principal providers of new Shopacheck continues to offer a home basis each year.
Their latest report in business to the consumer division.
collected product to customers who February 2005 shows a consistently require small value, short term advances high position with over 80% of our The FLA has reported that secured typically 300.
The number of home customers being satisfied with our lending in the UK grew by only 4.5% in collected customers reduced by 73,000 services.
2004, with a sharp decline in lending of during the year to 337,000 at 11.4% being experienced in the final 31 December 2004, as we continue to Insurance quarter, compared with growth in excess disengage from those sectors of this of 20% in each of the previous two years.
market which we regard as being Progressive Insurance, our reinsurance In common with the general UK broker uneconomic.
Home collected company, continues to perform market, Dial4aloan has experienced a receivables have accordingly been successfully and managed funds at noticeable decline in the level of new reduced in the year by 22 million to 31 December 2004 stood at business enquiries, particularly as brokers 196 million at 31 December 2004, 75.0 million.
These funds, which are and consumers become accustomed to and now represent around 11% invested in fixed interest bank deposits, the changed style of advertising required 2003: 15% of total consumer division are held, primarily, against potential by the new regulations.
future claims and cannot be applied to finance other parts of the group or repay In a year of considerable regulatory We shall continue to review the on-going group borrowings.
change, it is therefore pleasing to report suitability and cost effectiveness of our that Dial4aloan originated over branch network, particularly as short Debt Recovery 40 million of new secured and term property leases expire and, where unsecured loans for the consumer appropriate, amalgamate smaller, less Lewis, the groups debt recovery division, an increase of 41% over the profitable branches with their nearest specialist, has had another successful previous year.
At 31 December 2004, the year, increasing its profits by 19.0% to Cattles plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004 9 4.4 million.
Lewis provides a full debt an increase of 11.6% on the 7.0 million leasing advances to the SME market, recovery service for external clients which achieved last year.
The divisions net had another good year, increasing its accounts for around 85% of their customers accounts receivable at profits before tax by 9.2% to commission based debt collection 31 December 2004 amounted to 4.6 million.
On 14 January 2005, we activities, an increase from 75% in 2003.
131.7 million, an increase of 2.0% in announced the sale of this non-core Third party commission income increased the year.
business for a total cash consideration by 4% in the year to 6.5 million.
These proceeds will be Credit quality in the corporate division used to provide additional working The purchase of default debt portfolios has continued to improve, with a further capital for the group.
continues to be an important part of reduction in the bad debt ratio from Lewis operations and it has developed 1.2% to under 1% of net receivables Information Technology sophisticated pricing models and being achieved for the year.
The processes to assess the economic divisions return on average net We continue to invest significantly in value of such portfolios.
This has receivables also continued to improve Project Phoenix, the development of our enabled Lewis to remain selective in the from 5.9% last year to 6.2% in 2004. next generation of IT and customer portfolios it purchases, particularly relationship management systems.
when prices harden, as has been the Cattles Invoice Finance has again During the year, contracts were awarded case in the second half of 2004.
The performed well, improving profits to to Siebel, Fiserv and IBM to supply all amount invested in the purchase of 3.2 million from 2.8 million in 2003, major computer software, hardware and such portfolios in the year was whilst growing its client base by 10% in database management systems for 21 million, an increase of 55% on the year.
This business now operates Phoenix.
I am pleased to report that this 2003.
These portfolios, which, at from five regional centres, with a new major project remains on schedule for 31 December 2004, amounted to office being opened in Maidstone during implementation in 2006. receivables of 34.4 million, continue the year to improve the divisions service to perform ahead of our expectations.
to London and the South East.
This will Funding complement the divisions other regional centres located in Manchester, Oxford, In July 2004, the group successfully Corporate Division Leeds and Glasgow.
completed a new five year syndicated The corporate division has reported bank facility of 500 million.
This another set of strong results with profits Cattles Commercial Finance, which is replaced maturing facilities of before tax of 7.8 million, representing primarily involved in hire purchase and 353 million and provides the group with 10 Cattles plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004 Chief Executives Review continued improved headroom to support our Net group borrowings increased during Changes to the figures reported under continuing development and growth.
the year by 225 million to 1.21 billion UK GAAP are due mainly to the timing of The current average maturity profile of at 31 December 2004.
In the same income recognition and loan loss the groups funding lines stands at a period, shareholders funds increased provisioning required under IFRS.
In the prudent five years.
by 51 million to 437 million and net profit and loss account, a much greater receivables increased by 292 million element of income derived from fees We were delighted with the strong to 1.87 billion.
At 31 December 2004, and commissions, including insurance support we received from our existing the groups gearing ratio stood at a products sold alongside consumer banking partners and the establishment conservative level of 3.1 times loans, is carried forward under IFRS for of lending relationships with a number of shareholders funds, excluding release over the life of the loan.
additional banks for the first time.
This capitalised goodwill, a modest support, together with the continuing increase on 2.9 times at the previous IFRS also stipulates prescriptive rules for positive development of Cattles year end.
determining impairment of loans and corporate profile, resulted in improved requires loan loss provisions to be rates.
calculated based on expected future International Financial Reporting cash flows, discounted at our Standards The groups long standing treasury contractual interest rates over the strategy of limiting its exposure to As referred to in the Chairmans estimated period of collection.
This volatility in interest rate movements, Statement, the requirement to adopt substantially increases the provision through appropriate financial hedging IFRS took effect from 1 January 2005. required under IFRS, compared with our instruments, remains in place.
At A dedicated project team continues to current basis of provisioning under UK 31 December 2004, around 90% of the work closely with our external auditors GAAP, which has served the group well groups total borrowings were protected and other advisers to implement the over many years.
against future interest rate volatility, for an accounting policies, systems and other average period of approximately five and reporting changes that will be required A more detailed explanation of the a half years.
This strategy, together with to ensure the group complies with IFRS.
groups key accounting policies affected the improvements achieved in our This has involved the investment of by IFRS is set out in the Report of the funding profile during the last year, has significant resources and we are Directors on pages 22 and 23. provided the group with a stable funding working closely with our auditors to platform and greater certainty and finalise the review of the reported Finalised numbers will be reported control over future funding costs.
during the second quarter of 2005 but at Cattles plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004 11 this stage we estimate that under IFRS Through careful management of credit profit before tax for the year ended quality and by lending responsibly, we 31 December 2004 would have been aim to continue to deliver on our approximately 100 million and that net strategy of controlled growth and stable assets at 31 December 2004 would returns in the UK consumer credit have been approximately 320 million.
I am pleased to report that the groups current trading is in line with our Whilst the adoption of IFRS has a expectations and I believe there significant impact on historic reported continue to be significant opportunities figures it is important to recognise that for further success in our chosen these changes do not impact on the markets.
The Board expects that the change to IFRS will not affect materially the groups return on net assets, future dividends or growth prospects.
Sen Mahon Chief Executive Prospects 18 March 2005 I am delighted with the progress made by the group this year and the successful completion of the second year of our five year plan.
These excellent results reflect the tremendous efforts and total commitment displayed by our management and staff.
I should very much like to offer my personal thanks to all our employees for their invaluable contribution.
