Cattles plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004 25 Report of the Board on Corporate Governance For the year ended 31 December 2004 The Board of Cattles plc aims to maintain the highest standards of corporate governance in the belief that such standards are essential to the process of delivering long term growth in profits and dividends.
Throughout the year ended 31 December 2004, the company complied with the provisions of the revised Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Council in July 2003, except for Code provisions A.
2.1 and C. 3.1 in relation to the constitution of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees and Code provision A.
3.2 in relation to the number of independent non-executive directors.
An explanation for these departures is given under the section of this Report headed Directors and Directors Independence.
Board of Directors The company is managed through the Board of directors.
The Boards main roles are to provide entrepreneurial leadership of the company within a framework of prudent and effective controls which enables risk to be assessed and managed, to set the companys strategic aims and to ensure that the necessary financial and human resources are in place for the company to meet its objectives and so increase shareholder value.
Normally, there are seven regular Board meetings a year, with other meetings being held as required.
All directors attended each of the seven regular meetings held during 2004 except for F Dee who attended all four regular meetings following his appointment on 30 June 2004.
There are a number of matters specifically reserved for Board approval, which include approval of the groups overall business strategy, planning and annual budgets, assessment of internal controls and risk management, senior management appointments, approval of major contracts and significant acquisitions, investment and capital expenditure decisions and corporate governance practices, as well as the groups nancing and dividend policies.
At each regularly scheduled Board meeting, there is a full financial and business review and discussion, which includes the comparison of trading performance to date against the annual budget and any other financial plan which has been previously approved by the Board for that year.
Each Board member receives a comprehensive Board pack prior to each meeting, which incorporates a formal agenda, separate reports from the Chief Executive and each of the executive directors on their specic areas of responsibility, together with supporting papers for items to be discussed at the meeting.
Board papers are usually sent out one week before the meeting to give the directors sufficient time to prepare for a comprehensive review of the relevant issues at the meeting.
The Board has delegated the following responsibilities to the executive directors: the development and recommendation of strategic plans for consideration by the Board that reect the longer-term objectives and priorities established by the Board: implementation of the strategies and policies of the group as determined by the Board: monitoring of the operating and financial results against plans and budgets: monitoring the quality of the investment process against objectives: prioritising the allocation of capital, technical and human resources: and developing and implementing risk management systems.
The Roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive The division of responsibilities between the Chairman of the Board, B Cottingham, and the Chief Executive, S P Mahon, is clearly dened in writing and has been approved by the Board.
The Chairman leads the Board in the determination of its strategy and in the achievement of its objectives.
The Chairman is responsible for organising the business of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness and setting its agenda.
The Chairman has no involvement in the day to day business of the group.
The Chief Executive has direct charge of the group on a day to day basis and is accountable to the Board for the financial and operational performance of the group.
Senior Independent Director The Board has appointed D A Haxby as Senior Independent Director.
D A Haxby is available to meet shareholders on request and to ensure that the Board is aware of shareholder concerns not resolved through the existing mechanisms for investor communication.
Directors and Directors Independence The Board currently comprises the Chairman, four executive directors and three independent non-executive directors.
The names of the directors together with their biographical details are set out on page 19.
All the directors served throughout the period under review, except for F Dee who was appointed on 30 June 2004.
The Board includes independent non-executive directors who constructively challenge and help develop proposals on strategy, and bring strong, independent judgement, knowledge, and experience to the Boards deliberations.
The independent directors are of sufficient calibre and number that their views carry significant weight in the Boards decision making.
26 Cattles plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004 Report of the Board on Corporate Governance Combined Code provision A.
3.2 states that at least half the Board, excluding the Chairman, should comprise non-executive directors determined by the Board to be independent.
Compliance with this provision, which applied to the company for the first time in respect of the year commencing on 1 January 2004, would have required the appointment of two additional independent non-executive directors.
F Dee was appointed on 30 June 2004.
The search for a suitable additional independent non-executive director is continuing and the Board expects to make a further appointment in 2005.
4.1 requires a majority of the Nomination Committee to be independent non-executive directors and provisions B.
2.1 and C. 3.1 require the Remuneration and Audit Committees respectively to be comprised of at least three members, all of whom are independent non-executive directors.
Before the appointment of F Dee on 30 June 2004 the company had only two independent non-executive directors and could not comply with the relevant provisions and so the Chairman, B Cottingham, continued as a member of all these Committees.
On 30 June 2004 F Dee was appointed as a member of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees and B Cottingham ceased his membership of the Remuneration and Audit Committees.
Therefore since that date the company has complied with Combined Code provisions A.
Independent professional advice is provided at the companys expense, when the directors deem it necessary in order for them to carry out their responsibilities.
Details of the Chairmans professional commitments are included in the Chairmans biography.
The Chairman holds two other nonexecutive directorships but the Board is satisfied that these are not such as to interfere with the performance of his duties to the company which are based around a commitment of approximately 80 days per annum.
The Chairman resigned from his position as the non-executive chairman of SIG plc during the year ended 31 December 2004.
The Board considers all its other non-executive directors to be independent in character and judgement.
No independent nonexecutive director: l has been an employee of the group within the last five years: l has, or has had within the last three years, a material business relationship with the group: l receives remuneration other than a directors fee: l has close family ties with any of the groups advisers, directors or senior employees: l holds cross-directorships or has significant links with other directors through involvement in other companies or bodies: l represents a significant shareholder: or l has served on the Board for more than nine years.
Professional Development On appointment, the directors take part in an induction programme when they receive information about the group, the role of the Board and the matters reserved for its decision, the terms of reference and membership of the principal Board committees, together with the powers delegated to those committees, the groups corporate governance practices and procedures, and the latest financial information about the group.
This is supplemented by visits to key locations and meetings with key senior executives.
Throughout their period in ofce the directors are continually updated on the groups business, the competitive, legal and regulatory environment in which it operates and other changes affecting the group and the financial services industry by written briengs and Board presentations by senior executives.
Directors are also updated on changes to their legal and other duties and obligations as directors of a listed company.
Performance Evaluation The Board has established a formal process led by the Chairman for the annual evaluation of the performance of the Board, its principal committees and the individual directors, with particular attention being paid to those who are due for re-appointment.
The directors are made aware, on appointment, that their performance will be subject to an evaluation.
The Chairman commissioned a questionnaire from an independent adviser to provide a framework for the evaluation process and provide the Chairman with a means of making year to year comparisons.
The questionnaire included specic references to the objectives of the Board and its Committees.
Each director was asked by the independent adviser to complete the questionnaire.
The adviser then collated the results from the completed questionnaires and presented the consolidated results to the Chairman.
The evaluation results were discussed at Board level and appropriate actions agreed.
The Chairman conducts the annual appraisals of the four executive directors in relation to their duties as directors of the company and the three non-executive directors.
These appraisals are conducted in separate meetings between the Chairman and each director, at which the directors contribution to Board proceedings is reviewed and the directors views on his own performance and the operation of the Board are discussed.
The Chairman reports to the Board on any issues requiring Board consideration.
Cattles plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004 27 Led by the Senior Independent Director, the non-executive directors meet annually, without the presence of the Chairman, to conduct a performance evaluation of the Chairman.
The Senior Independent Director subsequently has a meeting with the Chairman on a similar basis as the Chairmans meeting with each director.
Individual written personal objectives in relation to their management roles are prepared at the beginning of the financial year by each executive director.
After agreement with the Chief Executive, and in the case of the Chief Executive with the Chairman, these objectives are submitted to the Remuneration Committee for consideration and approval on behalf of the Board.
The Chief Executive conducts an annual appraisal of the performance of the other executive directors which includes an assessment of their individual performance against their personal objectives set at the beginning of the accounting period and a formal interview.
The same process is conducted by the Chairman in respect of the Chief Executive.
The extent to which executive directors personal objectives have been achieved is determined during this review process, the results of which are submitted to, and taken into account by, the Remuneration Committee in nalising the executive directors bonuses for the year.
Re-election Subject to the companys Articles of Association, the Companies Acts and satisfactory performance evaluation, non-executive directors are appointed for an initial period of three years, but may be invited to serve one or two additional three year terms if the Nomination Committee believes this to be appropriate.
The re-appointment of directors who have served for more than nine years is subject to annual review and re-election by the shareholders.
The Company Secretary The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Board through the Chairman on all governance matters.
The directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
The companys Articles of Association and the schedule of matters reserved to the Board for decision provide that the appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for the full Board.
Standing Committees of the Board The Board has established three standing Committees, each with formal terms of reference, being the Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the Nomination Committee.
The terms of reference are published on the companys website and are available on application to the Company Secretary at the companys registered ofce.
Audit Committee Since F Dees appointment on 30 June 2004 the Audit Committee has comprised the three independent non-executive directors under the chairmanship of N N Broadhurst, who is a Chartered Accountant FCA and a Fellow of the Institute of Corporate Treasurers and has significant relevant and up to date financial and accounting knowledge and experience.
N N Broadhurst was the chairman and D A Haxby was a member of the Audit Committee throughout 2004, and B Cottingham was a member until 30 June 2004.
The Audit Committees terms of reference include monitoring the appropriateness of accounting policies, financial reporting and internal controls and keeping under review the scope, results and cost-effectiveness of the external and internal audits and the independence of the groups external auditors.
The Committee calls upon the external auditors, the internal auditors and risk assurance advisers and the executive directors to attend formal meetings as required.
These meetings are held at least three times each year at which the matters referred to below under the heading Accountability and Audit are considered.
The external and internal auditors are given the opportunity to raise any matters or concerns they may have in the absence of executive directors at separate meetings with the Audit Committee.
All members of the Audit Committee attended each of the three meetings held in 2004 while they were members of the Committee.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee is responsible for determining the remuneration of the executive directors and the Chairman and for recommending and monitoring the level and structure of remuneration for specified senior managers below Board level.
Since F Dees appointment on 30 June 2004 the Committee has comprised only the three independent non-executive directors, under the chairmanship of the Senior Independent Director, D A Haxby.
D A Haxby was the chairman and N N Broadhurst was a member of the Remuneration Committee throughout 2004, and B Cottingham was a member until 30 June 2004.
All members of the Remuneration Committee attended each of the five meetings of the Committee held in 2004 while they were members of the Committee, except for F Dee who attended one of the two meetings following his appointment on 30 June 2004.
The Report of the Board on Directors Remuneration set out on pages 31 to 41 contains further information on the Remuneration Committee and the groups remuneration policy for executive and non-executive directors.
28 Cattles plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004 Report of the Board on Corporate Governance Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee comprises the Chairman, the three independent non-executive directors and the Chief Executive under the chairmanship of the Chairman of the Board, B Cottingham.
F Dee was appointed as a member of the Committee on 30 June 2004.
The Nomination Committees terms of reference include preparing a description of the role and capabilities required for a new Board appointment in light of the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board and the companys requirements, identifying and nominating candidates for appointment to the Board for the approval of the Board and reviewing the succession plans for the groups Board and senior management.
The Nomination Committee has access to recruitment consultants to ensure it receives objective and independent advice.
During 2004 the Nomination Committee met three times and, with the assistance of recruitment consultants, recommended to the Board the appointments of F Dee as a non-executive director and R C W Todd as Company Secretary.
All members of the Nomination Committee attended each of the three meetings held in 2004 while they were members of the Committee.
The Committee is currently undertaking a search, assisted by an external consultancy, for a suitable candidate to be recommended to the Board for appointment as an additional independent non-executive director.
Relations with Shareholders The Board maintains a close relationship with its major shareholders.
The Chief Executive, Finance Director and Treasury & Risk Director maintain regular contact with major institutional shareholders, who are offered a personal meeting with the Chief Executive and other executive directors at least twice each year.
The Chairman and Senior Independent Director attend the presentations to analysts of the companys Interim and Final Results and all major shareholders are offered a personal meeting with the Chairman and Senior Independent Director, if they so require.
Major shareholders are also given the opportunity to meet new non-executive directors on their appointment.
Major shareholders are also offered the opportunity to provide non-attributed feedback to the Board through discussions with the groups stockbrokers, HSBC Bank plc.
As required by the revised Combined Code, the Chairman relays to the Board any issues raised with him by shareholders.
This is supplemented by a report by the Chief Executive of shareholders views following the presentations of the Interim and Final Results.
The directors also receive reports on the markets views of the company both before and after the announcement of the Interim and Final Results and copies of analysts reports.
The annual general meeting is seen as an opportunity to communicate with other shareholders and all directors are expected to attend.
All shareholders have the opportunity to put questions at the annual general meeting.
Information relating to this years annual general meeting can be found on pages 73 to 79.
In addition to regular financial reporting, significant matters relating to the trading or development of the group are disseminated to the market by way of Stock Exchange announcements.
co. uk, includes a section focusing specifically on investor relations.
All company announcements are accessible on the website once made.
In addition, the materials used in the presentations to analysts of the companys Interim and Final Results and the webcasts of these presentations are accessible on the website after the presentations have been made.
Accountability and Audit Financial Reporting The directors believe that the annual report presents a balanced and understandable assessment of the groups financial position and future prospects.
The Chairmans Statement and Chief Executives Review, which can be found on pages 4 to 11, together provide a detailed assessment of the groups affairs.
The directors responsibilities for the financial statements are described within the Report of the Directors on page 21.
The companys financial statements are reviewed by the Audit Committee prior to being submitted to the Board for approval.
Internal Control and Risk Management The Board of directors has overall responsibility for the groups internal control system, which embraces all risks faced by the group, including business, operational and compliance risks.
The directors recognise, however, that there are inherent limitations in any system of internal control and as such the controls can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The group has continued to comply with the guidance provided by the Turnbull Committee in a document entitled Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code Turnbull guidance, through an on-going process to identify and evaluate key areas of risk, both financial and non-financial, the groups perceived tolerance or commercial appetite towards such risks and the policies and procedures which should be adopted in order to manage the likely exposure.
This process, which has been in place throughout the year and up to the date of approval of this annual report, is regularly reviewed by the Board and accords with the Turnbull guidance.
Cattles plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004 29 The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing the operation and effectiveness of the internal control system on at least a six monthly basis.
Such reviews have been conducted during the financial year.
The principal features of the groups internal control system can be summarised as follows: l A clearly dened organisational structure with lines of responsibility and delegation of authority to divisional executive management supported by established policies and procedures.
l Primary responsibility of the Board to ensure that the major business risks facing the group are identied and that appropriate policies are developed for the management of those risks.
The Board, however, recognises that the internal control system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
Risks are identied and evaluated by reference to impact and likelihood through a series of structured, high level interviews and facilitated risk management workshops.
l The engagement of a leading rm of professional advisers for the provision of a complete range of internal audit and risk assurance services, with a direct reporting link to the Audit Committee and the Risk Management Group.
The work of the groups external risk assurance provider focuses on the groups most significant areas of risk and, by a formal process of six monthly risk monitoring and reporting, allows the Audit Committee and the Risk Management Group to assess whether key control objectives are achieved.
l A Risk Management Group, comprising the executive directors, the groups external risk assurance providers and other key members of senior management, reviews key group risks together with the effectiveness of the groups controls to manage and reduce the impact of these risks.
The Risk Management Group meets twice yearly, reporting to the Audit Committee.
l Delegation of the responsibility for on-going maintenance of the system of internal control procedures to the executive management, specifically designated Risk Champions for all business areas and appropriate working parties.
The system ensures that successive assurances are provided to ascending levels of management and changes in the risk proles for all business areas are monitored and reported on a monthly basis.
The group is continuing to develop its risk management framework further to ensure that risk monitoring and reporting is embedded at all levels of management and throughout all areas of the groups operations.
l Arrangements by which staff of the company may in confidence raise concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters, together with arrangements for the proportionate and independent investigation of such matters and for appropriate follow-up action and reporting to the Board.
l Operation of a comprehensive planning and financial reporting system, which covers income, expenditure, cash ows and balance sheets.
Annual budgets and medium term plans are approved by the Board and monitored against actual performance on a monthly basis to identify any significant deviation from approved plans.
The annual budget is reviewed and reforecast on a regular basis.
l Adoption of a schedule of matters specifically reserved for the approval of the Board ensuring that it maintains full and effective control over appropriate financial, strategic, organisational and compliance issues.
As described on page 25, the Board has identied a number of key areas, which are subject to regular reporting to the Board.
l The Board also reviews the role of insurance in managing risks across the group.
Independence of Auditors Both the Audit Committee and the external auditors, , have in place safeguards to avoid the auditors objectivity and independence being compromised.
The groups policy with regard to services provided by its external auditors is as follows: Statutory audit services: The external auditors, who are appointed annually by the shareholders, undertake this work.
The external auditors also provide regulatory services and formalities relating to shareholder and other circulars.
The Audit Committee reviews the auditors performance on an on-going basis.
Further assurance services: Further assurance services include work relating to the groups transition to International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, due diligence and other non-regulatory reporting.
The groups normal policy is to appoint the external auditors to undertake this work because of their knowledge and experience of the business.
However, the Board reviews their independence and expertise on every assignment.
In particular, the group appointed the external auditors to advise on the transition to IFRS because, subject to their being re-appointed at the annual general meeting on 5 May 2005, they will be auditing the 2005 accounts which will be the first set of financial statements to be drawn up under IFRS.
However, the group has also appointed other accounting advisers to advise on specic aspects of the transition to IFRS.
30 Cattles plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004 Report of the Board on Corporate Governance Tax compliance and tax advisory: Tax compliance involves dealing with the groups corporation tax returns and this work is carried out by .
Tax advisory services include tax planning and structuring advice for direct and indirect taxes.
The groups policy is for each individual assignment to be assessed separately and awarded depending on which professional services rm is considered best suited to perform the relevant work.
Other non-audit services: The external auditors are not permitted to provide internal audit, risk management, litigation support, remuneration advice and information technology services.
The provision of other non-audit services is awarded on a case-by-case basis, depending on which professional services rm is considered best suited to perform the work.
These safeguards, which are monitored by the Audit Committee, are regularly reviewed and updated to ensure they remain appropriate.
The appointment of the external auditors to provide non-audit services requires Board approval for any assignments with fees above a set financial limit.
The external auditors report to the Audit Committee each year on the actions they have taken to comply with professional and regulatory requirements and best practice designed to ensure their independence, including the rotation of key members of the external audit team.
 have formally confirmed their independence to the Board, in respect of the period covered by these financial statements.
The disclosure of the non-audit fees paid to the external auditors during the year is included in note 2 to the financial statements, on page 50.
Going Concern Under company law, the directors are required to consider whether it is appropriate to prepare financial statements on the basis that the company and the group are going concerns.
As part of its normal business practices, the group prepares annual budgets and longer term financial and business plans.
In reviewing this information, the directors are satisfied that the company and the group have adequate resources to continue in business for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, the directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the groups financial statements.
By order of the Board Roland Todd Company Secretary 18 March 2005
