Directors Simon fide Zoete, Chairman age 63 is a non-executive director of Mallett PLC and was Deputy Chairman of Credit Suisse First Boston Europe Limited until June Mark Nicholls Angus Russell Sir Keith Stuart Helen Weir age 42 age 55 was Head of age 48 is the Chief age 64 was is Group Finance 2001.
He is currently a senior adviser to Credit Corporate Finance at Financial Officer of Chairman of Director of Lloyds Suisse First Boston and an SG Warburg and Chief Shire Pharmaceuticals Associated British TSB, having previously adviser to BAE Systems Executive of Royal Group plc.
He is a Ports Holdings PLC held the role of Group Bank of Scotland chartered accountant, from 1983 to 2002.
Finance Director with 2000 Pension Plan.
He is an investment banker Private Equity Group.
having qualified with He is a non-executive Kingfisher.
Prior to this specialising in the equity He is Deputy Coopers & Lybrand director of RMC she was Finance market and was Vice Chairman of Venture and is a Fellow of the Group plc and a Director of B&Q and Production Plc and a Association of member of The Gas between 1990 to Chairman of Barclays fide Zoete Wedd prior to its sale non-executive Director Corporate Treasurers.
& Electricity Markets 1995 held a senior to Credit Suisse First Boston of Bovis Homes He joined the board Authority.
He has position at McKinsey in 1998.
He joined the board Group PLC, the in 2003. previously served as and Company.
She is Portman Building non-executive a Fellow of the in 2000.
Society and Alexander Chairman of Chartered Institute of Forbes Ltd.
He is also SEEBOARD plc from Management Protector of the 1992 to 1996 and a Accountants.
She National Lottery Fair non-executive joined the board in Share Fund.
He joined Director of BAA plc 2002. the board in 1997. from 1986 to 1992.
He joined the board All directors are independent of the Investment Manager and are in 1999. members of the Nominations Committee, which is chaired by Simon fide Zoete.
The Audit Committee consists of Sir Keith Stuart Chairman, Mark Nicholls and Helen Weir.
Management Job Curtis age 43 has been the Portfolio Manager since 1 July 1991.
He is an executive of Henderson Global Investors Limited.
Job is assisted in the management of the portfolio by Tim Dieppe, Alex Crooke and James Henderson.
Krista Burwood acts as Company Secretary on behalf of Henderson Secretarial Services Limited.
From left to right: Tim Dieppe, Alex Crooke, Job Curtis, James Henderson and Krista Burwood.
