Portfolio Managers Report Investment Background FTSE All-Share Index from 30.06.03 to 30.06.04 rebased to 100 During the first six months of the period under review, 116 the UK equity market made strong upward progress.
114 Interest rates were cut in July to 3.5% the lowest level 112 for over fty years.
As a result of the low cost of credit, 110 sectors dependent on consumers, such as retailers and 108 housebuilders, received a boost to demand.
In addition, 106 the outlook overseas seemed bright with the US economy recovering and China growing strongly.
104 102 The second six months were more of a struggle but the 100 UK equity market still managed to make some progress.
98 Interest rates moved upwards to end the period at 4.5%.
J JA S O N DJ F M A M Although UK consumer demand remained robust, Source: Thomson Financial, Datastream FTSE All-Share Price Index investors anticipated the adverse effect of rising interest payments on consumers who were already highly indebted by historic standards.
The oil price rose to unexpectedly high levels giving an unwelcome cost increase to corporate and personal consumers.
The weakness in the US dollar led to a downgrading in Base Rates: 10 Year UK Government & FTSE All-Share Yields analysts corporate earnings expectations for companies 5.5 with US dollar sales.
5.0 On a more positive note, companies reported profits and dividends up to investors expectations.
There were also a number of takeover bids, including an approach for Marks & Spencer.
4.0 Overall, there appeared to be less switching out of equities by life assurance companies than in the previous 3.5 year although there were some notable exceptions 3.0 to this.
2.5 The Trusts gearing proved to be helpful to performance JA S O N DJ F M A M J this year.
As the market rose, the gearing steadily UK Benchmark UK Base Rate FTSE All-Share Yield reduced from 12.3% at 30 June 2003 to 8.6% at Source: Thomson Financial, Datastream 30 June 2004.
The drop in the gearing was partly effected from March onward by sales of the FTSE 100 future.
8 Portfolio Managers Report continued dividend yields.
Abbey National was sold given its weak Portfolio Activity trading outlook but this proved to be a mistake because In last years annual report, the takeover activity in the it subsequently received a takeover approach from retail sectors was highlighted with bid approaches for Banco Santander of Spain.
the Trusts holdings in Debenhams and Safeway.
This corporate activity continued over the last twelve months Elsewhere within the financial sectors we bought new despite investors concerns about the effect on retailers holdings of Britannic, the life assurer, and Jardine Lloyd of rising interest rates reducing consumer spending and Thompson, the insurance broker, because of the the move by the leading supermarkets into retailing combination of dividend growth and yield found in the many non-food products.
As a result of these negative shares of both companies.
factors, many retailers were lowly valued despite their good cash flow characteristics and property ownership.
In real estate, a holding was purchased in Unibail, the A significant exposure was therefore maintained in the leading French property company.
It will benefit from the sector which was vindicated by takeover approaches recently legislated tax transparent status for property leading to sharp share price rises for several of our investment companies in France whereby rents can be holdings.
Some profits were taken in our holding in passed tax free through to dividends.
A similar status for Marks & Spencer after the conditional bid from Phillip property companies can be found in several other Greens company.
The holding in W H Smith was sold leading economies including the USA.
The UK Treasury after an approach from a private equity firm although the has announced that it is considering the introduction of takeover subsequently fell through due to the liabilities such funds in the UK and is currently engaged in of its pension fund.
DFS Furniture was sold after a consultation with industry participants.
Anticipation of takeover bid from its founder Lord Kirkham.
the tax changes and the healthy investment demand for property led to a strong performance of the Trusts UK Some of the proceeds from the above sales were property shares.
reinvested in Halfords, the leading UK motor servicing, accessories and bicycle retailer, areas that do not face In the Construction & Building Materials sector, Taylor significant competition from the supermarket groups.
A Woodrow was sold because of fears about the medium holding was also purchased in Woolworths which was term sustainability of profits from its housebuilding on a low valuation relative to its sales and seemed to operations.
have recovery potential from its store refurbishment There was a fair amount of activity in the Transport programme.
The holding in Kesa Electricals, the sector.
In Ports, a holding was purchased in the demerged mainly French electrical and furniture arm of convertible of P D Ports, the owner of Tees and Kingfisher was added to at an attractive level.
Hartlepool Port, where growth prospects arise from Given the competitive conditions in the Food Retailing both its port services and the value of its land holdings.
sector, the Trusts holding in Safeway was sold for cash P&O was also purchased on account of the strong rather than receiving Morrison shares.
A large holding growth being experienced from its overseas ports, was maintained in Tesco which benefits from its market especially in the Far East.
These two port purchases leadership in the UK and the growth of its international were partially financed by a reduction in the holding in operations.
AB Ports, which failed to win planning permission for an expansion of its port in the Southampton area.
Also The Banks sector also proved susceptible to investors within Transport, a holding in Arriva, the bus operator worries about the effect of rising interest rates.
We which has produced steady dividend growth was added to the Trusts holdings in Barclays, HBOS and purchased whilst car rental company Avis Europe, Lloyds TSB to take advantage of their attractive which cut its dividend, was sold.
9 Portfolio Managers Report continued The Oil sector benefited from a higher than expected Outlook price for oil which was a result of strong growth in global By some distance, the two most important sectors for the demand for oil, especially from China, with supply growth Trust are Banks 18.2% of the portfolio and Oils constrained and continuing problems in Iraq.
They are followed by Pharmaceuticals 6.9%, largest holding, BP, has made the substantial acquisitions Real Estate 6.5% and Telecommunications 5.5%.
over the last five years of Amoco and Atlantic Richfield Although the operating environment for the banks is in the USA and formed a significant joint venture with good, there are concerns amongst investors about rising TNK in Russia.
These corporate moves have proved farinterest rates and the over extended consumer.
Our view sighted given the subsequent rise in the oil price.
By is that the UK economy should continue with reasonably contrast, Shell, the Trusts third largest holding, had failed strong growth, low inflation and fairly full employment.
to invest sufficiently in exploration and development.
In Against this background, the valuation of banks shares addition, it was revealed that Shell had been overstating looks too low and we would expect positive capital its oil reserves.
Whilst the exact definition of what returns.
In addition, the sector continues to provide a constitutes proven and probable reserves is arguably dividend yield significantly better than the market somewhat subjective, it was a disappointment and BPs average.
HSBC, the Trusts second largest holding, offers share price justifiably performed better than Shells over significant exposure to overseas banking markets as well the year.
Notwithstanding the vast amount of negative as the UK.
media coverage, Shells share price was actually slightly up over the year and it continued with its outstanding The oil price is likely to remain at relatively high levels dividend growth record.
Our main actions in the Oil sector because the bulk of the worlds oil reserves are found in were to reduce the Shell holding a little and sell the regions with inhospitable geography, distant from the holding in BG on valuation grounds.
The holding in BP main markets and often uncertain political conditions.
It therefore takes time to increase the supply of oil in response to a higher price.
BP and Shell, which are the In the Capital Goods sectors, two opportunities were largest and third largest holdings in the portfolio taken to start holdings in companies.
In the Engineering respectively, benefit from a high oil price.
sector, Spirax-Sarco, the specialist in providing services and products for the efficient use of steam and water in In the Pharmaceuticals sector, GlaxoSmithKline, the industrial processes, was purchased on a valuation Trusts fourth largest holding, is good value based on the which was very reasonable by historic standards.
In revenues and profits from the medicines it currently sells Forestry and Paper, a holding was bought in D S Smith, with the promise of many new drugs in research and the leading UK producer of paper and pulp packaging development.
products from recycled waste paper.
Although the Real Estate sector has performed well, In the Technology sectors, the holding in Misys was sold further upward progress can be expected given projected ahead of share price weakness due to disappointing rental growth and the investment demand for well-let profits.
Currently, the Trust has no holdings in the volatile offices and shops.
In Telecommunications, the outlook for Vodafones share In the Pharmaceutical sector a holding was purchased in price seems to be reasonable with 20% dividend growth Shire on an attractive valuation given its growth potential and share buybacks balanced by some uncertainty over and its strong balance sheet.
In the Food Producers the implementation of new third generation services.
sector, a holding was bought in Tate & Lyle which has significant growth prospects for its non-calorific sweetener as well as the support of a high dividend yield.
The holding in Tate & Lyle replaced Northern Foods which was sold after several profit warnings.
