Report of the Directors The directors present their report and the audited accounts Investment Manager Investment management, custodial, accounting, of the Company for the year ended 30 June 2004. administrative and company secretarial services are Status, Principal Activities and Review provided to the Company by wholly-owned subsidiaries of The Company is an investment company as defined in Henderson Global Investors Holdings plc Henderson Section 266 of the Companies Act 1985 and operates and BNP Paribas Fund Services UK Ltd. as an investment Trust in accordance with Section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988.
It is With effect from 1 January 2001 the management fee required to seek Inland Revenue approval of its status as arrangements were amended such that a base fee is an investment trust under the above-mentioned Section calculated at the rate of 0.30% on the first 400 million 842 every year and this approval will continue to be of assets under management and 0.25% on assets under sought.
Inland Revenue approval of the Companys status management in excess of 400 million.
Such fees are as an investment trust has been received in respect of payable quarterly in arrears based on the level of assets the year ended 30 June 2003.
The directors are of the at the relevant quarter end.
In addition, a performance fee opinion that the Company has subsequently conducted is payable equivalent to 0.1% for every 1% outperformance its affairs in a manner which will enable it to continue to against the Companys benchmark, the FTSE All-Share Index, gain such approval.
The Company has no employees.
subject to a cap of 0.5% including the base management fee over the Companys accounting year.
A review of the business is given in the Chairmans Statement on page 3 and in the Portfolio Managers Underperformance in any accounting year must be made Report on pages 8 to 11. good in full before a performance fee is payable in any subsequent accounting year whilst any outperformance in Revenue and Dividend excess of the cap may be carried forward solely for the The net revenue after taxation for the year was purpose of making good subsequent underperformance 17,473,000, an increase of 6.2% from the previous year.
for a maximum of the next two accounting years.
Earnings per ordinary share amounted to 8.24p.
Three All publications of the Companys net asset value take quarterly interim dividends of 2.07p each have been paid account of any performance fee owing or potentially owing.
during the year and a fourth interim dividend of 2.12p was paid on 31 August 2004, making a total of 8.33p The management agreement may be terminated by for the year.
This is an increase of 3.2% on the amount either party subject to one years notice.
paid in respect of the year ended 30 June 2003.
The Investment Manager uses certain services which are Assets paid for, or provided, by various brokers.
In return it Total net assets at 30 June 2004 amounted to places business, which may include transactions relating 456,598,000 compared with 403,264,000 at to the Company, with these brokers.
The net asset value per ordinary share Corporate Governance increased by 13.3% from 191.21p to 216.63p.
This A formal statement on Corporate Governance is set out figure is calculated by valuing the Companys long term on pages 19 to 22. debt at its nominal value.
When the long term debt is calculated at its fair, or market, value over the year the Directors net asset value increased by 14.7% from 183.71p to The current directors of the Company are listed on page 210.75p.
All held office throughout the year.
In accordance with separate investments, as detailed on pages 12 and 13. the Articles of Association and the Combined Code, 14 Report of the Directors continued Mr Nicholls will retire by rotation and seek re-election at Substantial Stock Interests At 7 September 2004 notices have been received by the the Annual General Meeting.
As Mr Nicholls has served on the board for six years, in accordance with the Company of the following substantial interests in the issued capital of the Company having unrestricted voting rights: Combined Code published in July 2003, the Nominations Committee undertook a particularly rigorous review of his Ordinary shares contribution to the board in deciding whether to Legal & General Investment Management 3.1% recommend his re-election by shareholders.
First preference stock AXA SA 28.5% The directors interests in the share capital of the Company AVIVA plc 25.0% Royal Insurance PLC 5.0% were as follows: 30 June 30 June Preferred ordinary stock Ordinary shares of 25p 2004 2003 AVIVA plc 25.1% Windsor Life Assurance Company Limited 21.2% with beneficial interest: Richard Edwards 5.3% S M fide Zoete 135,000 135,000 Prudential plc 3.4% M P Nicholls 30,238 29,960 A C Russell 1,271 Nil The Board is aware that, as at 30 June 2004, 8.1% of Sir Keith Stuart 150,376 104,917 H A Weir 7,595 3,752 the issued share capital was held on behalf of participants in the Henderson Investment Trust Share None of the directors had interests in the preference or preferred Plan and 19.4% on behalf of participants in the ordinary stocks or the debenture stocks of the Company.
The participants in these at date of appointment, 1 July 2003. plans are given the opportunity to instruct the relevant nominee company to exercise the voting rights Since the year end, the following directors have become appertaining to their shares in respect of all general interested in further shares: Sir Keith Stuart 3,927 shares, meetings of the Company, but if the participants choose Mrs Weir 84 shares, Mr Nicholls 70 shares and Mr Russell not to do so the voting rights are not exercised.
Issued Share Capital There were no contracts during or at the end of the year During the year there were no changes to the Companys in which a director of the Company is or was materially issued share capital of 209,813,762 Ordinary 25p interested and which is or was significant in relation to the shares.
Subsequent to the year end the Company has Companys business.
No director has a contract of service repurchased 1,400,000 shares for cancellation.
shares were bought at an average discount with the debt at fair or market value of 10.8% at a cost of Auditors 2,597,000.
The shares repurchased had a nominal value Resolutions to re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP and to of 350,000 and represented 0.7% of the issued authorise the directors to determine their remuneration ordinary share capital at the year end.
At the date of this will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
report there were 208,413,762 ordinary shares in issue.
15 Report of the Directors continued Authority to Buy Back Shares Pre-emption rights under the Companies Act would apply The Company has remaining authority to buy back a to the sale of treasury shares for cash, just as they do to further 30,051,082 ordinary shares under the authority the allotment of new shares.
The board routinely seeks granted at last years Annual General Meeting, which will authority from shareholders to disapply pre-emption remain available until the conclusion of this years Annual rights over 5% of the issued ordinary share capital and it General Meeting.
is the boards intention that this 5% would relate to either new issues or to the sale of treasury shares.
The board considers that the Company should continue to have the power to make market purchases of its own Authority to Buy Back Preferred Stock ordinary shares for cancellation.
Accordingly a special In addition to the authority to make market purchases of resolution will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual ordinary shares, the board considers that the Company General Meeting to authorise the Company to should have the power to make market purchases of its repurchase up to a maximum of 14.99% of the issued 4.2% cumulative first preference stock, 4.2% nonordinary share capital equivalent to 31,241,222 shares cumulative second preference stock and 14% nonat the date of this report.
Shares would not be cumulative preferred ordinary stock together the repurchased at a price of less than 25p per share the preferred stock, in the event that appropriate nominal value or at more than 5% of the average middle opportunities to make such purchases arise.
Accordingly, market value of the shares over the preceding five a special resolution will be proposed at the forthcoming business days.
Annual General Meeting to authorise the Company to make market purchases of each such class of preferred The directors do not intend to use this authority unless to stock, up to a maximum of the entire amount of each such do so would result in an increase in the net asset value class in issue.
The maximum price that would be payable per ordinary share and would be in the best in interests for each 1 of preferred stock would not be more than of shareholders generally.
10% above the prevailing middle market value of the relevant class of preferred stock for the business day Treasury Shares preceding the date of purchase which, given the stock is With effect from 1 December 2003, following the lightly traded, the directors believe represents a suitable Companies Acquisition of Own Shares Treasury Shares basis for determining an appropriate maximum purchase Regulations 2003, it is possible for UK listed companies price for the preferred stock.
The minimum price per 1 of to retain repurchased shares in treasury.
These treasury stock would be 1. shares would be available for subsequent resale.
The directors have no present intention of exercising this The board is seeking shareholder authority to hold up to authority and would only do so if such purchases were 10% of the issued ordinary share capital in treasury on considered to be in the best interests of shareholders the condition that the treasury shares would only be sold generally.
The board would cancel any preferred stock at a premium to net asset value, the net asset value repurchased and would not hold it in treasury.
being calculated with debt valued at fair value.
The board considers the use of treasury shares could be beneficial Authority to allot shares and disapply pre-emption rights to the Companys shareholders and would expect, if No allotments of the Companys ordinary shares were shareholder approval is granted, to hold any ordinary made under the authority granted at last years Annual shares repurchased in treasury, up to the maximum General Meeting.
At the date of this report, the Company stated above.
had valid authority, available until the conclusion of this years Annual General Meeting to allot up to 10,490,688 ordinary shares.
16 Report of the Directors continued An ordinary resolution will be proposed to authorise the The Payment of Creditors It remains the Companys policy for the forthcoming directors to allot shares up to a maximum aggregate nominal amount of 2,605,172 equivalent to 10,420,688 financial year to obtain the best terms for all business and therefore there is no single policy as to the terms used.
ordinary shares of 25p and 5% of the issued ordinary share capital as at the date of this report.
A special There were no trade creditors at the end of the year.
resolution will also be proposed to give the directors Going Concern power to allot securities for cash on a non pre-emptive The directors believe that it is appropriate to continue to basis up to a maximum aggregate nominal amount of adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts 2,605,172 being 5% of the Companys issued ordinary as the assets of the Company consist mainly of securities share capital as at the date of this report.
that are readily realisable and, accordingly, the Company has adequate financial resources to continue in operational It is intended that these resolutions would cover both the existence for the foreseeable future.
issue of new shares and the sale of treasury shares.
Appropriate resolutions will be proposed at the 2004 Annual General Meeting and are set out in full on pages 41 to 43.
If renewed, these authorities will expire at the conclusion of By order of the board the Annual General Meeting in 2005.
KM Burwood FCIS For and on behalf of The directors will consider using these authorities to allot Henderson Secretarial Services Limited, Secretary shares at a premium to net asset value.
7 September 2004 ISAs PEPs The Company intends to continue as a fully qualifying investment trust company under the Personal Equity Plan and Individual Savings Account regulations.
