RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY Research and development R&D Process Gas Solutions undertakes internal development at sites around the world with the primary location being the Group Technical Center in New Jersey.
It enters alliances and partnerships with universities and customers, licenses or acquires technologies from third parties, and participates in technology-based ventures.
Funding from governments has also been used to progress key developments.
Working with its partners Sumitomo Electric Corporation and IGC Superpower, BOC is installing high temperature superconducting HTS cables to provide electricity in Albany, New York.
These transmit electricity with significantly lower losses than conventional cables and provide five-times the current carrying capacity when cooled to -196C.
Work continues with European Union funding on novel ceramic materials that have the potential substantially to improve oxygen generation and the sequestration of carbon dioxide CO. Funding from the US Department 2 of Energy to generate hydrogen at high pressure through a combination of membrane reactor and a hydride compression system is aimed at the future needs of the hydrogen economy.
Novel LPG-based fuel cell technology research is also being undertaken with St Andrews University in the UK.
While world-class hydrogen synthesis gas technology is available through Linde BOC Process Plants, the development and commercialisation of ceramic-based technologies for the production of H and syngas continues.
2 Technology developments for the pulp and paper and food industries using BOC expertise in heat and mass transfer are focused on reducing operational costs while improving environmental performance.
BOCs impingement freezer, for example, uses highly directed jets to provide rapid heat transfer.
BOC has also successfully developed a crusting tunnel that can achieve a uniform crust freeze on meat logs for slicing in high speed slicing machines.
Industrial and Special Products has introduced several new manufacturing techniques, three of which are specific to filling hydrocarbon mixtures: the continuous sequential filling of components that increases plant throughput: the costing and accurate filling of components at low concentrations: and improved data acquisition techniques to meet the requirements of ISO 6142.
An automated system has also been introduced for manufacturing scientific gas mixtures using a thermodynamics data package to determine precise target pressures during filling.
In the medical field new clinical applications are being explored for oxygen and helium mixtures and the use of gases to deliver drugs effectively.
Industrial developments include the use of cryogenic coolants to minimise distortion during welding and the use of cold gas dynamic spraying in a number of industrial processes.
Research and development for BOC Edwards is conducted around the world, with key sites located in the UK, north America and Japan.
BOC Edwards introduced the new iGX range of compact, high-speed pumps with reduced power consumption and lower cost of ownership.
These new pumps have remote monitoring and diagnostics.
Developments in split-flow turbomolecular pumps combined with dry backing pumps have opened new opportunities in the scientific instruments sector.
The combination of high-speed turbomolecular pumps and control technology to provide chamber pressure control enhances the performance of critical etch process tools for semiconductor manufacturing.
Wet scrubbers, burners and other exhaust management units have been developed to help manufacturers in key market sectors abate liquid and gaseous by-products and thus meet strict environmental regulations.
An advanced plasma-based system destroys reaction by-products for customers unable to use methane fuel.
A new range of fluorine generators was introduced that reduces the cost of cleaning process tools, without using high global-warming impact gases.
On-site fluorine generators have been installed with a number of LCD and semiconductor manufacturers.
R&D in low materials has resulted in an investment in trimethyl silane production, an important chemical precursor for microprocessor production.
The newly introduced liquid flow control product LiquiSys provides more precise delivery of chemicals for semiconductor fabs.
A non-contact weighing system using technology derived from magnetic resonance imaging speeds up vial filling and has been supplied to pharmaceutical customers.
Nitrogen trifluoride production increased in South Africa and ultra-pure chemicals were added to the electronic materials range in Asia through a partnership with AUECC, and through AUECC with Huayi in China.
The Spectra range of gas generators is being enhanced to deliver larger gas flows, meeting all demands up to the requirements of the largest flat panel factories.
30 The BOC Group plc Annual report and accounts 2004 Research, development and information technology BOC Edwards, assisted by Gist technology, has developed supply chain management for gases and chemicals and won a major contract from a leading microprocessor manufacturer.
Total materials management and total gas and chemical management capability are part of an innovative and broad service offering.
The use of enhanced metal and dielectric coatings on process tool parts has helped reduce customer cost of ownership.
Subsystem developments continue, combining many of our technologies for advanced customer processes.
In collaboration with a lithography customer, BOC Edwards has created a subsystem which conditions the ultra-pure water used in immersion lithography tools.
Development is already underway on systems for the next generation extreme ultraviolet vacuum-based lithography tools.
A supercritical CO tool has been released, 2 and is being used to develop critical cleaning processes for future generations of chip making at a key industry development facility.
Total R&D expenditure in 2004 was 41.6 million compared to 39.9 million in 2003 and 47.0 million in 2002.
Information technology Standardisation on a common SAP computing system continued with successful deployments in Korea, Malaysia, Colombia and Venezuela.
Our newly acquired businesses in Canada and Poland were fully integrated and, following a successful initial implementation in Europe, SAP was subsequently extended to BOC Edwards operations in the US.
Improved devices for electronically capturing data at the point of delivery have been deployed in the Australian and UK Industrial and Special Products businesses.
Partnernet, an e-commerce system for BOC agents, was implemented in a number of countries.
The south Pacific data centre was closed and data processing from Australia is now done in the global data centre in the UK.
In South Africa a new centre has been set up to develop applications and provide support for systems that are specific to BOC.
For other systems, development and support capabilities have been established with third party suppliers in India.
31 The BOC Group plc Annual report and accounts 2004
