REPORT BY THE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS To the members of The BOC Group plc Independent auditors report to the members of The BOC Group plc We have audited the financial statements which comprise the Group profit and loss account, the Group balance sheet, the Group cash flow statement, the total recognised gains and losses, the movement in shareholders funds, the balance sheet of The BOC Group plc, Group undertakings, accounting policies and the related notes.
We have also audited the disclosures required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 contained in the report on remuneration the auditable part.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards are set out in the statement of directors responsibilities.
The directors are also responsible for preparing the report on remuneration.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the auditable part of the report on remuneration in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and United Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the auditable part of the report on remuneration have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the report of the directors is not consistent with the financial statements, if the company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and transactions is not disclosed.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
The other information comprises only the financial highlights, chairmans statement, chief executives review, board of directors, executive management board, Group five year record, Group profile, employees, social, environmental and ethical performance, research and development and information technology, risk factors, operating review, financial review, the unaudited part of the report on remuneration, responsibility of the directors, dividends, nature of trading market, analysis of shareholdings, taxation, financial calendar, key contacts information, cross reference to Form 20-F and glossary of terms.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code issued in June 1998 specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or to form an opinion on the effectiveness of the companys or Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the auditable part of the report on remuneration.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the auditable part of the report on remuneration are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements.
Opinion In our opinion the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and the Group at 30 September 2004 and of the profit and cash flows of the Group for the year then ended: the financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and those parts of the report on remuneration required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
 LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors London, England 22 November 2004 77 The BOC Group plc Annual report and accounts 2004
