John Bevan 04 BOARD OF DIRECTORS 47, chief executive, Process Gas Solutions.
Appointed an executive director in December 2002.
He joined BOC in 1978 as a graduate in the Australian gases business and has held various positions in general management in Australia, Korea, Thailand and the UK.
He was formerly chief executive Asia.
He has a degree in commerce marketing from the University of New South Wales.
He is senior vice-president and chief financial officer of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company.
He qualified as a chartered accountant Rob Margetts CBE 01 in South Africa, working for Price Waterhouse, before joining SmithKline 58, chairman.
Beecham in 1990 and rising to become chief financial officer in 1999.
He is chairman of Legal & General He joined BG Group plc in 2001 as executive director, finance, Group plc, a non-executive director of Anglo American plc and chairman before assuming his current role at Bristol-Myers Squibb Company in of the Natural Environment Research Council.
Previously he was with September 2002.
ICI PLC for 31 years, becoming a main board director in 1992 and vice chairman in 1998.
He is a fellow of both the Royal Academy of Guy Dawson 06 Engineering and the Institution of Chemical Engineers.
He was chairman of European investment Tony Isaac 02 banking at Merrill Lynch until 2003.
Before joining Merrill Lynch in 1995 62, chief executive.
he held senior positions in Morgan Grenfell and Deutsche Bank.
Appointed an executive director in October 1994 and became chief He is a partner in Tricorn, an independent corporate advisory executive in May 2000.
He was previously finance director of Arjo Wiggins business that he co-founded in 2003, and he is also a non-executive Appleton plc, which he joined shortly before the demerger from BAT director of Boots Group PLC.
Prior to that he had been finance director of GEC Plessey Telecommunications Ltd since its formation in 1988.
He is a Ren Mdori 07 non-executive director of International Power plc and Schlumberger Ltd. 47, group finance director.
Appointed an executive director in July 2000.
He joined BOC in 1987 and Julie Baddeley 03 has held several finance appointments in the Group.
He was appointed 53, non-executive director.
finance director of BOCs gases business in the Americas in 1997.
She was an executive director of Woolwich plc Before joining BOC, he worked for Accenture and Schlumberger Ltd.
He is until October 2000, responsible for e-commerce, information technology a non-executive director of Scottish & Southern Energy plc.
He is a finance and human resources, and was previously head of change management for graduate of the Universit fide Paris-Dauphine and has a doctorate degree Maritime Region, Accenture.
She is a non-executive director of the Yorkshire in economics.
Building Society, the Government Pensions Group and director of four venture capital trusts.
She is also an Associate Fellow of Templeton College, Oxford and a Companion of the Institute of Management.
She has an MA honours degree in zoology from Oxford University.
01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 The BOC Group plc Annual report and accounts 2004 Board of directors Anne Quinn CBE 11 53, non-executive director.
She is group vice president of BPs gas, power and renewables business.
Previously she was managing director of BP Gas Marketing Ltd, managing director of Alliance Gas Ltd and an executive with Standard Oil of Ohio.
She serves on the Presidents Advisory Committee to the Sloan School, Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
Dr Raj Rajagopal 12 51, chief executive, BOC Edwards.
He joined BOC in 1981 and has held several positions in BOC Edwards including manufacturing Matthew Miau 08 systems manager, director of manufacturing and managing director, being 58, non-executive director.
He was appointed a non-executive Appointed in January 2002.
He is chairman of MiTAC-Synnex Group, one director of FSI International Inc in January 2001 and in June 2004 he joined of Taiwans leading high-tech industrial groups.
He is also a Convenor of the board of the business support organisation, Sussex Enterprise.
He was Civil Advisory Committee of National Information and Communications appointed to The Council of Science and Technology in March 2004.
Initiatives NICI and on the Board of Directors of the Institute for He is a Fellow of the Royal Academy of Engineers as well as the Institution Information Industry III, Taiwan.
He obtained a BS in electronic engineering of Mechanical Engineers, the Institution of Electrical Engineers and the and computer science from U. C. Berkeley, an MBA from Santa Clara Chartered Management Institute.
He has an MSc in manufacturing University and holds an honorary doctorate degree from the National technology and a PhD in mechanical engineering both from Manchester Chiao T ung University, T aiwan.
University and an honorary degree from Cranfield University received in May 2004.
He was awarded the Sir Eric Mensforth Manufacturing Gold Iain Napier 09 Medal in March 2003.
He is chief executive of Taylor Woodrow plc and a John Walsh 13 non-executive director of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC.
Previously, he was 49, chief executive, Industrial and Special Products.
chief executive of Bass Brewers, a director of Bass plc and a member of the Appointed an executive director in July 2001.
He was previously president, executive management committee of Interbrew SA.
Process Gas Solutions, north America.
He joined BOC in 1986 as vice president, special gases and has held various senior management Sir Christopher ODonnell 10 positions in the Group, including president, BOC Process Plants.
a BA in economics from Harvard College and an MBA from Harvard Appointed in March 2001.
He is chief executive of Smith & Nephew plc.
Previously he held senior positions with Davy Ashmore, Vickers Limited and C R Bard Inc.
He has an honours degree in mechanical engineering from Imperial College, London and an MBA from the London Business School.
He is a chartered engineer and a member of the Institution of Mechanical Engineers.
08 09 10 11 12 13 Board committees Audit committee Remuneration committee Nomination committee Pensions committee Executive management board Investment committee 09 The BOC Group plc Annual report and accounts 2004
