Directors Report Business and Status The company has not been notified of any other The company carries on business as an investment changes in directors holdings between 31 January trust for the purpose of the Income and Corporation 2004 and 9 March 2004.
Taxes Act 1988 and has been approved as such by the No contract or arrangement existed during the year Inland Revenue for the period ended 31 January 2003. in which any of the directors was materially The company has subsequently conducted its affairs so interested.
Directors have no service contracts with as to enable it to continue to seek such approval.
company is an investment company, within the terms of Section 266 of the Companies Act 1985.
Directors Liability Insurance The company maintains insurance in respect of Review of Activities directors and officers liabilities in relation to their During the year the company followed the normal acts on behalf of the company.
activities of an investment trust.
Details of these are given in the Chairmans Review and the Investment Payments Policy Managers Review.
The companys payments policy is to ensure settlement of suppliers invoices in accordance with Share Capital the stated terms.
In certain circumstances, settlement During the year the company bought back 50,000 terms are agreed prior to business taking place and it ordinary shares of 25p each representing 0.03% of is the companys policy to abide by those terms.
the issued share capital as at 31 January 2004 on the London Stock Exchange for cancellation.
The Going Concern total cost of these shares was 86,000.
The companys directors believe that the company has adequate resources to continue its operational Dividends existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, Having regard to the fact that many of the they continue to adopt the going concern basis in companys shares are held in PEP and ISA plans, it preparing the accounts.
has been decided to pay a second interim dividend prior to 5 April this year in lieu of a final dividend.
Corporate Governance A first interim dividend of 2.25p was paid on Compliance 26 September 2003.
The directors have declared that The company is committed to high standards of a second interim dividend of 5.0p 2003final corporate governance.
In July 2003 the Financial 4.60p per share be paid on 2 April 2004 to Reporting Council issued a new Combined Code shareholders on the register at the close of business which incorporated the recommendations made by on 19 March 2004, making a total of 7.25p 2003 the Higgs Review and the Smith Report.
In August 7.00p per share for the year ended 31 January 2003 the AITC also issued a Code to recognise the 2004.
The ex-dividend date is 17 March 2004. special circumstances of investment trusts.
The new The directors propose that the companys revenue surplus for the year of 31,000 2003137,000 be Ordinary Shares held at 31 January transferred to the revenue reserve.
2004 2003 Nature of interest Directors Max Ward 60,000 60,000 Beneficial In accordance with the articles of association, Ruaridh Budge 21,551 10,004 Beneficial Robert Douglas Miller and John Scott retire from Robert Douglas Miller 65,000 65,000 Beneficial the board by rotation and will be proposed for reJean Matterson 25,000 17,128 Beneficial election at the annual general meeting.
John Scott 10,700 10,700 Beneficial The names of the directors and their holdings in the companys shares are shown in Table 1 opposite.
Table 1 Directors and their holdings in the company PAGE 15 Dunedin Income Growth Investment Trust PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Directors Report Combined Code is mandatory for accounting the directors are considered to be independent.
In periods beginning on or after 1 November 2003, the case of Robert Douglas Miller, who has been a effective for the trusts year end January 2005. director since 1989, the Nomination Committee takes the view that his independence has not been The board began its review of the provisions of the compromised by his length of service.
This is new Code in March 2003 and has already enhanced consistent with the AITC Code.
its corporate governance procedures to ensure that the company should be compliant with the new Code Information on the directors appears on page 14 of for its full accounting period to 31 January 2005. this report.
Each director has the requisite business and financial experience to enable the board to The board confirms that the company has complied provide effective strategic leadership and proper throughout the accounting period to 31 January governance of the company.
The senior independent 2004 with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the director is Jean Matterson.
1998 Code appended to The Financial Services Authority Listing Rules.
The board is responsible The board keeps the resources of the Manager under for good governance and this statement describes constant review.
In addition, it conducts an annual how the company applies its corporate governance review of the terms and conditions of the Investment procedures.
Management Agreement and of all aspects of the Managers performance under this agreement.
Directors Following the most recent review, the board is The board, which met nine times during the year, satisfied that the continuing appointment of the has overall responsibility for the companys affairs.
Manager is in the best interests of the shareholders.
All directors were present at all meetings, with the exception of Robert Douglas Miller who missed an Nomination committee Audit Committee meeting and a board meeting held A Nomination Committee was formed during the on the same day.
period consisting of the whole board, chaired by the senior independent director, Jean Matterson.
Terms The board has formally adopted a schedule of of reference were agreed, which include reviewing matters reserved to it for decision and the the board, appointments, appraisal, succession requirement for board approval on these matters is planning and training.
The terms of reference are communicated directly to the senior staff of the available on request.
Such matters include strategy, company structure, risk, reviewing the Manager, borrowings, The Nomination Committee has put the necessary treasury, dividend, and corporate governance policy.
procedures in place to conduct, on an annual basis, Full and timely information is provided to the board appraisal of the chairman of the board as well as to enable the board to function effectively and to performance evaluation and review of the board as a allow directors to discharge their responsibilities.
A list of skills and expertise required by the The board also reviews the financial statements, board has been agreed by the board and will be kept performance and revenue budgets.
The Nomination Committee has also The board delegates, through an Investment reviewed the chairmans and directors other Management Agreement and through specific commitments, and the Committee is satisfied that instructions, the day to day management of the the chairman and other directors are capable of company to, Edinburgh Fund Managers plc the devoting sufficient time to the company.
The company has no executive employees.
Appointments of new directors are considered by the The board consists of five non-executive directors, Nomination Committee taking into account the including the chairman.
As is common for an need to maintain a balanced board.
The investment trust, there are no executive directors.
All Nomination Committee will consider the use of an PAGE 16 Dunedin Income Growth Investment Trust PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Directors Report external search consultant depending on evaluating and managing the companys significant circumstances at the appropriate time.
New business and operational risks, that it has been in directors appointed to the board will be given a place for the year ended 31 January 2004 and up to formal induction meeting with the Manager and will the date of approval of the annual report and be provided with all relevant information regarding accounts, that it is regularly reviewed by the board their duties as directors.
All directors are encouraged and accords with the internal control guidance for to receive training relevant to their roles as directors.
directors on the Combined Code.
A director appointed during the year is required to The board has overall responsibility for ensuring retire and seek election by shareholders at the next that there is in place a system of internal control annual general meeting.
All directors are required to and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Any system of submit themselves for re-election at least once every internal control is designed to manage rather than three years.
Directors with more than nine years eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business service will be required to submit themselves for objectives and can only provide reasonable and annual re-election.
The board supports the renot absolute assurance against material election of Messrs Douglas Miller and Scott who are misstatement or loss.
due to retire by rotation at this years AGM.
Robert Douglas Miller has a wealth of investment trust and The Manager is responsible for the design, commercial experience and John Scott has a broad implementation and maintenance of controls and business background with particular knowledge and procedures to safeguard the assets of the company and expertise in financial matters.
Their contribution to to manage its affairs properly.
The system extends to the board is greatly valued.
operational and compliance controls and risk management.
Clear lines of accountability have been There is a procedure for directors to take established between the board and the Manager.
The independent professional advice, if necessary, at the board receives regular reports covering key companys expense.
performance and risk indicators and considers control and compliance issues brought to its attention.
In Communication with shareholders carrying out its review, the board has had regard to the The directors attach great importance to activities of the Manager, the Managers internal audit communication with the companys shareholders.
and compliance function and the external auditors.
At the annual general meeting all shareholders have The external auditors are responsible for reviewing the opportunity to put questions to the board and a the accounting systems and controls surrounding the presentation from the Manager covers the investment accounting systems to the extent necessary for them performance and strategy during the financial year to form their opinion on the truth and fairness of and the outlook for the year ahead.
The board hopes the financial statements.
that as many shareholders as possible will be able to attend the meeting.
Shareholders have direct access to Audit committee the Manager at any time through the freephone An Audit Committee is established consisting of the shareholder information service.
The Manager has whole board, chaired by the chairman of the board.
regular meetings with shareholders and reports to the The independence of the chairman, the fact that the board.
The board is available to meet with company has no executive employees and the fact shareholders as appropriate.
that the management is delegated in its entirety to the Manager have led the board to conclude that it is Accountability and audit appropriate for the chairman to chair the Audit The board confirms that as at 31 January 2004 Committee, although this is in breach of the Smith there is a continuing process for identifying, Guidance on Audit Committees.
The committee PAGE 17 Dunedin Income Growth Investment Trust PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Directors Report meets at least twice a year and considers reports from Annual General Meeting Special Business the internal and external auditors, as well as from the At the annual general meeting to be held on 27 April Manager.
The Audit Committee keeps under review 2004, the following special resolutions will be the scope and effectiveness of the external audit.
The proposed: terms of reference of the Audit Committee are available on request.
The independence and i Limited disapplication of pre-emption provisions objectivity of the external auditors are also considered Resolution 7 seeks to give the directors power to allot on a regular basis.
Services provided for the non audit unissued ordinary share capital and to sell ordinary fee of 1,375 for the year included the interim review shares held in treasury see below for cash up to a and the annual trustee letters for the debenture stock.
maximum aggregate nominal amount of 9,134,816 Shareholders have the opportunity at each annual in aggregate without first being required to offer such general meeting to vote on the appointment of the shares to existing shareholders but this authority is external auditors for the forthcoming year.
limited to:- Remuneration committee i the allotment of ordinary shares and sale of There is no requirement for the above as the company treasury shares avoiding legal or practical has no executive employees.
Remuneration details are problems should there be an offer of shares or provided in the Remuneration Report on pages 20 other securities to shareholders pro rata in the and 21. future: and Proxy voting as an institutional shareholder Responsibility for actively monitoring the activities ii the allotment and sale of up to 8,002,536 of investee companies has been delegated by the ordinary shares and treasury shares for cash for board to the Manager.
The Manager is responsible any purpose representing 5% of the issued for reviewing, on a regular basis, the annual reports, ordinary share capital of the company at the circulars and other publications produced by the date of this Directors Report.
investee company, and for attending company meetings.
The Manager, in the absence of explicit This power will last until the conclusion of the instruction from the board, is empowered to exercise annual general meeting of the company to be held in discretion in the use of the companys voting rights.
2005 unless previously revoked, varied or extended The Managers policy is to vote all shares held by the by the company in general meeting.
New regulations, The Companies Acquisition of Own Auditors Shares Treasury Shares Regulations 2003 as Resolutions are to be proposed at the annual general amended Treasury Shares Regulations came into meeting for the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc force on 1 December 2003.
The Treasury Shares as auditors of the company and to authorise the Regulations give flexibility concerning what the directors to fix their remuneration.
company can do with any of its ordinary shares which it may buy back.
The company may now hold such Substantial Share Interests shares in treasury and then sell them at a later date for At 9 March 2004, the beneficial interests in the cash rather than cancelling them.
The Treasury Shares ordinary share capital had been notified to the Regulations require such sale to be on a pre-emptive, company as shown in Table 2. pro rata, basis to existing shareholders unless shareholders agree by special resolution to disapply Holder No of ordinary shares % such pre-emption rights.
Accordingly, in addition to giving the directors power to allot unissued ordinary D C Thomson & Co Ltd 6,075,000 3.79 share capital on a non pre-emptive basis, resolution 7 Legal & General Investment Management Ltd 5,012,078 3.13 will also give the directors power to sell ordinary Table 2 Substantial share interests shares held in treasury on a non pre-emptive basis, PAGE 18 Dunedin Income Growth Investment Trust PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Directors Report subject always in both cases to the limitations noted for the companys ordinary shares for the five business above.
Pursuant to this power, ordinary shares would days immediately preceding the date of purchase.
only be issued for cash and treasury shares would only be sold for cash at a price not less than the net asset This authority, if conferred, will only be exercised if value per share calculated after the deduction of prior to do so would result in an increase in net asset charges at market value.
Treasury shares are explained value per ordinary share for the remaining in more detail under the heading Market purchase of shareholders and if it is in the best interests of the companys own ordinary shares below.
ii Market purchase of the companys own This authority will last until the conclusion of the ordinary shares annual general meeting of the company to be held in Resolution 8 will be proposed to authorise the 2005 unless previously revoked, varied or renewed company to make market purchases of its own by the company in general meeting.
You may be aware that in the past shares bought back by the company pursuant to iii Amendment of Articles of Association such authority had to be cancelled.
Following Two special resolutions will be proposed making legislative developments in this area with the coming amendments to the companys articles of into force of the Treasury Shares Regulations, the association.
company may do either of the following things in respect of its own ordinary shares which it buys Consistent with the companys proposals above to back and does not immediately cancel but, instead, utilise the Treasury Shares Regulations, under holds in treasury:- resolution 9, it is proposed to introduce a new article 12.1 making it clear that the directors can deal with a sell such shares or any of them for cash or its or dispose of the companys own ordinary shares equivalent under the Treasury Shares which it has bought back and is holding in treasury.
Regulations : or In addition, resolution 10 sets out a consequential b ultimately, cancel the shares or any of them.
amendment to the articles so that where, pursuant to the listing rules, only limited sanctions are available The directors may use the Treasury Shares to the company against shareholders holding less than Regulations in either of the ways noted above and 0.25 per cent of the aggregate nominal value of the intend to take advantage of this flexibility as they issued shares of their class who are in default of a deem appropriate.
For example, treasury shares may notice under section 212 of the Companies Act 1985 be resold quickly and cost effectively.
Treasury broadly, investigations by a company into the shares also enhance the directors ability to manage beneficial ownership of its shares, it is clear that the the companys capital base.
0.25 per cent threshold is calculated exclusive of any relevant shares being held by the company in treasury.
No dividends will be paid on treasury shares and no The full terms of the proposed amendments are set voting rights attach to them.
out in resolutions 9 and 10 in the notice of annual The maximum aggregate number of ordinary shares general meeting.
which may be purchased pursuant to the authority shall be 14.99% of the issued ordinary share capital The directors recommend that shareholders vote in of the company as at the date of the passing of the favour of the above resolutions.
resolution approximately 24 million ordinary shares.
The minimum price which may be paid for an By order of the board, ordinary share shall be 25p exclusive of expenses.
Edinburgh Fund Managers plc The maximum price for an ordinary share again Secretary exclusive of expenses shall be an amount equal to Edinburgh, 9 March 2004 105% of the average of the middle market quotations PAGE 19 Dunedin Income Growth Investment Trust PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004
