Investment Managers Review The stock market has enjoyed a strong year and has clawed back some of the losses of the previous two years.
DIGITs equity portfolio has also risen strongly, broadly in line with the FTSE All-Share Index.
While that is to be compared with the three previous years when the portfolio significantly outperformed its benchmark, it is encouraging that this income orientated portfolio can also participate fully in rising markets.
David Binnie Portfolio Review On a total return basis, DIGITs equity portfolio returned 31.8% compared to 31.6% for the FTSE as well as oil and gas.
These were sectors which had All-Share Index.
This period of rising equity prices has held up relatively well in the bear market.
Fixed been a more challenging one for income funds as the income markets also weakened during the year.
market has been led by a markedly different group of companies from those that gave the best relative Portfolio Activity performance when prices were falling.
The discussion of portfolio activity that follows is largely descriptive.
Shareholders who wish to study The recovery in the market was the result of a the scale of changes made during the year and their number of factors.
There is no doubt that the swift impact on our sector allocations are referred to the conclusion to the war in Iraq was an initial catalyst, tables on pages 8 and 9. removing one of the main uncertainties.
In addition, economic news steadily improved, led particularly In the mining sector, we took a new holding in by the US where consumer spending was quite Lonmin but offset this with a reduction in our Rio resilient, business investment started to bottom out Tinto holding.
Our exposure to oils was reduced and public sector spending grew strongly.
Other during the year as a result of an early reduction in parts of the world, including the UK, also showed our BP holding and the subsequent sale of our entire improving trends and companies started to report a holding in BG.
All this together with still very low levels of interest rates though the UK has We remain optimistic about the prospects for the recently started to raise rates began to produce a construction sector, although we have trimmed our better business environment.
Investors confidence holdings in housebuilding with reductions in rose and the equity market rallied through most of Persimmon and Wilson Bowden in favour of the year.
building materials, where new holdings in Novar and BPB overshadowed a reduction in RMC.
A The rise was led by higher risk stocks such as those quiet year in the engineering sector saw us adding to with a high degree of economic cyclicality.
For Kidde and reducing Cookson, and in the chemical example, the strongest sectors included technology, sector we bought a holding in BOC.
engineering, leisure, construction and building materials.
There was also growing demand for Within the defensive sectors, we continue to favour companies with a tradition of share price volatility, tobacco despite a reduction in Imperial Tobacco and which benefited technology stocks again and shares remain unenthusiastic about the pharmaceuticals of companies with some financial risk.
The stocks despite small additions to Shire and which lagged the rally tended to be from more stable GlaxoSmithKline.
The purchase of a small holding industries such as food, pharmaceuticals and utilities, in Unilever was our only transaction in food PAGE 5 Dunedin Income Growth Investment Trust PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Investment Managers Review manufacturing, while in food retailing we added to A switch to a more generous dividend policy Wm Morrison but reduced Tesco.
In beverages, an persuaded us to build up our holding in BT, while addition to Diageo was funded by a reduction in income potential saw us making net additions in the Scottish and Newcastle.
Further purchases of National Grid Transco, Centrica and United Utilities more than We had an active year in the cyclical services sector.
offset the sale of AWG and a reduction in Scottish Growing caution about the prospects for retailers and Southern.
saw us selling out of Matalan, GUS and Debenhams, and reducing Boots, although valuation arguments Good conditions in the banking industry, an drew us into the purchase of the newly demerged improving environment for life assurers and Kesa Electrical.
In the leisure sector, we took particular opportunities in specialty finance led us to advantage of a strong share price performance from make a substantial increase in our exposure to the William Hill to sell out.
Our media exposure financial sector.
Despite the sale of Abbey National remained modest with the purchase of a new and a reduction in Northern Rock, we added to our holding in Daily Mail and General being fully offset position in banking with further purchases of Royal by the sale of Reed Elsevier.
In support services, we Bank of Scotland and HBOS.
In life assurance, we took up our Rexam rights, but sold out of Compass, added to Legal and General and Old Mutual: in Aggreko and Michael Page after well timed specialty financials, we bought a holding in ICAP additions to all three.
We continued to favour the and added to Cattles.
transport sector, increasing our holding in BAA.
The main feature of our activity in technology stocks was a switch from LogicaCMG into Sage.
The technology sector, with its low yields and its volatile and unpredictable profits, is not a natural area of investment for us and our exposure to it remained modest despite its strong stock market performance.
Outlook Table 1 Analysis of total return performance Economic activity has shown an encouraging year ended 31 January 2004 increase in recent months and this is now beginning % to feed through to better corporate results.
Following the strong recovery in the market, it is Increase in Net Asset Value 34.0 difficult to argue that shares are still cheap, but this Increase in FTSE All-Share Index 31.6 may not be too much of a constraint if the interest Outperformance 2.4 rate environment remains relatively benign.
Analysis of performance % Overall, we think the prospects for dividend growth are good, but around a quarter of UK dividends are UK listed equities 0.2 declared in US dollars and will thus be affected by Stock selection -1.9 the decline in the sterling value of the dollar.
Sector allocation 2.1 Borrowings 7.7 Our emphasis continues to be on individual stocks and we consider our portfolio well placed to Capital charges -2.9 generate good long term returns.
Cash -2.6 Edinburgh The total return from the UK equity portfolio was 31.8% while the notional total return from the FTSE All-Share Index was 31.6%.
9 March 2004 PAGE 6 Dunedin Income Growth Investment Trust PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004
