Board of directors and executives Executive directors Guy Dawson 51, Non-executive Director Executive committee Richard Baker 41, Chief Executive Appointed September 2003.
Chairman of Boots David Kneale 49, Chief Commercial Officer C Appointed September 2003.
Formerly the chief audit committee.
Guy is a founding partner of David joined Boots in 1976 and held senior B F D A E operating officer and marketing officer at Asda.
Tricorn Partners, an independent corporate finance positions in the retailing area of the business.
Prior to joining Asda, Richard worked for Mars advisory business.
He has previously held senior In 1999 he left to become managing director where he progressed through a series of roles investment banking positions at Merrill Lynch and of Waterstones book stores.
He returned to Boots including national account management, marketing Deutsche Bank, advising major companies on a in 2002 as director of trading and was appointed and then head of sales for UK multiples.
full range of corporate finance and strategic issues.
to his current role in January 2003.
He is also a non-executive director of The BOC JK L N Howard Dodd 44, Chief Financial Officer Paul Stoneham 42, Managing Director M Group plc.
G I Appointed finance director in April 2002.
Additional Paul was appointed Managing Director, Boots H responsibility for our property portfolio from Hlne Ploix 59, Non-executive Director Healthcare International in September 2001.
Howard is a chartered accountant Appointed September 2000.
Chairman of the Boots Formerly he was President of Alberto Culver and a fellow of the Association of Corporate social responsibilities committee and a member of International in the USA.
Prior to this, Paul held Treasurers.
Previously he worked for AstraZeneca the audit and remuneration committees.
Hlne a number of senior marketing and category A Howard Dodd D Dr Martin Read and ICI, where he gained significant international is Chairman of Pechel Industries, a private equity positions with Procter and Gamble in the UK, B Richard Baker E Sir Nigel Rudd experience in finance and treasury.
investment company, and is a non-executive Switzerland, Germany and Canada.
C Paul Bateman F Guy Dawson director of BNP Paribas, Ferring, Lafarge and Paul Bateman 51, Group HR and Operations Director Alex Gourlay 44, Retail Director Publicis Groupe.
Responsible for human Alex started working for Boots in 1976 as a G Tim Parker J David Kneale resources HR, corporate communications, logistics, Tim Parker 48, Non-executive Director Saturday assistant.
He is a qualified pharmacist and H Hlne Ploix K Paul Stoneham manufacturing and engineering.
Paul joined Boots Appointed January 2004.
Tim is currently chief has had numerous positions in Boots including store I Jan Bennink L Alex Gourlay in 2001 to lead supply chain and business services executive of Kwik-Fit.
He is also a non-executive manager, regional manager, head of HR for stores, M David Lister development.
He previously worked for Procter & director of Legal & General PLC.
Previously he was and director of retail implementation.
N Michael Oliver Gamble, where he gained many years experience chief executive of C. & J. Clark Ltd. the footwear David Lister 45, Chief Information Officer with global supply chains.
He also led the David has worked for Boots since 2001.
Prior to management buy-out and flotation of Kenwood Non-executive directors this he worked for Glaxo Welcome and Diageo Appliances plc.
Sir Nigel Rudd 57, Non-executive Director, chairman where he held several senior IT leadership roles.
Appointed December 1999, deputy chairman since Jan Bennink 47, Non-executive Director He also worked for Coopers & Lybrand, a December 2001, chairman from 15 September Appointed 2001.
President and chief executive of management consultancy group.
Non-executive chairman of Pilkington and Numico, a leader in infant and clinical nutrition.
Michael Oliver 55, Company Secretary Pendragon.
He is also a non-executive director of Jans previous experience includes seven years with Michael is a solicitor, and joined Boots Legal Barclays and chairman of the Boardroom Issues Danone as president of the dairy division in France, Department in 1987 from private practice.
Sir Nigel is a chartered seven years with Benckiser as president of the Appointed company secretary in 2000.
He is also accountant and was previously chairman Detergent Division in Italy and Germany and seven responsible for the companys legal and intellectual of Williams PLC for nearly 20 years.
years with Procter & Gamble in the Netherlands property matters.
Before qualifying as a solicitor, and the US.
Dr Martin Read 54, Non-executive Director Michael was an army officer, and he is currently Appointed 1999.
Chairman of the Boots a member of the Take-over Panel.
Dr Read is group chief executive of LogicaCMG plc, one of the worlds Richard Baker, Paul Bateman and Howard Dodd are all leading global IT solutions companies.
Before taking members of the executive committee.
over at Logica in 1993, he held a number of senior positions at GEC Marconi.
He was appointed a nonexecutive director of British Airways plc in 2000 and served as a non-executive director of Asda Group from 1996 to 1999.
20 Boots Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Boots Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 21
