Managers Review Market background After three years of negative returns, the FTSE All-Share Index rebounded in 2003 amid growing investor optimism about the health of the global economy supported Simon Fraser Rita Grewal Charles Payne by generally strong Chief Investment Officer of Investment Director Relationship Director economic data.
Shares Fidelity International Limited continued to advance as we moved into 2004 and media & entertainment and leisure & hotels also by the end of the twelve month review period to 31 advanced strongly recording gains of 54% and 65% March 2004, the FTSE All-Share Index had added respectively.
In contrast, defensive areas of the market 31% in value on a total return basis.
Daily changes generally saw less interest from investors during the in the UK equity market were less pronounced and the review period.
However, performance was mixed even index exhibited strong upward momentum here and sectors such as health and food retailers throughout the year.
Indeed, equities became much outperformed the FTSE All-Share Index contrasting less volatile than they had been in the previous year.
sharply with the performance of food producers and The markets rise was broad-based with all major utilities, which underperformed by a wide margin.
sectors achieving positive returns over the period.
However, there were big variations between the Over the twelve month period, some of the worst performances of different sectors reflecting investors performing sectors were among the largest in market inclination to buy more  capitalisation terms.
The oil & gas and companies, as the improvement in the recovery pharmaceuticals sectors, which together account for accelerated.
about one-fifth of the UK market, struggled to make progress as company-specific issues and concerns over Increased appetite for risk following the end of the growth prospects restricted gains in each sector to Iraq war was another aspect of the markets 15% and 9% respectively.
Indeed, other heavyweight performance in the review period.
In contrast to sectors such as banks and telecommunications also recent years, some of the largest absolute gains were underperformed the wider market, although by a seen among technology-related sectors.
Nevertheless, the pattern from a providing IT hardware saw the greatest turnaround in company-size perspective was striking.
The FTSE 100 their fortunes and the sector more than doubled in Index recorded a gain of 26% for the year but this was value posting a return of 138% for the year.
eclipsed by the buoyant FTSE Mid 250 and FTSE Elsewhere, returns from other technology sectors were Smallcap Indices, which rose by 63% and 64% also robust.
The electronic & electrical equipment and respectively.
software sectors achieved gains of 69% and 78% respectively, as investor sentiment towards these The FTSE All-Share Index finished the period at sectors switched from pessimism to optimism.
Its 31% on a total return basis rise was a However, significant gains were by no means highly respectable return against a background that restricted to the technology arena.
Investors also was far from supportive at times.
The market faced a sought exposure to other parts of the market where number of challenges during the year, including new business prospects were closely linked to brighter terrorist attacks, accounting controversies at Parmalat economic conditions.
Industrial sectors, such as and Adecco, weakness in the US dollar and the first engineering up 62%, fared particularly well, whilst increases in UK interest rates in over four years.
cyclical services companies such as those involved in Page 6 The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Managers Review Year to Portfolio review 31 March 2004 The twelve months to the end of March 2004 marked Change in NAV % 30.0 a satisfying period of performance for the Companys Change in FTSE Capital % 26.6 investment portfolio.
On a capital only basis the net Relative Change % 3.4 asset value per share rose by 30.0% exceeding the performance of the FTSE All-Share Index, which increased by 26.6% over the same period.
In Fidelitys Year to first full year as Manager, the Companys investment 31 March 2004 portfolio outperformed the benchmark and the UK Equities 1.8 Companys gearing levels, which had been a major Net Borrowings 2.3 source of underperformance in the previous year, Charges -0.7 helped to enhance these returns.
Please note past Table 1 Analysis of capital performance performance is not a guide to future returns.
All figures are calculated ex income: similarly the FTSE All-Share Index The chart opposite breaks down the various elements Companys key holding in the sector, gained steadily which have contributed to performance over the year.
through the year helped by accelerating growth in its betting shop division, Ladbrokes, and improving The portfolio was well positioned for an environment conditions for its hotels business.
The strong in which expectations of a global recovery were performance of betting-related stocks was an building.
Investors favoured stocks and sectors with important factor for the Companys returns in this greater exposure to the economic rebound during this sector with holdings in William Hill and Stanley period and the portfolios bias towards the Leisure also making robust progress.
Deregulation of  service and technology sectors the gambling industry in the UK has enabled betting made notable contributions to the Companys companies to expand into new areas and the outperformance as a result.
From a marketintroduction of fixed-odd betting terminals into capitalisation perspective, the portfolios tilt towards betting shops has been particularly lucrative.
medium-sized companies also proved helpful for Speciality & other finance companies provided returns.
another source of outperformance in the period.
In sector terms, the portfolios overweight stance in Earnings in this sector tend to be closely linked to the the media & entertainment industry worked well, as performance of global financial markets.
This is optimism about economic prospects and an especially true for asset management companies and improvement in the advertising market translated into the Companys holding in global fund manager robust gains for most of the sectors constituents.
In Amvescap made the largest contribution to the addition, the portfolios holdings in this area yielded portfolios returns in the sector.
Its earnings recovery superior returns.
The portfolio held Granada, which prospects appeared to improve, as rising equity merged with Carlton Communications to form ITV markets helped its funds under management to during the review period.
Its shares advanced strongly stabilise, while its profit margins widened during the first quarter of 2004 ahead of the mergers following significant cost cutting in its businesses.
completion, as investor enthusiasm grew about the Among technology companies, exposure to software combined groups earnings-growth potential.
Other & computer services firms yielded the highest relative media holdings which generated good returns for the returns for the Company.
Holding shares in investment portfolio included United Business Media, LogicaCMG, a software services firm, was particularly Taylor Nelson Sofres and Informa Group.
The Manager chose to sell the positions later in the review period.
The leisure & hotels sector was another area where stock-picking decisions enhanced the portfolios The Companys positioning in some less economically overall performance.
Shares in Hilton Group, the sensitive sectors undermined its overall performance.
Page 7 The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Managers Review In particular, the portfolio had more assets than Companys exposure.
However, the key change in the FTSE All-Share Index in the food producers & sector positioning during the review period was in the telecommunication services sector.
The Company was processors and tobacco sectors during much of the moved to an overweight stance versus the benchmark review period.
This proved unrewarding, as both as a result of stock-picking decisions made by the sectors aroused little investor interest in an portfolio managers.
Elsewhere, the size of the environment which was focused on the prospects for Companys weighting in food producing companies, accelerating global economic growth.
Elsewhere, which had been the Companys largest relative sector overweight positions in the UKs largest oil groups, BP position one year ago, was scaled back to a broadly and Shell T&T, also detracted.
However, the neutral position versus the FTSE All-Share Index.
At Companys holding in Shell T&T represented the most the end of the period, the portfolio held fewer assets notable source of underperformance in the oil sector than the benchmark in the investment companies, after it disappointed investors by unexpectedly beverages and health sectors.
announcing a 20% reduction in its proven oil reserves.
The Companys overweight position in the Purchases pharmaceuticals sector also generated disappointing The portfolio managers took the opportunity to relative returns.
This was mainly because shares in increase their active risk in the portfolio during a GlaxoSmithKline, a key portfolio holding in the bullish period for UK equities.
The main aggregate sector, ended the period virtually unchanged.
purchases by the portfolio management team included transport company FirstGroup, property company Portfolio activity Land Securities, support services company Rentokil The portfolio is managed using a multi-manager Initial and Reuters, the news and information group.
approach with the Companys assets split across four The portfolio managers also participated in the initial individual Fidelity portfolio managers whose activities public offering of Yell Group, the international are co-ordinated by the Investment Director, Rita directory services company.
By adopting this structure, the risk profile of were increased significantly during the period the Company is reduced, as any potential weakness on included Vodafone and The Royal Bank of Scotland.
the part of one portfolio manager is offset by the performance of the others.
The Fidelity portfolio Sales managers involved with this fund have been selected Key holdings sold during the twelve month period because their investment styles tend to be included mortgage and savings bank HBOS, computer complementary.
As a stock-picking investment services company LogicaCMG, telecommunications management house, each Fidelity portfolio manager company Cable & Wireless and Safeway, the builds his her portfolio using a bottom-up approach, supermarket group which was finally acquired by WM where attractive companies are identified first and the Morrison during the first quarter of 2004.
In addition, portfolio is constructed to reflect these choices.
As a the portfolio managers decreased holdings in Alliance result, the sector positioning of the Company is a by- & Leicester, food group Unilever and Kingfisher, a product of the stock-picking process.
2004, the Companys key overweight sector positions were in the areas of media & entertainment, tobacco Future portfolio strategy and leisure & hotels.
In media & entertainment, the The equity portfolio will continue to reflect the portfolio managers identified a number of companies strongest investment ideas of Fidelitys fund where earnings recovery prospects appeared management team.
This team is supported by one of attractive.
Among tobacco stocks, the portfolio the largest research departments of any global managers continued to believe that the robust investment company.
The investment process is based earnings and cash generating characteristics of these on fundamental company research where frequent companies were being undervalued by other meetings with company management teams play a key investors.
In the leisure & hotels sector, holdings in role in determining and reviewing the investment case betting and pub companies constituted the bulk of the Page 8 The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Managers Review for each stock.
The portfolio managers do not focus on At 31 March 2004 Portfolio Index macroeconomic forecasts and the portfolio is not %% constructed with any specific expectations for equity FTSE 100 78.8% 82.7% market and economic performance in mind.
Rather, FTSE 250 19.0% 13.7% the portfolio managers develop their economic and FTSE Small Cap 1.4% 3.6% industry perspectives through the process of company Other 0.8% 0.0% meetings.
As such, the holdings in the portfolio 100.0% 100.0% represent stocks where the portfolio managers believe a Companys future potential is being undervalued by other investors.
Table 2 Size analysis of the UK equity portfolio Index is the FTSE All-Share Index to moderate growth in consumer indebtedness.
In terms of market capitalisation, the equity portfolio The conclusion was that a 0.25 percentage point rise has greater exposure to medium-sized companies than was more appropriate given its overall objective, the FTSE All-Share Index and holds proportionally making it likely that a policy of small, well-flagged fewer of its assets in larger companies.
This reflects increases will continue.
our belief that greater value can be added by stock selection amongst companies that are less intensively researched by other investors, rather than amongst Fidelity Investments International larger companies where our estimates are less likely to 25 May 2004 be materially different from the consensus.
The portfolio will continue to reflect the bottom-up investment decisions of the portfolio managers responsible for each sub-portfolio in the Company.
Working with Fidelitys large in-house team of research analysts, they continue to look for stocks where the share price does not fully reflect the future potential of the company.
Outlook In March's Budget, the Chancellor reiterated the Treasury's forecast for UK economic growth of between 3% and 3.5% for 2004.
The estimate for government borrowing for the fiscal year 2003-4 rose marginally to 37.5bn, with falls to 33bn and 31bn predicted in the following years.
The Bank of England's latest Inflation Report anticipates a gradual rise in the Consumer Price Index, starting from the middle of this year and possibly exceeding the target level of 2% by May 2006.
The key areas of concern for monetary authorities continue to be the strength of consumer demand and house price inflation.
Nevertheless, at its April monthly meeting, the Monetary Policy Committee specifically noted the potential damage to consumer confidence that sudden, large changes in interest rates might have.
This was followed in May by a debate on whether a 0.5 percentage point rise in interest rates might help Page 9 The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004
