Directors report for the year ended 31 December 2004 The directors have pleasure in presenting their report and audited financial statements for Egg plc and its related entities the Group and for Egg plc the Company for the year ended 31 December 2004.
Results for the year The Group made a loss after tax and minority interests of 91 million for the year ended 31 December 2004 2003: 33 million loss.
A full explanation of the results is presented in the business and financial review sections.
Financial statements and dividends The consolidated balance sheet on page 60 shows the state of affairs of the Group at 31 December 2004.
The Companys balance sheet appears on page 61 and the consolidated profit and loss account on page 58.
There is a five-year review of the Group on page 95.
The directors do not recommend payment of a dividend.
Principal activity and business review Egg plc is the holding company of the Group and the principal activities of its subsidiaries are retail banking in the UK and France.
During the year, the Company announced the closure of its business in France.
A review of the business is shown in the Business and Financial Reviews on pages 14 to 33.
Share capital During the year, the ordinary share capital was increased by the issue of 3,883,805 ordinary shares allotted as a result of the exercise of options under the Companys share schemes.
Substantial shareholdings As at 22 February 2005 the Company has been notied of the following interests of 3% or more in its issued share capital.
Percentage of Number of issued ordinary Shareholder ordinary shares share capital Prudential plc and certain subsidiaries 651,118,327 78.97% Directors responsibilities The directors have a duty to report to shareholders on the performance and financial position of the Company and the Group and are responsible for preparing the financial statements of the Group on pages 58 to 94.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group and of the results for the period and which comply with the Companies Act 1985.
In preparing those statements the directors ensure that suitable accounting policies are selected and applied consistently, that reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates are made and that applicable accounting standards are followed.
They also ensure that appropriate accounting records are maintained which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and that they take such steps as are reasonably open to safeguard the assets of the Company and the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Directors The present directors of the Company are listed on pages 38 to 39.
There have been no changes during the year.
Details of the interests in the share capital of the Company of the directors in ofce as at 31 December 2004 are set out in the remuneration section of this report on pages 45 to 54.
Employees The Group has a policy framework and procedures that ensures compliance with employment legislation in addition to reecting the culture and values of Egg.
Eggs policy is to recruit, develop and employ staff on the basis of the suitability of their qualications and experience for the work to be performed, regardless of sex, marital status, creed, race, nationality or disability.
Full consideration is given to continuing the employment of staff who become disabled and to provide training and career development opportunities to disabled employees.
The requirements of the Disability Discrimination Act 1996 have been put into effect.
The Group has effective communication channels whereby information on the Groups affairs is passed to employees and through which employees views are sought on issues that concern them.
The Groups intranet enables easy access for all to policies, job vacancies, news and other company information.
56-57 Egg plc Annual Report 2004 Directors report Supplier payment policy In most cases the supplier of goods or services does so under standard terms of contract that lay down terms of payment.
In other cases, specic terms are agreed beforehand.
It is the Groups policy to ensure that the terms of payment are notied in advance and adhered to.
The total outstanding indebtedness of the Group to trade creditors as at 31 December 2004 amounted to 6.6 million 31 December 2003: 7.6 million, corresponding to 15 days purchases 2003: 29 days when averaged over the year.
Annual General Meeting 2005 The Annual General Meeting will be held at the Stationers Hall, Ave Maria Lane, London EC4 on Monday 16 May 2005 at 2.00 pm.
The Notice of Meeting includes the following items of special business: disapplication of pre-emption rights, reduction of capital and issue of deferred shares.
Details of all items of business to be dealt with at the Annual General Meeting, including explanatory notes, can be found in the separate Notice of Annual General Meeting.
Auditors A resolution for the reappointment of KPMG Audit Plc will be put to the Annual General Meeting.
Going concern The Board has satisfied itself that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable future.
The Groups financial statements have accordingly been prepared on a going concern basis.
By order of the Board Marcus Ezekiel Company Secretary 22 February 2005
