Investment Managers Review Principles of Valuation of Unlisted Investments General In valuing investments, the Directors follow the principles recommended in the BVCAs Valuation Guidelines, revised in August 2003.
Investments are valued at Fair Value at the reporting date.
In the small minority of cases where Fair Value cannot be reliably measured, existing book value, less any impairment, is used as the basis of valuation.
Fair Value represents the amount for which an asset could be exchanged between knowledgeable, willing parties in an arms length transaction.
In estimating Fair Value, the Directors use a methodology which is appropriate in light of the nature, facts and circumstances of the investment and its materiality in the context of the total investment portfolio.
Methodologies are applied consistently from one period to another except where a change results in a better estimate of Fair Value.
Because of the inherent uncertainties in estimating the value of private equity investments, the Directors exercise due caution in applying the various methodologies.
Unlisted investments The principal methodologies applied in valuing unlisted investments include the following: Earnings multiple Price of recent investment Net assets In applying the Earnings Multiple methodology, the Directors apply a market based multiple that is appropriate and reasonable to the maintainable earnings of the company.
In the majority of cases the Enterprise Value of the underlying business is derived by the use of an Earnings Before Interest and Tax multiple applied to current years earnings where these can be forecast with a reasonable degree of certainty and are deemed to represent the best estimate of maintainable earnings.
Where this is not the case, historic earnings will generally be used in their place.
Where a recent investment has been made, either by Electra or by a third party in one of Electras investments, this price will be used as the estimate of Fair Value for a period of up to one year from the date on which the investment was made.
An alternative methodology may be used at any time if this is deemed to provide a better assessment of the Fair Value of the investment.
The Fair Value of an investment in a company will be arrived at through the following process: The Enterprise Value of the underlying business will be calculated using one of the above methodologies: The Enterprise Value of the underlying business will then be adjusted for surplus assets or excess liabilities to arrive at an Enterprise Value for the company: and The valuation of Electras investment will be calculated from the Enterprise Value for the company after deduction of prior ranking debt and other financial instruments and an appropriate marketability discount.
In terms of the marketability discount, this will normally be in the range of 10-30% applied to the Enterprise Value of the company after deducting prior ranking debt and other financial instruments.
Electra Investment Trust PLC 13 Investment Managers Review Principles of Valuation of Unlisted Investments The amount of the marketability discount will primarily reflect the ability of Electra to control or influence the timing and nature of any realisation.
Where Electra has the ability to control an exit, or is part of a syndicate of like-minded investors who can control the exit, a marketability discount of 15% will normally be applied.
This may vary according to market and investee company circumstances.
Where the likelihood of an exit is high, the discount is likely to be lower.
Where there is no ability to control an exit and exit is not under discussion, the discount is likely to be higher.
In cases where no exit is contemplated by controlling shareholders, the investment may be valued by discounting the cash flow from the investment itself.
Restricted quoted investments held within the unlisted portfolio are valued at market price but reduced by a marketability discount of up to 30 per cent.
where: There is a risk that the holding may not be able to be sold immediately.
There is a formal restriction on trading in the relevant securities.
Accrued Income Accrued income is not included within investment valuations but is shown within Debtors and is separately disclosed in Note 19 to the Accounts.
