Overview Board of Directors Sir Brian Williamson CBE Lord King of Bridgwater Chairman Aged 71, was appointed a Director Aged 59, was appointed a Director in 1992. in 1994.
A Member of Parliament from 1970 until Chairman of Resolution Life Group and a 2001, he held a variety of senior Cabinet member of the Supervisory Board of posts and was Secretary of State for Euronext NV, Sir Brian was previously Defence from 1989 to 1992.
He has been a Chairman of the London Financial Futures member of the Nolan Committee and & Options Exchange.
He is a nonChairman of the Intelligence and Security executive Director of HSBC Holdings and Committee.
a senior adviser to Fleming Family & Partners.
In the USA he was a former Before entering Parliament he was a senior Governor of the National Association of manager in DRG, the printing and Securities Dealers and Chairman of packaging group, and subsequently Nasdaqs International Markets Advisory Chairman of Sale Tilney.
non-executive Chairman of London International Exhibition Centre Holdings.
He was formerly a member of the Financial Services Authority, Chairman of Gerrard Michael Walton Group, and a Member of the Court of the Aged 60, was appointed a Director in Bank of Ireland.
Ronald Armstrong He was previously on the Board of the Aged 60, was appointed a Director Company from 1981 to 1986.
Managing Director of Gartmore Private Capital until 1996 and has subsequently Most of his career has been spent in been a Director of NatWest Equity companies in which the application of Partners.
He has served on the Council of technology is critical to success and he the British Venture Capital Association.
has considerable experience of this process across a wide range of industries He is a Director of Bridgepoint Capital and and countries.
He is a Director of JP Morgan Fleming Peter Williams Worldwide Income Investment Trust, a Aged 62, was appointed a Director Director of E-Synergy, which specialises in in 1994. venture funding for early-stage technology companies, and Chairman of Prism Risk He is Chairman of RPC Group, one of Management.
Europes largest producers of plastic packaging and of Eposs, a specialist Professor Sir George Bain deliverer of electronic products to the Aged 65, was appointed a Director mobile phone industry.
Director of Reed International and Chief Executive of David S. Smith Holdings.
A former President and Vice-Chancellor of The Queens University of Belfast, he has also held senior academic posts at the London Business School and the University of Warwick.
He has also been Chairman of the Low Pay Commission and is on the Boards of Bombardier Aerospace Short Brothers and the Canada Life Group UK.
Member of the Remuneration Committee.
All Directors, other than the Chairman, are members of the Audit Committee.
6 Electra Investment Trust PLC Overview Board of Directors Sir Brian Williamson CBE Left to right Ronald Armstrong Professor Sir George Bain Lord King of Bridgwater Michael Walton Peter Williams Electra Investment Trust PLC 7
