appointments at periods of up to three years and 10 Supply of information their notice periods up to twelve months.
Senior management are responsible for providing All directors are subject to retirement by rotation at the Board with appropriate, complete and timely least once in every three years at the Annual information relevant to the Boards discharge of its General Meeting.
New directors appointed by the responsibilities, the monitoring of the performance Board must be re-appointed by shareholders at the of business activities, including significant following Annual General Meeting.
variances, and progress with the implementation of strategies.
Directors have reasonable access to 7 Director training senior management to enable them to make On appointment, new directors are given a further enquiries as they consider in their comprehensive induction to the Groups business judgement appropriate.
activities, its policies and procedures and its management structure.
As necessary, directors 11 Board procedures and authorities receive training to complement their roles on The Chairman and Chief Executive determine the the Board.
agenda for each Board meeting and the necessary papers are distributed in advance so that the 8 Director remuneration matters contained can be properly considered by The Remuneration Committee in accordance with the directors.
There is in place a schedule of matters its terms of reference determines on behalf of the reserved to the Board for decision, and detailed Board the broad policy for executive remuneration authorities, together with associated procedures, and the entire remuneration package for each of have been established for individual directors in the the executive directors and senior management.
The Board undertakes The Remuneration Committee comprises the formal annual performance evaluations.
independent non-executive directors and the Chairman.
The Remuneration Committee meets as 12 Relations with shareholders required.
External advice is sought where The Board as a whole accepts responsibility for appropriate to benchmark remuneration levels ensuring that a satisfactory dialogue is maintained against comparable companies.
The aim to ensure that this director remuneration, excluding that of the dialogue is based on a mutual understanding Chairman, is determined by the Board.
Investors are encouraged to attend the Annual General Meeting and to vote and 9 Financial information and internal control participate.
The review of submissions for Board approval in respect of the Groups annual report and accounts, 13 Corporate policies interim report, preliminary statement and other The Board ensures that corporate policies and public financial information is the responsibility of procedures on ethical and corporate social a Board committee, the Audit Committee.
The Audit responsibility matters, including sustainability, health Committee reviews the Groups system of internal and safety and the environment are maintained, control and oversees compliance therewith.
monitored and reviewed on a regular basis.
The Audit Committee comprises the independent non-executive directors.
Bovis Homes Group PLC Page 43
