Report on corporate governance The Company is committed to high standards of corporate governance and the Board, acknowledging its responsibility to shareholders in this area, has put in place an appropriate framework as described in the corporate governance policy guidelines on pages 42 to 43 of this Annual Report and Accounts.
This report sets out how the framework is applied and the Companys compliance with the Combined Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council on 23 July 2003 which applies to financial reporting years beginning on or after 1 November 2003.
"The Combined Code is supplemented by a publication entitled ""Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code"" the Turnbull Guidance published on 27 September 1999 to enable listed companies to comply with paragraph 12.43A a and b of the Listing Rules."
The Turnbull Guidance is currently under review by the Financial Reporting Council.
During 2003, the Board carried out a review of the steps required to move towards full compliance with the Combined Code for the 2004 financial reporting year and details were provided in the 2003 Annual Report and Accounts.
The Company has throughout 2004 applied the provisions of Section 1 of the Combined Code and complied therewith, as detailed below, with the exception that until 11 November 2004 the Chairman was Chairman of the Remuneration Committee code provision B.
2.1 and a member of the Audit Committee code provision C. 3.1.
On 11 November 2004 the Chairman resigned his membership of both committees and Mr Tim MelvilleRoss became Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
These changes were made during the year at a time most appropriate to the smooth functioning of the respective Committees.
The Board The Board comprises Sir Nigel Mobbs, Chairman: two executive directors, Mr Malcolm Harris, Chief Executive and Mr David Ritchie, Finance Director: and three independent non-executive directors, Mr Tim Melville-Ross, Senior Independent Director, Mr Mark Nicholls and Mrs Lesley MacDonagh.
There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive, set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
The Chairman provides leadership to and runs the Board, takes a leading role in determining its composition and structure, and sets its agenda.
He ensures that it receives accurate, timely and clear information, facilitates the contribution of the non-executive directors and ensures constructive relations on the Board.
The Chairman also ensures that effective communications are maintained with shareholders.
The Chief Executive is responsible for the overall performance of the Group as dictated by the Boards strategy, including maintaining profit growth and developing strategic operating plans that reflect the objectives and priorities established by the Board.
The Board has determined that non-executive directors, Mr Tim Melville-Ross, Mr Mark Nicholls and Mrs Lesley MacDonagh are independent.
This includes an assessment of their independence in character and judgement and confirmation of their being free from any business or other relationship or circumstances which could affect, or appear to affect, the exercise of their independent judgement on matters under consideration by the Board.
Mr Tim Melville-Ross is Senior Independent Director and his responsibilities are to lead the annual performance evaluation of the Chairman carried out by the non-executive directors, to meet with the nonexecutive directors without the Chairman present when appropriate and to provide an additional point of contact for shareholders.
The Board met six times during 2004 and all the directors attended all meetings, with the exception of Mrs Lesley MacDonagh who attended five of six meetings, missing one by prior arrangement.
The Board receives timely, clear and comprehensive board papers a week in advance of each meeting and other information appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties.
Meetings are conducted in a way which allows open discussion and enables the non-executive directors to challenge and test the strategy, policy and proposals put forward by the executive directors.
The Chairman and the non-executive directors also met during the year under review without the executive directors present.
Bovis Homes Group PLC Page 47 Report on corporate governance continued There is a formal schedule of matters reserved for the Boards decision which includes: responsibility for the overall leadership of the Group: approval of long term objectives, commercial strategy and annual budgets: oversight of the Groups operations and review of performance: changes to the Groups capital structure: financial reporting, approval of results, dividend policy and treasury policy: maintenance and review of the system of internal control and risk management: approval of major expenditure and transactions: changes to the structure, size and composition of the Board, including new appointments: determining the remuneration of the non-executive directors: the introduction of new employee share plans and major changes to existing plans for shareholder approval: approval of the division of responsibilities between the Chairman and Chief Executive: approval of the terms of reference of Board committees: annual review of its own performance and that of its Board committees: determining the independence of directors: review of the Groups overall corporate governance arrangements.
A management paper, subject to regular review, includes the authorities and decision making delegated by the Board to management and includes appropriate controls, authorities and procedures across the range of the Groups activities.
All directors have the right both individually and collectively to consult the Companys professional advisers and, if they are not satisfied with the advice so received, to seek independent professional advice at the Companys reasonable expense.
No such advice was sought during the year.
The advice and services of the Group Company Secretary are also available to all directors.
Training is made available to directors as and when required and the Chairman ensures that directors continually update and refresh their knowledge and skills appropriate to both their role on the Board and on Board Committees.
During the year under review the directors received regulatory and technical updates and a presentation on International Accounting Standards.
Executive and non-executive directors are subject to retirement by rotation every three years.
Subject to continued satisfactory performance, re-election is proposed where appropriate by the Nomination Committee and is voted on by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
Sir Nigel Mobbs and Mr David Ritchie will stand for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and the Board strongly supports and recommends their re-election to shareholders.
A brief summary of their biographical details is set out on page 41.
All executive directors have notice periods of twelve months after the end of their first years service.
Non-executive directors are appointed for periods up to three years duration during which they have notice periods of up to twelve months.
The Company has in place an appropriate policy which insures directors against certain liabilities, including legal costs, that they may incur in carrying out their duties.
Board performance evaluation During 2004 the Board completed a formal internal annual performance evaluation, using a questionnaire process designed to produce an objective assessment, which covered areas of board structure, board functionality, board objectives, board meetings, content of board meetings, board administration, management and management presentations, and corporate governance.
The responses were reviewed and collated by the Chairman, audited by the Company Secretary, and discussed by the Board.
It was concluded that the Board was appropriately structured, works effectively, recognises the right objectives and adds value to both shareholders and management.
Outputs included dedicated strategy and business environment discussions, more frequent presentations from regional operations, and positive focused reviews of various areas of the business.
Page 48 Bovis Homes Group PLC www.
