Report & Accounts 2004 The Board The Evolution Group Plc is the holding company of Evolution Securities Limited, Christows Limited, Evolution Securities China Limited and Evolution Securities US Incorporated.
Richard Griffiths 38 The Group has at its core an extremely strong and Chairman, joined the Group upon its acquisition of dynamic senior management team in its Executive Evolution Capital in March 2001.
Richard was appointed Board members.
The whole Groups operating Chairman of the Group on 30 January 2003.
He has structure, processes, strategic direction and ethos are extensive experience of company management, equity based around this team.
The management of the sales and trading and has also been an active investor operating subsidiaries within the Group are also led in small and emerging companies, often in turnaround situations.
Richard is Chairman of the Board and chairs by members of this team.
Alex Snow 35 Chief Executive Officer, joined the Group in May 2000 and has led the Group through its development from a small investment company to a fully fledged financial services group by significant acquisitions and resultant restructuring.
Alexs previous career experience was with CSFB and BZW in the equity sales, trading and capital markets areas.
He is a graduate of St Andrews University.
Alex is in charge of the day to day and strategic management of the Groups activities.
He heads the Executive Committees that manage Evolution Securities Limited, Christows Limited and Evolution Securities China Limited.
Graeme Dell 38 Finance Director, joined the Group in August 2001 and is responsible for finance, operations and technology throughout the Group.
Graemes previous career experience was with Deutsche Bank as a business manager in its Global Exchange Services business and with Goldman Sachs where he held management positions in finance and operations.
He qualified as a Chartered Accountant with Coopers & Lybrand having graduated in Engineering from Hertford College, Oxford University.
Graeme is a member of the Executive Committees that manage Evolution Securities Limited, Christows Limited and Evolution Securities China Limited.
the evolution group plc 16 Report & Accounts 2004 Left to right: Richard Griffiths, Alex Snow, Graeme Dell, Lord MacLaurin, Nicholas Irens, Oliver Vaughan The Groups Non-executive Board members combine Oliver Vaughan 57, is Chairman of the Remuneration with the Executive team to complete the balance of Committee.
He joined the Board upon the incorporation corporate governance and independence, and provide of the Company in April 1997.
He has an extensive between them a wealth of experience in strategic and background investing in and being a director of AIM listed operational management of companies.
He co-founded Julianas Holdings Plc in 1968, a holding company with interests in the leisure industry of Lord MacLaurin of Knebworth, DL 67, is the senior which he was managing director for 23 years.
He saw it Non-executive director.
He joined the Group on 13 July through to flotation on the London Stock Exchange in 1983, 2004.
Lord MacLaurin is currently Chairman of Vodafone prior to its acquisition by Wembley Plc in 1989, on whose Group Plc, where he chairs the Nominations and board he then served for the next two years.
Currently he Governance Committee and sits on the Remuneration is a Non-executive director of Abingdon Capital Plc and Committee.
He was formerly Chairman of Tesco Plc from Redstone Plc.
1985 to 1997, and has been a director of Enterprise Oil Plc, Guinness Plc, National Westminster Bank Plc and Whitbread Plc.
Nicholas Irens 58, is Chairman of the Audit Committee.
He joined the Group on 1 January 2004.
Nicholas is a Chartered Accountant with recent and relevant financial experience.
He qualified as a Chartered Accountant in 1970 and went on to become the Finance Director of First Leisure Corporation Plc from 1988 to 1992.
Most recently he founded Vardon Plc, renamed Cannons Group Plc, in 1992.
He was Chairman of that group between 1998 and 2001 when he stepped down following its sale to Royal Bank Private Equity.
Nick currently has a number of Nonexecutive appointments, which include the Non-executive Chair of Esporta Group Limited, James Hull Associates Limited and Northgate Information Solutions Plc, and Non-executive directorships of Urbium Plc, Leisure and Media VCT Plc and The Sporting Exchange Limited.
