BP Annual Report and Accounts 2004 the overall employee satisfaction index, demonstrating into two entities, while still achieving record sales an increasing sense of enthusiasm and teamwork among volumes through increased plant use and reliability.
Through disciplined portfolio management, we made $5 billion of divestments.
Reaching new milestones In a year of great success, there Through our activities, BP delivered a record result of were notable operational highlights: $16.2 billion in 2004.
With cash inflow of $6 billion and cash Our safety record improved for the eighth year running, returns of 35%, our performance continued to allow for strong although tragically we still suffered 11 fatalities among investment in our long-term growth as well as to return value contractors and employees.
to investors in the form of higher dividends 29.45 cents per Exploration and Production made new discoveries in share in 2004, an increase of 13% year on year and significant Angola, Egypt, the deepwater Gulf of Mexico, Trinidad share buybacks, amounting to $7.5 billion in the year.
and Sakhalin Island in Russia and brought on stream BP now has the assets, market positions and organizational three new fields.
capability to continue to deliver its unchanged strategy.
Our production growth of more than 10% was in line We are meeting our three targets, with disciplined with our indicator of a 7% average for 2003-2008. investments, increased dividends and excess free cash flow Replacement of proved reserves for subsidiaries and for significant share buybacks.
equity-accounted entities at over 100% exceeded We have confidence in our ability to perform sustainably, production for the 12th year running.
TNK-BP contributed focusing mainly on conventional oil and gas resources, $1.5 billion, after interest and tax, to our result, paid to seeking to add value to products and services in customerus $1.9 billion of dividends and increased oil production facing businesses.
In my many meetings with BP people around the world, In Refining and Marketing, refining margins reached their I am constantly struck by their commitment to deliver everhighest levels since at least 1990.
We continued to find improved performance, but responsibly and with integrity.
ways to maximize our global refining capacity.
My role is to provide the framework that guides and Premium Ultimate fuels have been newly launched in encourages them to make the right choices: today, six markets, attracting new customers to these highertomorrow and for the long-term future of your company.
As always, the best is yet to come.
BPs retail sales continued to outpace the sector.
At our convenience locations worldwide, sales per square metre grew by an average of 3%.
We entered into agreements to sell liquefied natural gas to the US, China, South Korea and Mexico, and produced growth in sales volumes.
Our solar business streamlined its operations, tightened The Lord Browne of Madingley its market focus and delivered its first profit.
Group Chief Executive We initiated the separation of the Petrochemicals business 7 February 2005 7
