Governance: board performance report Governance and the role of our board the chairman and other non-executive directors.
This is supported Good governance is often defined in terms of the presence or by the dialogue with shareholders concerning the governance and absence of particular practices without reference to the underlying operation of the group maintained by the company secretarys purpose of governance processes.
We believe that governance is office, investor relations and other BP teams.
AGM and voting Given the size and geographical diversity of our Governance is not an exercise in compliance nor is it a higher form shareholder base, the opportunities for shareholder interaction at of management.
Governance lies at the heart of all the board does and the AGM are limited.
However, the chairman and all board committee it is the task our owners entrust to the board.
It has a clear objective chairmen were present at the 2004 AGM to answer shareholders ensuring the pursuit of the companys purpose.
The boards role is questions and hear their views during the meeting.
Members of focused on this task, which is unique to it as the representative of the board met informally with shareholders afterwards.
This task is discharged by the board through undertaking shareholder meetings, whether by proxy or in person, are counted such activities as are necessary for the effective promotion of since votes on all matters, except procedural issues, are taken by way shareholder interest.
We have pioneered the use of electronic communications to facilitate the exercise of shareholder control rights and continue to Governance is the system by which the companys owners and promote the use of electronic voting through our registrars website their representatives on the board ensure that it pursues, does not and through CREST.
deviate from and only allocates resources to its defined purpose.
Directors elections Directors are required to stand for re-election As a company, we recognize the importance of good governance each year.
New directors are subject to election at the first opportunity and that it is a discrete task from management.
Clarity of roles is following their appointment.
All names submitted to shareholders for key to our approach.
Policies and processes depend upon the people election are accompanied by detailed biographies.
Governance requires distinct skills and processes.
In the context of BP, governance is overseen by our board while How our board governs the company management is delegated to the group chief executive by means The boards governance policies regulate its relationship with of the board governance policies.
shareholders, the conduct of board affairs and the boards relationship Our board governance policies use a coherent, principles-based with the group chief executive.
The policies recognize the boards approach, which anticipated many developments in UK governance separate and unique role as the link in the chain of authority between regulation.
They ensure that our board and management operate the shareholders and the group chief executive.
It is this unique task within a clear and efficient governance framework that goes beyond that gives the board its central role in governance.
regulatory compliance and places shareholder interest at the heart of all we do.
Owners shareholders Authority Accountability Delegation Assurance Accountability to shareholders Board through through Our board is accountable in a variety of ways.
It is required to be policy with monitoring monitoring and reporting proactive in obtaining an understanding of shareholder preferences Group chief executive and to evaluate systematically the economic, social, environmental and ethical matters that may influence or affect the interest of GCEs management framework delegations our shareholders.
Our board is accountable to shareholders for the performance Executive management and activities of the entire BP group.
It embeds shareholder interest in the goals established for the company.
The dual role played by the group chief executive and executive In carrying out its work in policy-making and monitoring and in its directors as both members of the board and leaders of the executive active consideration of group strategy, our board exercises judgement management is also recognized and addressed.
The policies require a on how best to further shareholder interest.
The board seeks to do majority of the board to be composed of independent non-executive so by maximizing the expected value of shareholders interest in the directors.
To assure the integrity of the governance process, the company, not by eliminating the possibility of any adverse outcomes.
relationship between the board and the group chief executive is governed by the non-executive directors, particularly through the Reporting Our board makes use of a number of formal communication work of the board committees they populate.
channels to account to shareholders for the performance of the Recognizing that as a group its capacity is limited, our board company.
These include the Annual Report and Accounts, the Annual reserves to itself the making of broad policy decisions.
It delegates Review, the Annual Report on Form 20-F, quarterly Forms 6-K and more detailed considerations involved in meeting its stated announcements made through stock exchanges on which BP shares requirements either to board committees and officers in the are listed, as well as through the annual general meeting AGM.
case of its own processes or to the group chief executive in Dialogue with directors Presentations given at appropriate intervals the case of the management of the companys business activities.
to representatives of the investment community are available to all The board governs BP through setting general policy for the conduct shareholders by internet broadcast or open conference call.
Less of business and critically, by clearly articulating its objective and by formal processes include contacts with institutional shareholders by monitoring its implementation by the group chief executive.
110 BP Annual Report and Accounts 2004 To discharge its governance function in the most effective were appointed as non-executive directors, while Mr Conn joined manner, our board has laid down rules for its own activities the board as an executive director in July.
The board process policy covers: The efficiency and effectiveness of the board are paramount The conduct of members at meetings.
Our board is large but this is necessary to allow sufficient The cycle of board activities and the setting of agendas.
executive director representation to cover the breadth of the groups The provision of timely information to the board.
business activities and sufficient non-executive representation to Board officers and their roles.
reflect the scale and complexity of BP and to staff our board Board committees their tasks and composition.
A board of this size allows orderly succession planning Qualifications for board membership and the process for key roles.
Governance policies and processes depend upon the quality The evaluation and assessment of board performance.
and commitment of the people who operate them.
The remuneration of non-executive directors.
The process for directors to obtain independent advice.
New non-executive directors will be appointed over the coming The appointment and role of the company secretary.
Mr Knight and Sir Robin Nicholson will retire at the 2005 AGM.
Subject to their annual re-election, Mr Miles will retire in 2006 and The responsibility for implementation of this policy is placed Mr Bryan and Mr Wilson in 2007.
We believe refreshing the on the chairman.
composition of the board should be an orderly process of evolution The board-executive linkage policy sets out how the board that ensures its continuing effectiveness.
delegates authority to the group chief executive and the extent of that authority.
In its goals policy, the board states the long-term Board independence outcome and required results it expects the group chief executive The qualification for board membership includes a requirement that to deliver.
The restrictions on the manner in which the group all our non-executive directors be free from any relationship with the chief executive may achieve the required results are set out in the executive management of the company that could materially interfere executive limitations policy.
This policy addresses internal control, with the exercise of their independent judgement.
In the boards view, risk preferences, financing, ethical behaviour, health, safety, the all our non-executive directors fulfil this requirement.
It determined all environment, treatment of employees and political considerations.
12 who served during 2004 to be independent directors.
Through the goals and executive limitations policies, the board Mr Knight and Sir Robin Nicholson were appointed to the BP board shapes BPs values and standards.
in 1987 and Mr Miles was appointed in 1994.
The length of their respective service on the board exceeds the nine years referred to Accountability in our business in the Combined Code.
The board considers that the experience and Our group chief executive outlines how he intends to deliver the long-term perspective of each of these directors on BPs business required outcome in annual and medium-term plans, which also during its recent period of growth provide a valuable contribution to address a comprehensive assessment of the groups risks.
the board, given the long-term nature of our business.
The integrity Progress towards the expected outcome forms the basis of a report and independence of character of these directors are beyond doubt.
to the board that covers actual results and a forecast of results for Both Mr Knight and Sir Robin will retire at the 2005 AGM.
Mr Miles the current year.
This report is reviewed at each board meeting.
The group chief executive is obliged through dialogue and Those directors who joined the BP board in 1998 after service on systematic review to discuss with our board all material matters the board of Amoco Corporation Messrs Bryan, Massey, Wilson and currently or prospectively affecting the company and its performance Davis are considered independent since the most senior executive and all strategic projects or developments.
This key dialogue specifically management of BP comprises individuals who were not previously includes any materially under-performing business activities and actions Amoco employees.
While Amoco businesses and assets are a key that breach the executive limitations policy and material matters of a part of the group, the scope and scale of BP since its acquisition of social, environmental and ethical nature.
the ARCO, Burmah Castrol and Veba businesses are fundamentally The board-executive linkage policy also sets out how the group chief different from those of the former Amoco Corporation.
executives performance will be monitored and recognizes that, in the The board has satisfied itself that there is no compromise to the multitude of changing circumstances, judgement is always involved.
independence of those directors who serve together as directors The systems set out in the board-executive linkage policy are designed on the boards of outside entities or who have other appointments to manage, rather than to eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve the in outside entities.
Where necessary, our board ensures appropriate board goals policy or observe the executive limitations policy.
They processes are in place to manage any possible conflict of interest.
provide reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material Sir Robin Nicholson received fees during 2004 for representing misstatement or loss.
the board on the BP technology advisory council.
Since these fees relate to board representation, they do not compromise Sir Robins Who is on the board?
Full details of these fees are disclosed on page 125.
The board is composed of the chairman, 12 non-executive and six executive directors.
In total, five nationalities are represented on Directors appointments, retirement policies and insurance the board.
Directors biographies are set out on pages 126-127.
As The chairman and non-executive directors of BP are elected each reported last year, the board is actively engaged in succession planning year and, subject to BPs Articles of Association, serve on the basis issues.
As a result, the size of the board has increased during the past of letters of appointment.
Executive directors of BP have service year despite the departure of Mr Maljers and Mr Olver.
Mr Burgmans contracts with the company.
Details of all payments to directors February, Sir Tom McKillop July and Mr Flint from January 2005 are reviewed in the directors remuneration report on pages 116-125.
111 Governance: board performance report activities of the group including key financial, business, social and Annual elections for all directors and the provision of independent environmental risks to the groups activities, the role of the board support to our board and board committees underscore our and the matters reserved for its decision, the tasks and membership commitment to good governance practice.
of the principal board committees, the powers delegated to those BPs policy on directors retirement is as follows: executive directors committees, the boards governance policies and practices, and the retire at age 60, while non-executive directors ordinarily retire at the latest financial information about the group.
The chairman is accountable AGM following their 70th birthday.
It is the boards policy that nonfor the induction of new board members.
executive directors are not generally expected to hold office for Training Our directors are updated on BPs business, the environment more than 10 years.
in which it operates and other matters throughout their period in office.
In accordance with BPs Articles of Association, directors are We advise directors on their appointment of the legal and other duties granted an indemnity from the company to the extent permitted and obligations they have as directors of a listed company.
The board by law in respect of liabilities incurred as a result of their office.
In regularly considers the implications of these duties under our board respect of those liabilities for which directors may not be indemnified, governance policies.
Our non-executive directors receive training the company purchased and maintained a directors and officers specific to the tasks of the particular board committees on which liability insurance policy throughout 2004.
This insurance cover was they serve.
renewed at the beginning of 2005.
Neither the companys indemnity Outside appointments As part of their ongoing development, our nor insurance provides cover in the event that the director is proved executive directors are permitted to take up an external board to have acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
appointment, subject to the agreement of our board.
Executive directors retain any fees received in respect of such external Board and committees: meetings and attendance appointments.
In addition to the AGM which all but one director attended, the board Generally outside appointments for executive directors are limited met eight times during 2004, five times in the UK, twice in the US to one outside company board only, although our group chief executive, and once in continental Europe.
Two of these meetings were two-day by exception, serves on two outside company boards.
Our board is strategy discussions.
2004 saw an increased number of committee satisfied that these appointments do not conflict with his duties and meetings, with no sign that this trend will reverse.
Non-executive directors may serve on a number The board requires all members to devote sufficient time to the of outside boards, always provided they continue to demonstrate work of the board to discharge the office of director and to use their the requisite commitment to discharge effectively their duties to BP.
best endeavours to attend meetings.
Directors attendance at board The nomination committee keeps the extent of directors other and committee meetings is set out below.
All directors attended at interests under review to ensure that the effectiveness of our board least 75% of meetings, except Mr Burgmans.
Several board meetings is not compromised.
coincided with commitments entered into by Mr Burgmans before his As the board attendance table below illustrates, our directors appointment to the board in February 2004, a matter made known to commitment to the work of the board is manifest.
the board on his appointment.
The board and Mr Burgmans are looking Evaluation During 2004, our board continued its ongoing evaluation forward to his full participation in the years ahead.
processes to assess its performance and identify areas in which its effectiveness, policies or processes might be enhanced.
The board Serving as a director: induction, training and evaluation reviewed the conclusions and actions from the 2003 evaluation and Induction Directors receive induction on their appointment to the determined that there should be a focus on evaluating the performance board as appropriate, covering matters such as the operation and of the board committees during 2004.
Directors attendance Board Audit committee EEAC Chairmans Remuneration Nomination meetings meetings meetings committee meetings committee meetings committee meetings Attended Possible Attended Possible Attended Possible Attended Possible Attended Possible Attended Possible a a P D Sutherland 7 8 3 3 7 7 22 Sir Ian Prosser 8 8 13 13 3 3 6 7 2 2 J H Bryan 8 8 13 13 3 3 2 2 A Burgmans 3 7 2 1 3 E B Davis, Jr 7 8 13 13 2 3 7 7 Dr D S Julius 8 8 3 3 7 7 C F Knight 7 8 3 3 6 7 Sir Tom McKillop 3 4 2 2 2 2 F A Maljers 3 3 2 2 1 1 Dr W E Massey 8 8 6 6 3 3 2 2 H M P Miles 8 8 12 13 6 6 3 3 Sir Robin Nicholson 8 8 3 3 7 7 2 2 M H Wilson 8 8 13 13 6 6 3 3 Lord Browne 8 8 Dr D C Allen 8 8 I C Conn 4 4 Dr B E Grote 8 8 Dr A B Hayward 8 8 J A Manzoni 8 8 R L Olver 4 4 a Attended all remuneration committee meetings as chairman of the board.
112 BP Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Role and authority The audit committees tasks are considered by the Regular evaluation of board effectiveness underpins our confidence committee to be broader than those envisaged under Combined Code in BPs governance policies and processes and affords opportunity Provision C. 3.2.
The committee is satisfied that it addresses each of for their development.
those matters identified as properly falling within an audit committees Evaluations of both the audit and the ethics and environment purview.
The committee has full delegated authority from the board assurance committees took place during the year.
An evaluation of the to address those tasks assigned to it.
In common with the board work of the remuneration committee will take place this year as the and all committees, it may request any information from the executive review of executive remuneration is concluded and Dr Julius assumes management necessary to discharge its functions and may, where chairmanship of the committee.
Work on a further evaluation of the it considers necessary, seek independent advice and counsel.
board and the performance of individual directors has commenced.
Process The committee structures its work programme so as to discharge its tasks, which include systematic monitoring and obtaining The chairman and senior independent director assurance that the legally required standards of disclosure are being BPs board governance policies require the chairman and deputy fully and fairly observed and that the executive limitations relating to chairman to be non-executive directors: throughout 2004 the posts financial matters are being observed.
The committee chairman reports were held by Mr Sutherland and Sir Ian Prosser respectively.
Sir Ian on the committees activities to the board meeting immediately also acts as our senior independent director and is the director whom following a committee meeting.
Between meetings, the committee shareholders may contact if they feel their concerns are not being chairman reviews emerging issues with the group chief financial addressed through normal channels.
officer, the external auditor and the BP general auditor.
He is Between board meetings, the chairman has responsibility for supported in this task by the company secretarys office.
ensuring the integrity and effectiveness of the board executive During the year, external specialist legal and regulatory advice has relationship.
This requires his interaction with the group chief executive also been provided to the committee by Sullivan & Cromwell LLP.
between board meetings, as well as his contact with other board With significant changes in accounting practices being introduced members and shareholders.
The chairman represents the views of in 2005, the committee undertook initial training in the implementation the board to shareholders on key issues, not least in succession of International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and how these planning issues for both executive and non-executive appointments.
standards are expected to affect the groups reported results.
The chairman and all the non-executive directors meet periodically Activities in 2004 Financial reports: During the year, the committee as the chairmans committee see report on page 114.
The reviewed all annual and quarterly financial reports before recommending performance of the chairman is evaluated each year at a meeting their publication on behalf of the board.
In particular, the committee of the chairmans committee, for which item of business he is not discussed significant accounting policies, estimates and judgements present.
The company secretary reports to the chairman and is not that had been applied in preparing these reports and received part of the executive management.
independent advice from the external auditors.
Accounting treatment: The committee also received during the Board committees year separate reports concerning the groups environmental and The board process policy allocates the tasks of monitoring executive decommissioning provisions, tax exposures, pension assumptions actions and assessing performance to certain board committees.
and the status of current litigation.
The committee gained assurance These tasks, rather than any terms of reference, prescribe the that such liabilities and contingencies were appropriately reflected authority and the role of the board committees.
Reports for each in the financial results.
of the committees for 2004 appear below.
In common with the board, System of internal control: Each year, specific reports on risk each committee has access to independent advice and counsel management and internal control within selected business and as required and each is supported by the company secretary and functional activities are considered.
During 2004, the exploration and his office, which is demonstrably independent of the executive production and petrochemicals segments were reviewed, along with management of the group.
accounting issues of the supply and trading function that services all BPs businesses.
Given the increased public and regulatory attention Audit committee report to hydrocarbon reserves reporting, the committee sought and received Schedule and composition The committee met 13 times additional assurance that BPs management and recording processes during 2004 and comprised the following directors: are applied in a consistent and coherent manner throughout the group.
Sir Ian Prosser chairman, J H Bryan, E B Davis, Jr, Following the adoption of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, an H M P Miles, M H Wilson.
increased regulatory requirement has been placed on all companies All members of the audit committee are independent that offer shares by listing on US stock exchanges.
The committee has non-executive directors.
The board considers that the membership monitored the companys response to the applicable requirements of of the audit committee as a whole has sufficient recent and relevant this Act and, in particular, its progress in evaluating internal controls financial experience to discharge its functions, but it has determined as required by rules pursuant to Section 404 of the Act.
not to identify any single member as having such experience.
Employee concerns reporting whistleblowing: The committee receives The external auditors lead partner, the BP general auditor head of regular reports of the matters raised through the employee concerns internal audit, together with the group chief financial officer, the programme OpenTalk and, through this process, is alerted to chief accounting officer and the group controller, attend each meeting instances of potential fraud or matters of concern raised related at the request of the committee chairman.
At least twice a year, the to the finances and financial accounting policies of the group.
committee meets with the external auditor without the executive Auditor independence and rotation: The committee reviews on behalf management being present.
The committee also meets in private of the board the independence, objectivity and viability of the auditors session with the general auditor.
before an appointment recommendation is made to shareholders at 113 Governance: board performance report the AGM.
A new lead audit partner is appointed every five years and Security: Group preparedness and mitigation plans in respect of other senior audit staff are rotated every seven years.
identified and potential security threats to staff, physical infrastructure Policy on non-audit services provided by the auditor: To safeguard and the digital infrastructure of the group.
the independence of the audit process, non-audit services provided Employees: The results of the annual People Assurance Survey, by the auditor are limited to defined audit-related work and tax services employee health and welfare and the impact of HIV AIDS on our that fall within specific categories.
Additionally, all such services must business.
be pre-approved by the committee.
These services have been Ethical behaviour: Matters arising from the annual ethics certification substantially reduced in 2004 but overall fees paid to Ernst & Young process and OpenTalk BPs employee concerns reporting programme, have increased, since audit fees have risen significantly across the as well as other conduct and compliance issues.
market due to the increased regulatory burden on listed companies Disaster recovery and business continuity planning and capability: see page 50 for details.
Development of the groups capacity and capability to respond Internal audit: The committee considers the internal auditors to catastrophic events and to maintain its business activities.
programme and its effectiveness twice a year.
It receives regular Performance evaluation: The committee addressed the nature reports of work undertaken, actions recommended and the executive of its remit and authority, its interface with the audit committee managements responses to those recommendations.
and the scope and focus of its activities, as well as its overall Performance evaluation: Each year the committee critically reviews its effectiveness and refinements to its processes.
The committee own performance and considers where improvements can be made.
increased the number of its meetings from five in 2003 to During 2004, the committee strengthened its tracking of outstanding six in 2004. issues and clarified the scope of its role and relationship with that of the ethics and environment assurance committee.
It also allocated Remuneration committee report additional time to training, not least on the implications of the Schedule and composition The committee met seven introduction of IFRS.
To accommodate all such matters and discharge times during 2004 and comprised the following directors: its ongoing tasks the committee increased the number of meetings Sir Robin Nicholson chairman, retiring at the 2005 AGM, from nine in 2003 to 13 in 2004.
Dr D S Julius chairman elect, E B Davis, C F Knight retiring at the 2005 AGM, Sir Ian Prosser, J H Bryan Ethics and environment assurance committee report from November 2004, Sir Tom McKillop from November 2004.
Schedule and composition The committee met six times All members of the remuneration committee are non-executive during 2004 and comprised the following directors: directors and are considered by the board to be independent.
Dr W E Massey chairman, A Burgmans from October The chairman of the board also attends committee meetings.
2004, F A Maljers to April 2004, H M P Miles, The committee is independently advised.
Role and authority The committees main task is to determine the All members of the ethics and environment assurance committee are terms of engagement and remuneration of the executive directors.
The external auditors lead partner A key priority for the committee in 2004 has been its review of and the BP general auditor head of internal audit attend each meeting executive directors remuneration policy in preparation for the at the request of the committee chairman.
The committee met once renewal of the long-term incentive plan for executive directors during 2004 with the general auditor and external auditor but without at the 2005 AGM.
the executive management being present.
Process and activities in 2004 Full details of the committees Role and authority The task of the committee is to monitor matters remit and work are set out in the remuneration report on pages relating to the executive managements processes to address 116-125, which is the subject of a vote by shareholders at the environmental, health and safety, security and ethical behaviour issues.
The committee monitors the observance of the executive limitations relating to non-financial risks to the group.
Chairmans committee report Process and activities in 2004 At each meeting, the committee Schedule and composition The chairmans committee considered a report from executive management on current met three times during 2004 and comprised all the developments in business and functional areas giving rise to ongoing non-executive directors.
and emergent non-financial risks to the groups activities.
In particular, Role and authority The task of the committee is to consider during the course of 2004, the committee directed its attention to broad issues of governance, including the performance of the BTC pipeline project and operations in Alaska and Russia.
The the chairman and the group chief executive, succession planning, the committees work programme also addressed: organization of the group and any matters referred to it for an opinion Environmental liabilities: Including a review of the groups approach from another board committee.
to remediation at operational and disused sites, encompassing Process and activities in 2004 At its various meetings, the committee all businesses ranging from mining activities to oil terminals to evaluated the performance of the chairman and the group chief service stations.
executive, considered the plan for executive succession and Health, safety and environmental performance: Greenhouse gas considered a number of other broad matters of governance, including and other emissions, spills and containment practices and safety the future governance of the Olefins and Derivatives business as it at work issues, both group-wide and in specific businesses and is prepared for its planned disposal.
Additionally, the committee locations for example, shipping, road safety and the operational addressed non-executive succession planning issues in co-ordination integrity of plant and equipment.
114 BP Annual BP Annual R Repor eport t and A and Accounts ccounts 2004 2004 Nomination committee report assessment of internal control.
The reports described how significant Schedule and composition The committee met twice during 2004 risks were identified and embedded within business segment and and comprised the following directors: P D Sutherland chairman, function plans across the group.
They reviewed the executive Dr W E Massey, Sir Robin Nicholson, Sir Ian Prosser.
managements assurance process and the continuing development All members of the nomination committee are considered by the of the systems of internal controls in place to identify, address and board to be independent.
The reports also highlighted future potentially significant Role and authority The task of the nomination committee is to identify risks to the companys plans.
The two committees engage with and evaluate candidates for appointment and reappointment as director executive management on a regular basis to monitor the management or company secretary of BP.
Significant incidents that occurred and managements Process During the year, the nomination committee carried out response to them were considered by the committees during the year.
a detailed review of the skills and expertise of the non-executive In the boards view, the information it received was sufficient to directors as part of the board succession planning described earlier.
enable it to review the effectiveness of the companys system of The committee receives external assistance as required.
The internal control in accordance with the Guidance for Directors on committee consults with the group chief executive concerning Internal Control Turnbull.
the identification and appointment of new executive directors.
Activities in 2004 The committee considered the composition of the board and board committees in the context of forthcoming Directors interests work programmes, BPs strategy and business activities and in BP ordinary shares or calculated equivalents retirements from the board.
Board and committee evaluation At 1 Jan 2004 Change from or on 31 Dec 2004- processes informed its work in identifying the skills and experiences At 31 Dec 2004 appointment 8 Feb 2005 sought from potential candidates.
Current directors External search consultants were retained in the UK, continental excluding director appointed in 2005 Europe and the US to assist the committee in the identification of a a Dr D C Allen 408,342 371,365 potential candidates as non-executive directors.
In close co-ordination b b Lord Browne 2,031,279 1,816,054 with the chairmans committee all the non-executive directors, the c c J H Bryan 158,760 158,760 nomination committee recommended the appointment of the following d A Burgmans 10,000 10,000 directors during the year: Sir Tom McKillop, I C Conn and D J Flint.
e I C Conn 121,187 119,098 71 c c E B Davis, Jr 66,349 65,162 Combined Code compliance c c Dr B E Grote 888,213 788,313 BP complied throughout 2004 with the provisions of the Combined Dr A B Hayward 206,084 121,692 71 Code Principles of Good Governance and Code of Best Practice, Dr D S Julius 15,000 15,000 except in the following aspects: c c CF Knight 98,578 95,610 A.
4.4 Letters of appointment do not set out fixed time commitments e Sir Tom McKillop 20,000 since the schedule of board and committee meetings is subject to J A Manzoni 196,336 127,821 68 change according to the exigencies of the business.
All directors are c c Dr W E Massey 49,722 49,261 expected to demonstrate their commitment to the work of the board H M P Miles 22,145 22,145 on an ongoing basis.
This is reviewed by the nomination committee Sir Robin Nicholson 4,020 3,897 in recommending candidates for annual re-election.
1.4 The amount of fees received by executive directors in respect of P D Sutherland 30,079 30,079 their service on outside boards is not disclosed since this information c c M H Wilson 60,000 60,000 is not considered relevant to BP.
2.2 The remuneration of the chairman is fixed by the board as a At retirement At 1 Jan 2004 whole rather than by the remuneration committee within the limits Directors leaving the board in 2004 c c set by shareholders, since the chairmans performance is a matter for FA Maljers 33,492 33,492 the whole board.
RL Olver 884,408 798,326 On Change from Internal control review appointment 1 Jan 2005- The board governance policies include a process for the board to review 1 January 2005 7 Feb 2005 regularly the effectiveness of the system of internal control as required Director appointed in 2005 by Code provision C. 2.1.
As part of this process, the board, the audit DJ Flint and the ethics and environment assurance committees requested, a d Includes 25,368 shares held as ADSs.
On appointment at 5 February 2004. received and reviewed reports from executive management, including b e Includes 50,368 shares held as ADSs.
On appointment at 1 July 2004. c management of the principal business segments, at their regular Held as ADSs.
That enabled them to assess the effectiveness of the system In disclosing the above interests to the company under the Companies Act of internal control in operation for managing significant risks including 1985, directors did not distinguish their beneficial and non-beneficial interests.
social, environmental and ethical risks throughout the year.
This process Executive directors are also deemed to have an interest in such shares of the company held from time to time by BP QUEST Company Limited did not extend to joint ventures or associates.
and The BP Employee Share Ownership Plan No.
2 to facilitate the operation The executive management presented reports to the January of the companys option schemes.
and February 2005 meetings of both the audit and the ethics and No director has any interest in the preference shares or debentures of the environment assurance committees to support the board in its annual company, or in the shares or loan stock of any subsidiary company.
