Making the right choices The best routes to market In todays energy marketplace, bringing resources to the world involves far more than making deliveries.
It takes a business model that consistently finds the most efficient ways of getting there.
After years of building assets in the natural gas marketplace, BP is now one of the worlds largest non-state gas companies in terms of production and sales volumes.
In the worlds largest gas market, North America, we sell the largest volumes of end-user and wholesale gas, and are one of the largest marketers of natural gas liquids.
Globally, in liquefied natural gas we are the second largest non-state supplier of gas into liquefaction plants.
But our real advantage goes beyond our size and reach.
Its the way our people run our businesses the commercial and operational practices they use to open up markets for tomorrow and maximize the value of our resources today.
14 BP Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Building a mobile pipeline The distance between a natural gas field and a market can be measured in miles.
It can also be calculated in years.
BPs LNG strategy is bringing our gas closer to market.
To capture a growing share of future customers for cleaner natural gas, our LNG teams have built a flexible system to supply growing demand a mobile pipeline to serve major regional markets and meet the needs of customers in the US, UK, Spain, Japan, South Korea and China.
These locations increasingly rely on gas imports for primary energy and electricity needs, but they are often far from sources of natural gas.
LNG bridges the gap: gas is lifted from underground, chilled to liquid, transported on ships from one part of the world to another, and then warmed back into gas to fuel a power plant, factory or home.
As well as managing long-term point-to-point contracts, we are able to use our own ships to direct LNG to markets where demand is greatest and value highest opening new markets and using the open seas to supply them.
15 Making the right choices Flowing with information In the marketplace for oil and gas, one of the most valuable commodities is intelligence the ability to understand and interpret market information.
Youll find our people at this intersection of supply and demand.
Their minute-by-minute knowledge of the direction of supply and demand on a global basis is a discipline that allows our teams to find the most productive links between assets and across supply chains.
And to serve our customers distinctively and with competitive advantage.
We do this by making a significant investment in digital and communications technology.
We align that investment with a host of people capabilities human strengths in analysis, logistics, trading and risk management.
Our people use real-time data, information systems, transaction automation and their own trading wisdom to act on some of the best available market intelligence worldwide.
All this allows BP to connect the dots in ways that others might not see, giving our customers a better level of service.
Thats how we take decisions that help to make the most of our resources.
16 BP Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Fine-tuning refining In refining, what matters more processes or people?
Traditional industry benchmarks for operational excellence in the refining business focus on uptime, the reliability of plant and equipment and the productivity of the manufacturing process.
But people in our refining operations find that their individual actions large and small can help to set an even higher standard.
Since 2002, our global refining workforce has started thinking of reliability in personal terms.
By adopting the mindset of a High Reliability Organization HRO, decision-making happens at the level where the knowledge and expertise reside.
And this leads to faster, better decisions that drive consistent, high-quality operating performance and commercial production.
More than a management technique, HRO is a way of thinking that encourages team members to speak out, find root causes of problems and take action early when they catch even the smallest failures.
HRO is the way refining thinks best and the best way we know to perform reliably for our customers.
