Making the right choices Getting closer to customers Every day, in locations around the world, our people serve about 13 million customers.
To put this in perspective, our businesses and brands among them BP, Castrol, ARCO, Aral, Ultimate, Connect and am pm reach nearly as many customers as Wal-Mart, the worlds largest retailer.
But to be operationally excellent where our products meet the marketplace, our customer relationships have to be defined by quality as well as quantity the distinctiveness and competitiveness of what we offer and the operating processes that underpin customer experiences.
Our customer-facing businesses are gaining advantage and improving performance by carefully determining what customers want.
By being consistent and creative in meeting those needs.
By strengthening brands through innovation.
And by locating facilities where they can most effectively and conveniently deliver our offers.
18 BP Annual Report and Accounts 2004 ARCO has the largest retail fuels market share on the US West Coast.
Aral is the largest retail fuel marketer in Germany.
Its position has benefited from The BP brand is the rebadging of the strongly recognized BP network, largely throughout the world.
Awareness of the brand is growing through improved business offers and targeted communication efforts.
am pm is the preferred fuel station convenience store brand on the US West Coast.
Castrol is one of the topselling passenger car lubricants in the world.
Building a better brand In the minds of our customers, what our products stand for is just as important as what we make.
This means that not only our investment in assets but also every decision we make in choosing routes to market must be sustained by careful management of our brands.
As the face of BP, our brands are more than just logos.
In combination with the well-defined advantages of our products, they tell a compelling story to our customers the kind that builds preferences and sustains relationships.
Which is why our brands rely on operational excellence.
They include Ultimate, which is consistently ranked as the highest quality premium retail fuel by random samples of motorists.
In lubricants, our Castrol brand has used its technological advantage, rigorous segmentation and customer loyalty to drive sales consistently ahead of market growth.
Our updated and expanded retail locations are accelerating operating performance, increasing customers and driving sales per square metre.
Applying operational excellence to the marketplace makes our brands more meaningful and our businesses more valuable.
19 Making the right choices Driven by distinctiveness In striving for operational excellence, where you choose to compete is often as important as how efficiently you do it.
BPs lubricants team has proved that effective strategic choices in market segmentation, customer relationships and brand visibility can enhance the value of assets and accelerate growth.
In global lubricants markets, characterized by limited volume growth and increasing competitive pressure, BP stands out.
Our marketing strength, technological distinctiveness and premium position have led to above-market year-on-year sales growth in automotive lubricants.
While we sell lubricants, led by Castrol, in more than100 countries worldwide, our people think in terms of market segments motorcycles, passenger cars, trucks and vehicle manufacturers rather than marketplaces.
This perspective allows them to capture customers for whom our technology, consumer insight and brands add value and can generate higher returns for BP.
In applying this strategy to new markets such as China, where lubricants growth is dramatic and preferences form quickly, our teams are already capitalizing on the strength of our brands to build distribution channels, market share and customer loyalty.
20 BP Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Solving the solar equation We all know the appeal of solar power sustainability, acceptability and independence.
Yet its potential as an energy source has often been overshadowed by its economics as a business.
Beginning in 2003, our BP solar team refocused its activities to become the profit centre that it could be better understanding customers, operating at the right scale and reaching the best markets.
Were now running a profitable solar operation still small by BP standards, but one that grew its megawatt capacity sales of photovoltaic equipment by more than 30% in 2004.
This performance is being driven by manufacturing consolidation, product innovation and, in particular, the teams focus on eight global sectors where well-defined customer needs, improved system performance and government incentives converge.
A good example is Germany, the worlds second largest solar market after Japan.
Our large commercial installation at Geiseltalsee above provides sustainable benefits on two fronts: the field generates four megawatts of power, enough to supply 1,000 four-person households each year, and has reclaimed the site of a former oil depot.
