Financial and business operating review Business performance Segment results $ million 2004 19,759 Exploration and Production 2003 16,232 Strategy Focus Create new profit centres by accessing areas with the BP invests in a portfolio of large, lower-cost oil and natural potential for large oil and natural gas fields: exploring gas fields chosen for their potentially strong return on capital successfully: and pursuing the best projects for development.
employed, and seeks to manage those assets safely with Manage the performance of producing assets by investing maximum capital and operating efficiency.
We continue to in the best available opportunities and optimizing operating develop new profit centres in which we have a distinctive efficiency.
position: Trinidad, Angola, Azerbaijan, deepwater Gulf of Sell assets that are no longer strategic to us and have Mexico, Asia Pacific gas and Algeria.
These new profit centres, greater value to others.
in addition to our growing operations in Russia, augment the production assets in our existing profit centres, providing greater reach, investment choice and opportunity for growth.
Exploration and Production which is Trinidad and Tobagos first major in-country offshore The result for the year was a record $19,759 million, construction project.
representing an improvement of 22% over 2003, arising In Azerbaijan, construction continued on the Central Azeri from increased production and higher oil and gas prices.
field, with topsides commissioning under way.
First oil is Our production was 3,997 thousand barrels of oil equivalent expected in the first half of 2005.
We plan to transport this per day, an increase of more than 10% over 2003, primarily oil via the 1,760-kilometre Baku-Tbilisi-Ceyhan BTC pipeline.
from incremental production in TNK-BP and our new profit When complete, the pipeline will export crude oil from the centres.
The increase was partly offset by a severe hurricane Caspian to world markets.
In addition, construction continued on season in the Gulf of Mexico, a blow-out at the non-BP-operated the Shah Deniz gas field, and in-country assembly of the drilling Temsah platform in Egypt, the impact of divestments and rig and platform is under way for a planned 2006 start-up.
decline in our existing profit centres.
In the Gulf of Mexico, the Holstein field started production We sanctioned four new major projects Azeri-Chiragin December, despite the effects of Hurricane Ivan.
In 2004, Gunashli phase three in Azerbaijan, Rosa in Angola, Magnus significant progress was made on Mad Dog, currently in the extension in the UK North Sea and viscous oil in Alaska and final commissioning stages with first production expected in completed four major projects In Salah in Algeria, Australia early 2005, and on Thunder Horse, on track to begin production North West Shelf Train 4, Kizomba A in Angola and Holstein in by the end of 2005.
This will be followed by Atlantis, with first the Gulf of Mexico.
The increase in capital spending this year production expected in 2006. primarily reflected continued high development activity as In Angola, the Kizomba A field started production in August, we progressed projects in the new profit centres.
Despite ahead of schedule, while Kizomba B remains on track for significant success across the supply chain to minimize the start-up in late 2005.
All major contracts were awarded on impact, inflationary pressures on our raw materials and the the Greater Plutonio development and fabrication of the weaker dollar contributed to the increase.
Floating Production Storage and Offloading topsides began.
Progress continued in our existing profit centres.
Production In Algeria, the In Salah project started production in midfrom the Cerro Dragon field in Argentina grew through further 2004 and the In Amenas project remains on track for start-up infill drilling.
In the North Sea, progress continued as expected in late 2005-early 2006. on the Rhum development.
Oil production from TNK-BP excluding Slavneft grew Each of our new profit centres progressed in line with our by about 14% over 2003.
Our result for the year included expectations this year.
We also received $1.9 billion of cash In Trinidad, from where BP has prime access to US and dividends from the venture.
European liquefied natural gas LNG markets, we built on We continually seek to enhance our portfolio through a our integrated position.
In July, Atlas Methanol, the worlds planned annual divestment programme.
largest methanol plant, came on line.
Train 4 of Atlantic LNG In 2004, this yielded $747 million of proceeds and covered remains on track for start-up in the fourth quarter of 2005. assets primarily in Indonesia, the US and Canada.
We also It will be supplied in part by the Cannonball gas development, signed sales and purchase agreements for the Ormen 26 BP Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Segment results $ million 2004 5,603 Refining and Marketing 2003 3,144 Strategy Focus Focus on refining locations where scale, configuration and Our marketing businesses, underpinned by world-class operational excellence earn distinctive returns.
manufacturing, generate customer value by providing quality Focus on retail fuel and convenience markets where supply products and offers.
Our retail, lubricants and business-toadvantage and distinctive offer can capture market share.
business sectors reach about 13 million customers a day.
Leverage our brand and technology with a key focus on Our retail strategy provides differentiated fuel and convenience automotive-related lubricants markets.
offers to some of the most attractive global markets.
Our Build strong strategic relationships in the  brands offer customers benefits through technology business sector.
We have deep business-to-business customer Enhance our existing strength in selected emerging relationships and strategic partnerships.
We seek to improve markets, particularly China.
the quality of our manufacturing portfolio and our products.
Lange field in Norway, which is planned to complete in investment to increase the quality of our portfolio and from early 2005. our focus on operational excellence.
Owing to increased crude New oil and gas discoveries were made in Egypt, Angola, product and base oil prices, margins overall declined slightly the deepwater Gulf of Mexico, Trinidad and offshore Sakhalin against those of 2003.
We continued to strengthen our Island in Russia.
Recoverable oil and gas from these finds is competitive position in all our operations through improved estimated to be more than one billion barrels of oil equivalent.
site operating models and the development of distinctive On the basis of UK generally accepted accounting practice offers for customers.
SORP, our proved reserves replacement ratio RRR was Our investment in China deepened through two new joint 106%, excluding equity-accounted entities.
On the same basis, ventures with PetroChina and Sinopec.
We continued to including equity-accounted entities, the RRR was 110%.
This review our portfolio, resulting in the disposal of our refining, was the 12th consecutive year in which our RRR was greater retail and liquefied petroleum gas LPG businesses in than 100%.
We also prepare estimates of our proved reserves Singapore, while further retail network asset disposals were on the basis of the rules and interpretation required by the completed in 2004.
From 1 January 2005, the Aromatics and US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC.
On this basis, Acetyls businesses will join the segment and the Lavra and our RRR was 78%, excluding equity-accounted entities, and Grangemouth refineries will be included in the Olefins and 89%, including equity-accounted entities.
The differences from Derivatives business.
our SORP-based estimates arise mainly from the use of yearA record performance for the refining business was end pricing, as required by the SEC.
All our proved reserves underpinned by strong product demand and good availability, replacement ratios are based on discoveries, extensions, which averaged 95.4% in 2004.
We concentrated on revisions and improved recovery and exclude the effects of optimizing our assets and taking advantage of our global acquisitions and disposals.
BP has a robust internal process scale and presence.
Focus on supply optimization, feedstock to control the quality of its reserve bookings, which forms selection and product value maximization helped us to part of a holistic and integrated system of internal control.
BPs Global Indicator Refining Margin Details of that process and the applicable rules are described was $6.08 a barrel, up from $3.88 in 2003.
Total global on pages 87-88. refining throughput was down by about 4% as a result of planned disposals.
Refining and Marketing In our retail business, the number of sites carrying the Strong refining margins, combined with robust operating BP helios expanded to 19,828 worldwide during 2004.
We performance, led to a result of $5,603 million in 2004, a launched Ultimate gasoline and diesel fuels in Australia, 78% improvement from 2003.
The relative weakening of Austria, France, Germany, Poland and Portugal.
These enhanced the US dollar compared with the euro and sterling negatively products deliver improved performance with fewer emissions affected results.
than standard fuel grades, and have received positive In our marketing businesses, strongly competitive sales responses from customers.
This resulted both from our In our lubricants business, we focused on pursuing key 27 Financial and business operating review Segment results $ million 2004 -900 Petrochemicals 2003 568 Strategy Focus the overall portfolio on areas with competitive Separate the portfolio, enabling the individual parts to advantage and restructure other assets.
develop strategic paths that deliver distinctive returns.
We plan to divest the Olefins and Derivatives business, possibly Focus starting with an Initial Public Offering in the second half of Our petrochemicals businesses have significant global market 2005, subject to market conditions and necessary approvals.
positions, underpinned by leading proprietary technology and Integrate the Aromatics and Acetyls businesses within the strong manufacturing capabilities.
Our activities focus on those Refining and Marketing segment, gaining operational and areas with a distinctive and significant competitive position.
Maintain leading market shares and Our products are ultimately used to service a wide range technology in these high-growth businesses, with a strong of consumer applications, increasingly in the fast-growing presence in Asia.
markets of Asia Pacific and China in particular.
customer segments and markets where we believe we have In 2004, we announced that, from 1 January 2005, the a premium position.
Our brands continued to experience Olefins and Derivatives O&D business would operate on above-market volume growth, supported by new marketing a standalone basis within the BP group.
We plan to divest the initiatives.
Growth was particularly strong in Asia, with Castrol O&D business, possibly starting with an Initial Public Offering BikeZone successfully launched in India and Vietnam.
New in the second half of 2005, subject to market conditions and product launches took place across the world, including the receipt of necessary approvals.
The O&D business markets Castrol GTX Start Up in the US and Castrol GTX High Mileage a wide range of petrochemicals, manufactured in more than in Europe.
2004 was also a good year for business-to-business fuels During 2004, several initiatives were announced, designed marketing activity in both margin and volume, particularly in the to strengthen the competitive standing of the O&D business.
This was partially offset by margin The Grangemouth and Lavra refineries will be incorporated squeeze and price lag in the lubricants and LPG businesses, into O&D, so preserving the opportunity to enhance further although volume demand remained robust.
We also successfully the benefits of site integration with their neighbouring launched the innovative new BP Gaslight composite LPG petrochemicals operations.
BP also agreed to acquire cylinder and Castrol TLX Plus in marine lubricants.
Solvays interests in the two BP Solvay high-density polyethylene ventures for inclusion in O&D.
Finally, Nova Petrochemicals Chemicals and O&D agreed in principle to combine their Petrochemicals result was a loss of $900 million in 2004. respective styrene polymer interests in a joint venture, Record sales and production volumes, underpinned by creating a major European polystyrene operation.
Subject strong demand and by increased utilization and reliability to regulatory approval, the joint venture is expected to at manufacturing sites, were more than offset by higher start in mid-2005.
BP will retain the Aromatics and Acetyls A&A operations Focus on commercial and operational excellence, together as an important part of its customer-facing activities.
The A&A with generally improved market conditions, accelerated businesses have among the largest global market shares and performance.
Margin expansion was achieved despite high advanced technologies in these high-growth sectors.
BP aims and volatile prices for energy and feedstocks.
to grow the A&A businesses and several ongoing expansion The segment continued to upgrade its portfolio, focusing on projects in Asia will start up in 2005. areas with competitive advantage.
As a consequence, several With the announced changes, the Petrochemicals segment businesses that did not meet our strategic and financial criteria ceased to report separately as from 1 January 2005.
The were sold, together with the announced closure of several A&A operations will be included within the Refining and manufacturing units.
Substantial progress was made in Marketing segment: the O&D business will report within constructing the SECCO chemicals complex near Shanghai Other businesses and corporate.
The new structure is BP 50% and expanding the Chocolate Bayou olefins operation designed to offer the greatest opportunity for further in Texas.
Output from these investments is expected in 2005. improvement in overall performance and financial returns.
28 BP Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Segment results $ million 2004 943 Gas, Power and Renewables 2003 570 Strategy Focus Capture distinctive world-scale market positions ahead In line with changing demand patterns for cleaner fuels, of supply.
BP seeks to participate at scale in the fast-growing markets Expand gross margin by providing distinctive products to for natural gas, gas liquids and solar energy.
We currently hold selected customer segments and optimizing the gas and some of the largest market shares in volumes sold in North power value chains.
American gas and natural gas liquids NGLs and significant Build a sustainable solar business and continue to strength in both the liquefied natural gas LNG and solar global assess the application of renewable and alternative markets.
We are expanding our LNG business by accessing energy sources.
import terminals in Asia Pacific, North America and Europe.
Gas, Power and Renewables value of the groups gas supplies from Trinidad, Egypt The result for the year was $943 million, an increase of 65% and elsewhere.
over 2003 and underpinned by record sales volumes achieved In the NGLs business, we maintained our position in North across all four principal business areas of LNG, NGLs, gas America as one of the largest marketers and producers in marketing and solar.
The NGLs business benefited from a firm terms of production and sales volumes.
There we had a very market environment by increasing sales by 14% and achieving strong year, benefiting from the high prices of NGLs seen high levels of availability.
Sales of natural gas increased by during 2004 and the wide differences between natural gas 4%, while volumes of gas supplied into liquefaction plants feedstocks and liquids prices, which give higher earnings.
The solar business grew sales by 38% and In Egypt, a new NGLs extraction plant BP 33.33% began delivered a full-year operating profit for the first time.
gas processing at Port Said.
We took a number of important steps to access major Our gas marketing and trading business had a good year, growth markets for the groups equity gas.
In Asia Pacific, with an operating result ahead of 2003s record performance.
agreements for the supply of LNG from the proposed Tangguh In North America, we are the largest gas marketer in volumes development in Indonesia BP 37.16% were signed with sold to end-use and wholesale markets and have a growing POSCO and K Power for supply to South Korea and with power marketing and trading business.
Our marketing and Sempra for supply to Mexico and US markets.
Together trading scale and scope provide exemplary market access with an earlier agreement to supply LNG to China, more for the groups North American equity gas production and than seven million tonnes a year of Tangguh LNG have been LNG imports.
We secured long-term capacity in several new secured.
This was a significant factor in the decision to sanction western US pipeline projects to support expected Rockies the development in early 2005. production growth and avoid capacity constraints seen in the In the Atlantic and Mediterranean regions, significant past.
We continued to expand our market presence in North progress was also made in creating opportunities to supply America by acquiring two gas marketing companies and LNG to North American and European gas markets.
In Egypt, extending two key energy alliance agreements.
we signed agreements to supply gas to the Damietta LNG Our solar business saw a record year, with strong sales plant and to purchase 1.45 billion cubic metres per year of growth, a positive operating result and positive cash flow.
LNG for supply to world markets.
Agreements finalized with The business benefited from the restructuring undertaken NGT Transco will make BP and Sonatrach of Algeria the first in 2003, which reduced the cost of supply, and also from companies since the 1980s to import LNG into the UK market strong industry demand, which is supporting higher from 2005. revenues.
We reduced product lines and distributors and Plans for the development of new LNG import terminals on improved customer focus and brand loyalty.
Our global lean the US East and Gulf coasts made good progress.
These new manufacturing initiative delivered major improvements in access points to market, together with existing capacity rights productivity, and production from our main operating facilities at Cove Point in Maryland, US, Bilbao in Spain and Isle of Grain, in Madrid, Spain, and Frederick, US, was stepped up to supply UK, should provide important opportunities to maximize the the higher sales.
