Other financial issues Critical accounting policies not give rise to gains or losses.
This treatment is in line with BP prepares its financial statements in accordance with the accounting for purchases and sales of own shares set out UK generally accepted accounting practice UK GAAP.
The in Urgent Issues Task Force Abstract No.
37 Purchases and groups significant accounting policies are summarized on Sales of Own Shares Abstract No.
37 requires a holding of an entitys own shares The accounts for the year ended 31 December 2004 have to be accounted for as a deduction in arriving at shareholders been prepared using accounting policies consistent with those funds, rather than being recorded as assets.
Transactions in adopted in the preparation of the 2003 accounts, except for an entitys own shares are similarly recorded as changes in the change in accounting policy for pensions and other postshareholders funds and do not give rise to gains or losses.
retirement benefits and for shares held in employee share Abstract No.
37 applies where a company purchases treasury ownership plans for the benefit of employee share schemes.
shares under new legislation that came into effect in Segment information for 2003 has been restated to reflect December 2003. the transfer of the natural gas liquids NGLs activities from Urgent Issues Task Force Abstract No.
17 Employee share Exploration and Production to Gas, Power and Renewables.
17 was amended by Abstract No.
38 Inherent in the application of many of the accounting policies to reflect the consequences for the profit and loss account of used in the preparation of the financial statements is the need the changes in the presentation of an entitys own shares held for BP management to make estimates and assumptions that by an ESOP trust.
17 requires that the affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date minimum expense should be the difference between the fair of the accounts and the reported amounts of revenues and value of the shares at the date of award and the amount that expenses during the reporting period.
Actual outcomes could an employee may be required to pay for the shares i. e. the differ from the estimates and assumptions used.
intrinsic value of the award.
The expense was previously The following summary provides further information about determined either as the intrinsic value or, where purchases the critical accounting policies that could have a significant of shares had been made by an ESOP trust at fair value, impact on the results of the group and should be read in by reference to the cost or book value of shares that were conjunction with the Notes on Accounts.
The accounting policies and areas that require the most These changes in accounting policy have resulted in a prior significant judgements and estimates to be used in the year adjustment.
BP shareholders interest at 1 January 2003 preparation of the consolidated financial statements are in has been reduced by $5,760 million and the profit for the year relation to oil and natural gas accounting, including the ended 31 December 2003 increased by $215 million.
estimation of reserves: impairment: and provisions for deferred taxation, decommissioning, environmental liabilities, pensions Oil and natural gas accounting Accounting for oil and gas and other post-retirement benefits.
exploration activity is subject to special accounting rules that are unique to the oil and gas industry.
In the UK, these are Accounting policy changes in 2004 contained in the Statement of Recommended Practice SORP From 1 January 2004, BP changed its accounting policies for Accounting for Oil and Gas Exploration, Development, pensions and other post-retirement benefits.
In addition, BP also Production and Decommissioning Activities.
changed its accounting policy for shares held in employee share The group follows the successful efforts method of accounting ownership plans for the benefit of employee share schemes.
for its oil and natural gas exploration and production activities.
With effect from 1 January 2004, BP has adopted a new The acquisition of geological and geophysical seismic UK accounting standard: Financial Reporting Standard No.
17 information, prior to the discovery of proved reserves, is Retirement Benefits FRS 17.
FRS 17 requires that the assets expensed as incurred, similar to accounting for research and liabilities arising from an employers retirement benefit and development costs.
obligations and any related funding should be included in the Licence and property acquisition costs are initially capitalized financial statements at fair value and that the operating costs of as unproved properties within intangible assets.
These costs providing retirement benefits to employees should be recognized are amortized on a straight-line basis until such time as either in the income statement in the periods in which the benefits exploration drilling is determined to be successful or it is are earned by employees.
This contrasts with SSAP 24, which unsuccessful and all costs are written off.
Licence and requires the cost of providing pensions to be recognized on a property acquisition costs are not subject to periodic systematic and rational basis over the period during which the assessments for impairment.
employer benefits from the employees services.
The difference For exploration wells, costs directly associated with the between the amount charged in the income statement and the drilling of wells are temporarily capitalized within intangible amount paid as contributions into the pension fund is shown as fixed assets, pending determination of whether potentially a prepayment or provision on the balance sheet.
economic oil and gas reserves have been discovered by the Urgent Issues Task Force Abstract No.
These costs include employee remuneration, Employee Share Ownership Plan ESOP Trusts Abstract No.
38 materials and fuel used, rig costs, delay rentals and payments changes the presentation of an entitys own shares held in an made to contractors.
This is usually made within one year ESOP trust from requiring them to be recognized as assets after well completion, but can take longer, depending on to requiring them to be deducted in arriving at shareholders the complexity of the geologic structure.
Transactions in an entitys own shares by an ESOP trust encounter potentially economic oil and gas quantities, the well are similarly recorded as changes in shareholders funds and do costs are expensed as a dry hole and are reported in exploration 32 BP Annual Report and Accounts 2004 expense.
Exploration wells that discover potentially economic Internal approval and final investment decision are what we quantities of oil and gas and are in areas where major capital refer to as project sanction.
expenditure e. g. offshore platform or a pipeline would be At the point of sanction, all booked reserves will be required before production could begin, and where the economic categorized as proved undeveloped PUD.
Volumes will viability of that major capital expenditure depends upon the subsequently be recategorized from PUD to proved developed successful completion of further exploration work in the area, PD as a consequence of development activity.
The first PD remain capitalized on the balance sheet as long as additional bookings will occur at the point of first oil or gas production.
exploration appraisal work is under way or firmly planned.
Major development projects typically take one to four years from For complicated offshore exploration discoveries, it is not the time of initial booking to the start of production.
Adjustments unusual to have exploration wells remaining suspended on the may be made to booked reserves due to production, reservoir balance sheet for several years while additional appraisal drilling performance, commercial factors, acquisition and divestment and seismic work on the potential oil and gas field is performed activity and additional reservoir development activity.
or while the optimum development plans and timing are The group reassesses its estimate of proved reserves on an established.
As with licence and property acquisition costs, annual basis.
The estimated proved reserves of oil and natural there is no periodic impairment assessment of suspended gas are subject to future revision.
As discussed below, oil and exploration well costs.
All such carried costs are subject to natural gas reserves have a direct impact on certain amounts regular technical, commercial and management review, on reported in the financial statements.
at least an annual basis, to confirm the continued intent to Proved reserves do not include reserves that are dependent on develop, or otherwise extract value from, the discovery.
If this the renewal of exploration and production licences unless there is no longer the case, the costs are immediately expensed.
is strong evidence to support the assumption of such renewal.
Once a project is sanctioned for development, the carrying The group estimates its reserves of oil and natural gas values of licence and property acquisition costs and exploration according to the UK Statement of Recommended Practice.
This and appraisal costs are transferred to production assets within differs from the basis for determining reserves required by the tangible assets.
US Securities and Exchange Commission.
Estimates of the The capitalized exploration and development costs for proved groups proved reserves of oil and natural gas are shown on oil and gas properties which include the costs of drilling pages 87-92, together with more information about the groups unsuccessful wells are amortized on the basis of oil-equivalent processes for booking reserves and the difference between barrels that are produced in a period as a percentage of the the reserves determined for the group's UK and US reporting.
The estimated proved reserves used in these unit-of-production calculations vary with the Impairment of fixed assets and goodwill BP assesses its fixed nature of the capitalized expenditure.
The reserves used in the assets, including goodwill, for possible impairment if there are calculation of the unit-of-production amortization are as follows: events or changes in circumstances that indicate that carrying a Proved developed reserves for producing wells.
values of the assets may not be recoverable.
Such indicators b Total proved reserves for development costs.
include changes in the groups business plans, changes in c Total proved reserves for licence and property commodity prices leading to unprofitable performance and, acquisition costs.
for oil and gas properties, significant downward revisions of d Total proved reserves for future decommissioning costs.
The assessment for The impact of changes in estimated proved reserves is dealt impairment entails comparing the carrying value of the incomewith prospectively by amortizing the remaining book value generating unit and associated goodwill with the recoverable of the asset over the expected future production.
If proved amount of the asset, that is, the higher of net realizable value reserve estimates are revised downwards, earnings could and value in use.
Value in use is usually determined on the be affected by higher depreciation expense or an immediate basis of discounted estimated future net cash flows.
write-down of the propertys book value see discussion of Determination as to whether and how much an asset is impairment of fixed assets and goodwill below.
impaired involves management estimates on highly uncertain Given the large number of producing fields in the groups matters such as future commodity prices, the effects of portfolio, it is unlikely that any changes in reserve estimates, inflation and technology improvements on operating expenses, year on year, will have a significant effect on prospective production profiles and the outlook for global or regional charges for depreciation.
market supply-and-demand conditions for crude oil, natural gas, commodity chemicals and refined products.
Oil and natural gas reserves The group manages its For oil and natural gas properties, the expected future cash hydrocarbon resources in three major categories: prospect flows are estimated based on the groups plans to continue inventory, non-proved reserves and proved reserves.
When to produce and develop proved and associated risk-adjusted a discovery is made, volumes transfer from the prospect probable and possible reserves.
Expected future cash flows inventory to the non-proved reserve category.
The reserves from the sale or production of reserves are calculated based on move through various non-proved reserves sub-categories as the groups best estimate of future oil and gas prices.
Previously, their technical and commercial maturity increases through these were a Brent Oil price of $20 per barrel and a Henry Hub appraisal activity.
Reserves in a field will only be categorized gas price of $3.50 per mmBtu.
Beginning in the fourth quarter of as proved when all the criteria for attribution of proved status 2004, this has been modified.
Prices used for future cash flow have been met, including an internally imposed requirement for calculations are assumed to decline from existing levels in project sanction, or for sanction expected within six months.
equal steps over the next three years to the long-term planning 33 Other financial issues assumptions currently $20 $3.50 for Brent and Henry Hub.
obligation at 31 December 2004 was 2.0%, 0.5% lower These long-term planning assumptions are subject to periodic than at the previous balance sheet date.
The estimated future level of production is based on assumptions about future commodity prices, lifting Pensions and other post-retirement benefits Accounting and development costs, field decline rates, market demand for pensions and other post-retirement benefits involves and supply, economic regulatory climates and other factors.
judgement about uncertain events, including estimated Charges for impairment are recognized in the groups results retirement dates, salary levels at retirement, mortality rates, from time to time as a result of, among other factors, adverse rates of return on plan assets, determination of discount rates changes in the recoverable reserves from oil and natural gas for measuring plan obligations, healthcare cost-trend rates and fields, low plant utilization or reduced profitability.
If there rates of utilization of healthcare services by retirees.
These are low oil prices or natural gas prices or refining margins assumptions are based on the environment in each country.
or chemicals margins over an extended period, the group Determination of the projected benefit obligations for the may need to recognize significant impairment charges.
groups defined benefit pension and post-retirement plans is important to the recorded amounts for such obligations on the Deferred taxation The group has approximately $7.7 billion of balance sheet and to the amount of benefit expense in the carry-forward tax losses in the UK and Germany, which would income statement.
The assumptions used may vary from year be available to offset against future taxable income.
It is to year, which will affect future results of operations.
Any unlikely that the groups effective tax rate will be significantly differences between these assumptions and the actual affected in the near term by utilization of losses not previously outcome also affect future results of operations.
recognized as deferred tax assets.
Carry-forward tax losses in Pension and other post-retirement benefit assumptions other taxing jurisdictions have not been recognized as deferred are discussed and agreed with the independent actuaries in tax assets, and are unlikely to have a significant effect on the December each year.
These assumptions are used to determine groups tax rate in future years.
the projected benefit obligation at the year end and hence the Deferred taxation is not generally provided in respect of surplus and deficits recorded on the groups balance sheet, and liabilities that may arise on the distribution of accumulated pension and post-retirement expense for the following year.
reserves of overseas subsidiaries, joint ventures and associated undertakings.
Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards An International Accounting Standards Regulation was Decommissioning costs The group holds provisions for the adopted by the Council of the European Union EU in June future decommissioning of oil and natural gas production 2002.
This regulation requires all EU companies listed on an facilities and pipelines at the end of their economic lives.
EU stock exchange to use endorsed International Financial The largest asset removal obligations facing BP relate to the Reporting Standards IFRS, published by the International removal and disposal of oil and natural gas platforms and Accounting Standards Board IASB, to report their consolidated pipelines around the world.
The estimated discounted costs of results with effect from 1 January 2005.
The IASB completed dismantling and removing these facilities are accrued on the its development of IFRS to be adopted in 2005 during the first installation of those facilities, reflecting our legal obligations at half of 2004, but has also published certain amendments and that time.
Most of these removal events are many years in the interpretations of IFRS which would be available for early future and the precise requirements that will have to be met adoption if endorsed by the EU.
when the removal event actually occurs are uncertain.
Asset The process of endorsement of IFRS by the EU to allow removal technologies and costs are constantly changing, as adoption by companies in 2005 is well advanced but not well as political, environmental, safety and public expectations.
Consequently, the timing and amounts of future cash flows are BPs project team includes a broadly based representation subject to significant uncertainty.
from across the group designed to plan for and achieve a The timing and amount of future expenditures are reviewed smooth transition to IFRS.
The project team has examined annually, together with the interest rate to be used in discounting all implementation aspects, including changes to accounting the cash flows.
The interest rate used to determine the balance policies, the presentation of the groups results, systems sheet obligation at the end of 2004 was 2.0%, 0.5% lower than impacts and the wider business issues that may arise from at the end of 2003.
The interest rate represents the real rate such a fundamental change.
The group is now prepared to i. e. adjusted for inflation on long-dated government bonds.
report its results from the first quarter of 2005 onwards using IFRS.
However, the implementation may still be affected by Environmental costs BP also makes judgements and estimates developments in the IASBs standard-setting process and the in recording costs and establishing provisions for environmental endorsement of standards and interpretations by the EU.
clean-up and remediation costs, which are based on current The group has decided that, for the purposes of the information on costs and expected plans for remediation.
restatement of prior periods currently reported under UK GAAP, For environmental provisions, actual costs can differ from the date of transition to IFRS is 1 January 2003.
However, in estimates because of changes in laws and regulations, public accordance with the provisions of IFRS 1, the date of adoption expectations, discovery and analysis of site conditions and of IAS Nos.
32 and 39, which deal with the recognition and changes in clean-up technology.
presentation of financial instruments, is set at 1 January 2005, The provision for environmental liabilities is reviewed at least with no restatement of prior periods results.
The interest rate used to determine the balance sheet We are in the process of finalizing the restatements of the 34 BP Annual Report and Accounts 2004 results and financial position for 2003 and 2004 under IFRS, instruments such as swaps, over-the-counter options and and intend to release this information in mid-March 2005. forward contracts.
Our current view is that the major effects of changing from our Where derivatives constitute a hedge, the groups exposure current accounting practice to IFRS are in the following areas: to market risk created by the derivative is offset by the goodwill acquired in a business combination: deferred tax opposite exposure arising from the asset, liability, cash flow or related to business combinations and in respect of the valuation transaction being hedged.
By contrast, where derivatives are of stocks: accounting for items falling within the scope of held for trading purposes, changes in market risk factors give IAS Nos.
32 and 39, including embedded derivatives and hedge rise to gains and losses, which are recognized in earnings in accounting: the treatment of major overhaul expenditure: the current period.
exchanges of fixed assets: recognition of dividend liabilities: and share-based payments.
Certain joint arrangements with third Currency exchange rates Fluctuations in exchange rates can parties, where BP currently accounts for its share of individual have significant effects on the groups reported profit.
The effects assets, liabilities, income and expense, will be accounted for of most exchange rate fluctuations are absorbed in business using the equity method, resulting in reclassifications within operating results through changing cost-competitiveness, lags the income statement and balance sheet.
in market adjustment to movements in rates and conversion differences accounted for on specific transactions.
For this Financial risk management reason, the total effect of exchange rate fluctuations is not The group co-ordinates certain key activities on a global basis identifiable separately in the groups reported profit.
in order to optimize its financial position and performance.
The main underlying economic currency of the groups cash These include the management of the currency, maturity and flows is the US dollar.
This is because BPs major products are interest rate profile of finance debt, cash, other significant priced internationally in US dollars.
BPs foreign exchange financial risks and relationships with banks and other financial management policy is to minimize economic and significant institutions.
International oil, natural gas and power trading and transactional exposures arising from currency movements risk management relating to business operations are carried against the US dollar.
The group co-ordinates the handling out by the groups oil, natural gas and power trading units.
of foreign exchange risks centrally, by netting off naturally The main financial risks faced by the group through its occurring opposite exposures wherever possible, to reduce normal business activities are market risk, credit risk and the risks, and then dealing with any material residual foreign liquidity risk.
These risks and the groups approach to dealing exchange risks.
Significant residual non-dollar exposures are with them are discussed below.
managed using a range of derivatives.
The adoption of IFRS from 1 January 2005 does not In addition, most group borrowings are in US dollars or are fundamentally change BPs approach to managing financial risk.
hedged with respect to the US dollar.
The new requirement may, however, introduce some volatility into earnings for the recognition and measurement of certain Interest rates The group is exposed to interest rate risk on financial instruments.
shortand long-term floating rate instruments and as a result of the refinancing of fixed rate finance debt.
The group is exposed Market risk Market risk is the possibility that changes in currency predominantly to US dollar LIBOR London Inter-Bank Offer exchange rates, interest rates or oil, natural gas and power Rate interest rates as borrowings are mainly denominated in, prices will adversely affect the value of the groups financial or are swapped into, US dollars.
The group uses derivatives assets, liabilities or expected future cash flows.
Market risks are to manage the balance between fixed and floating rate debt.
The group also trades derivatives in conjunction with these risk management activities.
Oil, natural gas and power prices BPs trading function uses All derivative activity, whether for risk management or trading, financial and commodity derivatives as part of the overall is carried out by specialist teams who have the appropriate optimization of the value of the groups equity oil production skills, experience and supervision.
These teams are subject and as part of the associated trading of crude oil, products to close financial and management control.
The appropriate and related instruments.
It also uses financial and commodity governance, control framework and reporting processes are in derivatives to manage certain of the groups exposures to price place to oversee these internal control and risk management fluctuations on natural gas and power transactions.
On an ongoing basis, an independent control function monitors compliance with BP's policies that are in line with Credit risk Credit risk is the potential exposure of the group generally accepted industry practice, reflecting the principles to loss in the event of non-performance by a counterparty.
The of the Group of Thirty Global Derivatives Study.
The control credit risk arising from the groups normal commercial operations framework includes prescribed trading limits that are reviewed is controlled by individual operating units within guidelines.
In regularly by senior management, daily monitoring of risk addition, as a result of its use of derivatives to manage market exposure using value-at-risk principles, marking trading risk, the group has credit exposures through its dealings in exposures to market and stress testing to assess the exposure the financial and specialized oil, natural gas and power markets.
to potentially extreme market situations.
The group controls the related credit risk through credit For market risk management and trading, conventional approvals, limits, use of netting arrangements and monitoring exchange-traded derivative instruments such as futures procedures.
Counterparty credit validation, independent of the and options are used, as well as non-exchange-traded dealers, is undertaken before contractual commitment.
35 Other financial issues Concentrations of credit risk The primary activities of the Environmental operating and capital expenditures for 2004 group are oil and natural gas exploration and production, gas were broadly in line with 2003.
Similar levels of operating and and power marketing and trading, oil refining and marketing capital expenditures are expected in the foreseeable future.
In and the manufacture and marketing of petrochemicals.
The addition to operating and capital expenditures, we also create groups principal customers, suppliers and financial institutions provisions for future environmental remediation.
Expenditure with which it conducts business are located throughout the against such provisions is normally in subsequent periods and world.
The credit ratings of interest rate and currency swap is not included in environmental operating expenditure reported counterparties are all of at least investment grade.
The credit for such periods.
The charge for environmental remediation quality is actively managed over the life of the swap.
provisions in 2004 includes $484 million resulting from a reassessment of existing site obligations and $104 million Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that suitable sources of in respect of provisions for new sites.
funding for the groups business activities may not be available.
Provisions for environmental remediation are made when a The group has long-term debt ratings of Aa1 and AA assigned clean-up is probable and the amount reasonably determinable.
respectively by Moodys and Standard and Poors.
The group Generally, their timing coincides with commitment to a formal has access to a wide range of funding at competitive rates plan of action or, if earlier, on divestment or on closure of through the capital markets and banks.
relationships with banks, borrowing requirements, foreign The extent and cost of future remediation programmes are exchange requirements and cash management centrally.
They depend on the scale of The group believes it has access to sufficient funding and any possible contamination, the timing and extent of corrective also has undrawn committed borrowing facilities to meet actions and also the groups share of liability.
Although the currently foreseeable borrowing requirements.
cost of any future remediation could be significant and may At 31 December 2004, the group had substantial amounts be material to the result of operations in the period in which of undrawn borrowing facilities available, including committed it is recognized, we do not expect that such costs will have a facilities of $4,500 million expiring in 2005 $3,700 million expiring material effect on the groups financial position or liquidity.
These facilities are with a number of international believe our provisions are sufficient for known requirements: banks and borrowings under them would be at pre-agreed and we do not believe that our costs will differ significantly from rates.
The group expects to renew these facilities on an annual those of other companies engaged in similar industries, or that basis.
Certain of these facilities support the groups commercial our competitive position will be adversely affected as a result.
In addition, we make provisions over the useful lives of our oiland gas-producing assets and related pipelines to Insurance meet the cost of eventual decommissioning.
Provisions The group generally restricts its purchase of insurance to for environmental remediation and decommissioning are situations where this is required for legal or contractual usually set up on a discounted basis, as required by Financial reasons.
This is because external insurance is not considered Reporting Standard No.
12, Provisions, Contingent Liabilities an economic means of financing losses for the group.
will therefore be borne as they arise rather than being spread Further details of our environmental and decommissioning over time through insurance premia with attendant transaction provisions appear in Note 30 on Accounts on page 67.
This position will be reviewed periodically.
provisions for decommissioning in 2004 include increases in respect of reassessment of existing provisions and new Environmental expenditure provisions for certain fields on installation of facilities.
Operating and capital expenditure on the prevention, control, abatement or elimination of air, water and solid waste pollution Creditor payment policy and practice is often not incurred as a separately identifiable transaction.
Statutory regulations issued under the UK Companies Act Instead, it forms part of a larger transaction that includes, for 1985 require companies to make a statement of their policy example, normal maintenance expenditure.
The figures for and practice in respect of the payment of trade creditors.
environmental operating and capital expenditure in the table In view of the international nature of the groups operations below are therefore estimates, based on the definitions and there is no specific group-wide policy in respect of payments guidelines of the American Petroleum Institute.
Relationships with suppliers are, however, governed by the groups policy commitment to long-term $ million relationships founded on trust and mutual advantage.
Within this 2004 2003 overall policy, individual operating companies are responsible for Operating expenditure 526 498 agreeing terms and conditions for their business transactions Clean-ups 25 45 and ensuring that suppliers are aware of the terms of payment.
Capital expenditure 524 546 These terms are adhered to when payments are made, subject New provisions for to terms and conditions being met by the supplier.
environmental remediation 588 515 BP p. l. c. is a holding company with no business activity other New provisions for decommissioning 294 1,159 than the holding of investments in the group and therefore had no trade creditors at 31 December 2004.
