Making the right choices Resourcefulness on a new scale Our resources business is about renewal.
We operate within the worlds largest supply-and-demand relationship, a marketplace in which our long-term success depends on the ability of our teams to replace reserves at least as fast as they bring them to market.
As we describe later, in each of the last 12 years, weve replaced more than100% of our production and, at the same time, delivered some of the lowest finding costs in our industry.
Developing our resources through operational excellence is converting our scale into profitability.
Turning our technologies into discoveries.
Bringing our projects into production.
Connecting our exceptional people through best practices.
And extending the potential of the worlds energy resources.
10 BP Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Seeing into the future Discovery never ends.
Thats a principle our people learned long ago.
Even in the most mature oil and gas fields, there is hidden potential if you know where and how to look.
As global gas demand and infrastructure have grown, weve rewritten our strategy there.
As well as extending the productivity of existing oil fields, BP teams are now applying new technology and capital to discover natural gas resources.
In the Nile Delta, leading-edge aeromagnetic and seismic technology is allowing our exploration team to see beneath the sea floor, taking them through deeper water towards uncharted gas reservoirs.
The teams efforts in imaging, interpretation, integrated planning, testing and drilling have turned their raw data into real potential, and in 2004 confirmed the presence of a promising new gas field, called Raven.
The teams newest wells will determine the Raven fields size.
But they are already contributing towards BPs development of a major liquefied natural gas LNG business to help meet the worlds growing demand for cleaner energy.
11 Making the right choices A mature outlook Conventional oil business wisdom holds that, once a field has reached maturity, its descent into unprofitability is almost inevitable.
At BP, however, our people tend to see mature fields differently.
Since 2000, our existing profit centres have been run with an efficiency thats led to an average replacement rate of 72% for the proved reserves they have produced over this period.
These mature operations, some of which date back to the 1960s, have maintained their vitality.
Today, their output is projected to decline at a modest 3% annually until 2008.
Discipline, creativity and the kind of operating efficiency that comes from decades of knowledge and innovative team practices in the field.
We aim to extend this life expectancy.
In established fields from Alaska to the North Sea, our teams are applying remote control and online field management, increasing well recovery rates, streamlining maintenance and even tapping into new discoveries.
All of which means theyre getting more from our existing hydrocarbon base with greater reliability and predictable cost producing our resources as efficiently as we discover them.
12 BP Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Producing in new dimensions How much?
These are the biggest questions in the world of energy today.
Part of the answer is a broader set of skills in production creativity, efficiency, speed to bring discoveries consistently and responsibly to market.
In oil and gas fields worldwide, our people are helping to make us productive at an unprecedented scale.
We now find oil and deliver new production with an efficiency thats on a par with the industrys best.
The ideas, energy and organization of our teams have also led us into our most prolific era for operational start-ups.
Over the last two years, we have completed nine major projects.
From now until December 2006, we have 10 more major oil and gas project completions planned, including some of the worlds largest construction projects in some of the most geologically challenging locations.
Among them is the Gulf of Mexico, where our teams are redefining what is possible in deepwater operations at four fields simultaneously under development, including the massive Holstein platform above.
