Directors Report Business of the Company Payment Policy The Company carries on business as an investment It is the Companys policy to obtain the best terms trust and was approved by the Inland Revenue as for all business and therefore there are no an investment trust in accordance with Section 842 standard payment terms.
In general the Company of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 for agrees with its suppliers the terms on which the year ended 31st January 2003.
In the opinion of business will take place and it is the Companys the Directors, the Company has subsequently policy to abide by those terms.
The Company had conducted its affairs so that it should continue to no outstanding trade creditors at either year end.
The Company will continue to seek approval Directors under Section 842 of the Income and Corporation The Directors of the Company at the end of the Taxes Act 1988 each year.
year, together with their beneficial interests in the Approval for the year ended 31st January 2003 is ordinary share capital, were: subject to review should there be any subsequent 31st January 1st February enquiry under Corporation Tax Self Assessment.
2004 2003 The Company is an investment company within the WL Banks 19,752 19,752 meaning of Section 266 of the Companies Act NW Berry 500 500 1985.
The Company is not a close company for SL Keswick 16,700 16,700 taxation purposes.
IH Leslie Melville 30,000 30,000 Dr SG Nairn 5,000 It is the Companys policy to invest no more than LE Linaker 2,318 2,318 15% of gross assets in other UK listed investment Lord Rothermere 500 500 companies including investment trusts.
A review of the Companys activities and prospects No changes in the above holdings have been is given in the Chairmans Statement on pages 1 recorded to the date of this report.
and 2, and in the Investment Managers Report on In accordance with the Articles of Association, pages 3 to 7.
Dr SG Nairn offers himself for re-election and the Revenue and Dividends Directors retiring by rotation at the forthcoming Gross revenue for the year totalled 34,050,000 Annual General Meeting will be Mr IH Leslie and distributable revenue after deducting interest, Melville and Mr NW Berry who, being eligible, also management expenses and taxation amounted to offer themselves for re-election by shareholders.
24,555,000 which is available for the ordinary During the year an insurance policy has been shareholders.
The Directors have declared quarterly maintained by the Company which indemnifies the interim dividends totalling 18.75p per ordinary Directors of the Company against certain liabilities share for the year which totalled 25,469,000.
The arising in the conduct of their duties.
Manager and Management Fee Going Concern The Manager, J. P. Morgan Fleming Asset After making enquiries, the Directors consider that Management UK Limited JPMFAM is a whollythe Company has adequate resources, an owned subsidiary of JPMorgan Chase & Co. which appropriate financial structure and suitable through other subsidiaries also provides banking, management arrangements in place to continue in dealing and custodian services to the Company.
operational existence for the foreseeable future.
The contract with the Manager can be terminated For this reason, they continue to adopt the going on one years notice.
concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Fleming Mercantile 19 Directors Report continued The management fee is paid by monthly issued by a company for cash be offered first to instalments based on the total assets less current existing shareholders in proportion to their liabilities at the beginning of each month and is existing shareholdings.
However, shareholders can, charged at a rate of 2.0% on unquoted assets and by special resolution, authorise directors to allot 0.4% on other assets per annum, excluding funds shares otherwise than by a pro-rata issue to managed or advised by JPMFAM or any of its existing shareholders.
Resolution 8 in the Notice of the Meeting on page 26 Notifiable Interests in the Companys Shares is such a special resolution, giving the Directors At the date of this report, the following had declared specific authority to allot new shares, otherwise than a substantial interest in the Companys issued by a pro-rata issue to existing shareholders, for cash ordinary share capital: up to an aggregate nominal amount of 1,697,833 Number of representing 6,791,332 ordinary shares of 25 pence Shareholders shares held % each, such amount being approximately equivalent to 5% of the present issued share capital.
This 1 JPMorgan Chase & Co. 12,465,813 9.18 authority will remain in effect until 2nd June 2009.
AXA Sun Life Investment Management 11,036,541 8.13 The Board believes that should the shares move to Legal & General Investment a sustained premium to net asset value, it would be Management 6,718,863 4.95 in the interest of existing shareholders for the Company to be able to issue new shares to 1 Non beneficial.
participants purchasing shares through the Annual General Meeting Investment Trusts Share Plan and also to other Resolutions relating to the following items of investors.
As such issues would only be made at special business will be proposed at the prices greater than net asset value, they increase forthcoming Annual General Meeting: the assets underlying each share and spread the administrative expenses, other than those fees Repurchase of the Companys Shares charged as a percentage of assets, over a greater At the Annual General Meeting held in May 2003, number of shares.
The issue proceeds are available shareholders gave authority to the Company to for investment in line with the Companys objective.
enable it to purchase up to 14.99% of its then issued share capital.
At that time, shareholders were Your directors recommend that shareholders grant informed that this authority would expire at the 2004 them authority to allot shares up to the limit set Annual General Meeting and could be renewed by out above.
No issue of shares will be made which shareholders at any time at a General Meeting of the would effectively alter the control of the Company Company.
The Directors consider that the renewal of without the prior approval of shareholders in the authority would be in the interest of general meeting.
shareholders as a whole since the repurchase of Change of Company Name shares at a discount to the underlying net asset The Directors recommend that the Companys value NAV would enhance the NAV of the name be changed to JPMorgan Fleming Mercantile remaining shares.
The Directors therefore Investment Trust plc.
recommend that shareholders vote in favour of the Details of this recommendation are given in the resolution.
The full text of the resolution renewing Chairmans Statement on pages 1 and 2. the share buy-back authority is set out as Resolution number 7 in the Notice of Meeting on page 25.
By order of the Board Authority to Issue Shares for Cash J. P. Morgan Fleming Asset Management UK Limited, The Companies Act 1985 requires that the directors Secretary of a company be authorised by shareholders to Richard Lewis allot shares.
It also requires that new shares 27th April 2004 Fleming Mercantile 20
