Investment Managers Report Martin Hudson Katy Woodhouse Has been managing Was appointed the Companys assets assistant investment since 1994. manager in 2001.
The outperformance of the benchmark by 10.1% for Market Background the year was attributed to both stock selection and The painful bear market which had been running gearing that is, having invested borrowings in a since March 2000 came to an end in March 2003. rising stockmarket.
The individual components of Small and mid-sized companies led the stockmarket the total return are shown below in the recovery, ending the year with very strong gains.
The year started with the stockmarket continuing to weaken as life insurance companies were forced to The following table provides a breakdown, relative to the benchmark, of the contributions to total return.
sell equities in order to address solvency issues.
The UK base rate was cut and on 10th March, for the first Performance attribution for the year to time since 1959, UK equities as represented by the 31st January 2004 FTSE All-Share Index were yielding more than 1 Year Government bonds.
This only lasted for two days as % it became apparent that with equity dividends Net asset value total return 67.5 forecast to grow ahead of inflation, equities were Benchmark total return 57.4 cheap.
At that time small and mid-sized companies Relative return 10.1 were yielding about 4.5% prospectively and had a Analysis of relative return forward price earnings ratio of about 10x.
Allocation effect 0.3 Selection effect 3.7 The early end to the war in Iraq reduced investors Gearing Cash effect 6.2 Management fee & other expenses 0.4 anxiety and the gloom began to dissipate, allowing Residual item 0.9 a stockmarket recovery to get underway as the Total 10.1 flow of bad news abated.
This stockmarket Source: Frank Russell JPMFAM Fundamental Data AITC.
recovery then fuelled itself, as investors began to Definitions anticipate a cyclical recovery and economic data Performance attribution: Analyses how the Company began to prove more positive than forecast.
achieved its recorded performance relative to its benchmark.
Allocation effect: Measures the impact of allocating assets differently to those in the benchmark, via the portfolios Performance weighting in different sectors or asset types.
With such a favourable stockmarket background, Selection effect: Measures the effect of investing in individual securities to a greater or lesser extent than their weighting in shareholders enjoyed a strong recovery in the net the benchmark, or of investing in securities outside the benchmark.
asset value of the Company for the year ended 31st Gearing cash effect: Measures the impact on relative returns January 2004.
The net asset value total return i. e. of the Companys net borrowings.
with net income reinvested was 67.5%, which Management fee and other expenses: The payment of fees and expenses reduces the level of total assets, and therefore was ahead of the benchmark indexs FTSE Allhas a negative effect on relative performance.
Share excluding FTSE 100 constituents and Residual item: Arises when there is a divergence between total return as calculated by the AITC Fundamental Data, and investment trusts total return of 57.4%.
However, total return as calculated by the attribution generating the total return to shareholders for the year was system.
This is a result of methodology differences with respect to the treatment of income and cashflows, and timing 57.5% as the share price discount to net asset differences.
value rose over the year from 6.0% to 11.9%.
Fleming Mercantile 3 Investment Managers Report continued The bar chart below shows the relative contributor as a result of our backing the Corus contribution to performance for the year of the five financing arranged by Cazenove, and the positive best and the five worst sectors within the portfolio.
Support Services contribution resulted from our The blue bars to the right show a positive being underweight in that sector.
contribution to performance relative to the Of the negative relative contributors we were benchmark index and reflect a combination of both overweight in Real Estate, Food Processors and sector weighting and stock selection.
The orange Electricity, all sectors which underperformed, and bars to the left show a negative contribution.
we did not hold any Rolls Royce which was the This shows that the sector positives outweighed major contributor to performance in Aerospace and the negatives.
Technology, Media and Telecoms Defence.
Of the individual holdings, our worst TMT had a very strong year and the Company relative contributors to performance were the benefited from an overweight position in TMT, with London Stock Exchange, Tate and Lyle and Expro an overweight position in software more than International.
compensating for an underweight position in Corporate activity was a growing feature during the Information Technology Hardware.
The largest year and we received a positive contribution to individual TMT positive contributors to performance performance from takeover bids for Selfridges, were Gresham Computing, LogicaCMG, Carlton Compco and Debenhams.
Steel was a good Sector performance contribution analysis.
Year to 31st January 2004 Top 5 0% Software & Computer Services 3.8% Media 1.6% Telecommunication Services 1.3% Steel 1.1% 0.8% Support Services Bottom 5 0.6% Electricity 0.7% Food Processors 0.7% Aerospace & Defence 1.0% IT Hardware 1.3% Real Estate Relative Contribution % Source: Russell Mellon Analytical Services.
4 Fleming Mercantile Investment Managers Report continued mid 250 companies we held which were promoted Activity into the FTSE 100 index and corresponding A year ago, we outlined a long list of bearish purchases of the most attractive shares which were factors which were depressing the stockmarket, but concluded that they were already discounted demoted from the FTSE 100 Index.
These index changes take place quarterly.
in share prices and that smaller and mid-sized UK companies offered real value.
Some of the demoted stocks can provide excellent investment opportunities and we devote a We therefore increased gearing from 13% to 15% at considerable amount of time to analysing them.
the beginning of the year, and then brought it back Former FTSE 100 stocks which were substantial down to 13% towards the end of the year.
This was following a strong performance for the contributors to last years performance included stockmarket where we locked in some of the gains LogicaCMG, Carlton Communications, Hays, Royal and Sun Alliance, Invensys and British Airways.
in major recovery stocks which were promoted into Historically, we either sell completely or the FTSE 100, such as Hays, Royal and Sun Alliance substantially reduce a holding when a stock is and British Airways.
However, our gearing still reflects a positive outlook on the stockmarket.
promoted into the FTSE 100 Index.
To give a measure of the level of activity within the The portfolio was kept broadly diversified across all sectors of the small and mid cap market and we portfolio it is interesting to look at the ten largest investments, which are listed on page 12.
Of the currently hold approximately 120 mid-sized stocks ten, nine were held in the portfolio a year ago and and 65 smaller stocks.
By value, we kept the Invensys was bought, having been demoted from portfolio size distribution close to that of the the FTSE 100.
Of last years ten largest investments, benchmark index, which is currently 82% in mid cap companies and 18% in smaller companies.
nine are still held within the portfolio and one, British Airways, was sold on its promotion into the However, we are overweight in both the large mid FTSE 100. cap stocks those successful companies about to be promoted into the FTSE 100 or those out of During the year we continued our programme of favour which have recently been demoted from the researching smaller growth companies which are FTSE 100 and also the smaller small cap stocks not well known in the stockmarket.
Properly those which are not so well known by many small targeted company meetings can help us to resolve cap investors.
issues and enable us to place newsflow in context, as well as assisting us in evaluating management A major part of the portfolio turnover last year and exploring the industry dynamics and was, again, accounted for by the sales of those Fleming Mercantile 5 Investment Managers Report continued competitive landscape.
Last year we met or visited The table below shows the aggregate of approximately 250 companies and were aided in stockmarket forecasts for the individual holdings our screening process by our in-house JPMorgan within the portfolio and, for reference, we compare Fleming proprietary multi-factor model, which them with the corresponding figures for the helps us to identify companies with the best benchmark index and also the FTSE 100 index of growth and value characteristics.
the 100 largest companies within the UK stockmarket.
Mid 250 and smaller stocks are still Outlook on a lower forecast price earnings ratio than FTSE Investors were impressed by the strength of the 100 stocks and their earnings are forecast to grow recovery in mid-250 and small cap stocks from at a higher rate.
However, the forecast yield is now March to August.
In the Autumn they were lower than that for the FTSE 100 after the strong concerned that the rise had been overdone, capital appreciation last year.
The Companys thinking it might be right to switch out of overunderlying portfolio is on a price earnings ratio of bought small and mid 250 stocks into cheaper 12.3x and a dividend yield of 3.1%.
We disagreed and were happy to forecast to grow by 5.0% and are covered by enter the new year with gearing at about 13%.
This is still a sensible Despite the strong performance, small and midvaluation.
250 cap stocks are not expensive relative to FTSE 100 stocks: it is merely that the relative valuation gap has closed.
12 months Forecast 12 months Forecast Forecast Forecast Earnings Forward Dividend Dividend PER Growth Yield Growth Cover x %%% x Mercantile 12.3 13.2 3.1 5.0 2.6 Non-FTSE-100 ex IT 12.5 12.9 3.0 7.2 2.6 FTSE-100 12.9 11.2 3.67.2 2.2 Excluding loss makers.
Source: UBS Global Research 31st January 2004.
6 Fleming Mercantile Investment Managers Report continued The bar chart below shows the sector weightings in We are looking for a further steady recovery this the portfolio relative to the benchmark index.
The year, as the economic data continue to be positive blue bars to the right show an overweight position and it is small and mid-cap companies which are and the orange bars to the left an underweight most geared to recovery.
With a further increase in position.
Our largest overweight position is in confidence we expect a pick up in corporate Building and Construction, in particular activity from which we would hope to benefit, as housebuilding.
Here we believe the valuation of takeover bids are normally more prevalent in the the shares is too low and is looking back to the mid and small-cap market.
Finally, new growth collapses of the early 1990s, rather than opportunities tend to emerge first in the small and recognising that strong demand is being unfulfilled mid-cap universe and we shall continue to search by a restricted supply of new houses.
Our largest for such opportunities.
Overall, we shall focus on underweight positions are in Retailers and Leisure, stock selection within a broadly diversified which we believe are fully valued relative to their portfolio of smaller and mid-sized UK companies.
short term growth prospects, and in Biotechnology, Martin Hudson where the valuations reflect the triumph of hope Katy Woodhouse 27th April 2004 over experience.
Sector analysis relative to the Benchmark at 31st January 2004.
0% 6.7% Basic Industries 1.5% Cyclical Consumer Goods 7.4% Cyclical Services 0.2% General Industrials 1.4% Financials 3.2% Information Technology Resources 1.8% 1.0% Utilities Non-Cyclical Consumer Goods 2.2% Non-Cyclical Services 0.4% Source: JPMorgan Fleming.
The above figures have been calculated using total investments thereby excluding cash and long-term borrowing.
