Report of the Directors Directors Report for 2004 enabled the transition to IFRS in time for reporting in 2005.
The directors present their report to shareholders for the More details are contained in the Financial Review page 31. financial year from 1 January 2004 until 31 December 2004.
Institutional Placing This report, the reports on behalf of the Board by the chairmen On 2 July 2004 the Company effected an institutional placing of the Nomination, Audit and Compliance and Remuneration of 172,405,671 new ordinary shares of ten pence each in Committees and the directors report on corporate governance the capital of the Company at 1.35 per share to raise that follow and the financial statements will be laid before the approximately 229 million net of expenses.
The amount Annual General Meeting.
raised was used to fund part of the cash consideration paid Annual General Meeting on 11 October 2004 for the merger of the asset management A separate document, the Notice of Annual General Meeting business below.
2005, convening the Annual General Meeting AGM of the Merger of Asset Management Business Company to be held at The Queen Elizabeth II Conference At an Extraordinary General Meeting on 30 September 2004, Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London, SW1 on shareholders approved a series of transactions involving the Thursday 26 May 2005 at 11.00 a. m. has been sent to all Company and its then 67% owned subsidiary, ISIS Asset shareholders and contains an explanation of the business Management plc ISIS, whereby, following completion on before that meeting.
The Notice and the above reports and 11 October 2004, the Company retained a 51% controlling financial statements are all available on the Companys interest in its enlarged and rebranded publicly listed asset website: www.
management business, renamed as F&C Asset Management Principal activities plc F&C.
The transactions included the merger of ISIS and F&C Group Holdings Limited Holdings by way of Friends Provident plc is the holding company of the Friends acquisition by ISIS of the entire issued share capital of Provident Group of companies and is a constituent of the Holdings, the acquisition by the Company of 145,365,679 FTSE100 Index.
The Group has two core businesses, life and new ISIS now F&C ordinary shares for 250 million cash paid pensions and asset management, whose principal activities by the Company to Eureko B. V. Eureko, the owners of are the provision of retail financial services, chiefly long-term Holdings, and the allotment to F&C Asset Management insurance business and asset management.
The life and Holdings B. V. FCAM, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Eureko, pensions business operates primarily in the UK and in selected of 92,433,278 new ordinary shares in the Company worth international markets, the latter serviced through subsidiary approximately 133 million.
life assurance companies, Friends Provident International Limited in the Isle of Man and a branch operation in Guernsey.
Debt Capital The asset management business is undertaken through On 16 December 2004, Friends Provident Life and Pensions F&C Asset Management plc F&C, a 51% owned, publicly Limited raised additional high quality core regulatory capital by listed Group subsidiary company.
Particulars of the main securitising the cash flows expected from a book of life assurance subsidiary and associated undertakings are given on business and borrowing 380 million at an annual interest cost pages 105 and 106. of approximately 5.5% on the security of bonds secured on the future revenue from this book of life assurance policies.
Statement of going concern After making enquiries, the directors are satisfied that the Post Balance Sheet Event Acquisition of Lombard Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue International Assurance S. A. Lombard to operate as a going concern for the foreseeable future and On 11 January 2005 the Company completed its acquisition have prepared the financial statements on that basis.
of Lombard, originally announced on 26 October 2004.
The Company made an initial payment to Lombards shareholders Results and business review of c265 million 187 million, satisfied through an initial issue The Board seeks, through the Report & Accounts, the review to Lombards shareholders of 113,477,763 new ordinary shares of the financial year and future developments covered in the of ten pence each in the capital of the Company, and a further Chairmans Statement, the Group Chief Executives Review issue to be made at a later date to a minority shareholder of and the other operating and financial reviews that precede this Lombard of 389,414 new ordinary shares of ten pence each report, to present a balanced and understandable assessment in the capital of the Company.
The acquisition arrangements of the Groups position and prospects.
The Groups results for provide for further payments that are dependent on Lombards the financial year are shown in the consolidated profit and loss performance in 2004, 2005 and 2006. account on pages 60 and 61.
Purchase of own shares Dividend The Company is, until the date of the next AGM, generally and The directors are recommending a final dividend for 2004 of unconditionally authorised to buy back up to 10% of its issued 5.0 pence per share, payable on 31 May 2005 to all holders of ordinary shares on the register of shareholders at the share capital at 1 March 2004 172,290,911 shares.
No such close of business on 8 April 2005.
The dividend for the year, purchase has been made.
including the interim dividend of 2.55 pence per share paid Treasury Shares on 26 November 2004, amounts to 7.55 pence per share.
The Company first created treasury shares on 9 July 2004, The total cost of dividends for 2004 will amount to 152 having been authorised to do so at the May 2004 AGM.
The intention is for interim dividends to be paid in November and final dividends to be paid in May each year.
The at 17 March 2005, the Company held 44,400,474 shares in interim dividend will represent approximately one third of the treasury 9 July 2004: 46,537,610 shares.
During the year, anticipated total dividend.
919,638 treasury shares 2003: nil were used to satisfy awards under three of the Companys employee share schemes and Impact of International Financial Reporting Standards in 2005 up to 17 March 2005, a further 1,217,498 have been The Group has for some two years had in place an established used for these purposes.
International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS project team responsible for investigating the impact of applying IFRS and Substantial shareholdings managing the Groups transition to IFRS reporting in 2005 and At 17 March 2005, and in accordance with the provisions of thereafter.
This team has been working to a project plan that has section 211 of the Companies Act 1985, the Company had 40 Friends Provident Report of the Directors continued received notification from Eureko B. V. Eureko of its the issue of a full range of employee communications holding in the Companys issued share capital amounting via the Companys Intranet or other internal publication to 72,133,266 shares, or 3.5%.
Eureko owns all the issued of relevant information, which inform staff of current share capital of FCAM see Merger of Asset Management issues developments and progress: Business above and is an indirect controlling shareholder in an established and regular staff opinion survey that encourages Achmea Pensionen-en Levensverzekeringen AP, which, staff anonymously to present their views, thereby generating respectively, currently own 27,220,414, or 1.32%, and workplace and business improvements: and 20,300,012, or 0.98%, of the Companys issued share capital.
Achmea Association AA, a Dutch mutual, is the controlling the establishment of effective working relationships shareholder of Eureko.
Accordingly, AA and Eureko have with staff representative bodies.
an aggregate interest in 119,653,692 shares, or 5.8%, in the issued share capital of the Company.
The primary aim of all these activities is to ensure staff know the objectives and activities of the Company and the Group Directors interests so that they can contribute fully to their continued success.
Details of directors interests in shares under option as at 31 December 2004 are shown in the table on page 56.
Additionally, staff are involved in each core businesss, and The interests of directors in the shares of the Company and through that the Groups, performance by way of participation its subsidiaries are shown in note 38 on page 102.
Of the in Inland Revenue approved all-employee share schemes directors of the Company, only Howard Carter, an employee specific to each core business: a ShareSave Scheme savingsof F&C, holds share options and deferred shares in F&C.
related share option scheme and a Share Incentive Plan.
Directors Creditor payment policy Details of Board members at the date of this report are set out While the Company does not follow any code or standard on pages 22 and 23.
All directors must be elected at the AGM on payment practice, it is the Companys and the Groups following their appointment and, in addition, one third of the policy to adhere to the payment terms agreed with individual Board members must retire every year and, if appropriate, seek suppliers and to pay in accordance with their contractual and re-election.
Sufficient biographical details to enable members other legal obligations.
The standard payment terms of the to take an informed decision about continuing directors are contained on pages 22 and 23.
The directors retiring by rotation Group require settlement within 30 days.
The Company has at the AGM are Alison Carnwath and Howard Carter and, being no trade creditors.
eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
Adrian Montague, Friends Provident Charitable Foundation appointed as an independent director on 27 October 2004, The Foundation is a registered company limited by guarantee will retire at the AGM and, being eligible, will offer himself for and is a registered charity created with the intention that it election.
Roger Morton and Graham Aslet resigned as directors should be the vehicle through which the Company would during 2004 and David Newbigging and Brian Sweetland will contribute to charitable purposes after the demutualisation retire at the close of the AGM.
The Combined Code requires of Friends Provident Life Office FPLO on 9 July 2001. that Lady Judge submits to annual re-election and the Notice Accordingly, the Company donated to the Foundation 250,000 of the AGM sent to all shareholders fully deals with this and annually for three years from July 2001 and on 9 July 2004 explains why the Board is recommending her re-election.
endowed the Foundation with 20 million by donating shares to that value from shares that had not been claimed by Other than their employment and service contracts, and related party transactions referred to in Note 39 on page 103, former members of FPLO.
In this way, having donated to there were no contracts in existence during or at the end the Foundation an endowment that should generate for the of the financial year in which a director of the Company Foundation a significant future income stream that can be was interested.
applied by the Trustees of the Foundation, the Company has facilitated the Foundations grant-making intentions for the Employees and equal opportunities foreseeable future.
Further, the Group provides a range of The Company aims to provide equal opportunities for all, services to the Trustees free of charge.
without discrimination on the grounds of race, religion, marital status, age, gender, sexual orientation or disability Charitable and political donations in all our dealings with staff.
We recruit and promote those Donations to charitable organisations including Friends best suited for the job.
The Company respects the dignity Provident Charitable Foundation paid by the Group amounted of individuals and their beliefs.
No political donations were made tolerate any sexual, racial, physical or mental harassment 2003: nil.
These figures do not include the value of services of staff in the work place.
provided free of charge by the Group to the Foundation.
The Group has amongst its employees a number who are disabled.
It gives full and fair consideration to applications for Auditors employment from disabled persons.
In the event of employees The Companys auditor, KPMG Audit Plc, has indicated its becoming disabled every effort is made to maintain them in willingness to continue in office and, on the recommendation employment with appropriate retraining being arranged if of the Audit and Compliance Committee, a resolution to necessary.
It is the Groups policy that disabled persons should reappoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditor to the Company will as far as possible be given the same opportunities for training, be proposed at the AGM.
career development and promotion as other employees.
Employee involvement and communications The Group is committed to its policy of encouraging employee involvement at all levels.
The primary methods by which the two core businesses implement this policy are: For the Board management briefings presentations and discussion through R. G. Ellis, Company Secretary the management structure: 17 March 2005 Annual Report & Accounts 2004 41
