The With Profits Committees WPC of the life and pension operating companies Purpose and Terms of Reference: Each of the UK life and The WPC also reviewed a number of special projects that were pensions operating companies that write with profits business completed in the year, which potentially affected the interests formed a With Profits Committee effective from 31 March 2004. of both with profits policyholders and shareholders.
The most The purpose of these Committees is to bring some important of these were i the review of investment strategy independent judgement to i the assessment of each to allow better matching of the guarantees in the With Profits companys compliance with its published Principles and portfolios: ii the revision of the investment management Practices of Financial Management PPFM, and ii how agreements prior to the asset managers merger with F&C any competing or conflicting rights and interests of Investment Management: iii a review of the principles policyholders and, if applicable, shareholders have been underlying the transaction that securitised future cash addressed and, in both cases, without taking any responsibility flows in the With Profits Fund of FPLP: iv a review of the or accountability from the boards of the relevant companies.
changes proposed to FPLPs Scheme of Demutualisation, subsequently confirmed by the High Court on 29 July 2004: This purpose is reflected in each WPCs written terms of and v a review of proposals to sell part of FPLPs property reference which are published on the Companys website portfolio to a new listed investment trust in return for a and can be obtained on written request to the Secretary significant holding in that trust.
at the Companys registered office.
These and other proposals were reviewed in accordance Membership and attendance: Each WPC is chaired by one of with the Committees terms of reference, in particular to the Companys independent non-executive directors, currently assess and confirm that the proposals complied with the Alison Carnwath.
The other members are Peter Nowell appropriate PPFM and, more generally, Treating Customers independent external member and Graham Aslet former Fairly.
Any issues arising from these reviews were debated Appointed Actuary.
All three served from 31 March 2004. within the WPC and, in some cases, with other members of Each WPC met seven times during 2004, with all members senior management.
The WPC has made recommendations present on every occasion.
to the Board that resulted in changes being made by the Board to the original proposals.
Activities and work of the WPCs: During the year the WPCs reviewed the operating companies published PPFMs these having been published before the WPCs formation, and the main areas of discretion allowed by the PPFMs.
In particular, they reviewed the principles by which costs and benefits were shared between shareholders and with profits policyholders, the application of Market Value Adjusters often called Alison Carnwath MVAs, and the principles underlying the bonus declarations Chairman, With Profits Committees made in August 2004 and February 2005.
