Howard Carter OBE, 71, Chairman BA, JD, 58, Deputy Chairman, BA, MA, 53, Chief Executive, Appointed a director in April 2001 and chairman senior independent director F&C Asset Management plc in June 2001, having been an independent director Appointed a director and deputy chairman in Appointed an executive director in June 2001, of Friends Provident Life Ofce from 1993 June 2001 when her name was Barbara Singer having been appointed an executive director to 1998 and its chairman from 1998 to 2001.
Thomas, having been an independent director of of Friends Provident Life Ofce from 2000 and Chairman of the Investment Committee: member Friends Provident Life Ofce from 1994 to 2001 chief executive of ISIS Asset Management plc of the Nomination Committee.
and its deputy chairman from 1998 to 2001. now called F&C Asset Management plc since Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, deputy October 2000 when its name was Friends Ivory & Also chairman of Faupel Plc and Talbot Holdings chairman of the Investment Committee and Sime plc.
Member of the Investment Committee.
Limited and a director of Merrill Lynch & Co Inc. member of the Nomination Committee.
Joined Prudential Bache in 1984 as chief economist and PACCAR Inc. Chairman of The Council of and director of gilt edged market making.
Chief Trustees of the Mission to Seafarers and chairman Chairman of the UK Atomic Energy Authority, economist manager, xed interest at Friends of The Council of Trustees of Cancer Research UK.
Deputy Chairman of The Financial Reporting Provident 1988 1995 and head of investments Council, Chairman of the Professional Standards Former appointments include chairman and chief 1996 1998.
Appointed chief investment officer Advisory Board of the Institute of Directors.
executive of Jardine, Matheson & Co Ltd, and of Friends Ivory & Sime plc in 1998.
A director of Quintain Estates and Developments chairman of Rentokil Group plc, Equitas Holdings plc and, amongst others, Portmeirion Group PLC.
Limited and Thistle Hotels Plc.
He will retire from A former commissioner of the United States the board at the close of the AGM.
Ben Gunn Securities and Exchange Commission.
MA, FCII, 54, Chief Executive, Friends Provident Life and Pensions Limited 2.
Alison Carnwath Appointed an executive director in June 2001 BSc, FIA, 53, Group Chief Executive BA, ACA, 52, independent director having been appointed an executive director Appointed group chief executive and an executive of Friends Provident Life Ofce from 2000 and A qualied accountant, appointed a director in director in June 2001 having been an executive managing director, Friends Provident Life and December 2002.
Member of the Remuneration director of Friends Provident Life Ofce since Pensions Limited in March 2001.
Joined the and Audit and Compliance Committees and, 1992 and its chief executive since 1997.
Member Friends Provident Group in September 1998 since April 1 2004, has chaired the With profits of the Investment Committee.
Joined Friends following the acquisition of London and Manchester Committees of Friends Providents three regulated Provident from UK Provident in 1986.
Appointed Group plc where he was managing director of wholly-owned life and pensions operating a divisional general manager in 1987 and London and Manchester Assurance and a group companies.
Non-executive director of Gallaher managing director business operations executive director.
Joined London & Manchester Group plc, Glas Cymru Cyfyngedig Welsh Water, in 1995.
A non-executive director of F&C Asset in February 1996 from Hambro Countrywide Land Securities plc, Man Group plc and ISIS Equity Management plc, which is 51% owned by where he was an executive director.
Chairman of Glas Cymrus the Company.
a non-executive director of Pension Advisers Remuneration Committee and Mans Audit Also a member of the senior board of Banco Support System Limited, PASS Loans Limited, Committee.
Previously a managing director of Comercial Portugus SA and of the board of PASS Fees Limited and PASS Review Limited.
the US investment bank, Donaldson, Lufkin and Swiss Mobiliar Cooperative Company and Jenrette International, before it merged with European Alliance Partners Company AG.
Formerly, a director of J Henry Schroder Wagg & Co Ltd, National Power plc, Arcadia Group plc, QA Group plc, The Vitec Group plc and Nationwide Building Society.
22 Friends Provident Also a non-executive director of Associated British 1 July 2003.
Christopher Jemmett Foods plc, Slough Estates plc and Uniq plc and Previously at AMP UK where he was corporate 68, independent director a member of the Supervisory Board of DAF Trucks director of finance and head of mergers and Appointed a director in June 2001, having been acquisitions, having been finance director and NV of Eindhoven, The Netherlands.
A Conservative an independent director of Friends Provident Life actuary of NPI on its acquisition by AMP.
Prior Member of Parliament 1974 2001 and a member Ofce from 1997 to 2001.
Chairman of the Audit to joining NPI in 1998 he spent 9 years at of the Government 1979 1994.
This included five and Compliance Committee and member of the , initially in London Cabinet posts including Chief Secretary to the Investment and Remuneration Committees.
An and then based in Hong Kong as the partner Treasury.
Formerly a member of the Committee independent director of F&C Asset Management responsible for the rms East Asia Insurance for Standards in Public Life.
plc called ISIS Asset Management plc until Consultancy Practice.
A non-executive director October 2004 since February 1998 when its of Lombard International Assurance SA, a name was Friends Ivory & Sime plc and its 10.
Adrian Montague Luxembourg registered insurance company deputy chairman and senior independent director wholly-owned by the Company and a nonCBE, MA, Solicitor, 57, since May 1998.
Chairman of F&Cs Audit and executive director of F&C Asset Management plc independent director Compliance Committee.
Member Former director and member of the executive of the Audit and Compliance, Investment and committee of Unilever PLC and Unilever NV and Remuneration Committees.
Brian Sweetland a former member of the Council of The Crown non-executive Chairman of British Energy Holdings LLB, Solicitor, ACoI, 59, Agents Foundation.
plc, Michael Page International plc, Cross-London Executive Director Rail Links Limited a pro bono appointment until Appointed an executive director in June 2001, 31 March 2005 and Infrastructure Investors 8.
Ray King having been an executive director of Friends Limited: and a non-executive director of Cellmark Provident Life Ofce since 1995.
Joined Friends BSc, FCA, 51, independent director Holdings AB Sweden.
Provident Life Ofce in 1974: was its Secretary A qualied accountant, appointed a director in Mr Montague was a partner with Linklaters & from 1983 to June 2001.
Member of the Audit and Compliance Paines, and subsequently the Global Head of Investment Committee.
Group finance director for BUPA since Project Finance for Dresdner Kleinwort Benson, June 2001 to end-December 2004.
Formerly the deputy chief executive of Chief Executive of the Treasury Taskforce, Deputy at board level for the Groups corporate services, Parity Group plc, the director of group finance Chairman of Partnerships UK plc, and Deputy group risk, governance including corporate social and control at Diageo plc and the group finance Chairman of Network Rail.
He has held several responsibility and health and safety.
A nondirector of Southern Water plc.
other part-time advisory or supervisory positions executive director of F&C Commercial Property including Private Finance Adviser to the Trust Limited.
A trustee of the Friends Provident Department of Transport, Environment and the Charitable Foundation and a member of the 9.
The Rt Hon Lord MacGregor Regions and a Board Member of the Strategic Rail Committee of Reference that independently of Pulham Market Authority.
Mr Montague is the chairman-elect.
determines the investment selection criteria for OBE, MA, LLB, 68, F&C Asset Management plcs Stewardship range independent director of investment products and has a monitoring role 11.
Philip Moore for the Friends Provident Groups Stewardship Appointed a director in June 2001, having been TD, MA, FIA, 45, and other ethical and environmental portfolios.
an independent director of Friends Provident Life Group Finance Director Ofce from 1998 to 2001.
Chairman of the Formerly a director of F&C Asset Management plc Nomination Committee and a member of the Appointed an executive director on 1 September and Benchmark Group PLC.
He will retire from Audit and Compliance Committee.
2003, having joined Friends Provident plc on the board at the close of the AGM.
