HBOS Annual Report V8 9 3 05 5:49 pm Page 52 The Board Chairman Executive Directors Colin Matthew Mark Tucker Dennis Stevenson Phil Hodkinson Age 46.
Dennis was appointed April 2004, becoming Group became Chief Executive of the Chief Executive of the Insurance Chairman of HBOS plc on its Finance Director in October 2004.
Strategy and International & Investment Division of HBOS plc formation in 2001.
He is also He spent 17 years with Prudential Operations Division having in September 2001 and is Chairman of Pearson plc and a in various appointments in the previously been the Chief Executive Chairperson of the HBOS Non-executive Director of UK, USA and Hong Kong, latterly of Business Banking.
He joined Foundation, a Director of Manpower Inc, Chairman of the as Chief Executive of Prudential Bank of Scotland in 1966 and Business in the Community House of Lords Appointments Corporation Asia.
Marks early and a Fellow of the Institute became a Director in 2000. career was with PriceWaterhouse Commission and Chancellor of of Actuaries.
He spent his earlier as a Tax consultant.
the University of the Arts London.
career in the life assurance George Mitchell He is also president of the industry with Allied Dunbar, Age 54.
In September 2001 Employers Forum on Age.
Eagle Star and Zurich Financial George became Chief Executive Services.
of the Corporate Division of Chief Executive HBOS plc and, with effect from James Crosby Andy Hornby 1 January 2004, assumed Age 48.
Andy joined the Board responsibility for the Groups Chief Executive of HBOS plc on its of Halifax in 1999 and became Treasury operations.
He joined Chief Executive of the Retail formation in 2001 and is also a Bank of Scotland in 1966 and Division of HBOS plc in Non-executive Director of ITV plc held various positions prior to September 2001 having and the Financial Services Authority.
previously carried out various being appointed to the Board of roles at the Boston Consulting Bank of Scotland in 2000.
He Group, Blue Circle and ASDA.
became Treasurer and Managing Andy is also a Non-executive Director of Bank of Scotland in Director of GUS plc.
52 HBOS plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 HBOS Annual Report V8 9 3 05 5:24 pm Page 53 The Board Left to right: Top Row: James Crosby George Mitchell Dennis Stevenson Andy Hornby Mike Ellis retired 31 12 04 Coline McConville Brian Ivory David Shearer Charles Dunstone Bottom Row: Kate Nealon Tony Hobson John Maclean Sir Ron Garrick Colin Matthew Mark Tucker Phil Hodkinson Non-executive Directors Deputy Chairman of Northern November 2004.
He was a Trust Hospitals and a Senior Charles Dunstone Foods plc and a Non-executive Founder and Director of Kelvin Associate of the Judge Institute Age 40.
Charles was appointed Director of Sage Group plc, Glas Shipholdings Limited.
In addition, of Management, Cambridge as a Non-executive Director of Cymru Cyfyngedig and Jardine John is a Member of Court and University.
Previously Kate was Halifax in 2000.
He is Chief Lloyd Thompson Group plc.
He Chairman of the Audit Committee Group Head of Legal and Executive Officer of The was Group Finance Director of of Glasgow Caledonian University.
Compliance for Standard Carphone Warehouse Group PLC Legal & General Group for 14 Chartered Plc having joined in which he founded in 1989.
Coline McConville years, retiring in 2001.
She is a US qualified lawyer.
Coline joined the Board Sir Ronald Ron Garrick Brian Ivory of Halifax in 2000.
She is the David Shearer Age 64.
Sir Ron joined the Board Age 55.
Brian joined the Board Chief Executive Officer, Europe Age 45.
David joined the Board of of Bank of Scotland in March of Bank of Scotland in 1998 of Clear Channel International HBOS in March 2004.
In January 2003 he became and is Chairman of the HBOS Limited and was previously with December 2003, David was the Deputy Chairman of HBOS plc Remuneration Committee.
He is McKinsey & Co, Management Senior Partner of Deloitte & and Senior Independent Director Chairman of The Scottish Consultants and The L E K Touche for Scotland and Northern in 2004.
He had previously held American Investment Company Partnership.
Coline qualified Ireland, and until September 2003, the positions of Chief Executive PLC, a Director of Remy as a lawyer in Australia and was a UK Board member of and Chairman of the Weir Group Cointreau S. A. and Chairman of has an MBA from Harvard Deloitte & Touche.
He was also Deputy the National Galleries of Scotland.
Governor and Non-executive Chairman of Scottish Enterprise Director of The Glasgow School of and is a former Director of Shell John Maclean Kathleen Kate Nealon Art and a member of the advisory UK and Scottish Power plc.
John joined the Board of Age 51.
Kate joined the Board of panel to Martin Currie in respect Bank of Scotland in 1995.
She is also of its Private Equity business.
Anthony Tony Hobson was a Non-executive Director of a Non-executive Director of Cable David is a Chartered Accountant.
Tony joined the Board in Scottish Value Trust PLC and & Wireless, a Non-executive 2001 and is Chairman of the Chairman of their Audit Director to the Independent Audit Committee.
He is also Committee until he retired in Regulator of the NHS Foundation Annual Report and Accounts 2004 HBOS plc 53
