HBOS Annual Report V8 9 3 05 4:47 pm Page 80 Directors Report The Directors have pleasure in presenting the be proposed at the meeting.
The Chairman is At last years AGM, the Board accordingly Report and Accounts of HBOS plc for the year pleased to confirm that the performance of obtained shareholders approval for the ended 31 December 2004.
Charles Dunstone and Tony Hobson continues Company and HBOS UK plc the principal to be effective and demonstrates commitment employer company of the HBOS Group to Principal Activities in their respective roles as Non-executive make Donations to EU Political Organisations HBOS plc is the holding company of the Directors.
Mark Tucker was appointed a and or to incur EU Political Expenditure up to HBOS Group.
The principal activities of the Director from 30 April 2004 and will retire at defined limits.
Group are the provision of banking and other the forthcoming 2005 AGM and offer himself financial services in the UK and overseas.
The During the last financial year, HBOS UK plc for election.
Particulars of Directors Groups existing business and future prospects seconded one of its employees part-time to remuneration and interests in shares of the are reviewed by the Chairman on pages 2 and the Cross Party Group on the Scottish Company are given in the Report of the Board 3, the Chief Executive on pages 4 to 7 and in Economy CPG in the Scottish Parliament.
in relation to remuneration policy and practice the Divisional Reviews on pages 8 to 35.
The CPG is not a political party.
Financial aspects are covered in the Financial contains a specific exemption to the definition Review and Risk Management report on Going Concern of EU Political Organisation for all party pages 36 to 46.
A list of the main subsidiary The Directors are satisfied that the Group has groups composed of members of the undertakings, and the nature of each adequate resources to continue in business for Westminster Houses of Parliament.
There companys business, is given in Note 53 the foreseeable future and consequently the is no such specific exemption for party groups to the Accounts on page 126. going concern basis continues to be of the Scottish Parliament.
The Company appropriate in preparing the accounts.
is therefore disclosing that the total amount Results and Dividends of the donations made by HBOS UK plc The Group profit attributable to shareholders Employees to the CPG during the last financial year for the year ended 31 December 2004, as The Group encourages applications for was 2,908 in respect of the completion shown in the Consolidated Profit and Loss employment from disabled people and gives of the initial 9 weeks of the secondment.
An interim dividend full consideration to such applicants based on of 10.8p per Ordinary Share was paid on their skills and abilities.
In the event of an Payment Policy 22 October 2004.
The Directors propose existing employee becoming disabled, the For the forthcoming period the Groups policy a final dividend of 22.15p per Ordinary Share Group provides counselling and training for the payment of suppliers will be as follows: to be paid on 13 May 2005 to shareholders support and seeks to provide a suitable Payment terms will be agreed at the start on the register on 18 March 2005, subject alternative position within the Group if the of the relationship with the supplier and will to approval at the 2005 AGM.
As announced individual is unable to continue in their previous only be changed by agreement: in the trading statement of 14 December 2004, role.
The Group offers training and career Standard payment terms to suppliers an active capital management programme has development for all disabled staff.
The views of of goods and services will be 30 days from been instigated which includes: colleagues with a disability are sought through the date of a correct invoice that has been disability forums to ensure that the Groups active management of key balance sheet received for satisfactory goods or services policies continue to recognise their ratios to explicit targets: which have been ordered and received requirements.
a more efficient capital structure through a unless other terms are agreed in a contract: realignment of equity and preferred capital: Payment will be made in accordance with Charitable and Political Donations the progressive release of surplus capital the agreed terms or in accordance with the During the year the Group made charitable emerging in the investment businesses as law if no agreement has been made: and donations in the UK of 5.2m.
Additionally a result of the switch away from with profits 2.6m in total has been made available to Suppliers will be advised without delay when products: charities as a result of their affinity to the Visa an invoice is contested and disputes will be withdrawal of the scrip alternative to dividends Charity credit cards offered by Halifax plc and settled as quickly as possible.
and proposed introduction of a dividend Bank of Scotland.
reinvestment plan: and HBOS plc complies with the Better Payment It is HBOS policy not to make donations to a commitment to return surplus capital to Practice Code.
Information regarding this political parties.
shareholders, through an annual share buy Code and its purpose can be obtained from back programme.
the Better Payment Practice Groups website Under the terms of the Political Parties, at www.
Directors Elections and Referendums Act 2000 PPERA companies are required to obtain Details of the present Directors are given on The Companys main trading subsidiary shareholder approval before any such political pages 52 and 53.
Mike Ellis retired as a undertakings, Halifax plc and Bank of donations can be made, and to disclose any Director on 31 December 2004 and Sir Bob Scotland, had trade creditors outstanding such payments in the Companys Annual Reid and Louis Sherwood retired on 27 April at 31 December 2004 representing 15 days 2004 at the conclusion of the 2004 AGM and Report and Accounts.
PPERA is extremely of purchases for each company.
The Company Philip Yea resigned with effect from 30 June wide in scope and its precise meaning unclear.
itself owed no amounts to trade creditors 2004.
Following nine years service on the Many listed companies, including the at 31 December 2004.
Board of Bank of Scotland and the Company, Company, have therefore obtained authority John Maclean retires at the conclusion of the from shareholders to make such payments as Share Capital 2005 AGM and is not seeking re-election.
a precautionary measure, so as to enable Full details of the movements in the authorised Dennis Stevenson, Colin Matthew, Charles legitimate business activities, which would not and issued share capital of the Company Dunstone and Tony Hobson will retire by be regarded as political donations in the during the year are provided in Note 34 to rotation and resolutions for their re-election will ordinary sense, to proceed.
80 HBOS plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004
