BAT Report 001-027. qxd 18 3 05 17:52 Page 04 04 British American Tobacco Directors Report and Accounts 2004 Directors report continued Substantial shareholdings Auditors At 1 March 2005, the following persons had notied an interest Resolutions will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting in the ordinary shares of the Company that is required to be to reappoint  LLP as the Companys recorded in the register of substantial interests maintained by auditors and to authorise the Directors to agree their the Company pursuant to the Companies Act 1985: remuneration.
The Audit Committee will recommend the appropriate level of fees to the Board.
Number of Percentage ordinary shares of issue Charitable and political contributions 1 R & R Holdings S. A.
604,336,627 28.23 Payments for charitable purposes in 2004 amounted to Barclays PLC 64,766,916 3.01 14.6 million, 1.1 million of which was paid in the UK.
No Notes: 1 a Pursuant to the Standstill Agreement dated 11 January 1999 entered into between the donation was made to any political party registered in the Company and R & R Holdings S. A. then named Rothmans International Holdings S. A., UK under the Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act Compagnie Financire Richemont SA then called Compagnie Financire Richemont AG and Rembrandt Group Limited together the R and R Parties, the R and R Parties gave 2000 the Act but the Company gave 25,000 to Britain certain undertakings to the Company including the following: 1 that the R and R Parties and persons acting in concert with any of them will not exercise at any general meeting in Europe, which is regarded as an EU political organisation of the Company more than 25 per cent of the voting rights attached to shares of a class for the purposes of that Act.
The Company made donations carrying rights to vote in all circumstances at general meetings of the Company: and 2 the interests of the R and R Parties and persons acting in concert with any of them in in Germany to the Christlich Soziale Union and the Freie the issued ordinary share capital of the Company will not exceed 27.8 per cent except in Demokratische Partei, both of which are considered to be certain specified circumstances e. g. the Company making a purchase of its own shares or otherwise having reduced its issued share capital.
During the year ended 31 December 2004, EU political organisations for the purposes of the Act, totalling the interests of the R and R Parties changed as a result of the Company continuing its share buy-back programme see below, the effects of which were offset by the issue of ordinary 678 and 8,488 respectively.
Subsidiaries of the Company in shares upon the conversion of the Companys convertible redeemable preference shares on Australia, Canada and the US made contributions to non-EU 3 June 2004, see page 74 note 31.
Further to a reorganisation of the Rembrandt Group in August 2000, the interest of Rembrandt Group Limited in R & R Holdings S. A. is now held political parties in their respective countries of incorporation by Remgro Limited, which company has become a party to the Standstill Agreement.
In addition, in the US, contributions of b Compagnie Financire Richemont SA, Remgro Limited, British American Tobacco p. l. c. and R & R Holdings S. A. are parties to an agreement dated 11 January 1999 the 17,627 were made to individual candidates.
Agreement to which Section 204 2 of the Companies Act 1985 applies by virtue of the acquisition on 7 June 1999 of shares in British American Tobacco p. l. c. The number Employees of such shares is now 604,336,627 ordinary shares, the preference shares as dened in the Agreement having been redeemed or converted as referred to on page 74 note 31.
To deliver our vision of leadership in the world tobacco industry, we must have the right people and create the right working Purchase of own shares environment.
That is the essence of our Winning Organisation From February 2004, the Board continued its on-market strategy.
British American Tobacco recognises the importance programme of buying back the Companys ordinary shares of of creating a workplace in which all employees are both 25p each in order to enhance its earnings under the authority inspired and enabled to give their best through building granted by shareholders in 2003.
At the Annual General Meeting outstanding leadership at all levels of our Company.
of the Company held on 21 April 2004, the Company was given authority to purchase up to 207,700,000 of its ordinary shares.
British American Tobacco actively encourages employee During the year ended 31 December 2004, the Company engagement in the Groups business, using a range of initiatives made on-market repurchases totalling 59,000,000 of its own that includes individual discussions, team briengs, employee ordinary shares, representing 2.84 per cent of the issued share surveys, publications and regular meetings with recognised capital, for an aggregate consideration of 492,560,324.
The Company operates a European repurchased shares were cancelled.
The present authority for Employee Council EEC which has 16 employee members the Company to purchase its own shares will expire at the representing British American Tobacco organisations in the Annual General Meeting to be held on 28 April 2005.
The European Economic Area and Switzerland.
The Council was Directors will be seeking fresh authority for the Company extended to include representatives from Poland, the Czech to purchase its own ordinary shares as part of the planned Republic, Cyprus, Malta and Hungary post their accession continuation of the share buy-back programme.
The current to the EU in May 2004.
The European regional management intention is for any shares purchased to be cancelled.
of British American Tobacco informs and consults with the employee representatives of the EEC on matters which fall Stock market listings within the scope of the EEC Agreement and which are of The Companys ordinary shares are listed on the London signicance to these countries.
They are also traded on the American Stock Exchange, New York, in the form of American Depositary The Company continues to encourage employee share Receipts for which the Company has unlisted trading privileges.
ownership through its provision of employee share plans, None of its securities are listed on any United States securities the most recent of which are the Partnership Share Scheme exchange or registered pursuant to the securities laws of the and the Share Reward Scheme.
The Group has Employment United States.
Policies which are committed to providing a work environment BAT Report 001-027. qxd 18 3 05 17:52 Page 05 British American Tobacco 05 Directors Report and Accounts 2004 that is free from harassment, bullying and discrimination OECD Guidelines these Policies are available to staff on the Companys intranet.
The Group recognises its responsibilities to the countries There is no discrimination against people with disabilities who in which it operates and in this context notes the OECD apply to join the Company and anyone within the Company Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises in their current form.
with a disability is awarded the same opportunities for Intra group pricing promotion, training and career development as other staff.
The prices agreed between Group companies for intra group We aim to establish and maintain a safe working environment sales of materials, manufactured goods, charges for royalties, for all staff, including those with disabilities.
commissions, services and fees are based on normal commercial Research and development practices which would apply between independent businesses.
The Groups research and development activities are focused On behalf of the Board on developing new products and new processes, as well as maintaining and improving the quality of existing products.
Alan F Porter Research is also carried out on risk characterisation, building Secretary a framework to assess the relative risk of novel and conventional 1 March 2005 products and a better understanding of how consumers use them.
Risk reduction, developing technologies that have the potential to lower exposure of toxins in smoke, is also a central part of the research and development programme.
Research is also undertaken into various aspects of the science and behavioural science related to smoking and the Group continues to provide funding for independent studies.
Going concern After reviewing the Groups annual budget and plans, the Directors consider that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and that it is therefore appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Creditor payment policy Given the international nature of the Groups operations, there is not a global standard code for the Group in respect of payments to suppliers.
In the UK, the operating subsidiaries have signed up to the Better Payment Practice Code under which each company undertakes to: 1 seek agreement on payment terms with its suppliers at the outset of each transaction: 2 explain its payment procedures to its suppliers: 3 pay bills in accordance with the agreed terms and all legal requirements: and 4 tell suppliers without delay when contesting an invoice and settle disputes quickly.
Details of the Code are available on the website, payontime.
co. uk Non-UK operating subsidiaries are responsible for agreeing terms and conditions for their business transactions when orders for goods and services are placed, ensuring that suppliers are aware of the terms of payment and including the relevant terms in contracts where appropriate.
These arrangements are adhered to provided that suppliers meet their contractual commitments.
Creditor days have not been calculated for the Company as it is an investment holding Company and had no trade creditors at 31 December 2004.
