HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Cautionary Statement regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report contains certain forward-looking the impact of lower than expected statements with respect to the financial condition, investment returns on the burden of funding results of operations and business of HSBC.
private and public sector defined benefit pensions: Statements that are not historical facts, including statements about HSBCs beliefs and the effect of unexpected changes in expectations, are forward-looking statements.
Words actuarial assumptions on longevity which such as expects, anticipates, intends, plans, would influence the funding of private and believes, seeks, estimates, potential, public sector defined benefit pensions: reasonably possible and variations of these words continuing or deepening recessions and and similar expressions are intended to identify employment fluctuations: and forward-looking statements.
These statements are based on current plans, estimates and projections, consumer perception as to the continuing and therefore undue reliance should not be placed on availability of credit, and price competition them.
Forward-looking statements speak only as of in the market segments served by HSBC.
the date they are made, and it should not be assumed changes in governmental policy and regulation, that they have been revised or updated in the light of including: new information or future events.
the monetary, interest rate and other Written and or oral forward-looking statements policies of central banks and bank and other may also be made in the periodic reports to the US regulatory authorities, including the UK Securities and Exchange Commission, summary Financial Services Authority, the Bank of financial statements to shareholders, proxy England, the Hong Kong Monetary statements, offering circulars and prospectuses, press Authority, the US Federal Reserve, the releases and other written materials, and in oral European Central Bank, the Peoples Bank statements made by HSBCs Directors, officers or of China and the central banks of other employees to third parties, including financial leading economies and markets where analysts.
HSBC operates: Forward-looking statements involve inherent expropriation, nationalisation, confiscation risks and uncertainties.
Readers are cautioned that a of assets and changes in legislation relating number of factors could cause actual results to differ, to foreign ownership: in some instances materially, from those anticipated or implied in any forward-looking statement.
These initiatives by local, state and national factors include, among others: regulatory agencies or legislative bodies to revise the practices, pricing or changes in general economic conditions in the responsibilities of financial institutions markets in which HSBC operates, such as: serving their consumer markets: changes in foreign exchange rates, in both changes in bankruptcy legislation in the market exchange rates for example, principal markets in which HSBC operates between the US dollar and the pound and the consequences thereof: sterling and  exchange rates for example, between the general changes in governmental policy that Hong Kong dollar and the US dollar : may significantly influence investor decisions in particular markets in which volatility in interest rates: HSBC operates: volatility in equity markets, including in the other unfavourable political or diplomatic smaller and less liquid trading markets in developments producing social instability Asia and South America: or legal uncertainty which in turn may lack of liquidity in wholesale funding affect demand for HSBCs products and markets in periods of economic or political services: crisis: the costs, effects and outcomes of illiquidity and downward price pressure in regulatory reviews, actions or litigation, national real estate markets, particularly including any additional compliance consumer-owned real estate markets: requirements: 5 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Cautionary Statement regarding Forward-Looking Statements continued the ability of the Government of Argentina IFRS effects on HSBC Group, and is to attract international support for the available from http: www.
com hsbc measures necessary to restructure its debt investor centre financial-results, although, obligations and create a viable financial as work continues and standards develop system with stability in monetary, fiscal and other effects may emerge.
HSBC currently exchange rate policies: and intends to file restated 2004 comparative data and the 2005 opening balance sheet on the effects of competition in the markets an IFRS basis.
However, HSBCs results where HSBC operates including increased for periods prior to 2004 will not be competition resulting from new types of restated and its results for 2005 and affiliations between banks and financial subsequent years will not be comparable to services companies, including securities these prior periods.
firms, particularly in the United States.
factors specific to HSBC: transition to International Financial Reporting Standards the success of HSBC in adequately identifying the risks it faces, such as the the adoption of International Financial incidence of loan losses or delinquency, and Reporting Standards IFRS from managing those risks through account 1 January 2005 is the most significant management, hedging and other accounting development for HSBC.
Effective risk management European Union EU requires that listed depends on, among other things, HSBCs European companies prepare their 2005 ability through stress testing and other financial statements in accordance with techniques to prepare for events that cannot EU-approved IFRS.
HSBCs 2005 interim be captured by the statistical models it uses: financial statements will, therefore, be prepared in accordance with IFRS.
The the success of HSBC in integrating the European Union endorsement process for recently acquired Losango Promotora fide IFRS is ongoing but the majority of Vendas Limitada, The Bank of Bermuda standards are now endorsed.
HSBC has Limited and Marks and Spencer Retail substantially completed its transition to Financial Services Holdings Limited: and IFRS.
The process of refining systems and the success of HSBC in working with Bank processes in order to collect data on a fully of Communications Limited to generate a IFRS-compliant basis for 2005 reporting is satisfactory return from HSBCs 19.9 per well advanced.
On 9 December 2004, cent equity participation.
HSBC filed with the US Securities and Exchange Commission a summary of the applicable significant differences between UK GAAP and IFRS.
This should be referred to for details of the major expected 6 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Information about the Enforceability of Judgements made in the United States HSBC Holdings is a public limited company in original actions: or incorporated in England and Wales.
Most of HSBC judgements of US courts based upon these civil Holdings Directors and executive officers live liability provisions.
As a result, it may not be possible to serve process on such persons or HSBC In addition, awards of punitive damages in Holdings in the United States or to enforce actions brought in the United States or elsewhere judgements obtained in US courts against them or may be unenforceable in the United Kingdom.
The HSBC Holdings based on civil liability provisions of enforceability of any judgement in the United the securities laws of the United States.
There is Kingdom will depend on the particular facts of the doubt as to whether English courts would enforce: case as well as the laws and treaties in effect at the time.
certain civil liabilities under US securities laws Exchange Controls and Other Limitations affecting Equity Security Holders There are currently no UK laws, decrees or also no restrictions under the laws of the United regulations which would prevent the import or Kingdom or the terms of the Memorandum and export of capital or remittance of distributable Articles of Association of HSBC Holdings profits by way of dividends and other payments to concerning the right of non-resident or foreign holders of HSBC Holdings equity securities who owners to hold HSBC Holdings equity securities or, are not residents of the United Kingdom.
There are when entitled to vote, to do so.
7 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Description of Business maximising the synergy between the various Introduction components.
Key to this integration process is the HSBC is one of the largest banking and financial blending of local and international expertise.
services organisations in the world, with a The most significant developments are market capitalisation of US$190 billion at described below.
Other acquisitions in 2004 are 31 December 2004. discussed in the Financial Review on Headquartered in London, HSBC operates pages 26 to 178. through long-established businesses and has an The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking international network of over 9,800 offices in Corporation purchased The Mercantile Bank of India 77 countries and territories in five geographical Limited and The British Bank of the Middle East, regions: Europe: Hong Kong: the rest of Asianow HSBC Bank Middle East Limited HSBC Pacific, including the Middle East and Africa: North Bank Middle East in 1959.
In 1965, The Hongkong America: and South America.
Within these regions, a and Shanghai Banking Corporation acquired a 51 per comprehensive range of financial services is offered cent interest subsequently increased to 62.14 per to personal, commercial, corporate, institutional, cent in Hang Seng Bank Limited Hang Seng investment and private banking clients.
HSBC Bank, consolidating its position in Hong Kong.
manages its business through the following customer Hang Seng Bank is the second-largest listed bank in groups: Personal Financial Services: Commercial Hong Kong by market capitalisation.
Banking: Corporate, Investment Banking and Markets: and Private Banking.
Although part of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Personal Financial Services, the consumer finance Corporation entered the US market in 1980 by business originated by HSBC Finance Corporation is acquiring a 51 per cent interest in Marine Midland treated as distinct and has accordingly been Banks, Inc. now HSBC USA, Inc.
Services are delivered through interest was acquired in 1987. businesses which usually operate as domestic banks, In 1981, The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking typically with large retail deposit bases and strong Corporation incorporated its existing Canadian liquidity and capital ratios.
In North America, HSBC operations.
HSBC Bank Canada has since made Finance Corporation is one of the largest consumer numerous acquisitions, expanding rapidly to become finance companies in the US, and is substantially the largest foreign-owned bank in Canada and the funded in the wholesale market.
The establishment of HSBC and its hexagon From the early 1980s, The Hongkong and symbol as a uniform, consumer brand name has Shanghai Banking Corporation began to focus its ensured that it has become an increasingly familiar acquisition strategy on the UK.
In 1987, it purchased sight across the world.
a 14.9 per cent interest in Midland Bank plc, now HSBC Bank plc HSBC Bank, one of the UKs History and development principal clearing banks.
In 1991, HSBC Holdings plc was established as the parent company of the The founding member of HSBC, The Hongkong and HSBC Group and, in 1992, it purchased the Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited The remaining interests in HSBC Bank.
In connection Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation, was with this acquisition, HSBCs head office was established in Hong Kong and Shanghai in 1865. transferred from Hong Kong to London in January The bank expanded rapidly, with an emphasis on 1993. building up representation in China and the rest of the Asia-Pacific region, while also establishing a In 1997, HSBC assumed selected assets, presence in the major financial and trading centres in liabilities and subsidiaries of Banco Bamerindus do Europe and America.
Brasil S. A. now HSBC Bank Brasil S. A.
-Banco Mltiplo HSBC Bank Brazil following the In the mid-1950s, The Hongkong and Shanghai intervention of the Central Bank of Brazil, and in Banking Corporation embarked on a strategy of Argentina completed the acquisition of Grupo pursuing profitable growth through acquisition as Roberts, now part of HSBC Bank Argentina S. A. well as organic development a combination that HSBC Bank Argentina.
has remained a key feature of HSBCs approach ever since.
In December 1999, HSBC acquired Republic New York Corporation, subsequently merged with As each acquisition has been made, HSBC has HSBC USA, Inc. and Safra Republic Holdings S. A. focused on integrating its newly acquired operations In July 2004, HSBC Bank USA, Inc. merged with with its existing businesses with a view to 8 HSBC Bank & Trust Delaware N. A. to form HSBC In June 2004, HSBC acquired 14.62 per cent of Bank USA.
UTI Bank in India for US$68 million.
With over 250 branches, UTI has the second largest retail banking To expand its base in the eurozone, in October network amongst Indian private sector banks.
2000 HSBC completed its acquisition of 99.99 per cent of the issued share capital of Crdit Commercial In August 2004, HSBC completed the largest fide France S. A. now CCF S. A. CCF, a major single equity investment in a mainland China bank French banking group.
by a foreign bank when it acquired 19.9 per cent of Bank of Communications Limited Bank of In 2002, HSBC made further steps in expanding Communications for US$1,747 million.
Bank of its presence in North America, completing the Communications is mainland Chinas fifth largest acquisition of 99.59 per cent of Grupo Financiero bank, with assets of US$112 billion and Bital, S. A. fide C. V. now Grupo Financiero HSBC, approximately 2,700 branches in 137 cities in S. A. fide C. V. HSBC Mexico, the fifth-largest mainland China as at 31 December 2003. banking group in Mexico measured by assets and the third by customer deposits.
In November 2004, HSBC completed the acquisition of 100 per cent of Marks and Spencer Mainland China remains a critical long-term Retail Financial Services Holdings Limited, which growth area for the Group.
In 2002, HSBC trades as Marks and Spencer Money M&S completed the acquisition of a 10 per cent equity Money for US$1,044 million, M&S Money is one stake in Ping An Insurance Company of China of the UKs top 10 credit card providers.
Ping An Insurance is the second-largest life insurer and the third-largest Outlook property and casualty insurer in mainland China.
In June 2004 Ping An Insurance listed its shares In 2005, the Group expects consumer spending through an initial public offering IPO in Hong growth to slow across much of the Western world, Kong.
HSBC invested a further US$168 million, bringing increased competition and pricing pressure reducing its holding to 9.99 per cent.
The slowdown in consumer spending is expected to be reflected in a heightened In March 2003, HSBC acquired Household focus on efficiency and economies of scale in the International, Inc. which, in December 2004, corporate sector, which may trigger increased merger changed its name to HSBC Finance Corporation.
and acquisition activity, a trend already evident in HSBC Finance Corporation offers HSBC national 2005.
The pressure to reinforce personal long-term coverage in the US for consumer lending, credit savings and tighten fiscal discipline, as government cards and credit insurance through various responsibility for pension and healthcare distribution channels.
programmes is clarified, are likely to contribute to Also in 2003, HSBC acquired assets in Brazil, slower consumer spending in the western world.
including all the shares of Banco Lloyds TSB S. A.
- By contrast, in emerging markets such as Brazil, Banco Mltiplo and a consumer finance company, Mexico, India and the Association of South East Losango Promotora fide Vendas Limitada Asian Nations ASEAN countries, relatively Losango.
stable currencies and historically low interest rates In February 2004, the acquisition of The Bank are expected to continue to promote consumer of Bermuda Limited Bank of Bermuda was activity, fuelling domestic growth and reducing completed for US$1.2 billion, adding a strong export dependence.
Mainland China is expected to position in the local banking market in Bermuda and continue to play an increasingly important role, not significant scale and geographical spread to HSBCs only through its burgeoning exports, but also as a existing international funds administration, private major and growing market for commodity producing banking, trust and payments and cash management countries and for those developed countries that are businesses.
supplying the technology, equipment and services to support its economic expansion.
In May 2004, Hang Seng Bank acquired 15.98 per cent of Industrial Bank Co. Limited Industrial The Group is alive to the changing nature of the Bank for US$208 million.
With over 260 outlets in global economy and the accelerating pace of change, mainland China, Industrial Bank is one of only 10 and monitors the impact on sentiment and consumer national joint-stock banks, and had total assets of spending of strong domestic property prices, which approximately US$23 billion at 31 December 2003. in many markets are proving resilient to rising interest rates.
While such resilience is understandable in the context of historically low 9 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Description of Business continued nominal interest rates and a generally limited international in outlook and character: prudence: appetite for alternative investment opportunities, in creativity and customer focused marketing.
the long run property prices reflect income growth The plan also reaffirms HSBCs recognition of and, therefore, a correction in some markets cannot its corporate social responsibility CSR.
has always aspired to the highest standards of Against this backdrop, HSBC expects to focus conduct, recognises its wider obligations to society on building its businesses where it has comparative and believes there is a strong link between CSR and advantage.
HSBC also expects its lending to long-term success.
Moreover, the pressures to consumers around the world to continue to rise as a comply with public expectations across a wide proportion of total lending, partly reflecting spectrum of social, ethical and environmental issues domestic growth trends and credit demand in are growing rapidly.
The strategy therefore calls for a emerging markets, but also in response to the renewed emphasis on CSR and for increased introduction of its US consumer finance model, with external communication of the Groups CSR policies its emphasis on real estate secured lending and its and performance, particularly on education and the scale advantages in credit card lending, to new environment, which will remain the principal geographical markets.
In North America, HSBC beneficiaries of HSBCs philanthropic activities.
expects its business to grow as the US economy HSBCs new plan is led by customer groups, demonstrates its flexibility and responds to the lower and specific strategies will be implemented for each value of the dollar.
HSBC believes that by organising its internal and external reporting around customer Strategy groups, it reinforces to all its employees the Groups customer focus.
At the end of 2003, HSBC launched Managing for Growth, a strategic plan that provides HSBC with a The acquisition of HSBC Finance Corporation blueprint for growth and development during the in 2003, and subsequent skills sharing and next five years.
The strategy is evolutionary, not technology transfer, have highlighted the importance revolutionary.
It builds on HSBCs strengths and it within Personal Financial Services of a distinct addresses the areas where further improvement is customer group, Consumer Finance, to augment considered both desirable and attainable.
HSBCs other customer groups are Commercial Banking: Corporate, Managements vision for the Group remains Investment Banking and Markets: and Private consistent: HSBC aims to be the worlds leading Banking.
In this context, leading means preferred, admired and dynamic, and being Key elements in achieving HSBCs objectives recognised for giving the customer a fair deal.
HSBC for its customer groups will be accelerating the rate will strive to secure and maintain a leading position of growth of revenue: developing the brand strategy within each of its customer groups in selected further: improving productivity: and maintaining the markets.
Groups prudent risk management and strong financial position.
Developing the skills of HSBCs HSBC will concentrate on growing earnings staff will also be critical and it will be necessary to over the long term at a rate which will place it ensure that all employees understand how they can favourably when compared with its peer group.
It contribute to the successful achievement of the will also focus on investing in its delivery platforms, Groups objectives.
Employees who do make such a its technology, its people and its brand to support the contribution will be rewarded accordingly.
future value of HSBC as reflected in its comparative stock market rating and total shareholder return Operational management will continue to be TSR.
HSBC remains committed to benchmarking organised geographically under four regional its performance by comparison with a peer group.
intermediate head offices, with business activities For full details of the benchmark, see footnote 6 in concentrated in locations where growth and critical the Footnotes to Financial Highlights on page 4. mass are to be found.
HSBCs core values are integral to its strategy, The plan contains eight strategic imperatives: and communicating them to customers, shareholders Brand: make HSBC and its hexagon symbol one and employees is intrinsic to the plan.
These values of the worlds leading brands for customer comprise an emphasis on long-term, ethical client experience and corporate social responsibility: relationships: high productivity through teamwork: a confident and ambitious sense of excellence: being Personal Financial Services: drive growth in key 10 markets and through appropriate channels to beneficial to shareholders, employees and customers make HSBC the strongest global player in alike.
personal financial services: HSBCs diverse workforce represents a Consumer Finance: extend the reach of this significant competitive advantage.
The broad business to existing customers through a wider cultural mix and increasing cross-border mobility of product range and penetrate new markets: its employees enables HSBC to resource operations with individuals who have detailed knowledge of Commercial Banking: make the most of HSBCs local markets and of HSBC globally.
This international customer base through effective strengthens international networks and facilitates the relationship management and improved product sharing of best practices.
In addition, a continuing offerings in all the Groups markets: focus on policies that encourage an inclusive Corporate, Investment Banking and Markets: working environment and the availability of career accelerate growth by enhancing capital markets opportunities for all is critical to HSBC being an and advisory capabilities focused on client employer of choice.
HSBC seeks to maintain an service in defined sectors where HSBC has employee profile that reflects its customer base.
critical relevance and strength: HSBC operates in a highly competitive and Private Banking: serve the Groups highest international business environment.
Through its value personal clients around the world: network of international operations, it has the advantage of being able to respond to the availability People: attract, develop and motivate HSBCs of talented employees wherever they are, in order to people, rewarding success and rejecting enhance customer service and improve productivity.
mediocrity: and As education levels improve globally and as TSR: fulfil HSBCs TSR target by achieving investments in technology and telecommunications strong competitive performances in earnings per facilitate access at competitive cost to hitherto share growth and efficiency.
untapped resources, the balance of employment will change and global resource centres of excellence will emerge.
Job losses may arise in some countries, Employees and management but HSBC has a good record of communicating At 31 December 2004, HSBCs customers were openly and sensitively in these circumstances, and of served by 253,000 employees including part-time reassigning employees and minimising compulsory employees worldwide, compared with 232,000 at redundancies wherever possible.
31 December 2003 and 192,000 at 31 December HSBC seeks to promote and recruit the most 2002.
The main centres of employment are the UK able people and attaches great importance to with 56,000 employees, the US 43,000, Brazil cultivating its own talent.
Resources have been set 28,000, Hong Kong 26,000, Mexico 20,000 and aside to ensure a supply of talented individuals to France 14,000.
HSBC negotiates with recognised meet business succession needs, with support unions, and estimates that approximately 40 per cent provided for these employees in the form of career of its employees are unionised.
The highest enhancement and personal development concentrations of union membership are in Brazil, programmes.
In addition, HSBC recognises that France, India, Malaysia, Malta, Mexico, the there are lessons to be learned from other successful Philippines, Singapore and the UK.
As a result of businesses, and will recruit from non-banking well-developed communications and consultation industries where appropriate.
programmes, HSBC has not experienced any material disruptions to its operations from labour disputes during the past five years.
In support of its new strategy, HSBC focuses on attracting, developing and motivating the very best individuals, particularly graduates, and on encouraging talent internally.
Emphasis is placed on performance management: differentiated rewards: succession planning: diversity: and learning and development, with priority accorded to enhancing sales and relationship management skills.
HSBC continues to endeavour to ensure that employees engagement with the business is maximised as this is 11 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Description of Business continued Delivering the right products and service Customer Groups propositions for particular target markets is a Profit before tax by customer group fundamental requirement in any retail service business, reported basis and market research and customer analysis is key to developing an in-depth understanding of significant Year ended 31 December 2004 customer segments and their needs.
This understanding 6,000 of the customer ensures that Customer Relationship 5,000 Management CRM systems are effectively used to 5,020 4,837 identify and fulfil sales opportunities, and to manage 4,000 3,895 the sales process.
3,000 3,148 HSBC Premier is a premium banking proposition 2,000 for HSBCs more valuable retail customers.
HSBC 1,000 Premier provides personalised relationship 384 324 0 management, 24-hour priority telephone access, global travel assistance and cheque encashment facilities.
US$ million There are now over one million HSBC Premier Personal Financial Services Consumer Finance customers, who can use more than 250 specially Commercial Banking Corporate, Investment Banking and Markets designated Premier branches and centres in 33 Private Banking Other countries and territories, either when visiting, or on a 1 more permanent basis if they require a banking Total assets by customer group relationship in more than one country.
Year ended 31 December 2004 Insurance and investment products play an % important need in meeting the requirements of Corporate, Investment customers.
Insurance products sold and distributed Banking and Markets 46.1 by HSBC through its branch networks include loan Personal Financial Services 21.7 and health protection life, property, casualty and Consumer Finance 12.9 health insurance, and pensions.
HSBC acts both as a Commercial Banking 12.7 broker and an underwriter, and sees continuing Private Banking 4.5 opportunities to deliver insurance products to its personal customer base.
HSBC also makes available Other 2.1 a wide range of investment products through its branch networks.
Third party funds and proprietary 1 Excludes Hong Kong Government certificates of funds are available, and include traditional long indebtedness.
only equity and bond funds, structured funds that provide capital security as well as an opportunity for Personal Financial Services enhanced return, and fund of funds products which Personal Financial Services provides some 41 million offer customers the ability to diversify their individual and self-employed customers with a wide investment across a range of best in class fund range of banking and related financial services.
The managers selected through a rigorous and objective precise nature of the products and services provided is, selection process.
Comprehensive financial planning to some extent, driven by local regulations, market services covering customers investment: retirement, practices, and the market positioning of HSBCs local personal and asset protection needs are offered business.
Typically, products provided include current through specialist financial planning managers.
and savings accounts, mortgages and secured and High net worth individuals and their families unsecured personal loans, credit cards, and local who choose the differentiated services offered within payments services.
Private Banking are not included in this customer Personal Financial Services customers prefer to group.
conduct their financial business at times convenient to them, using a range of delivery channels.
The Consumer Finance availability of a number of such channels, including Within Personal Financial Services, HSBC Finance traditional and automated branches and service centres, Corporations operations in the US, the UK and self-service terminals, call centres and internet Canada make credit available to customer groups not capabilities, facilitates the exercise of choice well catered for by traditional banking operations, increasingly effectively.
facilitate point-of-sale credit in support of retail 12 purchases and support major affiliate credit card The credit card services business is the 1 1 programmes.
At 31 December 2004 HSBC Finance sixth largest issuer of MasterCard and Visa Corporation had over 57 million customers with total credit cards in the US, and also includes affiliation gross advances of US$141.9 billion.
Consumer cards such as the GM Card and the AFL-CIO 2 Finance products are offered through the following Union Plus credit card.
Also, credit cards issued in businesses of HSBC Finance Corporation: the name of Household Bank and Orchard Bank brands are offered to customers under-served by The consumer lending business is one of the traditional providers, or are marketed primarily largest sub-prime home equity originators in the US, through merchant relationships established by the marketed under the HFC and Beneficial brand names retail services business.
through a network of over 1,300 branches in 46 states, direct mail, telemarketing, strategic alliances A wide range of insurance services is offered and the internet.
Sub-prime is a US categorisation by HSBC Finance Corporation to customers in the which describes customers who have limited credit US, the UK and Canada who are typically not well histories, modest incomes, high debt-to-income served by traditional sources.
ratios, high loan-to-value ratios for real estate The taxpayer financial services business secured products or have experienced credit accelerates access to funds for US taxpayers who are problems caused by occasional delinquencies, prior entitled to tax refunds.
The business is seasonal with charge-offs, bankruptcy or other credit-related most revenues generated in the first three months of actions.
Consumer lending products include secured the year.
and unsecured loans such as first and second lien closed-end mortgages, open-ended home equity HSBC Finance Corporations business in the loans, personal loans and retail finance contracts.
UK provides mid-market consumers with mortgages, Consumer lending also offers a near-prime mortgage secured and unsecured loans, insurance products, product which was first introduced in 2003 to credit cards and retail finance products.
It broaden the range of customers to which its products concentrates on customer service through its are relevant.
216 HFC Bank and Beneficial branches, and finances consumer electronic goods, through its The mortgage services business purchases first retail finance operations.
In Canada, similar products and second lien residential mortgage loans, including are offered, and deposits are taken, through HSBC open-end home equity loans, from a network of over Finance Corporations trust operations there.
200 unaffiliated third party lenders correspondents in the US.
Purchases are Commercial Banking primarily of pools of loans bulk acquisitions, but also include individual loan portfolios flow HSBC is one of the worlds leading banks in the acquisitions, made under predetermined provision of financial services and products to small, underwriting guidelines.
Forward commitments are medium-sized and middle market businesses, with offered to selected correspondents to strengthen over two million customers including sole relationships and create a sustainable growth channel proprietors, partnerships, clubs and associations, for this business.
HSBC Finance Corporation, incorporated businesses and publicly quoted through its subsidiary, Decision One Mortgage companies.
Company, also offers mortgage loans referred by At 31 December 2004, HSBC had total mortgage brokers.
commercial customer account balances of The retail services business is one of the US$137.8 billion and total commercial customer largest providers of third party private label credit loans and advances, net of suspended interest and cards or store cards in the US based on receivables provisions for bad and doubtful debts, of outstanding, with over 70 merchant relationships and US$129.9 billion.
In addition to originating and refinancing motor vehicle loans, HSBC Finance Corporations motor 1 Visa is a registered trademark of VISA USA, Inc. and vehicle finance business purchases retail instalment MasterCard is a registered trademark of MasterCard contracts of US customers who do not have access to International, Incorporated.
The loans 2 The Union Plus MasterCard and Visa credit card programme is an affinity arrangement with Union Privilege are largely sourced from a network of approximately under which credit cards are offered to members of unions 5,200 motor dealers.
affiliated with the American Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations AFL-CIO.
13 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Description of Business continued Commercial Banking places particular emphasis Leasing, finance and factoring: HSBC on multi-disciplinary and geographical collaboration provides leasing, finance including instalment and in meeting its commercial customers needs, thereby invoice finance and domestic factoring services, differentiating, broadening and enhancing its primarily to commercial customers in the UK, Hong offering.
The range of products includes: Kong and France.
Special divisions have been established to finance vehicles, plant and equipment, Payments and cash management: HSBC is a materials handling, machinery and large complex leading provider of payments, collections, liquidity leases.
management and account services worldwide, enabling commercial customers to manage their cash Corporate, Investment Banking and Markets efficiently on a global basis.
HSBCs extensive network of offices and strong domestic capabilities HSBCs Corporate, Investment Banking and in many countries, including direct access to local Markets business provides tailored financial clearing systems, enhance its ability to provide highsolutions to major government, corporate and quality cash management services.
Managed as a global business, this customer group operates a long-term Treasury and capital markets: Commercial relationship management approach to build a full Banking customers have long been volume users of understanding of clients financial requirements.
the Groups foreign exchange capabilities.
These are Sectoral client service teams comprising relationship now being supplemented with more sophisticated managers and product specialists develop financial currency and interest rate options.
solutions to meet individual client needs.
With Investment Banking: A small number of dedicated offices in over 50 countries and with Commercial Banking customers need occasional access to HSBCs worldwide presence and investment banking advisory support.
Co-operation capabilities, this business serves subsidiaries and with Corporate, Investment Banking and Markets offices of its clients on a global basis.
ensures that in most key markets such requirements Products and services offered include: can be serviced internally.
Global Markets: HSBCs operations in Global Wealth management services: These include Markets consist of treasury and capital markets advice and products related to savings and services for supranationals, central banks, investments.
They are provided to Commercial corporations, institutional and private investors, Banking customers and their employees through financial institutions and other market participants.
HSBCs worldwide network of branches and Products include: business banking centres.
foreign exchange: Insurance: HSBC offers insurance protection, employee benefits programmes and pension schemes currency, interest rate, bond, credit, equity and designed to meet the needs of businesses and their other specialised derivatives: employees, and to help fulfill the applicable statutory government and non-government fixed income obligations of client companies.
These products are and money market instruments: provided by HSBC either as an intermediary broker, agent or consultant or as a supplier of in-house or precious metals and exchange traded futures: third party offerings.
Products and services include a equity services, including research, sales and full range of commercial insurance, including trading for institutional, corporate and private pension schemes: healthcare schemes: key man life clients and asset management services, insurance: car fleet: goods in transit: trade credit including global investment advisory and fund protection: risk management and insurance due management services: and diligence reviews: and actuarial employee benefit consultancy.
distribution of capital markets instruments, including debt, equity and structured products, Trade services: HSBC has more than 130 years utilising links with HSBCs global networks.
of experience in trade services.
A complete range of traditional documentary credit, collections and Global Transaction Banking: This includes financing products is offered, as well as specialised international, regional and in-country payments and services such as insured export finance, international cash management services: trade services, factoring and forfaiting.
HSBCs expertise is particularly the specialised supply chain product: supported by highly automated systems.
and securities services, where HSBC is one of the worlds leading custodians providing custody and 14 clearing services and funds administration to both investments for clients needs and investment domestic and cross-border investors.
banknotes services are also provided by specialist Global wealth solutions: These comprise units.
inheritance planning, trustee and other fiduciary Corporate and Institutional Banking: This services designed to protect existing wealth and includes: create tailored structures to preserve wealth for future generations.
Areas of expertise include trusts, direct lending, including structured finance for foundations, charitable trusts, private investment complex investment facilities: companies, insurance vehicles and offshore leasing finance with an emphasis on large structures.
ticket transactions: and Specialist advisory services: Private Banking deposit-taking.
offers expertise in several specialist areas of wealth management including tax advisory, family office Global Investment Banking: This comprises: advisory, charities and foundations, media, diamonds capital raising, both publicly and privately, and jewellery, and real estate.
Specialist advisers are including debt and equity capital, structured available to deliver products and services that are finance and syndicated finance: tailored to meet the full range of high net worth clients individual financial needs.
corporate finance and advisory services for mergers and acquisitions, asset disposals, stock General banking services: These are the exchange listings, privatisations and capital ancillary services necessary for the management of restructurings: clients finances.
They include treasury and foreign exchange, offshore and onshore deposits, tailor-made project and export finance services providing loans and internet banking.
The skills and products non-recourse finance to exporters, importers and available in HSBCs other customer groups, such as financial institutions, and working closely with corporate banking, investment banking and all major export credit agencies: and insurance, are also offered to Private Banking financing and risk advisory services.
Asset management services: This comprises Private Banking services are also provided by asset management products and services for HSBC Guyerzeller and HSBC Trinkaus & institutional investors, intermediaries and individual Burkhardt.
Geographical Regions Private Banking Profit before tax split by geographical region HSBC is one of the worlds leading international reported basis private banking groups with total client funds under Year ended 31 December 2004 management of US$178 billion at 31 December 2004.
2004 was the first year in which the name HSBC Private Bank was used for worldwide 6000 marketing of its principal private banking business.
5000 5,419 5,225 4,744 Drawing on the strength of the HSBC Group 4000 and utilising the best products from the marketplace, 3000 Private Banking works with its clients to offer both 2000 traditional and innovative ways to manage and 1,805 preserve wealth whilst optimising returns.
Products 1000 and services offered include: 415 0 US$ Million Investment services: These comprise both advisory and discretionary investment services.
A wide range of investment vehicles is covered, Europe Hong Kong including bonds, equities, derivatives, structured Rest of Asia-Pacific North America South America products, mutual funds and hedge funds.
Supported by six major advisory centres in Hong Kong, Singapore, Geneva, New York, Paris and London, Private Banking seeks to select the most suitable 15 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Description of Business continued 1 Total assets split by geographical region Outside Hong Kong and mainland China, the HSBC Group conducts business in the Asia-Pacific As at 31 December 2004 region primarily through branches and subsidiaries % of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Europe 42.6 Corporation, with particularly strong coverage in India, Indonesia, Korea, Singapore and Taiwan.
Hong Kong 17.2 HSBCs presence in the Middle East is led by HSBC Rest of Asia-Pacific 9.5 Bank Middle East, the largest foreign-owned bank in North America 29.3 the region: in Australia by HSBC Bank Australia South America 1.4 Limited: and in Malaysia by HSBC Bank Malaysia, which has the second largest presence of any 1 Excludes Hong Kong Government certificates of foreign-owned bank in the country.
North America Additional information regarding business HSBCs North American business covers the United developments in 2004, as well as comparative States, Canada, Mexico, Bermuda and Panama.
information relating to developments in 2003, may Operations are primarily conducted in the US be found in the Financial Review on pages through HSBC Bank USA in New York State and 26 to 178.
HSBC Finance Corporation, based outside Chicago.
HSBCs Canadian and Mexican operations are run Europe through HSBC Bank Canada and HSBC Mexico, HSBCs principal banking operations in Europe are respectively.
HSBC Bank, CCF and HSBC Private Bank Suisse.
HSBC provides a wide range of banking, treasury South America and financial services to personal, commercial and HSBCs operations in South America principally corporate customers in the UK, France, and across comprise HSBC Bank Brazil and HSBC Bank continental Europe, with strong coverage in Turkey Argentina.
HSBC operates the tenth largest and Malta.
HSBCs strategy is to build long-term insurance business in Brazil, and offers consumer relationships, attracting customers through value-forfinance products there through its subsidiary, money products and high-quality service.
HSBC also has one of the largest insurance businesses in Argentina, HSBC La Buenos Aires Hong Kong and, through HSBC Mxima and HSBC New York HSBCs principal banking subsidiaries in Hong Life, offers pensions and life assurance in Argentina.
Kong are The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation and Hang Seng Bank.
The Hongkong Competitive environment and Shanghai Banking Corporation is the largest bank incorporated in Hong Kong and is HSBCs HSBC faces strong competition in all the markets it flagship bank in the Asia-Pacific region.
It competes with other financial institutions, Hong Kongs three note-issuing banks, accounting including commercial banks: consumer finance for more than 63 per cent by value of banknotes in companies: savings and loan associations: credit circulation in 2004. unions: retailers: brokerage firms: and investment companies.
In investment banking, HSBC faces Rest of Asia-Pacific including the Middle East competition from both investment banks and the investment banking operations of other commercial The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation banks.
offers personal, commercial, corporate and investment banking and markets services in Global factors mainland China.
The banks network spans 12 major cities, comprising ten branches, three sub-branches Consolidation in the banking industry: and two representative offices.
Hang Seng Bank Consolidation of banks and financial services offers personal and commercial banking services and companies has been a continuing trend over many operates five branches, two sub-branches, and two years.
This trend, at both local and international representative offices in seven cities in mainland levels, has created a larger number of banks, China.
financial services companies and mono-line providers capable of competing directly with HSBC across a wide range of services.
16 Limited market growth: In HSBCs largest study concluded that there were features of the markets, the UK, the US and Hong Kong, there is sector, both in the supply of store card credit to generally limited capacity for market growth in the consumers and in the supply of store card services, provision of basic banking services.
However, there that appeared to prevent, restrict or distort is potential for growth in the provision of a wider competition.
array of financial services to both existing and new The Competition Commission, which published customers, and for expansion into new market and its initial statement of issues in September, is customer segments, particularly in the field of expected to provide provisional findings in the first consumer finance.
quarter of 2005 and publish its final report by early Advances in technology: As the internet and July.
related technologies has continued to mature, the In November, the OFT issued a statement of delivery of financial services and banking products objections against the agreement between through both remote and automated delivery Mastercards UK members, which includes HSBC channels has introduced both new competitive Bank, on the multilateral interchange fees charged challenges and opportunities for HSBC.
While on credit and charge card transactions in the UK.
specialist providers and non-financial organisations The statement alleged that parties to the agreement can deliver a growing range of services across a have infringed competition law and invites wide variety of electronic channels, mainstream representations from members before the OFT banks are also competing fiercely for the growing makes a final decision.
number of customers who now prefer to use this medium.
As these technologies mature, brand In mid December the Department of Trade and differentiation becomes more difficult and costly.
Industry announced a new Consumer Credit Bill HSBC continues to offer customers access to its full which seeks to create a clearer and more competitive range of services in the manner they most prefer.
market for credit by bringing in new rules to give Internet, interactive TV, mobile phone, WAP and consumers better protection and more rights.
telephone banking all complement the more traditional branch network.
France The French government reformed the pension Regional factors system in France in order to reduce the states longterm pension obligations.
Retirement ages were Europe increased and pension entitlements lowered.
The changes are being introduced over a number of years UK to allow people to adapt to the new system.
To While overall market growth has remained relatively encourage people to save for their retirement, the limited the continuing demand for consumer credit government has introduced both individual and in the past few years has intensified competition collective pension plans with tax advantages for among the established players and attracted a scheme members.
With clarification of the rules at number of new entrants, particularly from non the start of 2005, these plans are now being marketed financial services providers.
Competition from by financial institutions in France.
HSBC will earn mono-line providers of both consumer lending and commissions on the sales of the pension plans and savings products has grown in recent years often earn management fees from managing the funds.
through the use of attractive pricing to capture The government also created Fonds fide Reserve market share.
pour les Retraites, a pension body for state Consolidation in the market for credit and employees, and sought tenders for management of charge cards has increased in recent years as retailers 16bn of funds.
HSBC Asset Management Europe look to outsource their finance company operations SA won two of the tenders to manage 1.2 billion of to established players rather than running them inassets for a small caps fund and a bonds fund.
This has led to a greater concentration of the Caixa Bank won its case at the European Court industry in the hands of a relatively small number of of Justice against the French government on the law providers and attracted the attention of the Office of forbidding banks from paying interest on current Fair Trading OFT.
As a result, the law will be withdrawn in In March the OFT referred the supply of store 2005, allowing French banks to pay interest on these card services to the Competition Commission accounts.
Major banks are examining the following a study of the 4.8 billion industry.
The implications of the ruling.
17 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Description of Business continued The European Commission is investigating GIE on the maturity of the markets, level of regulation Cartes Bancaire, the partnership operating the credit and number of financial services providers, HSBC card system in France, and nine participating banks.
competes with a range of local banks, non-bank Although a member of the GIE, CCF is not currently financial services companies, and the branches of under investigation.
An emerging trend in recent years has been the growth of pan-regional players, as the Following a French government review of larger banks in several countries have expanded banking charges, banks adopted a new code of through acquisition and organic growth beyond their practice whereby they both stopped charging for the local markets.
These emerging regional banks closure of accounts and became generally more provide a new level of competition for HSBC as they transparent in the pricing of their services.
Competition, therefore, remains already notifies customers of its tariffs and the intense throughout the region in all the customer introduction of this code is expected to have little groups served by HSBC.
countries the increasing sophistication of the relatively young population continues to provide Hong Kong HSBC with further opportunities for growth.
The Hong Kong economy in 2004 continued the strong growth seen in the second half of 2003, driven North America by regional trade flows, and the strength of the US In the US, continuing mergers and acquisitions in the economic recovery.
banking, insurance and securities industries are This resulted in falling unemployment and bringing consolidation and a blending of services.
bankruptcies, and rising property prices, contributing Consolidation of the banking sector remained an to an increase in private consumption.
issue throughout 2004, with a greater focus on national networks and retail branch banking.
HSBC Other than in the trade sector, however, demand Bank USA also faced vigorous competition from a for credit remained muted, with individuals and large number of non-bank suppliers of financial enterprises slow to increase borrowings, reflecting services, which have found new and effective ways nervousness about the sustainability of the economic to meet the financial demands of customers.
these institutions are not subject to the same laws Interest rates in the economy remained low, as and regulations imposed on HSBC Bank USA.
with loan demand subdued, the market was unable to These continuing trends will increase competitive absorb external funds.
Against this backdrop, there was fierce HSBC Finance Corporation competes with a competition in traditional core banking products, wide array of banks, thrifts, insurance companies, particularly in the mortgage market, further credit unions, mortgage lenders and brokers and depressing margins and prices.
other providers of consumer credit for consumers who generally do not conform to US banking To address these pressures, banks have sought to industry requirements.
It competes by expanding its diversify revenue streams, and there has been customer base through portfolio acquisitions or significant growth in the development of wealth alliance and co-branding opportunities, by offering a management and insurance products.
variety of consumer loan products and by The introduction of a commercial credit maintaining a strong service orientation.
reference agency in November 2004, is expected to In Canada, the financial services industry further intensify competition for quality customers continues to be dominated by the five largest banks and assets.
However, the market remains highly Hong Kong banks continue to maintain a regular competitive as other banks, insurance companies and dialogue with Chinese financial institutions as the financial institutions offer a range of comparable financial sector continues to liberalise ahead of WTO products and services.
While merger activity among in 2006.
It is expected that this will be a continued the largest banks in Canada remains a possibility, source of growth in 2005. major financial institutions continue to look elsewhere for growth.
Rest of Asia-Pacific including the Middle East Consolidation of the banking industry in Mexico The competitive environment in the Rest of Asia has been a significant feature in recent years with Pacific varies greatly across the region.
Depending over 76 per cent of banking assets and 79 per cent of 18 deposits owned by the subsidiaries of five major HSBCs extensive network of branches and partner foreign banks.
However, with a population of stores, and continuous investment in branding and approximately 100 million, the majority of whom do service quality, will ensure that the Group is able to not use the banking system, Mexico offers benefit from growth in the demand for financial substantial growth opportunities in the retail sector services.
in the medium to long term.
HSBC, with its In Argentina, international financial groups extensive branch network and growing young provide the greatest competition in core banking customer base, is well positioned to take full services and insurance, with most of the major banks advantage of this economic and competitive in significant foreign ownership.
branch network, sales force and substantial local insurance business, is one of the few companies South America capable of providing a comprehensive range of The Brazilian banking industry remains dominated financial services to its clients.
by a combination of large state-owned banks, Since the crisis in 2001, Argentinas banking privately-owned local banks, and subsidiaries of industry has consolidated with some institutions, foreign institutions, including HSBC.
The top ten generally smaller banks, leaving the country and a banking groups account for around two thirds of number of the larger foreign-owned financial total financial system assets.
institutions re-capitalising their local operations.
As Although 2004 saw little consolidation among confidence has begun to return, the financial sector the larger players, the year was characterised by has seen growth in loans to the private sector and continued positioning for growth in the consumer deposits.
The insurance industry has also recovered, finance market.
Lending to individuals grew by a with a significant increase in premiums that has third in 2004, and demand is expected to remain helped the industry to become profitable for the first strong over the medium term, supported by a more time in a number of years.
With a population of 183 million, HSBC continues to monitor progress being and over 45 per cent of the economically active made with the economic and political reforms population estimated to be unbanked, banks are necessary to build confidence in Argentina, and looking to increase their capacity to reach nonevaluates carefully the opportunities and risks within traditional segments, particularly through the financial services industry there.
HSBC Bank Brazil is at the forefront of this trend.
There was strong competition among banks to agree alignments with retail stores, particularly those with their own in-house financing arrangements.
HSBC experienced success in this area concluding an agreement with Panashop, a major electronic and white goods supplier.
Competition increased in this sector with competitors developing new, individually branded consumer finance propositions.
Following the successful integration of Losango, HSBC Bank Brazil continued to expand and develop its leading position in the store and personal loan market through the acquisition of the Valeu and CrediMatone franchises.
Following the collapse of a medium sized Brazilian commercial bank, there was a flight to quality and smaller banks experienced increasing difficulties in funding their asset growth.
There was a spate of alliances involving small banks, and HSBC boosted its presence in the payroll loan market through a partnership with Banco Schahin, announced in December 2004.
Whilst the environment is expected to remain competitive, 19
