HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Other information Loan maturity and interest sensitivity analysis At 31 December 2004, the geographical analysis of loan maturity and interest sensitivity by loan type on a contractual repayment basis was as follows.
All amounts are net of suspended interest.
The geographical analysis of average deposits is based on the location of the office in which the deposits are recorded and excludes balances with HSBC companies.
The Other category includes securities sold under agreements to repurchase.
The majority of certificates of deposit and time deposits are in amounts of US$100,000 and over or the equivalent in other currencies.
182 Short-term borrowings HSBC includes short-term borrowings within customer accounts, deposits by banks and debt securities in issue and does not show short-term borrowings separately on the balance sheet.
Short-term borrowings are defined by the SEC as Federal funds purchased and securities sold under agreements to repurchase, commercial paper and other short-term borrowings.
HSBCs only significant short-term borrowings are securities sold under agreements to repurchase and certain debt securities in issue.
Additional information on these is provided in the tables below.
i Financial guarantees, letters of credit and similar undertakings Note 38 a of the Notes on the Financial Statements on page 306 describes various types of guarantees and discloses the maximum potential future payments under such arrangements.
Credit risk associated with all forms of guarantees is assessed in the same manner as for on-balance sheet credit advances and, where necessary, provisions for assessed impairment are included in provisions for contingent liabilities and commitments.
ii Commitments to lend Undrawn credit lines are disclosed in Note 38 a of the Notes on Financial Statements on page 306.
The majority by value of undrawn credit lines arises from open to buy lines on personal credit cards, whereby cheques are issued to potential customers offering them a pre-approved loan, advised overdraft limits, and mortgage offers awaiting customer acceptance.
HSBC generally has the right to change or terminate any conditions of a personal customers overdraft, credit card or other credit line upon notification to the customer.
In respect of corporate commitments to lend, in most contracts HSBCs position will be protected through restrictions on access to funding in the event of material adverse change.
iii Credit derivatives HSBC uses credit derivatives through the dealing operations of certain Group companies, acting as a principal counterparty to a broad range of users, structuring deals to produce risk management products for its customers, or making markets in certain products.
Risk is typically controlled through entering into an offsetting credit derivative contract with another counterparty.
HSBC also manages its own exposure to industry segments and individual counterparties using credit derivatives.
For a more detailed description of credit derivatives and information regarding their carrying amounts in 2004 and 2003, refer to Note 37 a of the Notes on Financial Statements on page 299.
183 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Other information continued iv Special purpose and variable interest entities HSBC predominantly uses special purpose entities SPEs, or variable interest entities VIEs, to securitise loans and advances it has originated where this source of funding is cost effective.
Such loans and advances generally remain on-balance sheet under UK GAAP.
HSBC also administers SPEs that have been established for the purpose of providing alternative sources of financing to HSBCs customers.
Such arrangements also enable HSBC to provide tailored investment opportunities for investors.
These SPEs, commonly referred to as asset-backed or multi-seller conduits, purchase interests in a diversified pool of receivables from customers or in the market using finance provided by a third party.
The cash flows received by the SPE on the pool of receivables are used to service the finance provided by investors.
HSBC administers this arrangement, which facilitates diversification of funding sources and the tranching of credit risk.
HSBC also typically provides part of the liquidity facilities to the entities, together with secondary credit enhancement.
HSBC also has relationships with SPEs which offer management of investment funds, provide finance to public and private sector infrastructure projects, and facilitate capital funding through the issue of preference shares via partnerships.
All SPEs used by HSBC are authorised centrally to ensure appropriate purpose and governance, and the activities of SPEs administered by HSBC are closely monitored by senior management.
The use of SPEs is not a significant part of HSBCs activities and HSBC is not reliant on the use of SPEs for any material part of its business operations.
For a further discussion of HSBCs involvement with VIEs and the accounting treatments under UK and US GAAP see Note 49 p of the Notes on the Financial Statements on page 351.
Contractual obligations The table below provides details of HSBCs material contractual obligations as at 31 December 2004.
