Group Profile GLOBAL MARKETS MEXICO CITY LOUISVILLE NEW YORK LONDON AMSTERDAM PARIS PRAHA BERGEN FRANKFURT WARSAW COPENHAGEN MADRID ELECTRONIC HYBRID VOICE HOW THE INDUSTRY IS % HOW IT COULD DEVELOP % GLOBAL MARKETS THE ROLE OF THE INTERDEALER BROKER customers with both voice support and ICAP provides a specialist intermediary electronic execution.
With more than 2,900 staff, ICAP broking service to commercial banks and THE WHOLESALE FINANCIAL MARKETS has a strong presence in each of investment banks in the wholesale financial ICAP is an interdealer broker in the over the three major financial markets: markets.
An interdealer broker works in these the counter OTC markets for derivatives, London, New York and Tokyo, markets to draw together liquidity and to fixed income securities, money market together with a local presence match buyers and sellers so that deals can products, foreign exchange, energy, credit be executed by its banking customers.
These markets Banks pay a commission when they use a have grown significantly in recent years broker to complete a deal.
driven by: ICAP offers banks significant economies demand for significant deficit financing of scale in price discovery by having a in many of the G7 countries: number of staff covering each product and increased issuance in the corporate bond in constant contact with a range of and mortgage backed securities markets: counterparties.
Access to a broker volatility in medium term interest rates: therefore allows a bank to increase market coverage in busy times without increased allocation of capital for trading incurring additional overheads.
In many and position taking by the banks and markets ICAP operates as an agent or hedge funds: matched principal broker providing banks shifts in foreign exchange rates: with the opportunity to deal anonymously increased use by banks and other through a neutral party at the most financial institutions of the derivatives attractive price available.
market to unbundle and redistribute a ICAP has created a powerful combination: range of financial risks including credit, the worlds largest voice and electronic interest rate and exchange rate risks: and interdealer broker.
There is growing changes in the demand for commodities demand for electronic broking of liquid such as oil, coal and gas.
products, which is totally complementary to voice broking of more bespoke, less liquid products.
The majority of the markets in which ICAP operates rely on, and will continue to rely on, voice broking skills.
ICAPs version of electronic broking naturally complements voice broking and in most markets combines voice and or electronic access to a common pool of liquidity.
This hybrid solution provides ICAP plc Annual Report 2004 02 MANAMA MUMBAI BANGKOK HONG KONG TOKYO SYDNEY WELLINGTON JAKARTA KUALA LUMPUR MANILA SINGAPORE NOW FUTURE The strong growth exhibited in the OTC MARKET GROWTH In the US fixed income markets in the year derivatives markets clearly underscores the ICAP estimates that the global interdealer to February 2004, according to the New benefits these products provide as financial broker market for OTC derivatives, fixed York Federal Reserve Board, volumes risk management tools.
Furthermore, the income securities, money market products, transacted by interdealer brokers grew by growth of both the credit and the interest foreign exchange, energy, credit and equity 19% in the US Treasuries market, 23% in rate derivatives markets demonstrates the derivatives increased in 2003 by the Mortgage Backed Securities market, value they provide firms seeking to transfer approximately 7%, after adjusting for the but declined by 21% in the US Agencies these types of risk.
impact of exchange rate movements and market.
In Europe, according to ISMA, Repo is worth approximately $4.6 billion.
ICAP markets volumes transacted by interdealer The credit default swap market, for example, continues to be the global leader with an brokers grew by 22%.
has been effective at redistributing risk away estimated 27% share of the market, an from the banking system to other increase of approximately 3% from the prior institutions such as insurance companies year as a result of organic growth and the and pension funds, facilitating a transfer of acquisition of BrokerTec in May 2003. credit risk out of the banking system.
The Bank of International Settlements has There are two types of derivative market: announced continued strong growth in interest the OTC market and the exchange-traded rate derivatives in the first half of 2003, futures market.
Significant trading which reached a record $121.8 trillion of opportunities exist between these closely notional amounts outstanding.
There is ongoing and rapid swaps grew by 20% and interest rate options convergence between the exchange-traded by 23% compared with the second half and OTC markets due to a greater of 2002. penetration of electronic trading, lower financial barriers to entry, risk mitigation Overall business in the foreign exchange with greater emphasis on common clearing derivatives markets was especially buoyant pools, a demand for more transparent with currency options surging by 42% over valuation methodology and common the previous six months.
According to a recent trading protocols.
survey by the International Swaps Dealers Association, the notional principal outstanding volume of credit derivatives grew at an even stronger rate in the second half 33% than in the preceding six months 25% : notional amounts now stand at $3.58 trillion.
This represents a year-on-year growth of 29%.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2004 03 Group Profile continued USING TECHNOLOGY TO INCREASE ICAPs electronic broking footprint is much REGULATION TRADING EFFICIENCY more extensive than any other broker and ICAP has a strong balance sheet to meet The completion of ICAPs acquisition currently includes active and off-the-run the commercial demands of customers of BrokerTec in May 2003 was a key US Treasuries, Bills, Notes, Bonds, Strips, and to comply with regulatory capital strategic objective, transforming the TIPS and Basis trading as well as Agencies adequacy requirements.
The ICAP Group is Groups electronic broking capability.
and Mortgages: European, UK, Australian, regulated on a consolidated basis by the ICAP is now the leading global electronic Japanese and South African government UK Financial Services Authority FSA interdealer broker, as well as the leading bonds: US$ and euro repurchase agreements with the Groups UK businesses being voice broker.
In the first quarter of 2004, and Eurobonds.
authorised by the FSA to carry on ICAPs electronic broking volumes had regulated activities in the UK.
In the US, Outside the fixed income markets, 39 banks grown to an average of $305 billion per the Groups activities are regulated by the have now been connected and are using day.
A peak daily electronic broking Securities and Exchange Commission.
The ICAPs iSwap platform non-interactively volume of $410 billion was recorded Group operates in other countries and its for euro interest rate swaps, 10 more are on 4 May 2004. operations are subject to the relevant at various stages of installation.
The next local regulatory requirements.
A technology project to cross-connect steps will be to launch iSwap for electronic BrokerTecs and ICAPs electronic platforms trading of EONIAS short term IRS in in the US Treasury markets was completed September 2004. in September 2003 and now successfully A project to provide improved price discovery provides voice and or electronic access and straight through processing in Forward to a common pool of liquidity.
FX and money market cash products is expected to go live in late 2004.
It will involve offices in Europe, the US and Asia sharing access to the liquidity generated across the ICAP network.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2004 04 VOICE ELECTRONIC
