Directors Report The directors present their report and the the directors in the Companys shares are Charity Day and charitable donations audited Financial Statements of the Group shown in the Remuneration Committee During the year the Group donated 4 million for the year ended 31 March 2004.
2003 - 3.3 million to charitable organisations globally, of which 2.1 million Activities, business review and In accordance with the Companys articles 2003 - 2.0 million was donated to development of association Duncan Goldie-Morrison and charitable organisations in the UK.
For the A review of business activities and future James McNulty will stand for re-appointment past 11 years ICAP has held an annual developments of the Group is given in the and Nicholas Cosh will stand for re-election charity day and our offices around the Group Profile, Chairmans Statement, at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
world have raised a total of 17 million.
Group Chief Executive Officers Review, Many charities have received significant Operating Review and Group Finance Edward Pank resigned as Company Secretary donations enabling them to receive enough Directors Review on pages 2 to 17. on 1 August 2003 and Helen Broomfield money to make dreamed of projects a was appointed Group Company Secretary reality without spending money fundraising.
Related party transactions on this date.
Further information can be found on our Details of related party transactions are set website, www.
com, and in the brochure out in note 29 to the Financial Statements.
Corporate Social Responsibility which was sent to all shareholders with the Employee involvement and 2003 interim report.
Post balance sheet event employment practices On 7 April 2004 it was decided that ICAP The Group is committed to achieving the Equal opportunities would exercise its option to satisfy 4.8 highest standards in its workplace.
The The Group is committed to employment million $8.8 million of the second deferred policies and practices in place within the policies that follow best practice and offers consideration payment in respect of the Group to deter acts of harassment and opportunities for employment, training and First Brokers acquisition in cash rather than discrimination are regularly monitored.
career development and promotion based shares.
Further information is given in note The Group maintains a zero tolerance on individual abilities, regardless of gender, 32 to the Financial Statements.
policy concerning sexual harassment, race, national origin, disability, age, sexual discrimination and retaliation against orientation, or religious or political beliefs.
Results and dividends individuals who report problems in the The results of the Group for the year are Groups workplace.
These topics are Health and safety set out in the consolidated profit and loss covered in the training of all US employees.
The Company has a health and safety account on page 38.
Following payment of All managers in the UK take part in policy approved by the board and is the interim dividend, details of which are externally managed diversity training committed to providing for the health, set out in note 10 to the Financial courses which cover discussion on the safety and welfare of all its employees Statements, the directors recommend a expected and acceptable standards of and to maintaining standards at least final dividend of 5.7 pence per share for the conduct and behaviour for employees.
equal to the best practice in the financial year ended 31 March 2004 to be paid on services industry.
27 August 2004 to shareholders on the The Group recognises the value of Register on 30 July 2004 ex-dividend date communication with employees at all Environment being 28 July 2004.
After allowing for the levels and incentive schemes and share Recognising that the Groups operations payment of the proposed dividend, the ownership schemes are run for the benefit are themselves of minimal environmental profit for the year transferred to reserves of employees.
Information on these impact, ICAPs policy is to operate, as far was 39.6 million.
schemes is set out in the Remuneration as practicable, environmentally friendly Committee Report on page 31. policies and meet the statutory requirements Directors and directors interests placed on the Group.
Biographical details of the directors who During the year an intranet site was held office throughout the year including developed in the UK allowing employees Creditor payment policy Duncan Goldie-Morrison and James McNulty easy access to the Company website for The Groups policy with regard to the who were appointed on 20 November 2003 information on current developments.
payment of its suppliers is to agree the and 30 March 2004 respectively, are The intranet brings together information terms of payment at the start of business given on page 18 and also in the notice on employment opportunities, the staff with each supplier, ensure that the suppliers of the Annual General Meeting on pages handbook, including policies and procedures, are made aware of the terms of payments 78 to 81 for those to be re-elected and details of arrangements whereby employees and pay in accordance with its contractual re-appointed with the exception of Robert are able to raise, in confidence, any and legal obligations.
The Company does Knox and Donald Marshall who did not concerns they may have, and compliance not have any trade creditors.
stand for re-election at the Annual procedures and manuals.
General Meeting held on 16 July 2003.
Details of the service contracts of the A structured graduate training programme current directors and of the interests of is offered in the UK.
The programme is run over a three-month period and is complemented by hands on experience on each broking desk so that all participants may obtain a good understanding of the business.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2004 20 Political donations addition, shares may be issued as deferred Resolution 9 will be proposed as a Special In the UK the board approved a donation to consideration in respect of the acquisition Resolution.
It is to empower the directors Business for Sterling of 10,000.
More information to allot ordinary shares, otherwise than on a 50,000 to Business for Sterling.
is given in the Group Finance Directors pro-rata basis to existing shareholders, in Review.
connection with any future rights issue or Share capital grant rights over shares or sell treasury Share split At an Extraordinary General At the Annual General Meeting held on shares for cash, up to an aggregate Meeting held on 4 February 2004 16 July 2003, the Company was given nominal amount of 2,891,481 being shareholders approved a five for one share authority to purchase up to 11,493,644 approximately 5% in value of the existing subdivision which divided the Group's ordinary ordinary shares of 50 pence now 57,468,220 issued share capital at 31 March 2004 shares of 50p each into five ordinary shares of 10 pence each.
This authority will expire and 4.99% of the issued share capital at of 10p each.
The subdivision was effective at the conclusion of the Annual General 29 April 2004. from 9 February 2004.
These Financial Meeting to be held on 14 July 2004.
Statements including comparatives reflect The authorities in Resolutions 8 and 9 last the change following the share subdivision.
Annual General Meeting for periods of five and one year respectively, The sixth Annual General Meeting of the in accordance with institutional guidelines.
Changes in share capital All changes in Company will be held on Wednesday, The directors have no present intention of share capital are detailed in note 23 to the 14 July 2004.
The Notice of meeting is exercising these authorities other than to Financial Statements.
As at 31 March 2004, set out on pages 78 to 81. comply with the Companys obligations options existed over 23,648,930 of the pursuant to the acquisition agreements in Companys ordinary shares of 10 pence in In addition to the ordinary business of voting connection with BrokerTec, First Brokers relation to employee share option schemes.
upon receiving the Financial Statements, and APB.
It is normal for boards of listed Of this figure 7,263,345 are options over declaring a dividend, the re-election and companies to have these authorities existing shares which are held in Trust and re-appointment of directors and the in order to take advantage of market the remainder are expected to be satisfied appointment of auditors, the following opportunities as they arise.
Changes in options special business will be considered: under the various schemes are detailed Resolution 10 will be proposed as a Special in note 24 to the Financial Statements.
Resolution 7 will be proposed as an Resolution.
It will empower the Company to In accordance with the provisions of the Ordinary Resolution to approve the purchase its own ordinary shares by market acquisition agreement entered into in Remuneration Committee Report.
purchases not exceeding approximately connection with the acquisition of BrokerTec, 10% of the Companys issued share capital up to a maximum of 33,720,495 ordinary Resolution 8 will be proposed as an Ordinary as at 29 April 2004.
The maximum and shares may be issued to the former Resolution.
It is to authorise the directors minimum prices are stated in the resolution.
shareholders of BrokerTec as deferred to allot ordinary shares of the Company to Your directors believe that it is advantageous consideration depending on the revenue an amount equal to approximately one for the Company to continue to have this created by the acquired business.
In third of the existing issued share capital.
flexibility to make market purchases of its own shares.
In the event that shares are purchased, they would either be cancelled and the number of shares in issue would Substantial shareholdings be reduced accordingly or, subject to the As at 19 May 2004, the Company had been notified of the following interests of 3% or more Companies Acquisition of Own Shares in its issued ordinary share capital: Treasury Shares Regulations 2003 the Regulations which came into force on Number of ordinary % of ordinary shares held shares held 1 December 2003, retained as treasury shares with a view to possible re-sale at a Mr & Mrs Michael Spencer, together future date rather than having to cancel with INCAP Netherlands Holdings B. V them.
The Company would consider holding and Intercapital Private Group Limited 132,782,775 22.96 repurchased shares pursuant to the authority Jupiter Asset Management Limited 44,429,180 7.68 conferred by this resolution as treasury Fidelity Investments 34,964,350 6.05 shares.
This would give the Company the Legal and General Group plc 17,853,073 3.09 Mr and Mrs Michael Spencer own approximately 46.70% of IPGL which in turn owns approximately 99.24% of INHBV.
Accordingly, Mr and Mrs Spencer are deemed by Schedule 13 of the Companies Act 1985 to be interested in all the shares held by IPGL 6,312,070 and INHBV 125,545,705 respectively.
A Trust fund of which their children are beneficiaries holds a further 50,000 shares and Michael Spencer holds 875,000 shares in his own name.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2004 21 Directors Report continued ability to re-issue treasury shares quickly Statement of directors responsibilities and cost effectively and would provide the for the Financial Statements Company with additional flexibility in the The directors are required by the Companies management of its capital base.
The directors Act 1985 to prepare Financial Statements would exercise this authority only if they for each accounting period that give a were satisfied that a purchase would result true and fair view of the state of affairs of in an increase in expected earnings per the Company and Group as at the end of share and would be in the interests of the financial year and of the profit or loss shareholders generally.
There is no present of the Group for the year.
The directors intention of exercising this authority and the confirm that suitable accounting policies authority given in the resolution will expire have been used and applied consistently at the conclusion of the Annual General and reasonable and prudent judgements Meeting to be held in 2005. and estimates have been made in the preparation of the Financial Statements Resolutions 11 and 12 will be proposed for the year ended 31 March 2004. as Ordinary Resolutions to approve the The directors also confirm that applicable making of political donations and incurring United Kingdom Accounting Standards of political expenditure by the Company have been followed.
and its subsidiary Garban-Intercapital Management Services Limited of up to an The directors are responsible for keeping aggregate amount of 100,000 in the proper accounting records, for taking period to the Companys Annual General reasonable steps to safeguard the Groups Meeting to be held in 2005.
The Political assets and to prevent and detect fraud Parties, Elections and Referendums Act and other irregularities.
2000, contains restrictions on companies making donations to EU political organisations Going concern or incurring EU political expenditure The directors are satisfied that the Company without prior shareholder approval.
and the Group have adequate resources to continue to operate for the foreseeable Details on electronic proxy voting can be future and confirm that the Company and found in the Notice of the Annual General the Group are going concerns.
For this Meeting on pages 78 to 81. reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing these financial Auditors statements.
 LLP were appointed auditors to the Company on By order of the board 16 July 2003.
A resolution to re-appoint  LLP and to authorise the directors to set their Helen Broomfield remuneration will be proposed.
Note 5 to Group Company Secretary the Financial Statements sets out details of the auditors remuneration.
