Innovation, programming and content continued ENTERTAINMENT At Easter 2004, the combined audience for non-terrestrial television channels exceeded each of BBC One and ITV1 in total television homes.
SKY ONE AUDIENCE PROFILE Sky One At the heart of the Sky One schedule JanJune 2004 Multichannel services, including Sky is the commitment to commissioning One, ITV2 and UK Gold, reached another and developing long-standing series Sky One 37% 45% 18% landmark in March 2004, surging past like Brainiac: this is complemented Total TV 28% 41% 31% each of ITV1 and BBC1 to take the with a growing reputation for fast turn Age 16-34 35-54 55 Source: BARB largest share of the total TV audience.
around topical documentaries, such as Rebecca Loos My Story and John This was the first time the multichannel Leslie My Year of Hell.
networks had won the largest audience share outside the summer months, a This autumn, Sky One will launch a traditionally weak period for the five new look and a raft of top quality main terrestrial networks.
These include the critically-acclaimed In line with its ambition to be the HBO drama, Deadwood, the US ratings home of top US programming, Sky One success The 4400 and The Match, MILLION VIEWERS showcases a range of award-winning a brand-new series, mixing football 1 acclaimed shows such as Nip Tuck, with a potent reality format.
Returning NIP TUCK AND 24 BOTH LAUNCHED 24, Las Vegas, Cold Case, Tru series include the eighth season of Dream SUCCESSFULLY ON SKY ONE WITH THE Calling, Angel, Scrubs, Malcolm in Team and a new series of Brainiac.
OPENING EPISODES BOTH ACHIEVING AN the Middle and the worlds favourite AVERAGE AUDIENCE OF 1.04 MILLION animated family and the most successful Sky One also provides user-friendly animation series of all time, The interactive services allied to individual Simpsons.
programmes, which generate incremental revenues for Sky.
24 and Nip Tuck During the year, Sky One achieved some fans were able to catch video recaps and of its largest ever audiences.
A peak previews of the plot, as well as to access audience of more than 2 million tuned additional information about the shows, in to watch Rebecca Loos give her side and play quizzes and games.
of the Beckham scandal in Rebecca Loos My Story.
In August 2003 David Blaine was suspended in a perspex box, and over 2 million viewers watched the climax of the 44 day event.
Theres Something About Miriam became a global story, as Sky One followed the exploits of six lads competing for the affection of Mexican beauty, Miriam.
A reality series with a stunning twist, the show was a huge success in early 2004.
The top Sky One programmes of the year were David Blaine Above the Below and Rebecca Loos My Story, whose audience figures both peaked at over 2 million.
From top anticlockwise: 24 David Blaine Theres Something About Miriam Tru Calling All TV viewing figures sourced from BARB 20 Annual Report and Accounts 2004 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
