In March, Sky News was awarded the contract to supply five with its news service beginning on 1 January 2005, the first time that Sky News will supply No.
1 AWARD a full news service to an analogue MORE AWARDS FOR SKY NEWS: DURING RTS AWARD JUDGES: SKY NEWS terrestrial broadcaster.
2004 SKY NEWS WON THE RTS NEWS AS A NEWS CHANNEL, REMAINS CHANNEL OF THE YEAR AWARD FOR THE SIMPLY THE BEST!
As well as a dedicated team of 60 THIRD YEAR RUNNING.
reporters, producers and technicians, the service will include access to Sky News existing 24-hour operation, including five regional bureaux and the seven international bureaux in Washington, Moscow, Jerusalem, Beijing, Johannesburg, Brussels and Delhi.
News anchor Kirsty Young will continue to present fives flagship bulletins at 17.30 and 19.00 but from a purpose-built, state-of-the-art studio at Sky News base in West London.
MORE INNOVATION The five contract, combined with both Hutton Inquiry reconstruction Sky News continuing innovations and Soham trial transcripts its unrivalled expertise in breaking news, The RTS Innovation Award will ensure that Sky News remains at judges said Sky News solutions the forefront of news provision in the to the problem of covering 21st century.
individual proceedings, where cameras are banned, were radical and imaginative.
India bureau Launched in January 2004, Sky News India bureau covers SkyCopter breaking news The SkyCopter allows the Sky News team to cover across the Indian sub-continent.
major stories where scale is important.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 17 Innovation, programming and content continued SPORTS In the year, Sky Sports secured new broadcast rights, witnessed historic live events and set a new audience record.
SKY SPORTS AUDIENCE PROFILE Sky Sports offered over 36,000 hours Sky Sports first season of live UEFA Sky Sports also holds a new near-live JanJune 2004 of coverage across five dedicated sports Champions League coverage attracted package of rights.
These will be channels, secured new programming strong ratings, critical acclaim and broadcast in a new Football First Sky Sports 67% 33% contracts and extended interactive praise from governing body UEFA.
Sky programme, which will offer extended Total TV 47% 53% coverage to new sports events.
digital customers could use interactivity highlights of every Premiership match Men Women Source: BARB to choose from up to 8 live matches played that day, with viewers able to It gave subscribers a diverse schedule being played simultaneously.
choose which match they watch through of live sports programming throughout Sky Sports interactive service.
the year and from around the world, During the year Sky Sports also won including victory for Englands cricketers new deals for live Spanish La Liga The year was also the busiest ever for in the Caribbean and teams from every football, live Welsh home international rugby union production, with over 100 participating nation in rugby unions football, and secured new agreements live matches stretching through every Heineken Cup.
with the English Football Association month of the year.
A new deal for and the FA Premier League.
ExclusivelyEuropean Heineken Cup Rugby brought Among the years landmarks were live rights to a number of World Cup comprehensive coverage, with up to five Skys first live UEFA Champions League qualifiers were also secured, including live matches from each round.
matches and a new record audience, the opening matches for England and when Englands Euro 2004 Qualifier Wales in September 2004.
Live cricket was also broadcast against Turkey, in October 2003, throughout the year and featured every attracted Skys largest-ever audience, The 2004-05 season will be the most domestic county and every Test nation.
with an in-home peak of 4.2 million televised football campaign ever on Sky Englands tour to the West Indies viewers.
Sports, with over 450 live games from produced their first tour victory in the a range of competitions.
Caribbean for 34 years and the highest Other rating successes of the year included cricket audiences for two years.
the Super Leagues Play-Offs, Spanish La Following the award of four live Liga football, NFL American Football and packages of FA Premier League rights At home, the domestic Twenty20 Cup, the World Darts Championship.
to Sky in August 2003, Sky viewers will a new event in 2003, was a ratings now be able to watch more live matches success, attracting audiences three times from the Barclays Premiership.
Sky the size of its predecessor, the B&H Cup.
Sports will show 88 live matches, 22 more than previously, with an extra 50 live matches offered on the pay-perview service, PREMPLUS.
MORE LIVE SPORT THAN EVER Sky Sports offered more hours, more live matches and more interactivity than ever before.
18 Annual Report and Accounts 2004 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
