The Portfolio In the year ended 31 January 2004 ICG and its mezzanine funds made Sector Analysis of ICGs Portfolio the following loans and investments: % Asia Directories is the holding D V Holding, a French company, is a 1 7 company for Yellow Pages Singapore leading operator in the French nursing Pte, the official publisher of the Yellow homes and elderly care market.
In June Pages and the White Pages in Singapore.
In 2003 ICG arranged and provided a December 2003 ICG arranged and provided mezzanine facility of 15m to assist in the a mezzanine facility of SG$ 32m to assist in buyout.
as at 31 January 2004 Edscha is a leading global automotive 8 Bertelsmann Springer is a scientific supplier based in Germany.
In March 2 Brewers 3 academic publishing company based 2003 ICG took a participation of 25m in Building Materials 7 in Germany.
In September 2003 ICG took a the mezzanine facility required to assist in Business Services 7 participation of 80m in the mezzanine taking the company private.
Chemicals & Plastics 3 facility arranged to assist in the acquisition Consumer & Household Products 7 from Bertelsmann AG.
Gala is a leading U. K. bingo and 9 Drapery & Stores 4 casino operator.
In March 2003 ICG Electrical 11 Cardfair is a specialist greeting card took a participation of 50m in the buyout.
3 Entertainment 2 retailer in the U. K. In May 2003 ICG Financial Services 5 Food 4 arranged and provided a mezzanine facility IG Index is a spread betting, contracts 10 Health 5 of 14m to assist in the acquisition of Card for differences CFDs and Insurance 2 Warehouse.
currency trading business operating Leisure 13 principally in the UK.
In September 2003 Motor Parts 6 Ceva Sante Animale, a French ICG arranged facilities of 60m to assist in Other 7 4 Paper & Packaging 2 company, develops, manufactures and taking the company private and provided Pharmaceuticals 2 distributes animal health products.
Publishing & Printing 5 September 2003 ICG co-arranged a Shipping & Transport 5 mezzanine facility to assist in the buyout Janton Oyj is a leading media 11 and provided 18.8m.
company in Finland with its core business in publishing and distributing free Geographical Analysis Codere, a Spanish company, is a sheet newspapers.
In December 2003 ICG 5 of ICGs Portfolio leading gaming company managing arranged and provided a mezzanine facility slot machines, bingo halls, casinos and of 30m to assist in taking the company % off track betting.
co-arranged a mezzanine loan of 135m to provide refinancing and acquisition Materis is a French group of 12 facilities and provided 52m.
businesses in aluminates, mortars, paint, refractories and admixtures.
Danish Timber is based in Denmark In November 2003 ICG co-arranged 6 and supplies materials and related mezzanine facilities to assist in the buyout.
services for building and home improvement.
ICG underwrote 115m of the facilities as at 31 January 2004 In December 2003 ICG took a participation and provided 65.5m.
of 50m in the mezzanine facility provided Asia Pacific 2 to assist in taking the company private.
Belgium 1 Denmark 3 Finland 1 France 37 Germany 14 Ireland 3 Netherlands 5 Spain 2 Sweden 3 Switzerland 4 UK 25 10 Intermediate Capital Group Medica is the second biggest player Sericol is a global ink manufacturer Via Location is France's second 13 16 19 in the nursing homes and elderly care and supplier based in the U. K. In largest independent truck market in France.
In December 2003 ICG February 2003 ICG arranged and provided rental company.
In January 2004 ICG arranged mezzanine facilities totalling a mezzanine loan of 18.8m to assist in arranged and provided a mezzanine facility 60m to assist in the buyout and provided the buyout.
of 26m to assist in the buyout.
Souriau, a French company, designs, Viterra based in Germany is a global 17 20 Motip Dupli is a leading European manufactures and sells connectors and services provider for consumption- 14 manufacturer of aerosol paints, touchinterconnection solutions to the commercial based billing in the sub-metering and up paint pencils and technical aerosols.
In aircraft, space & defence markets.
In June 2003 ICG took a October 2003 ICG arranged and provided a 2003 ICG arranged and provided a mezzanine participation of 70m in the mezzanine mezzanine facility of 16m to assist in the facility of 25m to assist in the buyout.
facility provided to support the buyout.
Symrise, a German company, In addition to the mezzanine loans provided 18 Raet is the leading provider of payroll manufactures flavours, fragrances and to the companies above, ICG also took small 15 services in The Netherlands.
In June 2003 ICG took a equity participations in a number of them.
2003 ICG took a 35m participation in the participation of 30m in the mezzanine mezzanine facility to assist in the buyout.
facility provided as acquisition finance.
Repayments During the year, repayments of loans and investments amounted to 161m.
Loans to 12 companies were repaid or prepaid in full.
These companies were: Name Country Form of realisation Clydesdale UK Trade sale Craegmore UK Refinance DSV Denmark Refinance Frans Bonhomme France LBO Halfords UK Refinance Norcros UK Refinance Pandrol UK Trade sale Premier Oilfield Services UK Trade sale Risdon Pharma France Trade sale Sab Wabco Sweden Refinance Tetley UK Refinance Victorvox Germany Refinance Intermediate Capital Group 11 Current Portfolio At 31 January 2004, in addition to the new loans and investments listed previously, ICGs portfolio consisted of the following companies: Name Country Business Accord UK Outsourcing for local authorities Adco Dixi Germany Hirer of portable toilets Allflex France Animal identification tags Asco UK Provider of logistic services for oil industry Asia Cinemas South Korea Multiplex cinemas Automotive Products UK Automotive clutch and brake manufacturer Baxi UK Manufacturer of central heating boilers Best Spring UK IT recruitment agency Blagden Belgium Steel drum supplier Cantrell & Cochrane Ireland Manufacturer, wholesaler and distributor of drinks Cegelec France Provider of electrical contracting services Charter UK Engineering and manufacturer of fastenings and components Coal Products UK Producer of smokeless solid fuels Coral UK Provider of betting services Courtpaille France Chain of restaurants Dometic Appliances Sweden Supplier of appliances for recreational vehicles Duni Sweden Supplier of tabletop products Electrokoppar Sweden Manufacturer of copper wire rod and winding wire Eliokem France Manufacturer of speciality chemicals Elis France Leader in textile rental and hygiene Elmville UK Hotel operator ERM UK Environmental consultancy and risk management Eurodatacar France Provider of services to complement insurance policies Gerflor France Manufacturer of PVC flooring Grand Vins fide Gironde France Wine trading company Heath Lambert UK Insurance broking HMY France Manufacturer of supermarket equipment IBS Brocke Germany Manufacturer of automotive components Jallatte France Manufacturer and distributor of protective footwear Jane Norman UK Womens wear retailer Kiekert Germany Automotive equipment manufacturer Leisurelink UK Manager of gaming machines Malmberg Netherlands Publisher of educational material Meyn Netherlands Manufacturer of poultry processing equipment MGE France Manufacturer of UPS equipment Moliflor France Operation of casinos Nocibe France Distributor of perfumes and cosmetics Orefi France Wholesaler of industrial components Pasteur Cerba France Performer of clinical laboratory tests Pets at Home UK Retailer in domestic pet market Picard France Frozen food manufacturer, distributor and retailer 12 Intermediate Capital Group Name Country Business Pinewood UK Film studios Plastimo France Manufacturer and distributor of recreational marine equipment Porcelain & Fine China UK Manufacturer of china and porcelain Portman Travel UK Travel agent Retif France Wholesaler and retailer of display units Saveurs France Producer of ingredients for food industry Sebia France Clinical diagnostic equipment producer Servicetec UK Computer services and maintenance Sia France Retailer of decoration accessories Sound Holdings Denmark Hearing aid component supplier SP Investments Switzerland Aviation ground handling company SR Technics Switzerland Global aircraft maintenance provider Steiner Industries Austria Plastic packaging and garden furniture producer Takko Germany Fashion retailer Talbot UK Underwriter of insurance at Lloyds Target UK Express delivery services Thornbury UK Provider of relief nursing staff Tower Participations France Operator of broadcasting towers TMD Friction Germany Manufacturer of brake pads for automotive industry Tunstall UK Manufacturer and maintenance of social alarm systems Viatris Germany Developer of branded pharmaceuticals WZG Group Netherlands Distributor of mobility aids William Cook UK Manufacturer of steel castings The portfolio of warrants and unquoted shares At 31 January 2004 ICG had unquoted shares and warrants in most of the companies in its loan portfolio, as well as in the following companies which have repaid their loans in ICG in full: Name Country Business Cartiere del Garda Italy Manufacturer of coated wood-free papers Convenience Food Systems Netherlands Supplier of equipment for the preparation, processing and packaging of food fide Dietrich France Manufacturer of heating and processing equipment DSV Denmark Transportation and logistics Focus UK DIY stores Halfords UK Retailer of car parts and accessories Landal Greenparks Netherlands Holiday park operator Latium UK Manufacturer and retailer of UPVC windows Meneba Netherlands Producer of flour, bakery and animal food products Neste Oy Finland Manufacturer of epoxy resin Norcros UK Manufacturer and distributor of showers and tiles Novem Germany Manufacturer of interior trim for automobiles Oriflame Sweden Direct selling of cosmetic products Pasteur Cerba France Performer of clinical laboratory tests Tensar UK Manufacturer of polymer nets and mesh products Victorvox Germany Service provider for mobile and fixed telecommunication industry Intermediate Capital Group 13
