Directors Report ordinary shares being 31.56% of the issued share Principal activities and capital of the Company.
Jardine Strategic Holdings business review Limited is interested in the shares of Jardine Matheson Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc is a holding Holdings Limited under Section 203 2 b of the company, the principal subsidiary and associated Companies Act 1985. undertakings of which are engaged in insurance & reinsurance broking and employee benefits.
A review Shareholder Ordinary shares % Held of the Groups trading activities and prospects is JMH Investments Limited 63,764,916 31.56 included in the Chairmans Statement and Operational Silchester International Investors Limited 32,322,908 16.00 Reviews on pages 2 to 15 and should be read as part Morley Fund Management Limited 8,598,450 4.26 of this report.
a subsidiary of Aviva plc Results and dividends Relationship with The financial statements deal with the results of the Jardine Matheson Group Group for the year ended 31st December, 2004, Trading: During the year, the Group continued to have which are shown on pages 48 to 51.
The profit a number of arms-length trading and non-trading links attributable to shareholders amounted to 50,337,000 with Jardine Matheson Group companies, the financial 2003: 70,556,000 - as restated for FRS 5. implications of which are given in note 35 on page 89.
The directors recommend the payment of a final Business services: During the year, Jardine Matheson dividend of 12.0p net per share which, together with provided internal audit and certain other services to the interim dividend of 8.5p net per share paid in the Group on an arms-length basis.
With effect from October 2004 amounts to a total dividend of 20.5p 1st January, 2005, the internal audit function has been net per share 2003: 20.5p net per share.
transferred to the Company, reporting to the Finance Subject to shareholder approval, the final dividend will Director and, indirectly, to the Audit & Compliance be paid on 29th April, 2005 to shareholders registered Committee.
at the close of business on 29th March, 2005.
The Board Fixed assets With the exception of Dominic Burke and Mike Details of the changes in the fixed assets of the Group Hammond, who were appointed Executive Directors on are shown in notes 17 and 18 on pages 67 to 68.
1st January, 2005, the directors shown on page 25 served throughout the year.
On 26th November, 2004, Substantial shareholders Steve McGill resigned as Group Chief Executive of the Company and Ken Carter was appointed Executive At the date of this report, the Company had been Chairman.
On the same date, Geoffrey Howe was notified of the following major interests, each appointed Joint Deputy Chairman.
representing 3% or more of the existing issued ordinary share capital see table below.
During the Claude Chouraqui, Tony Hobson, John Lloyd and year the shareholdings of Boxwick Limited 4,094,400 Richard Sermon, the senior independent director, will shares, Matheson & Co. Limited 11,394,873 shares retire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting and Matheson Insurance Investments Limited on 28th April, 2005.
From that date Geoffrey Howe 19,518,149 shares were transferred to JMH will be appointed as the senior independent director.
Investments Limited, all four companies being wholly owned subsidiaries of Jardine Matheson Holdings Limited, which retains its total interest in 63,764,916 26 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2004 Directors Report As noted above, and in the Chairmans statement, There are established formal procedures for the Tony Hobson will be retiring from the Board and it is structure and authorities through which the Board intended a newly appointed independent nondischarges its responsibilities for the direction and executive director will succeed him as Chairman of the management of the Group.
However, should a The Board meets at least six times a year, to review new non-executive director not be appointed by the the performance of the Group and to discuss the AGM, Tony has agreed to remain on the board as the matters reserved for its decisions, which include, Chairman of that committee until such time as a inter alia, the approval of Group strategy and budget successor is appointed.
plans, material expenditure authorisations and any Dominic Burke, Claude Chouraqui, Mike Hammond, other matters that are referred to it.
Tony Hobson, Rodney Leach, John Lloyd and Richard The Board has established a number of standing Sermon will retire at the forthcoming Annual General committees including an Audit & Compliance Meeting.
Messrs Burke, Hammond and Leach, being Committee, a Nominations Committee and a eligible, will offer themselves for re-election.
The terms of reference of As set out in the Articles of Association each director these Committees have been reviewed and updated as must stand for re-election at least once every three appropriate to ensure compliance with the new Code, years and Rodney Leach is required to stand for and are available on the Company's website.
re-election annually from 2005, having reached the Relationship with shareholders: The Board endeavours age of 70. to maintain dialogue with institutional shareholders The service contract for Mr Leach is subject to a three and carries out a programme of meetings and month notice provision.
The Company is required to presentations each year following the publication of give 364 days notice under the service contracts with interim and final results.
Mr Sermon, as Senior Messrs Burke and Hammond.
Independent Director, also attended certain meetings with shareholders and at the Annual General Meeting, During the past twelve months, a formal evaluation of the Chairmen of the Audit & Compliance, Nominations the board, its committees and individual directors has and Remuneration Committees will be available to been undertaken.
The performance evaluation was undertaken by means of individual questionnaires which were summarised and debated by the Board or the relevant committee.
The non-executive directors, led by the senior independent director, also carried out a performance evaluation of the Chairman during this period.
Full details of the directors remuneration and interests are shown in the Remuneration Report.
During the period, no director had any material interest in a contract, disclosable pursuant to s. 317 Companies Act 1985, to which the Company or any of its subsidiary undertakings was a party.
At the date of this report the Board is comprised of eight executive directors, including the Executive Chairman, and seven non-executive directors.
Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2004 27 Directors Report The Terms of Reference of the Audit & Compliance Committees of the Board Committee cover all matters indicated by the new The Audit and Compliance Code and include responsibility for providing advice Committee to the Board on the Groups interim and financial statements: to accounting policies and on the control This Committee consists entirely of non-executive of its financial and business risks as well as reviewing directors and its membership during 2004 was Tony the work of the internal and external auditors.
A copy Hobson Chairman, Geoffrey Howe, Simon Keswick, of the Terms of Reference can be obtained from the Rodney Leach and Richard Sermon.
Company Secretary and are displayed on the Mr Hobson is a chartered accountant and his profile is Groups website.
Remuneration Committee The Committee generally meets at least four times a During the year the Remuneration Committee year.
It meets with executive directors and comprised Geoffrey Howe Chairman, Tony Hobson, management including the Group Compliance Rodney Leach, Simon Keswick, Bob Scott and Officer, as well as separately with both the external Richard Sermon.
The Remuneration Committee met four times during The work of the Audit Committee during 2004 the year.
It is responsible, inter alia, for setting the included: remuneration and terms and conditions of the Review of the Preliminary announcement and the executive directors and setting overall remuneration Annual Report and Accounts for the 2004 year end.
policy for senior management of the Group.
It also approves the allocations under all long term incentive Review of compliance, with particular focus on plans and share option schemes.
preparation for FSA regulation in the UK in January 2005.
Assistance was provided to the Committee by the Chairman and prior to his resignation Group Chief Setting policy for non-audit work and applicable fees Executive, but neither in relation to their own to be undertaken by the external auditors.
remuneration and by New Bridge Street Consultants Updating terms of reference of the committee.
NBSC were appointed by the Approval of the external audit plan and fee proposal Remuneration Committee to act as advisers to the and consider auditor independence in relation to Committee and they have no other connection with the Company.
Review of policy on rotation of external auditors.
Nominations Committee Consideration of the Groups risk management The Nominations Committee met once during the year.
The members of the Committee in 2004 were Rodney Review of the Companys whistleblowing Leach Chairman, Ken Carter, Claude Chouraqui, Tony Hobson, Geoffrey Howe, Simon Keswick, procedures.
A process was established in the UK Bob Scott and Richard Sermon.
Its purpose is to during the year which has been considered by the make recommendations to the Board on the committee.
The Group is in the process of appointment of directors of the Company.
establishing a global whistleblowing process the The terms of reference of the committee are implementation of which is expected to be available on the Companys website.
Implementation of International Financial Reporting Standards.
A review of the effectiveness of the Committee.
28 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2004 Directors Report Group Executive Committee The Group Executive Committee is responsible for the day-to-day management of the Groups operations.
During 2004 it comprised six executive directors and two non-board appointees.
Following the resignation of Mr McGill in November 2004 the Executive Chairman joined the Committee and, from 1st January, 2005, the membership comprised the Executive Chairman and seven executive directors.
Board attendance The number of Board and Committee meetings attended by Board or appropriate Committee members in the year is shown in the table below.
Audit & Compliance Remuneration Nominations Board Meeting Committee Committee Committee 6 x in period 5 x in period 4 x in period 1 x in period K A Carter 6 - - 1 C Chouraqui 5 - - 1 A D J B Collins 5 - - - J P Hastings-Bass 6 - - - A J Hobson 6 5 4 1 G Howe 5 4 4 1 S L Keswick 5 3 4 1 C G R Leach 4 3 2 1 E J Lloyd 6 - - - R A Scott 4 - 3 1 T R Sermon 6 5 3 - G W Stuart-Clarke 6 - - - V Y A C Wade 6 - - - As noted in the directors report, Claude Corporate Governance Chouraqui, Tony Hobson and Richard Sermon will During the year the Company has been in compliance be retiring as non-executive directors of the with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Company.
This will, from 29th April, 2005, put the Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by Company in breach of the Combined Code as the the Financial Reporting Council in July 2003 the new number of executive directors will be greater than Code, except for the following: the number of non-executive directors.
It is the Ken Carter became Executive Chairman on Groups intention to seek to appoint further 26th November, 2004, combining the roles of independent non-executive directors.
This appointment During the year, one half of the Board was was made in response to the resignation of non-executive and a majority of the nonSteve McGill as Group Chief Executive and will be executive directors were considered to be for a period of up to two years by the end of which independent in the context of the new Code time the Group will appoint a new Chief Executive.
The four independent directors were Tony Hobson, Geoffrey Howe, Bob Scott and Richard Sermon.
Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2004 29 Directors Report However, with effect from January 2005, Richard Both the Board and the external auditors have safeguards in place to prevent the compromise of the Sermon will no longer be regarded as independent auditors independence and objectivity.
Details of as he will have served on the board for 9 years.
services provided by the Groups auditors are set out He has agreed to remain as a non-executive in note 11 on page 63.
The Audit and Compliance director until the AGM in April, to provide Committee have also introduced a policy on the assistance with the work that is ongoing to engagement of external auditors and the supply of appoint new non-executive directors to the Board.
non-audit services to the Group, including an annual Rodney Leach Joint Deputy Chairman and review of the auditors independence.
Simon Keswick both served as non-executive The external auditors also report regularly on the directors and both are directors of Jardine actions that they have taken to comply with Matheson Holdings Limited, which has a 31.56% professional and regulatory requirements and current interest in the Company.
The relationship with best practice in order to maintain that independence.
Jardine Matheson is maintained on an arms length The directors are able to consult the Companys basis as detailed in note 35 on page 89. legal, financial and other professional advisers on any However neither director can be regarded as matter relating to the Companys affairs.
Any director independent in the context of the new Code.
may make use of this facility subject to notifying the The Board believes that the continued presence Executive Chairman or Finance Director.
of Messrs Leach and Keswick on the Board If independent advice is sought, this is subject to and its committees subject to re-election under prior consultation with the Executive Chairman or a Non-executive director as appropriate.
All directors the Articles is appropriate and in the interests also have access to the advice and services of the of shareholders generally and does not detract Company Secretary.
from their independence and judgment on any relevant issue.
The Company maintains appropriate directors and officers liability insurance in respect of legal actions The non-executive directors bring to the Board against its directors.
a wide range of experience and expertise and the knowledge held by Messrs Leach and Keswick Share capital from the long standing relationship between Jardine Matheson and JLT is particularly valuable.
Movements in the share capital of the company during the year ended 31st December, 2004 are set out in The majority of the members of the Audit and note 26 on page 73.
Compliance and Remuneration committees are independent.
However, Rodney Leach and Simon At 31st December, 2004 the authorised share capital Keswick both served on these committees during of the Company was 12,500,000 of which the year, and therefore the Group did not comply 10,099,902.75 had been issued.
Of the remaining with the new Code in relation to the membership unissued capital, 378,791.15 has been reserved for of the Remuneration Committee.
the exercise of options under the Companys various executive and sharesave share option schemes The balance of the Board and its committees will detailed in note 27 on page 73. be part of the consideration in seeking additional non-executive directors to replace those retiring at Unissued and unreserved capital at 31st December, the Annual General Meeting.
30 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2004 Directors Report These include procedures to identify and then Accountability and audit investigate all types of risk.
The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups Compliance and legal: The Groups legal, compliance systems of internal control and for reviewing their and quality control departments establish compliance effectiveness.
policy and carry out regular audits.
The scope of work The implementation and maintenance of the risk includes ensuring compliance with laws, regulations management and internal control systems are the and conduct of business which is reported to the responsibility of the Executive Directors and senior Board and Audit & Compliance Committee.
The system is designed to manage, Going concern: The directors consider that the Group rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve and the Company have adequate resources to business objectives and can provide only reasonable continue in operational existence in the foreseeable assurance, but not absolute assurance, against future.
Consequently, the financial statements have material mis-statement or loss.
been prepared on a going concern basis.
Directors responsibilities: The following statement Internal control: The directors acknowledge that they should be read in conjunction with the Auditors report are responsible for the Groups systems of internal on page 47. control and for reviewing their effectiveness and this The directors are required to present for each review has been undertaken during the year.
accounting period financial statements which give a Internal financial controls: The present framework of true and fair view of the state of affairs of the financial controls may be summarised under the Company and the Group at the end of the financial following headings: year and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
These statements are prepared on the going Organisational structure: There are clearly defined concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume areas of responsibility and limits of authority within that the Group will continue in business.
Annual budgets are approved by the statements must be prepared in compliance with the Board following detailed reviews by management.
required formats and disclosures of the Companies Act Group results are reviewed against budget and 1985 and with applicable accounting standards.
reported to the Board on a regular basis.
It is also the responsibility of the directors to ensure that arrangements are made for the maintenance of Treasury: Treasury policy is reviewed and approved by adequate accounting records, to safeguard the assets the Board and a review group reporting to the of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and Finance Director and Audit & Compliance Committee other irregularities.
is responsible for monitoring treasury activity and performance.
The Group has policies to cover the key The directors confirm that suitable accounting policies, treasury activities of investment of funds, counterparty consistently applied and supported by reasonable and risk, foreign exchange and interest rate risk.
prudent judgements and estimates, have been used in the preparation of the financial statements and that Cash and investments mostly consist of money market applicable accounting standards have been followed.
deposits, commercial paper, certificates of deposit and money funds with prime banks and institutions.
Operating Company controls: The identification and The Group maintains a counterparty policy based mitigation of major business risks is the responsibility of operating management.
Each operating company on published rating criteria to limit the concentration of funds and the exposure with any one party.
maintains controls and procedures appropriate to its own business environment while conforming to Group Monetary limits are assigned to each counterparty based on an agreed scale in relation to their rating.
Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2004 31 Directors Report The Group adopts a prudent approach to the The Groups procedures for the management of risk management of its US dollar foreign exchange have been reviewed by the Board during the year.
exposure by maintaining a hedging programme The annual risk profiling report has been reviewed by based on the use of forward foreign exchange the Audit & Compliance Committee on behalf of the contracts and, to a lesser extent, options with the Board which is satisfied that appropriate processes objective of selling forward a minimum of 50% of and procedures are in place in order to identify and US dollar income projected to arise during the manage the significant risks faced by the Group.
following 12 months and 25% of that expected to As noted above, the overall responsibility for internal arise over the subsequent 12 months.
controls within the Company and its subsidiary Interest rate risk arises on the interest earnings undertakings rests with the directors of the Company.
from both own and fiduciary funds held in the Group.
Reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness of such The Group policy is to protect its sterling and US dollar controls forms part of the duties of the Audit & interest earnings by maintaining on a rolling 12-month Compliance Committee.
Monitoring procedures basis a minimum hedged position.
Depending on include detailed reviews of operating company market conditions this minimum can alter between systems which are routinely undertaken by internal 25% and 75% of projected interest earnings during audit.
The responsibility for internal controls within the following 12 months and between zero and 50% associated undertakings rests essentially with the over the subsequent 12 months.
senior management of those operations, the role of the Group being to monitor its investments and to Risk management controls: In accordance with the exert influence, normally through Board Code, a process has been established for identifying, representation.
evaluating and managing risks faced by the Group.
This process has been in place for the full financial Investment appraisal: Major items of capital year and up to the date the financial statements expenditure require Board approval.
The Board is also responsible for the overall strategy The Group conducts a formal annual risk profiling of the Group, including acquisitions and related due review to identify and profile the significant risks, both diligence requirements.
operational and strategic, faced by the Group and to review the effectiveness of risk management controls Employment policies including loss prevention and recovery planning.
It is the policy of the Group to provide an This exercise involves the senior management across environment in which individual talents can excel.
the Group and covers a broad range of risks, including Employee involvement is encouraged with wide share operational, financial treasury, information technology, ownership and participation in share option schemes.
health & safety, human resource and legal areas.
Employees are kept informed of the performance Monitoring of risk is facilitated internally by functional of the Group and all matters affecting them as management and assurance gained through financial, employees by means of regular briefings and compliance and quality based auditing.
failures are reported to the executive directors to ensure remedial action is taken.
The Group is an equal opportunities employer and bases all decisions on individual ability regardless of race, religion, gender, age or disability.
32 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2004 Directors Report Applications for employment by disabled persons will iii the authority of the Company to purchase, always be fully considered, having regard to their for cancellation, its own shares by way of particular aptitudes and abilities.
Should employees market purchases: become disabled, every effort will be made to ensure iv a waiver of the requirement arising under that their employment with the Group continues and, Rule 9 of the City Code on Takeovers and in the event that they are unable to continue to work, Mergers, that Jardine Matheson Holdings Limited, that their financial interests are safeguarded.
It is the together with parties deemed to be acting in intention of the Group that opportunities for training, concert with it, be required to make a general career development and promotion of disabled persons offer for the Company by reason of the change should, as far as possible, be identical with those for in its percentage holding in the capital of the other employees.
Company arising from any such purchase under iii above: Suppliers Save for the allotment of shares under the Companys The Group agrees payment terms with suppliers when share option schemes or as may arise with the it enters into contracts for the purchase of goods or acquisition of minority interests, the directors have services and seeks to abide by those terms when it is no present intention of utilising the authority under satisfied that the supplier has provided the goods or i and ii above.
services in accordance with the agreed terms and The directors will only consider making purchases of conditions.
At 31st December, 2004 the Company did the Companys shares if they believe that it would be not have any direct external supplier creditors.
in the best interests of shareholders and would result The Group does not have a standard or code which in an improvement in earnings per share.
deals specifically with the payment of suppliers.
Auditors Donations It is proposed that the auditors, During the period the Group made charitable  LLP, having signified their donations totalling 430,000 2003: 246,000. willingness to continue in office, be reappointed No political donations were made by the Group.
A resolution proposing their reappointment will be put to the Annual General Meeting Annual General Meeting.
The notice convening the Annual General Meeting to By order of the Board be held on 28th April, 2005 at 12 noon at 6 Crutched D J Hickman, Secretary Friars, London EC3N 2PH is contained in the circular 14th March, 2005 accompanying this report.
The special business comprises the following items: The renewal, within prescribed limits, of: i the authority of the directors to allot securities of the Company up to the available unissued capital: ii the disapplication of the statutory pre-emption rights: Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2004 33
