Restatement Summary a Reclassifications Capitalised employment contract payments have been reclassified from the debtors.
The amount reclassified at 31st December 2004 is 9,389k.
The adoption of IFRS has given rise to a number of accounting changes and reclassifications which are detailed below.
In addition there are Computer software and capitalised software development costs have significant changes to both format and terminology which the Group is been reclassified from property, plant and equipment, the net book value required to reflect.
The reclassifications arising from these changes have at 31st December 2004 of these assets was 4,069k.
no impact on the reported profits or shareholders funds of the Group for the year ended 31st December 2004.
For the sake of clarity they have e Investment in associates been set out in the adjustment analysis included as part of this note.
"Under IFRS, the share of profit from associates within the Income Statement, is required to be shown after taxation and minority interest b Share based payments charges, the 2004 contribution from associates has been reclassified on Implementation of IFRS 2 ""Share based payments"" requires the fair this basis."
value of options granted in respect of Executive Share Option Schemes and Sharesave Schemes since 7th November 2002 to be recognised In 2003 the Group's French associate, Marot Participations, sold its and amortised to the Income Statement over the vesting period of shareholding in the Group and used the proceeds to repay bank the options.
Following this transaction the entire issued capital of Marot Participations was acquired by a new holding company, Courcelles In 2004 the total additional cost attributable to these schemes was Participations, as part of a shareholder restructuring.
Courcelles acquired 1,173k which is detailed in note 4 on page 23.
Where applicable Marot at fair value and consequently recognised goodwill on acquisition.
minority interests have been adjusted to reflect this increased cost.
The Group exchanged its 31% shareholding in Marot for a 31% shareholding in Courcelles and 31,663k in cash.
c Dividends Under UK GAAP, companies are required to charge dividends, both paid UITF 31 issued in October 2001 provided the appropriate Group and proposed, to the profit and loss account and to show unpaid accounting treatment under UK GAAP.
UITF 31 confirmed that to the dividends as a liability on the balance sheet in advance of the dividend extent that the Group retains an ownership interest in the underlying being approved by the Shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
"business of Marot, that retained interest including any related pretransaction goodwill, should be consolidated at its pre-transaction Under IAS 10 ""Events after the Balance Sheet Date"" the dividend cannot amount."
UITF 31 prohibited the Group from recognising its share of the be provided in the year end balance sheet as, at that date, the dividend fair value of Courcelles on its balance sheet.
does not represent a liability until declared and approved at the Annual General Meeting.
At 31st December 2004 accrued dividends of 24,161k As a consequence the Group was required to treat the cash receipt from were excluded from the Balance Sheet.
this transaction as a distribution from Courcelles which resulted in a negative carrying value for this investment.
FRS9 Associates and Joint Additionally under IFRS, dividends are not charged to the Income Ventures required that this negative carrying value be regarded and Statement but are reflected as a reduction in Shareholders Equity presented as a liability even though no real liability existed.
Consequently the 2004 dividend charge to the Profit and Loss account of 41,635k has been reversed in the Under IAS 28, if an investor's share of losses equals or exceeds the Income Statement.
carrying amount of an investment, the investor ordinarily discontinues recognising their share of further losses.
"The investment continues to be d Intangible assets reported at nil value until such time as future profits exceed any IFRS 1 requires the first-time adopter to apply IAS 36 ""Impairment of unrecognised losses."
"assets"" in testing goodwill for impairment at the date of transition to IFRS and recognise any resulting impairment loss in retained earnings."
On adoption of IFRS the negative carrying value of Courcelles at the date Goodwill is no longer amortised to the Income Statement, consequently of transition has been adjusted back to a nil value.
The value at 31st amortisation of 7,680k charged in 2004 has been reversed to the December 2004 of this adjustment is 19,947k.
Given the nature of the Income Statement.
transaction giving rise to the original negative value, under IFRS there are no unrecognised losses and consequently the Group is not prohibited Arising from the transitional review the goodwill, tangible assets and from recognising its share of profits from this investment.
sundry debtors of Intermediary Insurance Services Inc. were impaired at 1st January 2004 and an impairment loss was recognised.
Following the f Recognition of insurance broking debtors and creditors adoption of IFRS the loss arising on disposal of this company during 2004 Insurance brokers act as agents in placing the insurable risks of their has been restated to reflect the impairment of assets at 1st January 2004 clients with insurers and, as such, are not liable as principals for amounts and in addition, depreciation charged on impaired assets during 2004 arising from such transactions.
Notwithstanding such legal relationships, under UK GAAP - 72k - has been reversed.
debtors and creditors arising from insurance broking transactions have previously been shown as assets and liabilities in recognition of the fact IAS 36 requires goodwill to be tested for impairment at least on an that the insurance broker is entitled to retain investment income on any annual basis, a further review was carried out as at 31st December 2004 cash flows arising from such transactions.
which resulted in an impairment loss of 1,192k in respect of JLT Re Solutions 1,134k at closing balance sheets exchange rates.
This treatment has been reviewed in accordance with IFRS.
"Arising from this review it was considered that insurance debtors in respect of IAS 38 ""Intangible Assets"" requires that assets meeting the criteria for premiums receivable do not represent an asset of the company and recognition as ""Intangible"" should be reclassified on the Balance Sheet therefore should not be treated as an asset until the cash has been and amortised over their useful economic life."
"Consequently the balance sheet at June and December 2004 Intangible assets arising on acquisitions completed during 2004 which have been restated to reflect only insurance cash received and the were previously included in Goodwill have been reclassified as ""Other corresponding liability."
The net book value transferred at 31st December 2004 3,733k which is after charging amortisation in 2004 of 180k.
Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Restatement of 2004 Interim Report and Full Year Accounts 13 1.
