impact of any non-market vesting conditions for example, profitability Derivative Financial Instruments and sales growth targets.
Non-market vesting conditions are included in The Group only enters into derivative financial instruments in order to assumptions about the number of options that are expected to become hedge underlying exposures.
Derivative financial instruments are initially exercisable.
At each balance sheet date, the entity revises its estimates recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into of the number of options that are expected to become exercisable.
and are subsequently remeasured at their fair value.
The method of It recognises the impact of the revision of original estimates, if any, in recognising the resulting gain or loss is dependent on the nature of the the income statement, and a corresponding adjustment to equity over item being hedged.
The Group designates certain derivatives as either a the remaining vesting period.
The proceeds received net of any directly hedge of the fair value of a recognised asset or liability fair value attributable transaction costs are credited to share capital nominal hedge, or a hedge of a forecasted transaction or of the foreign currency value and share premium when the options are exercised.
risk on a firm commitment cash flow hedge, or a hedge of a net investment in a foreign entity.
Provisions for liabilities and charges Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify The Group has discounted certain provisions to their present value.
as fair value hedges and that are highly effective, are recorded in the The notional interest charge representing the unwinding of the provision consolidated income statement, along with any changes in the discounting is included within finance costs in the income statement.
fair value of the hedged asset or liability that is attributable to the A provision is recognised where there is a present obligation, whether hedged risk.
legal or constructive, as a result of a past event for which it is probable Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as that a transfer of economic benefits will be required to settle the cash flow hedges and that are highly effective, are recognised in hedging obligation and a reasonable estimate can be made of the amount reserves.
Where the forecasted transaction or firm commitment results in of the obligation.
the recognition of a non-financial asset or of a non-financial liability, the Fees and commissions gains and losses previously deferred in hedging reserves are transferred Fees and commissions are derived from two principal sources: from hedging reserves and included in the initial measurement of the cost of the asset or liability.
Otherwise, amounts deferred in hedging Insurance broking reserves are transferred to the income statement and classified as Income relating to insurance broking is brought into account at the later income or expense in the same periods during which the hedged firm of, the policy inception date or when the policy placement has been commitment or forecasted transaction affects the income statement.
Where there is an expectation of future When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer servicing requirements an element of income relating to the policy is meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss deferred to cover the associated contractual obligation.
existing in hedging reserves at that time remains in the hedging reserves Other services and is recognised when the committed or forecasted transaction Fees and other income receivable are recognised in the period to which ultimately is recognised in the consolidated profit and loss account.
they relate or when they can be measured with reasonable certainty.
When a committed or forecasted transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in hedging reserves Non-recurring items is immediately transferred to the income statement.
Items of a non-recurring nature are charged or credited to operating Dividend distribution profit and are classified to the appropriate income statement headings.
To assist in the analysis and understanding of the underlying trading Dividends proposed or declared after the balance sheet date are not position of the Group these costs are summarised within the Operating recognised as a liability at the balance sheet date.
Dividends are charged Profit note under the heading of exceptional items see note 3 on directly to equity.
Critical Accounting Estimates and Judgements Leased assets Estimates and judgements used in preparing the financial statements are Assets held under leasing agreements which transfer substantially all the continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other risks and rewards of ownership to the Group are included in property, factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be plant and equipment.
The capital elements of the related lease reasonable.
The resulting accounting estimates will, by definition, seldom obligations are included in liabilities.
The interest elements of the lease equal the related actual results.
The estimates and assumptions that obligations are charged to the income statement as incurred.
have a significant effect on the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities are discussed below.
Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
a Property, plant and equipment Payments made under operating leases net of any incentives received Assets are carried at historical cost less depreciation calculated to write from the lessor are charged to the income statement on a straight-line off the cost of such assets over their estimated useful lives.
Management basis over the period of the lease.
determines the estimated useful lives and related depreciation charges at acquisition but will revise the depreciation charge where useful lives are subsequently found to be different to those previously estimated.
Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Restatement of 2004 Interim Report and Full Year Accounts 11 Accounting Policies b Impairment of assets e Errors and omissions liability The Group tests annually whether goodwill and other assets that have During the ordinary course of business the Group can be subject to indefinite useful lives suffered any impairment.
Other assets are reviewed claims for errors and omissions made in connection with its broking for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate activities.
A balance sheet provision is established in respect of such that the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its recoverable amount.
claims when it is probable that the liability has been incurred and the The recoverable amount of an asset or a cash-generating unit is amount of the liability can be reasonably estimated.
The Group analyses determined based on value-in-use calculations prepared on the basis of its litigation exposures based on available information, including external managements assumptions and estimates.
The guidance of IAS 39 is legal consultation where appropriate, to assess its potential liability.
followed in determining when an investment is  impaired.
This determination requires significant judgement.
In making this judgement, the Group evaluates, among other factors, the duration and extent to which the fair value of an investment is less than its cost: and the financial health of and near-term business outlook for the investment, including factors such as industry and sector performance, changes in regional economies and operational and financing cash flow.
c Income taxes The Group is subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions.
Significant judgement is required in determining the worldwide provision for income taxes.
There are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain during the ordinary course of business.
Where the final tax outcome of these matters is different from the amounts that were initially recorded, such differences will impact the income tax and deferred tax provisions in the period in which such determination is made.
d Pension obligations The present value of the pension obligations depends on a number of factors that are determined on an actuarial basis using a number of assumptions.
The assumptions used in determining the net cost income for pensions include the expected long-term rate of return on the relevant plan assets and the discount rate.
Any changes in these assumptions will impact the carrying amount of pension obligations.
The expected return on plan assets assumption is determined on a uniform basis, taking into consideration long-term historical returns, asset allocation and future estimates of long-term investment returns.
The Group determines the appropriate discount rate at the end of each year.
This is the interest rate that should be used to determine the present value of estimated future cash outflows expected to be required to settle the pension obligations.
In determining the appropriate discount rate, the Group considers the interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid, and that have terms to maturity approximating the terms of the related pension liability.
Other key assumptions for pension obligations are based in part on current market conditions.
Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Restatement of 2004 Interim Report and Full Year Accounts 12
