Introduction New Regulatory Regime In order to address these requirements, the Current Cost Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2004 have been prepared for the With effect from 25 July 2003, the licensing regime for telecommunications following Businesses, and the following activities within those Businesses: companies was replaced with a new regulatory approach based on a general authorisation to offer electronic communications networks and services.
This change is required to implement the new EC Business Disaggregated activity Communications Directives, which entered into force on 24 April 2002 and which require the repeal of the licensing regime for telecommunications Network - systems in the UK under the Telecommunications Act 1984.
An important change is that the need to obtain a licence prior to operating a Retail Narrowband Access Business telecommunication system is to be replaced by a general authorisation to Residential provide electronic communications networks and services.
However, the Retail Systems Local calls 2003 04 Financial Statements have been prepared under the requirements National calls of the licensing regime that existed prior to 25 July 2003 consistent with a International calls Continuation Notice issued by Oftel on 23 July 2003 prior to Ofcom taking Calls to mobile responsibility for Telecoms regulation in December 2003.
References Public Payphones below, and elsewhere in these Financial Statements, to Condition 78 and Private Circuits the Licence should be read in this context.
The contents of the Accounting Other Retail Systems Business Documents also reflect this situation.
Mobile - Apparatus Supply - Supplemental Services - Requirements for Regulatory Financial Reporting Residual - British Telecommunications plc BT is required, under Condition 78 as set out in Schedule 1 of the Continuation Notice of the Licence granted to Statements of long run incremental cost LRIC for the Network Business it by the Secretary of State for Trade and Industry on 22 June 1984, as are also included within the Financial Statements of that Business.
amended the Licence as above, Condition 78 is subject to a Continuation Notice issued by Oftel on 23 July 2003, to prepare Financial Statements Brief definitions of the Businesses and their activities are set out on pages under the current cost convention in respect of each Business, as defined 122 and 123. within the Licence and amended by Direction under the provisions of licence condition 78.14, regarding the regulatory Financial Statements of Following the unwind of the Concert joint venture and the reintegration of British Telecommunications plc dated 27 November 2002 the Direction, Communications Networking Services UK CNS into the BT group, BT and insofar as a Business has been disaggregated in terms of activities of has received Ofcoms consent not to publish separate regulatory financial the Business, each activity of that Business the Current Cost Financial statements for CNS for the year ended 31 March 2004 as would have been Statements.
required by the Continuation notice issued by Oftel to CNS on 23 July 2003.
The combined results of the UK and the Rest of the World activities These regulatory financial reporting requirements are imposed to facilitate as previously defined in the CNS Licence have been extracted from the the monitoring and enforcement of obligations imposed on BT: to offer costrelevant general ledgers and are shown separately within the Residual orientated charges: not to discriminate unduly: and to set prices within the Business.
parameters set by price controls.
2 Introduction a Interconnect ports: Accounting Documents b Select Services: c Partial Private Circuits.
The Current Cost Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2004 d Core Transmission Fibre Cable Cost Volume Relationship.
are prepared in accordance with the Accounting Documents dated 17 August 2004 the Accounting Documents, which were initially agreed Applicable rate of return between BT and Oftel on 31 March 1995 and modified with Oftels agreement, as required by Condition 78 of the Licence see New Regulatory The applicable rate of return for the Systems Business is 13.5% per Regime above.
The Current Cost Financial Statements for the year ended annum.
In the prior year ended 31 March 2003, the applicable rate of 31 March 2003 were prepared in accordance with the Accounting return for Access Network Facilities was 14.3%.
Documents dated 19 September 2003, but restated to reflect the matters set out in note 3 to the Financial Statements.
Basis of preparation The Accounting Documents set out the framework under which the The ultimate holding company of the BT group is now BT Group plc Current Cost Financial Statements are to be prepared.
The Accounting referred to together with its subsidiary and associated undertakings and Documents also contain an Annex setting out those parts of Licence joint ventures as the Group.
Substantially all the Businesses and Condition 78 see New Regulatory Regime above referred to in these activities of the Group are carried out by British Telecommunications plc statements.
To obtain copies of the Accounting Documents see page 127. and its subsidiary and associated undertakings and joint ventures.
Hybrid Adjustment In accordance with the Accounting Documents, the Financial Statements and the Standard Service Statements are prepared by disaggregating In its Direction of 27 November 2002 the Direction, Oftel required BT to balances recorded in the general ledgers and other accounting records of exclude all redundancy items from the results of the Network Business.
the Group maintained in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Previously, these costs had been excluded only from the calculation of the used, in accordance with that Act, for the preparation of the Group long run incremental costs LRIC of the Network Business, via an statutory consolidated financial statements for the years ended 31 March adjustment which was known as the Hybrid Adjustment.
For the 2004 and 31 March 2003 respectively the Statutory Financial purposes of these Financial Statements, the exclusion of the redundancy Statements.
costs from the LRIC continues to be referred to as a Hybrid Adjustment.
BT does not believe this adjustment is appropriate and has presented the The structure of the Businesses defined by the Licence see New LRIC results of the Network Business both with and without the Hybrid Regulatory Regime, above does not correspond to the way in which the Adjustment.
The profit and loss account and the statement of mean capital Group is organised for management and accounting purposes.
The Current employed of the Network Business exclude redundancy costs, as required Cost Financial Statements are therefore produced by overlaying the by the Direction.
requirements of the Licence as above on the management and accounting structure of the Group.
Restatement of Prior Year Comparatives As far as possible, revenues, costs, assets and liabilities are directly Note 3 to the Financial Statements describes certain items for which the associated with a product or component using information held within the comparative figures for 2003 have been restated.
Restatements are made, Groups accounting records and are directly attributed to that item.
Where inter alia, for changes in cost attribution methodologies and to give effect to no such direct association is possible, the remaining revenues, costs, assets regulatory decisions made by Ofcom.
The items for which a restatement and liabilities are apportioned between two or more Businesses, activities has been made relate to: or components using a fully allocated accounting system and employing apportionment bases that reflect as far as possible the causality of the 3 Introduction revenue, cost, asset or liability.
Products are aggregated to form the Changes to the Basis of Preparation and Form and Content regulatory Business and activities.
The basis of preparation and form and content of these financial The amounts of revenue, cost, and capital employed attributed to statements changes from year-to-year to reflect such developments as Businesses, activities and components depend critically on the methods of regulatory decisions made by Ofcom, new product launches and the attribution adopted.
Typically, in a fully allocated accounting system, a introduction of new network technologies, and is discussed with Ofcom range of attribution methods is available.
In selecting appropriate prior to their publication.
To ensure that BTs regulatory financial reporting addresses transparently the obligations referred to above see attribution methods and appropriate non-financial data for use within the attribution models employed in the production of these Current Cost Requirements for Regulatory Financial Reporting.
The disclosure of, and Financial Statements, BT has had to make certain estimates and exercise level of detail appropriate to, certain matters remain under review, its judgement, having regard to the regulatory principles, including cost pending the completion of various ongoing projects.
At the time of causality and objectivity, in order to comply with the requirements of the preparation of these Financial Statements, these matters included Partial Accounting Documents.
The detailed processes by which revenues, costs Private Circuits and Wholesale Line Rental and certain aspects of the and capital employed are attributed to Businesses are set out in the Interconnect Specific Basket services.
The project to review with Ofcom the Detailed Attribution Methods document the DAM dated 17 August regulatory accounting treatment of certain property items, including the 2004.
To obtain copies of the DAM see page 127. sale and leaseback transaction between BT and Telereal, has been concluded, resulting in no changes to the cost attribution methodology.
The Current Cost Financial Statements include the current cost adjustments prepared under the financial capital maintenance convention, Further, the implementation of Ofcoms Statement, The regulatory including adjustments to historical cost depreciation and fixed assets to financial reporting obligations on BT and Kingston Communications, of reflect current values.
The valuation methods are set out in the Detailed 22 July 2004, will entail substantial changes to the form and content of Valuation Methodology the DVM dated 17 August 2004.
To obtain BTs regulatory financial statements for the year ending 31 March 2005 copies of the DVM see page 127. and beyond.
It is expected that the matters referred to above will be addressed as part of the process of implementation of that Statement.
The detailed methods by which the long run incremental costs and stand alone costs have been calculated are set out in the Long Run Incremental Contents of the Current Cost Financial Statements Cost Model: Relationships and Parameters the R&P dated 17 August 2004.
To obtain copies of the R&P see page 127.
Each Current Cost Financial Statement, which should be read in conjunction with the Accounting Documents, comprises where appropriate: The Restated Current Cost Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2003 are prepared in accordance with the detailed attribution 1 a profit and loss account, including a statement of the fully allocated processes, valuation methods and calculations for long run incremental costs calculated on a basis not inconsistent with BTs Annual Report costs and stand alone costs set out in the DAM, DVM and R&P all dated 19 except for the adjustments related to the adoption of the financial September 2003 but restated to reflect the matters set out in Note 3. capital maintenance convention: BT seeks to review and update non-financial data used within the 2 a statement of mean capital employed: attribution models at least annually.
Certain non-financial data employed 3 for the Network Business, a statement of costs on a current cost for the purposes of the Current Cost Financial Statements has been basis, statements of costs on an incremental cost basis and a determined by sampling techniques appropriate to that data.
BT reviews statement of detailed LRIC by bands: and updates attribution methods and non-financial data sources on an ongoing basis and, where deemed appropriate, will make improvements.
4 a reconciliation between the aggregate turnover, operating profit Depending on the nature of the change, this may require Ofcoms prior and mean capital employed of all the Businesses and the turnover, consent as specified under Condition 78 of the Licence.
4 Introduction operating profit and capital employed of the BT Group as disclosed in the Annual Report for the year: and 5 a reconciliation between current and long run incremental costs for the Network Business.
This publication also includes separate statements of costs and charges for Standard Services, Retail Sticks and Intermediate Services.
