Statement of responsibility For preparing the Current Cost Financial Statements British Telecommunications plc BT is required, under Condition 78 of BT confirms that the Current Cost Financial Statements for the year the Licence granted to it on 22 June 1984 by the Secretary of State for ended 31 March 2004 have been prepared in accordance with the Trade and Industry, as amended see New Regulatory Regime in the requirements of Condition 78.
The Restated Current Cost Financial Introduction, above, to prepare, in accordance with paragraph 78.5, each Statements for the year ended 31 March 2003 are prepared in accordance year a financial statement on a current cost basis, which presents fairly with the Detailed Attribution Methods, Detailed Valuation Methodology in accordance with the Accounting Documents the results of each and the Accounting Documents all dated 19 September 2003, but restated Business and, insofar as it has been disaggregated in terms of activities to reflect the matters set out in note 3 to the Financial Statements.
of the Business, each activity of that Business.
BT is also required, under Condition 78.5 d, to prepare a Statement of costs and charges for each Standard Service Standard Services Each Current Cost Financial Statement: Statement in respect of each year.
1 includes: Each Standard Services Statement is prepared in accordance with the 1.1 a current cost profit and loss account: Detailed Attribution Methods, Detailed Valuation Methodology, Long 1.2 a statement of current cost mean capital employed: Run Incremental Cost Model: Relationships and Parameters and the 1.3 a statement of costs on a current cost basis if applicable : Accounting Documents, all dated 17 August 2004.
1.4 a statement of costs on an incremental cost basis if applicable : BT confirms that the Standard Services Statements for the year ended 31 March 2004 have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of 1.5 a statement of detailed LRIC by bands if applicable Condition 78.
The Restated Standard Service Statements for the year ended 31 March 2003 are prepared in accordance with the Detailed as BT and Ofcom have agreed, with such additional information to Attribution Methods, Detailed Valuation Methodology, Long Run be provided by way of notes as BT and Ofcom agree.
Incremental Cost Model: Relationships and Parameters and the Accounting Documents, all dated 19 September 2003, but restated to 2 is prepared, in accordance with the current Detailed Attribution reflect the matters set out in note 3 to the Financial Statements.
Methods, Detailed Valuation Methodology, Long Run Incremental Cost Model: Relationships and Parameters and the Accounting BT confirms that the DAM, DVM and R&P all dated 17 August 2004 are Documents, all dated 17 August 2004.
Insofar as there is any appropriate to implement the principles contained in the Accounting inconsistency within the Accounting Documents, BT ensures that Documents dated 17 August 2004, including the revised Transparency the Current Cost Financial Statements are prepared in accordance Principle.
with the Accounting Documents in the following order of priority: BT confirms that in accordance with the Side Letter Agreement between 2.1 the Regulatory Accounting Principles: the Director General of Oftel and BT of 27 November 2002 appended to 2.2 the Attribution Methods: the Direction of 27 November 2002, the Additional Financial Statements 2.3 the Transfer Charging System: were delivered to Ofcom on 17 August 2004 and the auditors have reported on them: their report was unqualified.
2.4 the Accounting Policies: and 2.5 the Long Run Incremental Cost Methodology.
John Wroe, 3 is reconciled with the Annual Report and that reconciliation is Director Group Financial Control and Treasury demonstrated and explained.
