Investment Managers Report Stephen Macklow-Smith Has been managing the Companys assets since September 1997.
INVESTMENT MANAGER The following table provides a breakdown, relative to The year under review saw a crucial turnaround in the benchmark, of the contributions to total return.
equity markets, as the post-bubble bear market came to an end in March 2003, and a new advance Performance attribution for the year to in European equity markets was set in motion.
Our 31st March 2004 1 Year Company performed satisfactorily against this % backdrop, with the NAV returning 40.8% against a Net asset value total return 40.8 benchmark return of 36.5%.
The discount also Benchmark total return 36.5 narrowed, meaning that the share price total return Relative return 4.3 was 49.0%, an even more marked out-performance Analysis of relative return Allocation effect 1.8 of the benchmark.
Selection effect 1.1 Gearing Cash Liquidity effect 1.0 We re-committed half of our gearing in August, Currency effect 0.3 once we were satisfied that the market direction Management fee & other expenses 1.4 Buybacks 1.9 had fundamentally changed for the better, and this Residual item 0.4 meant that within our performance attribution the Total 4.3 analysis of which you can see on this page both Source: Frank Russell JPMFAM Fundamental Data.
stock selection and gearing made a positive Allocation effect: Measures the impact of allocating assets differently to those in the benchmark, via the portfolios contribution.
This is of crucial importance, since weighting in different sectors or asset types.
one of the key investment advantages of Selection effect: Measures the effect of investing in individual securities to a greater or lesser extent than their weighting in investment trusts over unit trusts is the ability to the benchmark, or of investing in securities outside the benchmark.
Gearing Cash Liquidity effect: Measures the impact on Our longer term performance numbers are also relative returns of the Companys net borrowings.
Currency effect: Measures the impact of currency exposure satisfactory, with the Company out-performing the differences between the Companys portfolio and its benchmark over both three and five years.
It also identifies the effect of holding forward currency contracts or currency futures.
proves our ability to manage our gearing in such a Management fee and other expenses: The payment of fees way as to minimise its negative impact in falling and expenses reduces the level of total assets, and therefore has a negative effect on relative performance.
markets, while benefiting from its positive impact Buybacks: Measures the net effect on relative performance of decreasing the number of shares in issue.
Residual item: Arises when there is a divergence between The source of the rally was two-fold.
Firstly, it total return as calculated by the AITC Fundamental Data, and total return as calculated by the attribution generating became evident that the threat of deflation, which system.
This is a result of methodology differences with respect to the treatment of income and cashflows, and timing was much talked about by central banks in 2003, differences.
The US was in the 6 JPMorgan Fleming Continental European Investment Managers Report continued vanguard of this battle, with the US Federal European companies were covering barely half of Reserve cutting interest rates aggressively, and the their cost of capital.
This time around, their returns government in turn putting together a tax-cutting barely dipped below their cost of capital, and the package which buoyed up consumer demand.
In trend looks as if it can improve further.
European Europe, economies weathered the three year companies still have some ground to make up on downturn in much better shape than many UK companies, but this is already discounted in commentators gave them credit for, despite their valuation.
This is a slightly arcane, but criticism of the ECB for not making more important, point.
When one compares long-term aggressive rate reductions, and despite a political returns from Europe ex UK with the UK All-Share, storm about the breaking of the Stability Pact by one can see that in Sterling terms Europe has four countries.
Demand held up reasonably well.
steadily out-performed, which means that those We should remember, however, that corporate investors who have been overweight Europe in the quoted Europe the universe in which we invest last 15 years have made an entirely rational and is not identical to economic Europe.
The Continent correct asset allocation decision in the teeth of contains many well-known multi-nationals, and an the violently Europhobic UK media.
We believe that excessive concentration on the details of European this slow improvement in Europe can continue, domestic economic performance often misses out partly because there are clearly many areas for on the major trends affecting European quoted further reform.
Within the portfolio we have good exposure to The health of corporate Europe has improved those reforming areas.
In Banks, for instance, there considerably in the last ten years, because of a has been a steady wave of consolidation within commitment to cost-cutting, to improvement of countries, and we expect that the next wave will be balance sheet structures, and to an improvement pan-European consolidation, creating regional in sensitivity to shareholders interests.
This consolidation process will mean research contacts has worked hard to make further cost reductions, and further improvement of company profits across Europe comparable by returns to shareholders.
Banking in general, and stripping out differences in accounting standards particularly the savings industry, plays to many of and tax law.
The picture excluding financials is Europes strengths.
European consumers are encouraging, demonstrating that the ability of naturally conservative, so credit quality is good.
European companies to weather economic They are also natural savers, meaning that assetdownturns has improved enormously since the gathering franchises prosper from steady inflows.
At that stage, JPMorgan Fleming Continental European 7 Investment Managers Report continued In other areas, too, we have been able to benefit see the way in which corporate tax rates have been from the European reform process.
The drive cut in Italy, Austria and Germany in the last few towards improvement of returns on capital is years.
We should expect to see more such starting to bear fruit in companies such as Alcatel reductions, which are a straightforward and Ericsson in the European electronics area, and improvement of shareholder returns.
these stocks performed very well for our company What of the immediate future?
We believe that the in the last financial year.
Alcatel has worked its post-March 2003 rally is not yet over, and we way into a position of strength in the broadband increased our effective level of gearing in March telephone area over the last five years, and 2004 to reflect that belief.
Valuations are still Ericsson has restructured away from loss making attractive, and strengthening economic growth is areas, and now has a successful joint venture with translating into higher levels of earnings and Sony in mobile handsets, along with a very solid profitability.
We accept that there are some worries mobile infrastructure business.
at a geo-political level, but we feel that the The expansion to the east has also yielded economic environment will be conducive to good opportunities for us.
In Austria the government has equity returns for another three years or so.
lowered corporate tax rates in a bid to attract Forecasting beyond that period is more difficult, but inward investment, and Austrian stocks such as we feel that the steady progress of the European OMV and Erste Bank are beneficiaries.
This reform programme will bring further benefits to lowering of corporate tax rates is a card that investors.
We are confident about the future, and Ireland has played to good advantage over the last will be continuing to pick our stocks carefully to fifteen years, and it is a signal of another profound ensure that this confidence in translated into a change in the European landscape.
This change good performance by our Company.
springs directly from the catalyst of the single European currency: for the first time, members of the Eurozone are having to compete on a level Stephen Macklow-Smith playing field for foreign capital, rather than Investment Manager indulging in competitive devaluations of their 22nd June 2004 currencies.
This is one of most powerful pressures for reform in Europe, and it has been interesting to 8 JPMorgan Fleming Continental European Report & Accounts.
