Ten Largest Investments at 30th September 2004 Valuation 1 Company Sector 000 % Toyota Motor Transport Equipment 28,882 6.4 One of worlds top three auto manufacturers, Toyota enjoys a market share in Japan in excess of 40%.
Honda Motor Transport Equipment 18,743 4.1 Honda Motor develops, manufactures, and distributes motorcycles, automobiles, and power products such as generators and farm machinery.
The company also operates a financial credit business.
Canon Electrical Machinery 16,389 3.6 Canon is one of the world's leading producers of laser beam printers, photocopier and digital cameras.
It also manufacturers steppers, which are used in the production process for semiconductors.
As a result of leading-edge product development and continued market share gains in both Japan and the USA, Canon's profits have almost quadrupled over the past ten years.
Nissan Motor Transport Equipment 15,072 3.3 Following aggressive restructuring after being taken over by Renault, Nissan has emerged as the one of the world's most profitable mass producers of cars.
It has recently expanded its production facilities in the USA to enable it to broaden its product line-up in the North American market.
Nidec Corporation Electrical Machinery 12,847 2.8 Nidec Corporation manufactures DC and AC motors for electronic devices such as hard disk drives, floppy disk, CD-ROMs DVDs, automatic doors, photocopiers, and printers.
The company also produces DC fans and power source equipment.
Nippon Steel Iron & Steel 12,270 2.7 Nippon Steel is an integrated steel maker.
The company produces various types of steel products such as industrial machinery and equipment, and exports them worldwide.
The company also provides plant construction and urban development and develops new businesses such as chemicals, ceramics, electronic equipment and information and communication systems.
Matsui Securities Securities & Commodity 11,198 2.5 Matsui Securities provides online investing services through its Futures website.
The company offers investment news and educational services.
Nitto Denko Chemicals 11,185 2.5 Having started life as a manufacturer of adhesives, Nitto Denko has expanded its business to include a variety of sealants and coating films.
Currently, the area of highest growth is polarising film for use in liquid crystal displays, where the company has a market share of greater than 90% for certain products.
Nitto Denko has an operating profit margin of greater than 10%.
Hoya Precision Instruments 10,598 2.4 Hoya manufactures elector-optics products such as photomasks for semiconductors, optical glasses, magnetic memory discs, eyeglasses, contact lenses, laser equipment, and crystal products.
The company also develops information systems and operates staffing services.
Fanuc Electrical Machinery 10,411 2.3 Fanuc manufactures factory automation systems and equipment, and robots.
The companys products include computerised  equipment, servo motors, laser systems, industrial robots, wire-cut electric discharge machines and CNC drill.
Total 147,595 32.6 1 Based on total assets less current liabilities of 453.3m other than loan balances due within one year.
