Investment Managers Report Stephen Mitchell Jonathan Dobson has been managing the has been assisting in the assets of the Company since management of the assets of December 1997. the Company since June 2001.
INVESTMENT MANAGERS Review on share prices was dramatic.
Mizuho Bank saw its After rising 15.7% in yen terms for the first half of share price almost double over the six months, the year, the Japanese TOPIX index fell 6.5% over whilst Mitsui Real Estate saw its share price gain the second half.
This equated to an overall rise of 32%.
Smaller companies in related industries also 8.2% in yen for the year to 30th September 2004. did well.
The share price of SFCG, a small company The weakness of the Japanese yen meant the rise loan specialist, rose 41%, and the OTC index of in the index in sterling terms was only 0.75%.
This smaller stocks rose 33% between the beginning of compares unfavourably with the 11.7% rise October and the end of March.
recorded by the UK FTSE 100 index and the 2.6% The second half of the year was a different story.
rise in the US S&P 500 again in sterling terms.
Despite continued profit growth and upward For much of the first six months, the index was earnings revisions for many Japanese companies, driven by the rise in the stock prices of companies the market was volatile and weak.
Having by the in traditional manufacturing industries, where end of March posted its largest twelve month gain business was showing the first recovery for ten since 1973, rising almost 50%, the Japanese stock years.
The revival in these areas, which included market entered a period of consolidation.
Investors steel, shipbuilding and machinery, was stimulated became worried about a cooling of demand from by a sharp rise in demand from China and Asia.
The China, the effect on the global economy of rising growth in orders, production and sales which commodities prices and a high oil price, and resulted, together with the fact that many concern that a slowdown in consumer demand in companies had cut costs aggressively, generated the USA might result in a full-blown recession.
By sharp recoveries in profits.
This is why the share the end of the Companys financial year, investors prices of companies like Hitachi Construction in the Japanese stock market found themselves Machinery rose more than 40%, or why Mori Seiki, weighed down by concerns elsewhere in the world, a machine tool manufacturer, saw its share price and apparently oblivious to continuing upward gain almost 30%.
revisions in earnings from individual companies.
Banks, real estate and other companies geared to Performance domestic demand also performed well, as signs of The Companys NAV fell 3.8% over the year, versus an end to deflation started to appear.
The impact the 1.7% gain in sterling returned by the TOPIX JPMorgan Fleming Japanese 3 Investment Managers Report continued benchmark index.
Over which had benefited from this were hit hard.
Thus the first half, to 31st March 2004, the 12% rise in stocks like Matsui Securities, a fast growing line the NAV tracked exactly the 12% rise in the TOPIX brokerage and one of our top ten holdings, fell benchmark, meaning that all of underperformance almost 15% in the second half, whereas Fanuc fell was concentrated in the second half of the year.
11% despite the fact that it looks set to increase its operating profit by almost 60% in the current year.
Throughout the year our portfolio has been set up In contrast, some of the best performing sectors on the basis that the recovery in the Japanese were defensive in nature.
These included economy has been proceeding well, a stance pharmaceutical, electric power and food supported by the fact that companies continue to companies, where the portfolio has zero exposure revise their earnings upwards.
High weightings because our view is that none of them offer have been held in companies like Canon and earnings growth.
Toyota that are gaining market share globally, Mitsui OSK, Mitsubishi Corp and Daikin that are Finally, the summer was a tough period for smaller benefiting from growth in Asia, and companies like companies, in which the portfolio has a 20% Fullcast and e-Access that are seeing an strategic weighting.
We expect many of these improvement in demand in Japan.
The portfolio has companies, like Japan Asia Investment, a venture also remained geared through the year.
capital company which trades at a 40% discount to net asset value, to continue to grow next year and This positioning was to the benefit of the portfolio have taken advantage of the share price weakness in the first half.
Overweight positions in technology to increase weightings further.
stocks such as Advantest, and the decision to increase weighting in banking and real estate At the end of the year there were 73 holdings in stocks such as Resona Bank and Mitsui Real Estate the portfolio, with the ten largest positions also helped.
accounting for 32.6% of the Companys assets.
However, over the second six months, this skew to Outlook growth, combined with being geared, was a Although the rapid year-on-year economic growth disadvantage.
Despite Japans continuing economic rates seen last year in Japan have now levelled out, recovery, international investors became anxious the economy is still on an upward trend.
Having about growth in the USA and China and stocks achieved 22% growth in pre-tax profits for the year 4 JPMorgan Fleming Japanese to March 2004, many Japanese companies are now Performance attribution for the year revising up their earnings for the year to March to 30th September 2004 2005.
Original forecasts suggested around 13% 1 Year % pre-tax profit growth, but with current revisions to Net asset value total return in sterling terms 3.8 earnings spread across a wide range of industries, Benchmark total return in sterling terms 1.7 including Japanese banks, steel companies, auto Relative return 5.5 manufacturers and technology companies, profit Analysis of relative return growth to March 2005 could be closer to the 22% Allocation 1.7 number achieved last year.
Stock selection 7.8 Gearing cash 1.0 However, investors remain nervous, and given that Management fee and other expenses 0.8 Other Residual Item s 0.4 robust exports to Asia and China have been a Total 5.5 major source of the recovery in Japan so far, Source: Frank Russell JPMFAM Fundamental Data worries exist about the sustainability of growth in Definitions these regions, as well as in the USA.
Add higher oil Performance attribution: Analyses how the Company prices, rising commodities prices and mixed data achieved its recorded performance relative to its benchmark.
from the USA, and there is understandable concern Allocation: Measures the impact of allocating assets as to whether the next twelve months look as differently to those in the benchmark, via the portfolios weighting in different sectors or asset types.
bright for the Japanese economy as the past year Stock selection: Measures the effect of investing in has been.
securities to a greater or lesser extent than their weighting in the benchmark, or of investing in securities Our view is that such pessimism is excessive, and outside the benchmark.
Gearing cash: Measures the impact on returns of that Japanese companies are in a better position to borrowings, cash balances or cash substitutes on grow profits than at any time since the 1980s.
Management fee and other expenses: The payment of the first time in fifteen years, profits are recovering fees and expenses reduces the level of total assets, and without government spending on wasteful public therefore has a negative effect on relative performance.
Other residual item s : Arises when there is a divergence works projects.
The recovery is spread across a between total return as calculated by the broad range of sectors, including many old AITC Fundamental Data, and total return as calculated by the attribution generating system.
This is a result of industries such as steel and shipbuilding.
methodology differences with respect to the treatment of Companies are seeing the positive effect on profit Income and cashflows, and timing differences.
JPMorgan Fleming Japanese 5 Investment Managers Report continued margins of having cut costs aggressively.
Balance The direction of the Japanese stock market will sheet restructuring has seen debt levels fall continue to be influenced by investors perceptions sharply too.
Finally, free cash flow, positive now for about the global economy, but valuations are now the first time since the 1970s, is being used to buy cheap enough to offer support through periods of back shares and invest in profitable new products volatility.
The price-to-earnings ratio for the market and business lines.
for current fiscal year to March 2005 is around 16 times.
We think that this is probably the most Japans best companies also continue to do well.
outstanding of the differences between Japan now Toyota, the portfolios largest holding, continues to and Japan 15 years ago and means that, relative to grow its vehicle sales and profits in the USA at the other world markets, Japan now offers extremely expense of Ford and GM, and has a price-togood value for money for the medium term earnings ratio of just 10 times.
Hoya and Nidec, both of which feature in our ten largest holdings, are also growing rapidly as a result of the rapid spread of devices which contain Stephen Mitchell miniature hard discs.
Hoya has a 70% world Jonathan Dobson Investment Managers 10th November 2004 market share for one inch glass hard disks, and Nidec leads the world in hard disk spindle motors.
We estimate that the average growth rate of profits for the companies in the portfolio for the year to 31st March 2005 is approximately 30%, and that the price-to-earnings ratio is 15.9 times.
6 JPMorgan Fleming Japanese Report & Accounts JPMorgan Fleming Japanese 7
