Directors report The directors have pleasure in submitting their annual report and the audited Information relating to the directors remuneration for the year and details financial statements of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings for the of the directors share options under the Companys share option schemes year ended 31 December 2004. and awards under the Long Term Incentive Plans and Deferred Annual Share Bonus Scheme are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report Principal activities and developments on pages 30 to 36.
The principal activities of the Group are set out on pages 2 and 3 of the Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement.
The Chairmans Employment policies Statement, the Operating Review and the Financial Review on pages 4 to 21 The employment policies of the Group have been developed to meet the and 24 and 25 of the Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement give needs of its different business areas and the locations in which they operate details of the Groups activities, developments and performance for the year worldwide, embodying the principles of equal opportunity.
The Group has and an indication of likely future developments.
standards of business conduct with which it expects its employees to comply.
Bunzl encourages involvement of its employees in the performance Results of the business in which they are employed and aims to achieve a sense A summary of the Groups results is set out in the Chairmans Statement.
In addition to a quarterly magazine and the Note 1 to the financial statements sets out a segmental analysis of operating Companys intranet, which provide a variety of information on activities and results.
A financial review of the year is set out on pages 24 and 25 of the developments within the Group and incorporate interim and annual financial Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement.
reports, newsletters are periodically circulated to give details of corporate and staff matters together with a number of subsidiary or business area Going concern publications dealing with activities in specific parts of the Group.
The directors, having made appropriate enquiries, consider that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence It is the Groups policy that disabled applicants should be considered for for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, the directors believe it is employment and career development on the basis of their aptitudes and appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing abilities.
Employees who become disabled during their working life will be the financial statements.
retained in employment wherever possible and given help with rehabilitation and training.
Dividends An interim dividend of 4.15p was paid in respect of the year and the Substantial shareholdings directors recommend a final dividend of 9.15p per share, making a As at 28 February 2005 the directors had been notified by the following total for the year of 13.3p 2003: 12.1p.
Dividend details are given shareholders that they were each interested in 3% or more of the issued in Note 5 to the financial statements.
Subject to confirmation by the share capital of the Company.
The notifications listed below are those which shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on 18 May 2005, the final have been most recently received for the named shareholders.
dividend will be paid on 1 July 2005 to those shareholders on the register at the close of business on 6 May 2005.
Shareholders will % of again be able to elect to receive additional shares in the Company in Date issued lieu of the cash dividend through the Companys dividend reinvestment of share plan.
Further details will be circulated to shareholders with the notice Shareholder notification capital of the Annual General Meeting.
FMR Corp and Fidelity International Ltd 23.02.05 4.99 Lloyds TSB Group Plc 28.01.05 3.01 Share capital Barclays PLC 17.08.04 3.04 Details of the Companys share capital, including shares issued and purchased during the year, are set out in Note 17 to the financial statements.
Legal & General Investment Management Ltd 02.07.04 5.07 Purchase of own shares Creditor payment policy As at 28 February 2005 the Company had purchased 13,035,000 of its own Group operating companies are responsible for agreeing the terms and shares into treasury pursuant to the existing authority which is due to expire conditions under which business transactions with their suppliers are at the conclusion of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
It is Group policy that suppliers are made aware of these terms again propose to seek a similar authority this year.
and that payments to suppliers are made in accordance with them, provided that suppliers also comply with all relevant terms and conditions.
Directors Dr U Wolters, Mr C P Sander, Mr M J Harper and Mr P L Larmon were The number of days billings from the Companys suppliers outstanding appointed to the Board after the Annual General Meeting in 2004 and, at the end of the financial year was 31 2003: 30. being eligible, offer themselves for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting in accordance with the Articles of Association.
Donations Mr A P Dyer, who has been a director since 1993 and will retire During 2004, amongst other worldwide charitable donations, the Group at the end of 2005, offers himself for re-election at the forthcoming contributed 200,000 to UK charities 2003: 193,000.
No contributions Annual General Meeting in accordance with the provisions of the were made for political purposes.
Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
Mr P G Lorenzini and Mr S G Williams retired from the Board on 31 July and 31 August 2004 Annual General Meeting respectively.
All of the other directors, who are named on pages The Annual General Meeting will be held at The Selfridge Hotel, Orchard 22 and 23 of the Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement, Street, London W1H 6JS on Wednesday 18 May 2005 at 11.00 am.
The notice convening the Meeting is set out in a separate letter from the Chairman to shareholders which explains the items of special business.
Mr D M Williams and Mr P Heiden retire by rotation at the Annual General Meeting in accordance with the Articles of Association and, being eligible, Auditors offer themselves for re-election.
Mr P Heiden, who has been a director since A resolution is to be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting 1998, will subsequently resign from the Board upon completion of the for the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of the Company demerger of Filtrona.
at a rate of remuneration to be determined by the directors.
Directors interests in ordinary shares are shown in Note 21 to the P N Hussey Secretary financial statements.
