Kate Avery Managing Director of Childrens of GlaxoSmithKline Plc, Chairman.
He is Group Director Retail World, which was part of Boots Rohm & Haas Co. and the Distribution.
She Company PLC, and Managing Cabot Corporation.
He was Chairman of The BOC Group joined Legal & General in Director of Dolcis, Bertie Shoes formerly a director of Deutsche PLC, senior independent 1996 as Director Marketing.
and Cable & Co. which were Bank AG.
He was appointed in non-executive director of Anglo She became Director Group part of Sears Plc.
He is a member American Plc and Chairman of Marketing and Direct in 1997 previously a non-executive of the Remuneration and their Remuneration Committee, and Retail Customer Director in director of M & G Group Nominations Committees.
and Chairman of the Natural 1999.
She was appointed to the Prudential and a member of Environment Research Council.
Group Board on 1 January 2001. the North Yorkshire & Humberside He is also a member of the 12.
Henry Staunton She was previously Managing Regional Development Agency.
Council of Science and Independent, non-executive Director of Barclays Stockbrokers She was appointed in Technology and a Trustee of the director.
She is a Ltd and Barclays Bank Trust Council for Industry and Higher appointed to the Board in member of the Remuneration Company Ltd. She has an Education.
He is Finance Director and Nominations Committees.
MBA from Craneld School of a director and Vice Chairman of ITV Plc and was formerly Management.
She is a member of Imperial Chemical Industries a non-executive director and of the Association of British Plc.
Barrie Morgans Chairman of Ashtead Group Insurers Distribution and Independent, non-executive Chairman in 2000.
He is Chairman PLC and a non-executive Regulatory Committee.
director and Chairman of the of the Nominations Committee.
He is Audit Committee and member a member of the Audit and of the Nominations Committee.
He is Chairman of He will become Chairman Group Director Investments.
He was formerly of the Audit Committee at the Aged 46.
He joined He joined Legal & General Chairman of Azlan Group Plc conclusion of the AGM in 2005.
Legal & General in 1987 and in 1988 as Group Director and Chairman and Chief became Director Index Funds Investments.
Appointed Group Executive of IBM UK Holdings in 1994.
James Strachan Chief Executive with effect from Limited.
He was appointed Managing Director Index Funds Independent, non-executive 11 September 1991.
He is Chairman he held positions at British Coal, appointed Group Director of the Audit Commission.
He was where he was Chief Executive Investments on 1 January 2002.
Robin Phipps a Managing Director of Merrill of CIN the pensions investment He holds a degree from Oxford Group Director UK Operations.
Lynch and was previously management company, at Sun University.
He joined with Chase Manhattan.
He Alliance the insurance company Standard Chartered Bank before Legal & General in 1982 from is Chairman of RNID and a and at Hoare Govett the moving to the London Business British Gas and was appointed Trustee of Somerset House.
He is Chairman School where he took an MSc I. T. Director in 1985.
He was He was appointed to the of the Financial Services Skills in Business Administration.
He appointed to the Board as Board on 1 December 2003.
He is a non-executive is a director of the Financial Group Director Sales & He is a member of the director of the Intercontinental Reporting Council.
He is a Marketing on 1 January 1996 Audit, Nominations and Hotels Group PLC, The Royal member of the Corporate and became Group Director Remuneration Committees.
Automobile Club Ltd, and Epsom Social Responsibility Committee.
He Appointed Group Director UK 14.
Sir David Walker is a Fellow of the Institute of Operations on 1 January 2001.
Frances Heaton Vice Chairman, Senior Actuaries and holds a degree Independent, non-executive Independent Director and from the University College director.
John Pollock Chairman of the Remuneration of Wales, Aberystwyth.
He is non-executive director of AWG Group Director Product & Committee.
He is also a member Chairman of the Group Risk PLC and Chairman of its Audit Corporate.
He joined of the Nominations Committee.
She was formerly Legal & General in 1980 on Aged 65.
He is Chairman to a non-executive director of the graduating from Strathclyde Morgan Stanley International Bank of England, and Deputy 3.
He worked in IT and Limited, and a former Chairman Chairman and Chairman of the customer services before taking Group Director Finance.
Aged 51. of the London Investment Audit Committee of WS Atkins responsibility, in 1994, for the He joined Legal & General in Banking Association.
He was PLC and an executive director employed sales force.
previously an Executive Director of Lazard Brothers & Co. Limited.
after two years as Managing He was appointed to the Board of the Bank of England, She was appointed in July 2001.
Director, Legal & General Asia, as Group Director Services Chairman of the Securities & She is a member of the Audit he was appointed Director, on 1 January 1996 and became Investments Board and a Deputy and Nominations Committees.
UK Operations, running the Group Director Corporate Chairman of Lloyds Bank.
He was large service units in Hove and Business on 1 July 1999.
He was appointed to was appointed Group Director 7.
Beverley Hodson OBE the Board on 11 December 2003.
Independent, non-executive He is a non-executive director director.
She is a of Slough Estates PLC.
He is director of the National College 11.
Dr Ronaldo Schmitz a Fellow of the Institute of for School Leadership.
She was Independent, non-executive Chartered Accountants in formerly Managing Director of director.
UK Retail, WH Smith Group Plc, a non-executive director Legal & General Annual Report 2004 31 GOVERNANCE INFORMATION AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 33 Corporate Governance 37 Directors Report on Remuneration 43 Report of the Audit Committee 45 Report of the Nominations Committee 46 Directors Report 48 Statement of Directors Responsibilities 48 Independent Auditors Report 49 Consolidated profit and Loss Account 52 Consolidated Balance Sheet 53 Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders Funds 54 Company Balance Sheet 55 Consolidated Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses 55 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 56 Notes to Financial Statements 83 Supplementary Financial Statements Achieved profits Basis 83 Consolidated profit and Loss Account 84 Consolidated Balance Sheet 84 Notes to Supplementary Financial Statements 89 Independent Auditors Report 89 Financial Calendar 90 Five Year Financial Review 92 Shareholder Information IBC Awards
