board of directors chairman Brian Lavers CBE Non-Executive Chairman Brian Lavers, age 69, led a distinguished career with Royal Dutch Shell spanning 32 years, culminating with his appointment as Chairman and Managing Director of Shell Nigeria.
From 1992 to 1998, Brian was Chairman and Chief Executive of Phibro Production Inc and joined Burren as Chairman in January 1999. executive directors Finian OSullivan Chief Executive Officer Finian OSullivan, age 50, holds a degree in geology and geophysics from University College Galway and was responsible for creating Burren in 1994.
Before this Finian pursued an international career spanning 17 years in geophysics and seismic acquisition with Chevron, Geophysical Systems and Olympic Oil and Gas.
Atul Gupta Chief Operating Officer Atul Gupta, age 45, holds degrees in Chemical Engineering from Cambridge University and Petroleum Engineering from Heriot-Watt University and has worked for 20 years in international oil and gas production operations with Charterhouse Petroleum, Petrona and Monument.
Atul joined Burren in January 1999.
Andrew Rose Chief Financial Officer Andrew Rose, age 48, holds a degree in Engineering from Cambridge University, but has spent the greater part of his career in investment banking, working in advisory, capital markets and structured finance roles.
He joined Burren in 2001, having previously been cohead of corporate finance for Central and Eastern Europe and the Middle EastNorth Africa region at Socit Gnrale.
16 16 BURREN ENER BURREN ENERG GY Y PL PLC C ANNU ANNUAL REPOR AL REPORT AND A T AND AC CC COUNT OUNTS 2 S 2004 004 non-executive directors Michael Calvey Mike Calvey, age 37, is Managing Director of Baring Vostok Capital Partners, the manager of several major funds associated with investment in Russia and the former Soviet Union.
He has been closely involved with Burren since its formation in 1994.
Alan Cole Independent Director Alan Cole, age 63, was a Board member of Christian Salvesen plc and, for eight years, Chief Executive of TDG plc.
He was Non-Executive Chairman of both The Oliver Group plc and Alldays plc, and is currently Chairman of JPMorgan Fleming Income and Growth Investment Trust plc.
His current non-executive positions include London International Exhibition Centre Holdings and NAAFI.
He was appointed as an independent Non-Executive Director in October 2003.
Keith Henry Independent Director Keith Henry, age 59, is a Non-Executive Director of Emerald Energy and Petroleum Geo-Services.
He has served as Chief Executive of Kvaerner Engineering and Construction, National Power, and Brown & RootEurope.
He was also a Non-Executive Director of Enterprise Oil and has over 30 years experience in the energy industry.
His appointment as an independent Non-Executive Director took effect as of 31 March 2005.
Pierre Lasry Pierre Lasry, age 45, is a Managing Director of the Tacoma group, which participates in oil trading, rening, distribution and exploration, and production, primarily in West Africa.
He has 20 years experience in the oil and gas industry and has been with Tacoma since 1993.
Prior to that he worked with Addax and Cargill.
Andrei Pannikov Andrei Pannikov, age 55, is the founder of Sunoat and is principally involved in transportation and trading activities in Russia and the former Soviet Union.
Prior to founding Sunoat he worked with the Russian Government and was subsequently co-founder of Lukoil and Urals Trading.
BURREN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 17
