UBS: FEELING THE BENEFITS OF SETSmm UBS, one of the worlds leading financial firms, Holtby remembers.
In-house and client UK mid-cap stocks.
The SETSmm orderbook, with the largest share of the global secondary education was important.
We also restructured allowing smoother, more discreet execution, cash equities market, was enthusiastic about our mid-cap desks so our traders would has delivered a five-fold increase in portfolio SETSmm from the start.
Its an initiative that better cover sectors exposed to the activity trades in mid-cap securities, consolidating recognises the importance of market-maker patterns of SETS, SETSmm and SEAQ.
our position as the leading provider of this support in mid-cap stocks while enhancing There was an eight-week intensive kind of trade.
liquidity and execution for our clients says technology implementation.
Nick Holtby, Head of European Trading and Today UBS is the largest Committed Principal Sales Trading at UBS Investment Bank.
The preparation paid off: the SETSmm and makes more prices in more stocks on go live, on 3 November 2003, was among SETSmm than any other broker.
SETSmm Was there much work to do before SETSmm the smoothest platform introductions that has improved the market says Nick Holtby.
We played a full part in the UBS can remember.
The impact is an That means a better service for our clients consultation, both one-on-one with the improved service for clients, with reduced and stronger volumes for us.
Exchange and in the market-wide debate spreads, keener price discovery and the ability to auto-execute trades in more 14 BROKER SERVICES LONDON STOCK EXCHANGE ANNUAL REPORT 2004 Broker Services Strong volume and revenue growth, driven by reliable, efficient trading platforms: innovative products that improve markets and benefit customers: opportunities to bring competition to other European markets.
MONTHLY UK EQUITY TRADING VOLUMES As part of a universally recognised Our commitment to provide fast, Years ended 31 March international Exchange, our members have efficient and robust trading systems, fast and direct access to deep pools of providing high standards of regulation liquidity at low cost and with a high degree and sound market practices, creates 250 6 of efficiency.
Broker Services provides some of the most attractive and liquid 5 200 the electronic platforms through which markets in the world.
We believe that 4 303 Member Firms, in 13 countries, this is just the starting point for what 150 3 trade more than 15,000 securities on we can offer to our customers.
100 the London Stock Exchange making us 2 the most liquid market for international Improving liquidity and efficiency 50 1 equities in the world.
In the year to gives us the chance to be still more 0 0 31 March, the total number of equity competitive: our new pricing structure 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 bargains transacted through our platforms was introduced for SETS users in April.
Value billion left axis was 59.34 million 2002 03: 54.30 million, We also use our position to benefit all Bargains million right axis an average of 234,000 per day market participants as we did by 2002 03: 215,000.
Throughout the securing fee reductions from the year our electronic trading platforms LCH.
We will continue performed well and, combined with to promote choice and competition, with the expertise and commitment of our the aim of lowering costs of clearing and people, provided participants with settlement in Europe.
uninterrupted access to our markets.
Broker Services derives the majority of its income from charges on trades executed using our trading platforms.
This year revenue rose by eight per cent, driven by the volume growth we have seen throughout the year.
The SETS electronic order book, for the most liquid UK securities, accounted for 62 per cent of eligible market trades by turnover.
With improvements to functionality such as Iceberg orders, SETS enjoyed another year of volume growth.
revenue 94m 8% LONDON STOCK EXCHANGE ANNUAL REPORT 2004 BROKER SERVICES 15 Broker Services We also work with customers to use our SETS: STILL GROWING SETSMM: A SUCCESSFUL EVOLUTION knowledge and technology to solve their SETS is our electronic order book for SETSmm is our new platform for trading problems.
As our customers become trading the most liquid UK securities.
It is the worlds first increasingly innovative in the way they Since being introduced in 1997 trade hybrid market, an electronic order book service their clients, we are responding, volumes on SETS have grown year on supported by continuous liquidity provision through understanding their business year.
Last year SETS volumes, including from committed market-makers.
SETSmm priorities and designing tailor-made international securities, grew again to combines the benefits of the world class services that deliver real benefits.
an average of 137,000 trades every day SETS electronic order book with Londons an increase of 26 per cent.
The average unrivalled market-making expertise.
Finally we are aiming to export our value of a SETS bargain fell by 12 per cent offering, bringing the advantages of our to 22,000.
Throughout last year the Broker Services trading platform to other markets.
May team worked in close consultation with 2004 sees the launch of EUROSETS, Part of SETS volume growth can be customers, defining the needs and our trading service for Dutch equities attributed to our customers continued balancing the interests of all market and the first genuine cross-border move towards electronic trading and participants to design the new service.
competition between European technical trading strategies.
EUROSETS will offer all customer research also shows that After extensive testing and proving, the efficiency and transparency that improved functionality does more than we launched SETSmm in November 2003. the Exchange is known for, along with an simply facilitate the market, it actually It was an instant success: in the five excellent service offering designed to generates additional volumes.
Iceberg months to 31 March 2004, SETSmm reduce customers dealing costs.
orders, introduced in September, enable significantly increased the volumes in Paramount to the continued large orders to be put through the order mid-cap stocks while reducing spreads internationalisation of the Exchange is book in an efficient manner, maintaining by nearly 40 per cent.
We reached over our ability to adapt our technology and time priority and reducing market impact.
900 million traded in one day just three knowledge quickly and efficiently to new Warmly received by the market, Iceberg months after launch.
The order book markets and revenue streams.
orders will further contribute to the now arrives at true market prices much growth of SETS.
faster, while growth in volumes allows many investors, including many large As well as generating liquidity, SETS institutions, access to these stocks for drives market efficiency and spreads the first time.
Brokers meanwhile have have continued to fall since SETS was seen growth in volumes matched by a launched.
We have listened to market reduction in dealing costs see customer feedback in the design of new pricing case study on page 14. for SETS, which offers volume discounts to attract incremental business onto SETSmm promotes transparency the order book.
This creates a strong and stimulates proper price formation mutuality of interest between the improving market liquidity.
The success of Exchange and its customer base.
SETSmm is a model for Broker Services going forward, showing how we are able to design a service that improves the market and delivers volume growth for the Exchange.
16 BROKER SERVICES LONDON STOCK EXCHANGE ANNUAL REPORT 2004 DELIVERING FOR CUSTOMERS EUROSETS: REAL COMPETITION A pioneering product, SETSmm is an In markets characterised by large expression of the evolution in customer multi-national players and significant service that is being felt right across the cross-border competition, the absence Exchange.
Broker Services Primary of competition between Exchanges Account Managers led the consultation seems an anomaly.
With the launch of process for SETSmm, as part of their EUROSETS, our trading service for work to truly understand our customers Dutch equities in May 2004, the changing businesses.
By deepening our Exchange will lead the initiative to create knowledge of our client base we can real competition in European markets.
better align our offering to our customers evolving and demanding EUROSETS brings all the efficiency, requirements and define more profitable transparency and low cost structure of revenue streams.
the London market to the most liquid Dutch securities.
Responding to clear Our Primary Account Managers also market demand, we have worked with work with our product specialists, our own customers, existing Dutch examining markets and developing new market participants and the FSA to services.
The process is about design a service that meets customers discovering ways in which we can help needs, delivering substantial benefits in customers improve their own processes terms of cost and reliability.
Once we have identified an opportunity we can then Dutch stocks will be executed on the design enhanced functionality for SETS order book and cleared through existing products, as well as new LCH.
Clearnet, allowing participants to products and processes that meet utilise their existing infrastructure and market demands.
Settlement is through Euroclear Netherlands.
At the time of This commercial, fast-track approach printing, EUROSETS has gone live and that delivers for customers, is carried its first trades.
Initial feedback underpinned by class-leading technology.
Customers The work being done across the response to the new service in the next Exchange is creating a simple, agile, year will help to determine the future scalable technology that can deliver shape of competition between European tailor-made products quickly at minimal exchanges.
creating real competition in European markets LONDON STOCK EXCHANGE ANNUAL REPORT 2004 BROKER SERVICES 17
