YELL GROUP: THE YEARS BIGGEST IPO After fide-merging from BT in 2001, The first presentations to potential investors Has anything changed, now that Yell is listed?
Yell always had an eye on a London listing.
were in 2002 but, as Condron remembers, There are extra, important things to do With our brand and profile, says During the weeks of the roadshows the like speaking to investors and City journalists John Condron, Yells CEO, it was the natural market fell 18 per cent.
We didnt want to Condron says.
But most of us are doing what thing for us to do.
For management and sell at those levels.
Instead Condron and weve always done winning, keeping and venture capital backers, a listing was Yell bided their time before returning in the growing our business with customers.
Thats the best way to cut debt and make strategic summer of 2003.
Conditions werent what builds long-term sustainable benefits for acquisitions possible, while rewarding and perfect but we knew from the first time our investors.
But when I come in on Monday incentivising Yells large international workforce.
around that investors liked the company.
morning, our security guys might mention Fridays closing price thats the way it should Yell listed on the Main Market on 15 July 2003, be.
Everyone in our company is a stakeholder.
It joined the FTSE 100 on 11 September 2003.
By 31 March 2004 We know its what we do that creates the shares had risen by more than 13 per cent.
the value and are confident that the market gets the valuation right in the end.
10 ISSUER SERVICES LONDON STOCK EXCHANGE ANNUAL REPORT 2004 Issuer Services A robust performance in challenging market conditions, underlining the quality of the London markets: a sharper focus on customer service, creating new opportunities: an international strategy targeted on key emerging markets.
PERCENTAGE OF WESTERN Issuer Services works with customers The year saw a total of 117 IPOs EUROPEAN IPOS before, during and after listing, offering a on the Main Market and AIM, raising Year ended 31 March 2004 % high-quality service that gives companies 5,304 million, as compared with access to one of the worlds deepest 3,701 million in 2002 03.
This accounted London and most liquid pools of investment for 85 per cent of all IPOs in Western 5 1 Euronext capital.
The Main Market and AIM, our Europe up from 69 per cent last year.
2 Scandinavia 3 international market for smaller, growing Borsa Italia companies, provide companies with This represents an impressive 4 SWX world class choice in London.
performance from our core business Other in a year of challenging market conditions.
Issuer Services currently derives the The London Stock Exchange remains majority of its income from fees paid by far the largest equity market in Europe 85 on new issues both IPOs and and the most international of all the subsequent issues and from annual worlds stock exchanges.
At 31 March 2004 there of the listing product, world class were 2,693 companies listed on our standards of market regulation and the markets as compared with 2,777 a year power of the London brand are key AIM earlier, a decrease of three per cent.
factors contributing to the resilience Main Market There were 1,901 companies listed of our Issuer Services revenue.
17 on the Main Market and 792 companies quoted on AIM.
Of these 439 By offering a choice of highly efficient, are international companies from transparent and well-regulated markets, 58 countries, making the London Stock we continue to attract companies and Exchange a truly global marketplace.
their advisers from all over the world.
The combined market capitalisation of This year we have also been working 68 our markets was 3,303 billion, a rise with customers to develop a range of of 19 per cent in the year.
additional services based on our capital PERCENTAGE OF WESTERN EUROPEAN markets expertise.
The development of IPOS TRADING IN LONDON % new products such as our education and training services are designed to inform Source: Thomson Financial, individual exchange websites, LSE analysis.
IPOs exclude introductions, and advise our customers, so helping re-admissions and transfers between markets.
them maximise the value of their listings, while diversifying and growing our revenue streams.
revenue 38m 7% LONDON STOCK EXCHANGE ANNUAL REPORT 2004 ISSUER SERVICES 11 Issuer Services THE MAIN MARKET: EUROPES AIM: THE INTERNATIONAL The Exchange remains committed to BLUE-CHIP LISTING VENUE GROWTH MARKET the AIM success story.
This year we The Main Market continues to offer AIM is a phenomenon.
While other secured agreement in principle with the Europes most prestigious and effective growth markets around the world stagnate European Commission, the UK Treasury listings venue for larger and wellor decline, AIM continues to enjoy and the FSA for AIM to be classified as established companies, a proven way to strong growth.
Since being founded in an Exchange Regulated Market within raise capital and gain the profile to 1995 more than 1,380 companies have the rules of the single European capital develop a business.
As at 31 March 2004 raised more than 11 billion on AIM, market, thus preserving its unique status.
there were 1,901 issuers listed on the making it the worlds leading small-cap A new management team was also put in Main Market, including some of the international growth market and a global place in January with Martin Graham, worlds largest and most successful brand in its own right.
As at 31 March Director of Market Services also being companies.
The Main Market was 2004 there were 792 issuers listed on appointed Head of AIM, together with capitalised at 3,281 billion, a rise AIM with a combined market capitalisation a new Management Board and the new of 18.8 per cent in the year.
of 21.92 billion, a rise of nearly 130 per cent position of Deputy Head of AIM.
This year there were a total of TOTAL NUMBER OF AIM COMPANIES 23 Main Market IPOs raising a total Over the year there were 94 IPOs on Years ended 31 March of 3,898 million, as compared with AIM, raising a total of 1,407 million.
IPO highlights Highlights include the largest ever issue 68 800 50 included Yell Group plc see customer  42 724 case study, which raised 1.14 billion IPO used as a stepping stone to the 33 655 600 599 in July 2003, the second largest IPO in Main Market: issuers regularly cite the 517 22 Europe of the year.
In June, insurance choice and flexibility of our markets as a 400 363 brokers Benfield Group plc made their key advantage of listing in London.
Main Market debut, raising 100 million, 200 while in December, mining company The typical AIM issue is smaller than the 0 Vedanta Resources plc became the first Main Market raising an average of 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 primary listing for an Indian company 14.97 million usually to develop AIM International in London.
businesses that are growing beyond AIM UK their start-up phase.
Increasingly AIM As well as working with Main Market companies come from all around the issuers and their advisers, the Exchange world.
Our strategy is to further lobbies governments and regulators in internationalise AIM and this year we support of our markets.
This year we introduced fast-track admission to AIM have campaigned vigorously to ensure from nine designated overseas markets.
that the Transparency Directive, which Companies from the Canadian, sets standards for company reporting Australian and German markets are and is one of the directives designed to among eight who have already taken create a single European capital market, advantage of this new streamlined way properly reflects the UK practice of to obtain a quotation on AIM.
immediate disclosure of price sensitive information.
We also successfully argued for the removal of quarterly reporting as a mandatory reporting requirement in the Transparency Directive.
12 ISSUER SERVICES LONDON STOCK EXCHANGE ANNUAL REPORT 2004 FOCUSING ON CUSTOMERS NEEDS For the Exchange, this increased The Exchange is actively pursuing a Part of offering world class markets has customer focus creates an opportunity: strategy to encourage international always been to work closely with our to design new services and diversify listings.
We are focusing our efforts on customers and their advisers to ensure revenues: to move from a single three of the worlds largest emerging that we offer robust and appropriate product, towards a high quality multimarkets: Russia, China and India.
This year Issuer product approach that builds on our of these countries there is an abundance Services has also seen an extra, sharper formidable client base and the powerful of successful companies with strong focus on customers and their needs, as London brand.
potential, for whom a London listing part of an ongoing process to re-align brings vital international credibility while the business.
Our Primary Account Managers are also enabling global investors to support their working with product specialists to help development.
Dedicated relationship management for customers fully utilise the Exchanges UK and international issuers and their existing products including RNS, the In the year to 31 March 2004 advisers has been enhanced with the Media Centre and Proquote, our low Clara Furse visited China twice, appointment of Primary Account cost real-time data system see Chris Gibson-Smith took the Exchange Managers.
We are turning Issuer Services Information Services, page 20. message to companies in Russia, while from a product-led to a client-led Martin Graham explained the AIM business.
We can offer more services success story to audiences in Mumbai A MARKET FOR THE WORLD that solve customers problems and help and Delhi.
In January, the Exchange Around the world there are thousands of their business to prosper by better signed Memoranda of Understanding successful companies with the potential understanding them and developing with both the Shanghai and Shenzhen to grow beyond the constraints imposed products to address their specific needs.
exchanges and in March we announced by less developed domestic capital plans to establish a Hong Kong office, markets.
More than 370 companies in For our customers this means being able as part of our effort to attract privatisation 58 countries already use a London listing to call upon the Exchanges expertise in deals and listings of other medium to to gain the profile and access to capital the capital markets and our familiarity large Asian enterprises.
We believe we they need to grow into truly global with the expectations of the global are beginning to see the fruits of this companies.
They are drawn by the investment community.
Not only will targeted international strategy and we quality of our markets, their depth of customers use the Exchange as a bridge will continue to pursue it vigorously liquidity and the sophistication and longto the capital markets, they will also be in the future.
term approach of the institutional able to benefit from a range of Exchange investor community in London.
services, for example in the education and training and investor relations arenas, to maximise the value of their listing in London.
sharperfocus on customer service LONDON STOCK EXCHANGE ANNUAL REPORT 2004 ISSUER SERVICES 13
