Technology Delivering robust systems that support reliable markets: our Technology Roadmap, migrating to commodity IT, cutting costs and creating business agility.
As much as any business in the world, Actively managing technology and the THE TECHNOLOGY ROADMAP an exchanges technology has to be expenditure is part of protecting In 2003 we laid out our Technology flexible.
In the electronic era, the shareholder value.
The London Stock Roadmap, defining the steps to take and systems providing trading data and realExchange leads the worlds major the investment necessary towards time price information effectively are the exchanges in the drive to cut IT costs.
deploying commodity hardware and new markets.
This has been another year of And now a new generation of technology generation software across our uninterrupted service on our trading is being implemented that adds further business.
It was a pioneering move: the platforms, where we also introduced the momentum to this drive, while creating London Stock Exchange is the first major new Iceberg order functionality and real business advantages by being exchange to use this technology.
The Exchanges real-time and scalable and flexible.
31 March 2004 we had successfully historic data feeds and products have completed the first two steps of the also continued to perform well.
Farms of commodity servers have lower Roadmap and are now working with our total cost of ownership than mainframe technology partners to achieve the third.
The decisions taken on technology technology.
We believe the cost and investment are key to our business business agility case for moving to This year our internal systems, including development and that of the wider commodity IT has been proven: many the desktop environment used each market.
Our technology needs to be other areas of the financial services day by the Exchanges staff, and other agile, so that we can respond to volume industry have already made the change.
downstream functions such as billing, growth, anticipate customer needs and have been completely renewed.
Markets are As well as preparing us for the move to constantly developing.
In this fastPaternoster Square, this creates changing environment, the provider with infrastructure that is capable of the most flexible and cost-effective sustaining the business into the future.
technology will be best-placed to gain competitive advantage.
The London Stock Exchange is one of the most forwardlooking financial exchanges in the world.
Partnering with Accenture and Microsoft, HP ensures the Exchange is armed with the right technologies and solutions to provide world class levels of adaptability, scalability and security.
Carly Fiorina Chairman and CEO Hewlett-Packard Company 24 TECHNOLOGY LONDON STOCK EXCHANGE ANNUAL REPORT 2004 The second step was the successful WORLD CLASS PARTNERS launch of the Corporate Data At each step of the Technology Warehouse CDW in June 2003 see Roadmap we have brought together Information Services page 20, providing sector expertise and mitigated project value-added market data for our risk by working closely with the worlds customers.
We can now design, build, best technology companies, including test and deliver new products faster Microsoft, HP, Accenture and Cisco.
than before, enabling us to be more Pioneering new generation technology responsive to customers.
The new for the Exchange is a flagship project for Corporate Actions data feed, to be our partners, because it can demonstrate launched in June 2004, is one of a the robustness of their technology and number of new services delivered from the depth of their implementation skills.
The Exchange is one of ten global clients We are now actively working on the third and the only exchange participating in stage of the Roadmap, moving the project Yukon, Microsofts testing London Market Information Link, which programme for its latest version of SQL broadcasts real-time information Server.
We also have extensive use of services to terminals in more than Microsofts testing facilities in Seattle.
100 countries, onto this new generation Access to such resource is an important of hardware and software.
This will be first-mover advantage.
Another is the complete by Q1 2005.
With the model growing expertise of our own teams in proven, the next steps for the Roadmap the new generation technology.
are some of the most significant, including the migration of our trading platforms.
This will remove potential future volume capacity constraints and create the flexibility to provide new services that can help deliver the Exchanges wider strategic aims.
The London Stock Exchange is driving business innovation and productivity at the forefront of the global economy.
Together with Microsoft, the Exchange is pioneering the evolution of financial trading systems.
Working with Windows Server System and.
NET technologies, the Exchange builds on the most costeffective and reliable technology possible to deliver mission critical applications that offer increased value and service to customers.
Steve Ballmer Chief Executive Officer Microsoft Corporation LONDON STOCK EXCHANGE ANNUAL REPORT 2004 TECHNOLOGY 25
