Derivatives Services Volume growth in EDX Londons derivatives products: a new OTC derivatives clearing service successfully launched: Covered Warrants, the worlds fastest growing retail market.
Derivatives Services, a new division EDX LONDON: COVERED WARRANTS: MORE established this year, manages the CHANGING THE LANDSCAPE ISSUERS, CONTRACTS AND VOLUME Exchanges expanding derivatives In June 2003 EDX London was granted Launched in November 2002, in the business.
Derivatives Services earns its RIE Recognised Investment Exchange depths of the bear market, the London revenues from EDX London, our status by the FSA and commenced Covered Warrants market has international derivatives exchange and operations.
EDX London offers trading in nevertheless grown steadily, in line with the Covered Warrants market for retail futures and options listed on three linked the pattern in other European countries investors, launched in November 2002. exchanges in Sweden, Denmark and that have established warrants markets.
In the year to 31 March 2004 revenue in Norway.
There are now 58 member firms In 2003 04 improving underlying market Derivatives Services was 6 million.
trading over 100 listed futures and conditions boosted Covered Warrants options contracts.
Combined trade so that volume growth averaged 15 per In the nine months since its launch, volume averaged over 71,000 contracts cent every month.
The year also saw EDX London contributed fees for trading every day.
There were record volumes in DrKW joining Goldman Sachs, SG, derivatives products from three February 2004 and EDX Londons share TradingLab and JP Morgan as issuers Scandinavian countries.
Volumes in this of the Scandinavian market rose.
We are of Covered Warrants.
core business have shown good growth now actively exploring options for in 2004.
EDX London has also been extending the linked exchange network The 657 warrants and certificates working with customers on new services in collaboration with other derivatives available at 31 March 2004 included calls for the growing OTC derivatives market markets.
and puts on indices and single stocks as in Europe.
The first of these services well as baskets of shares, oil and gold was successfully launched in March.
In August 2003 Nic Stuchfield joined and on the UK housing market.
Brokers EDX London as Managing Director.
meanwhile report growing interest in A good year of growth enabled our Nic brings considerable exchange warrants along with increasing recently launched Covered Warrants experience having previously been understanding among clients of how market to increase revenue derived CEO of Tradepoint now virt-x.
In these instruments can help in both from charges for trading instruments.
January 2004 we successfully migrated speculative and hedging investment At year-end there were five issuers all customers to LCH.
Clearnet, strategies see customer case study.
offering more than 650 instruments in preparing the way for our pan-European a market worth approximately 5 million OTC clearing services.
year we have worked with customers to design this new offering.
In March our platform for OTC trade clearing went live, with trade confirmation expected to follow in the autumn.
22 DERIVATIVES SERVICES LONDON STOCK EXCHANGE ANNUAL REPORT 2004 COMDIRECT: CAPITALISING ON COVERED WARRANTS Execution-only broker comdirect limited began What of the prospects for the UK market?
It helps that you can trade covered warrants and offering covered warrants the day the market Jamieson says, It has tremendous potential.
shares within the same account says Jamieson.
Neil Jamieson, The market here is growing faster than in many The Stock Exchange name, its seminars promoting comdirect limiteds Head of Marketing, says, other countries.
However, it takes time for the market and the blue-chip nature of the issuers There were two clear reasons to be in the investors to understand what warrants can do.
together give the market credibility.
So what are market from the start.
First, the flexibility that For many its the first time theyve been able the most popular warrants for comdirect clients?
warrants give investors to pursue different to use a geared product, whether it be to gain It varies from week to week but FTSE 100 strategies and second, the success of from rising or falling markets, or to hedge a warrants are always popular.
Warrants on blue covered warrants in continental European portfolio, which can be particularly important for chip stocks, commodities and currencies also and Asian markets.
In Germany alone, individuals with Self Invested Personal Pensions.
Covered warrants the market is currently worth 30 billion The benefits of certificates, which are ungeared, are now comdirects second most-traded per annum and in Italy about 8.5 billion.
are also starting to be appreciated.
LONDON STOCK EXCHANGE ANNUAL REPORT 2004 DERIVATIVES SERVICES 23
