Media Centre 15 per cent increase in live television and radio broadcasts: blue-chip corporate events delivering increased revenue: introducing the new complex at Paternoster Square.
The Media Centre, the Exchanges Corporate events are also up this year.
The new complex has also been broadcast and presentation facility, had a We delivered more than 170 events designed to host a wider range of busy year.
In the year to 31 March 2004 including AGMs, results presentations, corporate events.
Facilities include a we transmitted 11,132 live broadcasts dinners and receptions.
Highlights 120-seat theatre, with state-of-the-art on TV and radio more than ever before.
included the World Gold Councils bond presentation equipment, making it the Channel Fours News at Noon now has launch in December, the City of Glasgows ideal venue for investor and analyst a regular guest slot, joining BBC1 and two-day promotional seminar in November briefings.
As well as being a hub for BBC World, CNN, CNBC, Sky News and Manchester Uniteds July investor international broadcasters, the Media and Canadas ROBTV among the relations workshop on turning fans into and Business Complex is set to become international broadcasters who use customers.
Throughout the year our a key destination for the events industry.
training courses on the City, media interviews and presentation skills also For executives seeking to boost their contributed to revenue.
companys profile, the Media Centre continues to offer the best way to talk to THE NEW FACE OF THE EXCHANGE multiple audiences in a time-efficient way The move to Paternoster Square and the and maximise the impact of their launch of the new Media and Business messages.
Over the year, executives of Complex in June 2004 represents a FTSE 100 and AIM companies alike major opportunity for the Exchange.
The came here to talk to the world.
In one new facility includes three live studios, week alone Sir Peter Davies, Sir Victor greatly increasing our broadcast Blank and Sir Richard Branson were capacity.
The studios are visible through interviewed at the Media Centre.
a glass wall, thus replacing the old trading floor as the public face of the Exchange and underlining the Exchanges centrality in both the City of London and the wider financial world.
26 MEDIA CENTRE LONDON STOCK EXCHANGE ANNUAL REPORT 2004 Inside our new state-of-the-art studios at the Media and Business Complex, Paternoster Square.
LONDON STOCK EXCHANGE ANNUAL REPORT 2004 MEDIA CENTRE 27
