Information Services New products coming on stream, supporting revenues despite falls in terminal numbers: investment in flexible technology helping us leverage our information assets: creating services that respond to customer needs and further diversify revenues.
REVENUE SOURCES The majority of Information Services Last years acquisition of Proquote, Year ended 31 March 2004 revenue is generated by our real-time our low cost trading and market data market data services, delivered either system, has further diversified revenues.
Data charges and other: 81m directly or via third party data distributors.
Strengthened by our brand and enriched FTSE Joint Venture: 13m In the year to 31 March 2004, the number with new data and functionality, Proquote RNS: 7m of terminals taking our real-time market has grown from over 900 screens at Total: 101m data fell from 94,000 to 90,000.
This fall acquisition, to more than 1,800 at the 81m of four per cent is part of a wider trend in year end.
In March we also launched the financial information industry, reflecting SEDOL Masterfile, our global securities job losses and cost reduction programme identifier service that is already helping in the financial services market.
Our to cut the costs of data error across the terminals are down by 20 per cent over securities industry.
SEDOL looks set to the last two years: many major data become a global standard for instrument providers have seen similar falls.
RNS, our 7m market-leading news service contributed Despite the significant fall in terminals, 7.2 million to revenues 2002 03: 6.8 13m revenues in Information Services at million, while FTSE, our joint-venture 101 million for the year fell just one provider of indices, also performed well, Information Services provides market per cent.
We have managed to achieve delivering turnover of 13.3 million information, trading and data services this thanks to a strategy to diversify 2002 03: 11.4 million.
to more than 90,000 direct users in revenues that was put in place in 2002.
Our Since then we have been working with This has been a building year, putting in products, traditionally based around the customers to identify areas where the place initiatives and creating the information generated and recorded by Exchanges data and information products that both help customers and the London Stock Exchange, include resources can create valuable services.
generate revenue, making Information real-time market data and historic trade This was recognised at the 2004 Inside Services revenue streams less cyclical.
Such data is a Market Data Awards where we were This year these new products have valuable commodity for financial voted exchange Data Provider of the helped make up for the decline in professionals, including brokers and fund Year.
We have also invested in modern, terminal numbers.
We believe that these managers and the middle and back robust technology that enables us to roll and other planned products create offices that support them.
Private out new services quickly and efficiently.
potential for growth in the coming years.
investors also use our services.
revenue 101m -1% 18 INFORMATION SERVICES LONDON STOCK EXCHANGE ANNUAL REPORT 2004 GERRARD: SEIZING THE PROQUOTE OPPORTUNITY In 2001 private client stockbrokers We deal with RSPs: Proquote Trader offers told them what we wanted to see.
Our input Gerrard became one of Proquotes helped design a single screen with all the data seven where other platforms might have first major customers.
Head of Dealing, two or three.
More competition means better that traders need especially when filling Mark McCutcheon, recalls: We were looking large orders rather than two or three prices.
Its fractions of pennies but it adds up.
at our systems and comparing what was out Our clients like to know were getting the screens that other systems might use.
We were told about a new web-based Such feedback is an ongoing process.
platform which offered compelling prices Proquote are very receptive to ideas compared to other vendors, improved on says McCutcheon.
At the moment were Has there been a difference since the Exchange existing offerings for our Investment Managers took over Proquote?
The service is as good talking about SETS displays.
and enhanced our dealing capabilities.
Obviously, having the Exchange behind it does make a difference particularly Gerrards UK traders now use Proquote Being an early mover was an advantage.
Theres an obvious in product development.
Were interested Our traders sat down with Proquote and in the new international data offering.
cost advantage but it benefits our clients, too.
LONDON STOCK EXCHANGE ANNUAL REPORT 2004 INFORMATION SERVICES 19 Information Services CUSTOMER-DRIVEN PRODUCT TECHNOLOGY THAT SUPPORTS PROQUOTE: REDEFINING DATA AND DEVELOPMENT BUSINESS AIMS TRADING SERVICES At the heart of our efforts to create May 2003 saw the completion of the Proquote ended the year with over winning products is a rigorous focus on Exchanges Corporate Data Warehouse.
1,800 terminals and more than our customers needs.
We know that This project moved all the Exchanges 160 corporate customer installations.
designing compelling products is not historic and enhanced real-time data This has been achieved while the wider about being prescriptive.
Instead, generation into a central system using market for information terminals product development has to be informed cluster server technology commodity continued to shrink.
Proquotes by close consultation with customers, hardware that is both flexible and compelling pricing, made possible by the enabling us to identify those areas where economical.
The London Stock technology underpinning it, is one factor Exchange data and information can Exchange is the first exchange to driving this growth see customer case improve customers processes.
use this new generation Microsoft study on previous page.
In this way we can design products technology to support its services.
to customer specification and develop The other factor is the increasing appropriate pricing structures.
Flexible and scalable technology means sophistication of the service.
Many we can deliver new products quickly corporate customers now rely Level 1 Plus, the new enriched market and at competitive prices.
Our new exclusively on Proquote for both data service, is an example of the Corporate Action Service, due for launch research and trading functions: users Exchange identifying and then delivering in June is a good example.
This real-time can now link to SETS, the Exchanges new, valuable data to meet market feed of corporate data is distributed electronic order book, from any desktop demand.
The new release, launched on over SWIFT industry communications or laptop computer.
Traders, 24 May 2004, includes named market structure and integrates with our salespeople and market makers, share data, profiling sources of liquidity customers back office systems, saving representing some of the biggest names and improving market transparency.
New them time and greatly cutting the cost in the industry, trust Proquote content from CityWire and Argus of clearing, cleansing and standardising to help them do their jobs better.
So Vickers sees the Exchange partnering corporate actions data such as much so that they gave Proquote the with outside providers for the first time.
award for Best Information Display CityWires Brains Trust analyses the Services at this years Systems for the positions of top-rated fund managers This year we have also worked on the Securities Industry Awards.
creating a virtual portfolio of stocks held design of a restructured website.
Carrying by the best investors.
Argus Vickers both advertising and subscription data provides details of the top five holders services, www.
creates commercial value from the strong traffic the site attracts more Such customer-led product development than 20,000 visits each day.
Extensive goes hand-in-hand with an approach range and depth of information also that is focused on revenue generation.
helps inform retail investors about our This year we have reorganised the markets while further strengthening the Information Services sales forces London Stock Exchange brand.
creating an effective way to manage customer relationships and sell all the Exchanges products.
A motivated and professional sales force is key to growing Information Services revenues.
20 INFORMATION SERVICES LONDON STOCK EXCHANGE ANNUAL REPORT 2004 Recent enhancements to Proquote In June 2003 a joint discussion paper by RNS: IMPROVING CUSTOMER-FACING include a new order management system the Reference Data User Group and the TECHNOLOGY and the continuing enrichment of the Reference Data Coalition recognised RNS, our Primary Information Provider content: news services have been SEDOL, combined with the Market of company news, released regulatory upgraded and a Dow Jones news feed Identification Code MIC, as a key to announcements for 90 companies in added.
European fund data, graphing and meet all criteria for global instrument the FTSE 100 during its second year analytics are some of the other recent uniqueness.
For the Exchange, of competition with other information enhancements and more international commercialising SEDOL creates a new providers.
This is due to excellent data will be added soon.
We are also offer in the growing market for high standards of service and a focus on now working to integrate Proquote with quality reference data, which customers delivering products to help companies customers middle and back offices, need if they are to make the most of and their advisors.
enabling straight-through processing their investment in automated trading of trades.
It also allows In 2003, RNS introduced further us to work with customers to develop a improvements to the online customer Proquote gives us a direct relationship range of new, complementary products.
interface to give greater user control with our market participants, bringing At 31 March 2004 we had agreed over the presentation and release of revenues in straight from source, rather contracts for SEDOL with nearly 700 company announcements.
These built on than via distributors.
As a measure of the value the new services that we introduced last relationships with customers help inform placed on SEDOL Masterfile, industry year, such as simplified SEC regulatory product development.
participants voted it Project of the Year filings, UK and international financial at the 2004 Inside Market Data Awards.
Future service developments will focus SEDOL: THE GLOBAL IDENTIFIER on extending the range of communications In March this year, the new SEDOL services offered by the Exchange and Masterfile service went live, creating stimulating debate on important issues real-time universal alphanumeric codes in RNS quarterly magazine, RNS Reach.
This new service aims to cut out many of the failed trades due to incorrect instrument identification, that are estimated to cost the securities industry in the region of 125 million each year.
Users can now check SEDOL codes online and create new codes free of charge, removing the cost barriers associated with instrument ID allocation.
Over the coming months, SEDOL is expanding in scope to cover more than two million global securities, including OTC instruments.
Proquote 1,800 terminals LONDON STOCK EXCHANGE ANNUAL REPORT 2004 INFORMATION SERVICES 21
