Man Group plc Annual Report 2004 34 Directors Report Directors Report The directors submit their report, together Statement by the directors on compliance with the audited accounts for the year with the provisions of the Combined Code ended 31 March 2004.
The Company has been in compliance with the provisions of the Combined Code 1998 Principal activities throughout the year.
The directors have also Man Group plc the Company is the reviewed the implications of the new revised holding company for the Man group the Combined Code, issued in 2003, and Group.
A detailed review of the Groups consider that the Company is substantially strategy, activities and financial performance compliant already with the revised Code.
is given in the Operating Review on pages 7 They will make any further adjustments to its to 17 and in the Financial Review on pages governance framework, as may be deemed 19 to 28.
Details of the principal operating necessary, during the course of the year.
subsidiaries are set out on page 78.
The Board of directors Results and dividends As at 31 March 2004, the Board comprised The audited accounts of the Group appear four executive directors and seven nonon pages 47 to 77.
The Group profit after executive directors including the Chairman.
taxation but before ordinary dividends There have been no changes to the Board amounted to 338.7 million.
However, on 20 August 2003, Jon Aisbitt was appointed as a nonThe directors recommend a final dividend of executive director and Chris Chambers as an 18.6 pence per ordinary share giving a total executive director, and on 24 March 2004, of 30.0 pence per ordinary share for the year.
Jonathan Nicholls was appointed as a nonSubject to shareholders approval at the executive director.
An executive search firm Annual General Meeting, the final dividend will specialising in Board level recruitment be paid on 13 July 2004 to shareholders on assisted in the selection of the two nonthe register at the close of business on 25 executive directors through a process which June 2004.
The shares will be quoted exincluded benchmarking and the interview of a dividend from 23 June 2004.
The Dividend number of candidates.
Biographical details of Reinvestment Plan will be available in respect all the directors are set out on page 30.
The retained profit transferred accordance with the Articles of Association, to reserves amounted to 248.8 million.
Jon Aisbitt, Alison Carnwath, Chris Chambers, Harvey McGrath, Glen Moreno and Jonathan Creditor payment policy Nicholls will retire at the Annual General It has long been the Groups policy to honour Meeting and, being eligible, offer themselves all of its contractual commitments and this for reappointment.
The Board recommends includes paying suppliers according to agreed to shareholders the reappointment of those payment terms, which are agreed when directors retiring at the meeting on the basis negotiating transactions.
The Company, being that they are all effective and demonstrate a holding company, had no external trade the appropriate level of commitment in their creditors at 31 March 2004 or 31 March 2003. respective roles.
Corporate governance The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive The Board is committed to high standards of are separate, with responsibilities divided corporate governance and supports the need between them.
Non-executive directors for clear standards to be laid down to represent the majority of the Board.
Of the safeguard the interests of shareholders and seven non-executive directors, Jon Aisbitt, other stakeholders.
The Board is accountable Alison Carnwath, Dugald Eadie, Glen Moreno to the Companys shareholders for good and Jonathan Nicholls are considered to be corporate governance.
The Board makes this assertion having This statement describes how the Company considered and taken full account of the fact applies the principles of corporate that Glen Moreno was first appointed to the governance and how it complies with the Board in 1994.
The Board is completely provisions of the Combined Code 1998, and satisfied that Mr Moreno is independent in the guidance Internal Control: Guidance for character and judgement and that there is no Directors on the Combined Code issued by relationship or circumstances that are likely to the Institute of Chartered Accountants in affect his judgement.
Given his experience, England and Wales.
credibility and commitment, he makes a significant and valuable contribution to both governance and strategic issues.
Accordingly, independent non-executive directors comprise the majority of non-executives and half of the members of the Board, excluding the Chairman.
Glen Moreno is recognised as the senior independent non-executive Man Group plc Annual Report 2004 35 Directors Report director and is available to shareholders in the The Board holds meetings on a regular basis, majority of independent non-executive event that they have concerns that have not at least six times per year and additionally directors.
Jon Aisbitt and Jonathan Nicholls been resolved through the normal channels for specific purposes as and when required.
were appointed to the Committee on with the Chief Executive or Chairman.
During the year there were eight Board 20 August 2003 and 24 March 2004 Jonathan Nicholls is considered to have meetings including a four-day strategic respectively.
The Board considers that the recent and relevant financial experience planning session attended by senior executives position of Group Chairman necessitates a through his current executive role as Finance below Board level from across the Groups leading role in the composition and balance Director of Hanson PLC.
All Board members attended every of the Board and accordingly the Committee other non-executive director aside from the meeting during the year except Dugald Eadie is chaired by Harvey McGrath.
The Chairman, is not considered to be wholly and Kevin Davis who were absent for one Committee meets at least once a year and independent under the provisions of the meeting.
To enable the Board to discharge otherwise as and when required.
There Combined Code 1998, having previously held its duties effectively, all directors receive were three meetings during the year with all executive office.
The non-executive directors appropriate and timely information with members present on each occasion.
During met together once during the year without briefing papers distributed in advance of the year the Committee reviewed its terms the Chairman or executive directors present.
All new directors receive an of reference.
appropriate introduction to their responsibilities Prior to their appointment, potential nonand the Groups operations, by way of a Remuneration Committee executive directors are asked to confirm that detailed briefing pack and meetings with The Remuneration Committee is appointed they have sufficient time available to meet senior management.
by the Board and is responsible for setting what is expected of them, including the remuneration for all executive directors and membership of relevant Board committees.
The Board determines the strategic direction the Chairman of the Board, and agreeing the They are also subject to a review to assess of the Group and is ultimately responsible to framework and policy for the remuneration their independence and to confirm that they shareholders for the good corporate of directors and other members of senior have no other relationships that might affect governance and the proper management of executive management, including eligibility for their judgement.
The non-executive directors the Groups businesses.
The Board has a benefits under long-term incentive schemes.
are appointed by the Board and stand for reformal schedule of matters specifically The Committee approves the terms of any election at the first Annual General Meeting of reserved to it for decision and has adopted service agreement to be entered into with the Company following their appointment.
written delegated authorities providing for a any executive director and any proposed They hold office for a three-year period, tiered approval process for decisions below compensation for termination.
The subject to the Companys Articles of Board level.
The levels of delegated authority Committee is exclusively responsible for Association, whereupon they may stand for are kept under continual review.
The Board selecting and appointing any remuneration re-election by shareholders in General formally delegates certain of its responsibilities consultants who advise the Committee.
They are entitled to a fee for their to committees by way of written terms of The Remuneration Report, set out on pages services plus reasonable out-of-pocket reference.
Details of each principal committee, 39 to 44, includes details of the Committees expenses incurred for Company purposes.
its membership and the terms of reference activities, a statement of the Companys They are not entitled to any pension or bonus are summarised below.
As usual, the Chair remuneration policy and the procedures and cannot participate in any Man Group of each Committee will be attending for determining executive directors share-based incentive schemes.
They are the Companys Annual General Meeting remuneration.
The Remuneration Committee not entitled to any compensation for early to answer any questions regarding the comprises five independent non-executive termination, save as may be provided for in Committees activities and responsibilities.
directors: Dugald Eadie Chairman, Jon general law.
Non-executive directors are not Aisbitt appointed 20 August 2003, Alison required to hold shares in the Company but Other than an assessment of the effectiveness Carnwath, Glen Moreno and Jonathan are actively encouraged to do so.
of the Audit and Risk Committee which was Nicholls appointed 24 March 2004.
The conducted with the assistance of an external Committee met three times during the year All directors are subject to re-election at consultancy no formal review of the Board with all members present on each occasion.
intervals of no more than three years.
Any and the committees was undertaken during During the year the Committee reviewed its directors appointed by the Board are subject the year.
However, these will be carried out terms of reference.
to re-election by the shareholders at the during this year in accordance with the Annual General Meeting following their provisions of the revised Combined Code Audit and Risk Committee appointment.
All directors have access to the applicable to the financial year ending The Audit and Risk Committee is appointed advice and services of the Company 31 March 2005. by the Board.
The Committee comprises the Secretary, Peter Clarke, who is responsible to five independent non-executive directors: the Board for ensuring that Board procedures Nomination Committee Alison Carnwath Chair, Jon Aisbitt are followed and that there is compliance with The Nomination Committee is appointed by appointed 20 August 2003, Dugald Eadie, applicable rules and regulations.
The removal the Board and is responsible for identifying, Glen Moreno and Jonathan Nicholls of the Company Secretary is a matter for the assessing and nominating for the approval of appointed 24 March 2004.
The Committee Board as a whole.
Although the Company the Board, candidates to fill vacancies as and met four times during the year, and all those Secretary is also Finance Director, the Board when they arise.
This includes consideration who were members at the time were present does not consider the combining of the two of the reappointment of non-executive on each occasion.
The Committee is roles to have been detrimental to the effective directors at the conclusion of their specified responsible for: discharge of the responsibilities of either term of office and the re-election by office.
In addition, the Board has established shareholders of any director under the Selecting and appointing the external a procedure that enables any director to have retirement by rotation provision of the auditors, approving their terms of reference access to independent professional advice at Companys Articles.
It is also responsible for and fees, and determining with the auditors the Groups expense.
considering succession planning for both the the nature and scope of the audit work.
Board and senior management positions.
Reviewing the performance, independence The Committee comprises all of the nonand objectivity of the external auditor and executive directors and accordingly has a ensuring appropriate rotation of audit partner.
Man Group plc Annual Report 2004 36 Directors Report Monitoring and reviewing the resources and The Committee has a discussion with the The key elements of the system of internal effectiveness of Internal Audit including head of Internal Audit and the external control are reflected in the processes, approving the appointment or removal of auditors at least once a year without structures and reporting systems the head of Internal Audit and agreeing the executives present to ensure that there summarised below: Internal Audit programme for the are no unresolved issues of concern.
A clear organisation and reporting structure Considering all Internal Audit reports, During the year the Committee initiated a established by the Board, with business managements response to any review of its terms of reference, facilitated by units operating under clearly defined recommendations, and monitoring the an external consultant to assess whether any policies and within written levels of progress of any required actions.
of its practices should change to meet the delegated authority.
Careful attention is Reviewing the procedures for handling requirements of the revised Combined Code given to segregation of duties in the allegations from whistle blowers.
which will apply to the Group for the year business units.
Reviewing managements and Internal ending 31 March 2005.
It is anticipated that Regulatory, risk and compliance resources Audits reports on the effectiveness of any recommended changes will be embedded within divisional businesses, systems for internal financial control, implemented during this period.
charged with monitoring and reporting financial reporting and risk management independently of their line management including review of the Groups Corporate Internal control compliance with local regulatory and legal governance procedures, Enterprise Wide The Board has overall responsibility for the requirements, and appropriate Group Risk Management process, Group Risk Groups systems of internal control and risk policies.
Committee and regulatory reporting and management and for reviewing their A structure of investment committees within compliance reports.
The systems aim to safeguard Asset Management, responsible for Reviewing, prior to formal submission to assets, and ensure proper accounting determining, monitoring and overseeing the Board, the Groups interim and annual records are maintained so that the financial internal and external investment financial statements, in particular: any information, used within the business and for management processes and compliance significant issues arising from the audit: the publication, is reliable.
The systems are with product mandates.
accounting policies: any issues requiring a designed to manage key risks rather than The ERM process for identifying and significant element of judgement: the clarity eliminate the risk of failure to achieve evaluating the significant strategic, financial of disclosures: compliance with applicable business objectives, and can only provide and operational risks facing the Group at accounting and legal standards: and the reasonable and not absolute assurance both business unit and Group level.
This is statements on internal control systems and against material misstatement or loss.
embedded within the divisions as part of a business risk assessments.
self-assessment, facilitated by an The directors and senior managers of the independent risk function.
It is reviewed In furtherance of the need to monitor and Group are committed to maintaining high and updated at least annually at all levels report external auditor independence, the standards and a control conscious culture, including at the Group Board and the Audit Committee and the Board have adopted a so as to preserve and enhance the Groups and Risk Committee.
formal policy regarding the engagement of reputation in its markets.
The Groups The assessment and documentation of the the external auditor in the provision of any activities are subject to high levels of Groups appetite for risk at all levels and a non-audit services.
This policy precludes regulatory oversight in many jurisdictions, regular review and testing by Internal Audit the external auditor from providing certain particularly in the UK and the US, and in the case of all significant risks of the services including internal audit work and significant Group resources are allocated to stated and documented control permits limited other services subject to low ensure compliance.
fee thresholds and or to prior approval by the obligations of regular compliance reporting, A regular review by Internal Audit of the Committee.
The external audit engagement the maintenance of minimum levels of capital system of internal control, based on an partner will rotate, effective for the Groups and periodic audit by regulators.
audit programme approved annually by financial year ending 31 March 2005.
Audit and Risk Committee, and focusing on The Board operates an enterprise-wide risk areas of greatest perceived risk as identified The proceedings of the Committee are management process ERM for identifying, through ERM.
reported to and discussed by the Board.
The evaluating and managing the risks faced by Clearly defined limits for position, market, Chief Executive, Finance Director and other the Group.
The ERM process is now well counterparty and credit by customer and by directors attend Committee meetings by established and has been in place throughout market, set and monitored by the Group invitation but are not members.
The Groups the year under review and up to the date of Risk Committee within the authority external auditors and the heads of Group this report.
ERM provides a systematic approved by the Board.
The Group Risk Internal Audit and Group Risk are also invited context for the identification, understanding Committee comprises the executive to attend for all or part of meetings.
Senior and treatment of risk at the inherent level directors and other senior executives, management representatives of business and also at the residual level, after taking including the head of Group Risk, Treasury, areas frequently attend meetings when the account of the control environment in place.
Tax and Internal Audit personnel.
Group Committee is considering Internal Audit The process is regularly updated by the financial risk data is collected globally and reports on their activities.
Risk, compliance divisions to reflect their current business reported on through a Group Risk and regulatory reports are also made activities and changing markets.
available to the Committee together with the of this process is reviewed by the Board and attendance of the relevant senior managers.
the Audit and Risk Committee and accords The Committee is empowered to seek the with the guidance in the Internal Control: attendance of any Group employee and to Guidance for Directors on the Combined engage at the Companys expense the Code the Turnbull guidance.
services of such external professional advice as it may consider appropriate.
Man Group plc Annual Report 2004 37 Directors Report Formal business continuity plans and This process is facilitated by Internal Audit Internet is accessible in many countries, appropriate remote data back-up and who also provide a degree of assurance as to some of which have different legal requirements disaster recovery facilities for each of the the operation and validity of the system of relating to the preparation and dissemination Groups key locations to ensure the rapid internal control and the self assessment of Financial Statements.
recovery of business critical systems and process.
Internal Audits programme of functions in the event of disruption at any independent review is driven by the results of The directors confirm that they have complied key location.
the risk identification process and work with the above requirements.
A medium and long-term strategic planning performed includes a detailed examination of process, approved by the Board, related key controls.
The results of internal Going concern addressing the projected financial audits and investigations are reported to the After making enquiries the directors have a performance, capital and liquidity needs of Audit and Risk Committee, which reviews the reasonable expectation that the Group and the Group and reviewing consistency with assurance procedures and reports to the the Company have adequate resources to financial and business objectives.
continue in operational existence for the formal Board approval of major investments foreseeable future and accordingly continue and business developments, with Statement of directors responsibilities to adopt the going concern basis in preparing centralised control of due diligence and The directors are required by the Companies the accounts.
Act 1985 to prepare accounts for each An annual budget approved by the Board financial year which give a true and fair view Share capital and monthly financial reporting to the Board of the state of affairs of the Company and the Details of movements in the share capital of by the Finance Director, including Group at the end of the financial year and of the Company are given in note 22 to the comparisons against budget and forecasts the profit or loss and cash flows of the Group accounts.
During the year, the Company for the full financial year, together with a for the financial year.
purchased in the market for cancellation review of key performance indicators.
The 1,356,661 of its ordinary shares of 10 pence monthly reporting includes liquidity, risk and The directors, in preparing the accounts set each at a total cost of 16.8 million, giving an compliance information and updates.
out on pages 47 to 77, consider that the average repurchase cost of 12.34 per share.
Monthly business updates are provided in Group has adopted appropriate accounting This was done to return capital to shareholders writing to the Board by the chief executive policies, consistently applied and supported at share prices that were earnings enhancing.
by reasonable and prudent judgements and These transactions represented some 0.4% Clearly defined operational policies estimates, and that all accounting standards of the issued ordinary share capital at regarding funding and liquidity which they consider to be applicable have 31 March 2004.
As at 20 May 2004, the requirements, which are provided via the been followed.
Company has an unexpired authority from central Group Treasury function which also last years Annual General Meeting to hedges some foreign exchange and interest The directors have responsibility for ensuring repurchase further shares up to a remaining rate risks on behalf of the individual that proper accounting records are kept maximum of 30,445,116 ordinary shares.
businesses on the basis of established which disclose with reasonable accuracy the policies.
A Banking and Guarantees financial position of the Company and of the Resolutions relating to the Companys share Committee of the Board approves the Group and which enable them to ensure that capital are to be proposed at the Annual documentation supporting the Groups the accounts comply with the Companies Act General Meeting and are set out in the Notice funding and guarantee requirements.
The directors also have general of Meeting.
Further details are given in the responsibility for taking such steps as are accompanying letter from the Chairman.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of reasonably open to them to safeguard the the system of internal control.
Compliance assets of the Group and to prevent and As at 13 May 2004, the Company had been with the system of internal control is detect fraud and other irregularities.
notified of four holdings of 3% or more, in its monitored by line management, regular share capital, being that of FMR Corp Group reporting through subsidiary boards and The directors are responsible for the of companies and Fidelity International Ltd Board Committees, and through the Internal maintenance and integrity of the Group Group of companies 5.17%, Barclays PLC Audit programme.
The Board receives annual website.
The work carried out by the auditors 4.05%, D H Rosenblum, a former director written confirmation from subsidiary directors does not involve consideration of these of the Company 3.59%, and Putnam and divisional management that the Groups matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept Investment Management LLC and the approach to, and required standards for, risk no responsibility for any changes that have Putnam Advisory Company LLC 3.17%.
management and internal control is occurred to the Accounts since they were understood and that risk is consistent with initially presented on the website.
It should be Details of the directors interests in the share and managed in accordance with the Group noted that information published on the capital of the Company and details of ERM framework.
These procedures provide directors share options are set out in the for assurance to be given at higher levels of Remuneration Report.
There have been no management and, finally, to the Board.
changes in the directors share interests between 31 March 2004 and the date of this report.
Man Group plc Annual Report 2004 38 Directors Report Investor relations Auditors The Company enters into a dialogue at  LLP have indicated appropriate times with its institutional their willingness to continue in office and shareholders, whilst having regard to the UK resolutions will be proposed at the Annual Listing Authoritys guidance on the General Meeting to re-appoint them as dissemination of price sensitive information.
auditors of the Company and to authorise the The Groups non-executive Chairman directors to determine their remuneration for frequently attends meetings with institutional the current year.
investors and always attends results presentations.
Copies of all results The Board and the auditors as a matter of announcements are carried in full on the professional practice maintain safeguards to Companys website www.
com avoid the objectivity and independence of the as soon as they are published, together with auditors becoming compromised.
The Board announcements required to be made in and the Audit and Risk Committee have accordance with the UK Listing Authority adopted a formal policy regarding the Listing Rules and other investor presentation engagement of the external auditor in the material.
The Company encourages research provision of any non-audit services.
For the coverage of its business activities by analysts year, non-audit fees were 83% of audit fees.
and rating agencies and for this purpose The non-audit fees largely relate to advice makes available the time of the Chief and assistance given in relation to the Executive and Finance Director.
Groups Integrated Prudential Source Book and Basel II projects.
Some assistance has Full use is made of the Annual General also been given in relation to the Groups Meeting to communicate with private International Accounting Standards investors.
The Company will continue the conversion project.
Further controls over the practices of making available at the Annual relationship of the Group with the auditors are General Meeting the level of proxies lodged operated by the Audit and Risk Committee on each resolution, despatching the notice of and are noted above.
the Annual General Meeting and related papers more than 20 working days before the meeting, and proposing each substantially separate issue as an individual motion.
It is By Order of the Board intended that all members of the Board will, Peter Clarke as usual, attend the 2004 Annual General Company Secretary Meeting and will be available to answer 20 May 2004 questions both during and after the Meeting.
Annual General Meeting The Companys Annual General Meeting will be held at 11.00 am on 7 July 2004, at the Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London, SW1P 3EE.
Employees, environment and charitable donations The Groups policies in relation to employees, and the environment, and details of the Groups charitable donations in the year, are included in the Corporate Social Responsibility Report, which immediately precedes the Directors Report.
