operating and financial review OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW This section contains: Overview 22 Disclosures about market risk 41 Group operating performance 24 Five year summary 43 Review by division 32 Critical accounting policies 44 Liquidity and capital resources 38 US GAAP reconciliation 46 Cash ow 41 Risk factors 47 The following discussion should be read in conjunction with differences between UK GAAP and US GAAP, as they relate the Financial Statements and notes thereto included to Cable & Wireless, are described and reconciliations of elsewhere in this Annual Report.
These financial statements net income and shareholders equity to US GAAP are set out have been prepared in accordance with UK GAAP, which in Note 36 of Notes to the Financial Statements.
differs in significant respects from US GAAP.
The principal OVERVIEW Cable & Wireless reported a total operating loss of 540 for business telecommunication services has remained million in 2004.
Industry conditions remain challenging and broadly at.
a further 526 million of tangible xed asset impairments were recognised together with 244 million of exceptional Against this background, UK revenues were broadly in line costs related to restructuring activities across the Group.
with 2003: headcount has been reduced: and operating cash ow has improved.
The 2004 operating loss of 234 million In June 2003, the Company announced: is signicantly lower than 2003 and, excluding the costs of the major restructuring and further asset impairments, the r that the Group would withdraw from the United States UK division reported a profit of 32 million.
domestic market: r take steps to radically improve the unsatisfactory results Caribbean in the United Kingdom: and r build upon its strong positions in national In the Caribbean, the liberalisation process has continued telecommunications companies round the world.
with over 70 per cent of the Groups revenues in this region now exposed to competition.
To remain competitive, the US exit Group has reduced headcount, delayered and simplied the management structure, and accelerated the rollout of GSM On 8 December 2003, Cable & Wireless former US networks in the region.
business led for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection under the US Bankruptcy Code.
Following a court-supervised auction Presentation of results process, substantially all of the assets of the US domestic business were sold to SAVVIS Communications Corporation The analysis and commentary included in this Operating and and the completion of the sale was announced in March Financial Review is based on the Groups geographic 2004.
The total cash costs of this exit are expected to be divisions and reects the manner in which the business has under 300 million.
been organised and managed since June 2003.
Prior period results are reported in line with this new structure.
In order to provide US connectivity for data and IP services to Cable & Wireless multinational customers based in the On 8 December 2003, Cable & Wireless former US United Kingdom and other regions, Cable & Wireless business led for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection under the continues to operate in the United States.
US Bankruptcy Code and, under UK GAAP, was deconsolidated from the Group results from that date.
United Kingdom Trading conditions in the United Kingdom and across At 31 December 2003, the licences held by Cable & Europe have remained challenging due to over-capacity and Wireless subsidiary in the Yemen expired and the Group the consequent price pressure on traditional services, ceased to operate in Yemen from that date.
However, as broadband access has increased across Europe, demand for core IP In this Operating and Financial Review the results of the services, particularly IP-VPN has grown.
Overall, the market former US domestic business and Yemen businesses are Page 22 operating and financial review reported within discontinued operations and comparatives current management structure.
In 2003, the Bermuda have been restated accordingly.
results were reported within the Caribbean.
The comparative data for the geographic regions have also been restated to reect: The Groups operations are all considered to fall into one class of business, namely telecommunications.
r a change in the basis of revenue and cost allocation for globally managed customers such that revenue and costs are now allocated based on where the service is The following sections set out, for each of the three years delivered rather than where the account is managed: ended 31 March 2004, turnover, operating costs and and operating profit or loss of the Group and of the operations: r the results of Cable & Wireless operations in Bermuda United Kingdom: US network: Europe: Caribbean: Japan and are now reported within Rest of the World to reect the Asia: Panama: Macau: and Rest of the World.
