business description BUSINESS DESCRIPTION This section contains: Summary 6 Property 17 Business overview 8 Legal proceedings 18 Regulatory framework 14 SUMMARY Cable & Wireless is an international telecommunications In August 2000, Cable & Wireless disposed of its interest in business with annual revenue of 3.7 billion in the year to Cable & Wireless HKT Limited based in Hong Kong to a 31 March 2004, of which 3.4 billion related to continuing subsidiary of PCCW Limited.
Cable & Wireless received operations, and customers in some 80 countries.
cash and shares in PCCW equivalent to an interest of Headquartered in London, Cable & Wireless principal approximately 20 per cent in the enlarged company.
The operations are in the United Kingdom, Europe, the PCCW shares were subsequently sold by Cable & Wireless Caribbean, Panama, Macau and Japan.
Cable & Wireless in September 2000 and June 2003 for a total consideration provides voice, data and IP services to business and of approximately 1,160 million.
residential customers and wholesale services to carriers, mobile operators and content, application and internet In September 2001, Cable & Wireless disposed of its interest providers.
in Cable & Wireless Optus Limited based in Australia to a subsidiary of Singapore Telecommunications Limited SingTel.
Cable & Wireless received cash and SingTel History shares and bonds, which were subsequently sold.
For over 120 years, Cable & Wireless has provided telecommunications services, networks and equipment to The web services and hosting businesses, Digital Island, Inc. business and residential customers around the world.
Except and selected assets and the majority of business activities of for some 30 years as a state-owned company after the EXDS, Inc formerly Exodus Communications, Inc were Second World War, Cable & Wireless has been a publicly acquired in 2002. owned limited company since its earliest days.
Recent acquisitions and disposals In the United Kingdom, Cable & Wireless, through Mercury Communications, was an early competitor in the liberalised In June 2003, Cable & Wireless announced that it planned to telecommunications market.
In April 1997, Cable & withdraw from the US domestic market.
On 8 December Wireless Communications plc CWC was formed by the 2003, Cable & Wireless USA, Inc. and Cable & Wireless merger of Mercury Communications with Nynex Internet Services, Inc. together, with certain of their CableComms, Bell Cablemedia and Videotron.
afliates, referred to as Cable & Wireless America or CWA entered into an agreement with an afliate of In September 1998, Cable & Wireless acquired MCI Gores Technologies LLC Gores to sell substantially all Telecommunication Corporations internet business in the of the assets of CWA for a sum of US$125 million, subject United States and worldwide.
In June 1999, Cable & to higher and better offers pursuant to a court-supervised Wireless acquired International Digital Communications Inc. competitive auction conducted under Section 363 of the US now re-named Cable & Wireless IDC Inc., one of Japans Bankruptcy Code.
On that date, and at the request of Gores, international telecommunications carriers.
CWA led for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection under the US Bankruptcy Code.
In October 1999, Cable & Wireless completed the sale of its interest in One2One, its UK mobile phone business, to As a result of the subsequent auction process, on 23 January Deutsche Telekom.
One2One was a joint venture with 2004, SAVVIS Communications Corporation SAVVIS MediaOne Group Inc and the joint venture partners received entered into an agreement with CWA for SAVVIS to acquire 6.9 billion in cash.
substantially all of the assets of CWA for a sum of US$155 In May 2000, Cable & Wireless took full ownership of the million in cash and approximately US$12.4 million of corporate, business, IP and wholesale operations of CWC assumed liabilities.
The contract contained certain conditions CWC DataCo, while the consumer telephone, internet and of a standard nature, including regulatory approvals.
All of cable TV operations CWC ConsumerCo were acquired by the conditions to the sale were satisfied and completion of ntl Incorporated.
the sale was announced on 8 March 2004.
Page 6 business description Cable & Wireless understands that the proceeds of the sale wholesale tariffs and, increasingly, as a principal, having will be applied to satisfy outstanding liabilities of CWA and installed its own equipment in 38 BT exchanges in central the remaining assets of CWA will be wound down by the London under Local Loop Unbundling regulation.
On 2 June 2004 Cable and Wireless announced the purchase The CWA estate is responsible for dealing with creditors of a 55 per cent stake in Monaco Telecom S. A Monaco and related aspects of the Chapter 11 process.
The CWA Telecom from Vivendi Universal for a total consideration estate has led a Plan of Liquidation and associated of Euro 162 million, through the acquisition of 100 per cent documents with the US Bankruptcy Court.
The Plan, which of the issued share capital of Compagnie Monegasque fide is supported by the CWA Creditors Committee and by Communication.
Cable and Wireless plc, is subject to approval by relevant The transaction was completed on 18 June 2004. classes of creditors and the US Bankruptcy Court in due course.
Copies of the Plan are publicly available.
If the Plan On completion, Cable & Wireless transferred a 6 per cent is approved, among other things: stake in Monaco Telecom to Compagnie Monegasque fide Banque S. A. M CMB for consideration of Euro 18 r certain classes of creditors will receive a monetary million.
CMB is Cable & Wirelessnancial partner in return from the estate: Monaco Telecom and its 6 per cent stake is subject to r any claims which creditors have against the estate will certain put and call agreements with Cable & Wireless.
be released: Cable & Wireless has full management control of Monaco r claims of Cable and Wireless plc and its non-bankrupt Telecom.
afliates against the CWA estate will be settled and potential claims of the CWA estate against Cable and Cable & Wireless has entered into a shareholders agreement Wireless plc and such afliates will be released: and with the Principality, which contains, among other r all shares held in CWA including those held by Cable provisions, a prohibition on either Cable & Wireless or the & Wireless afliates will be cancelled.
Principality subject to certain limited exceptions selling their shares in Monaco Telecom for 5 years, mutual preAs of 8 December 2003 the CWA entities were emption rights on the transfer of shares and certain other deconsolidated from the Group.
These entities have separate limited rights in favour of the Principality.
The Principality boards and are no longer subject to Cable & Wireless Group also has a put option entitling it to put its 45 per cent operating requirements.
CWA is subject to the jurisdiction of shareholding in Monaco Telecom at certain times after 1 the US Bankruptcy Court.
Accordingly, apart from certain January 2008.
The exercise price under the put option is fair financial discussions, references to CWA in this document market value, taking into account the nature of the minority are limited.
In order to provide US connectivity for data and IP services to Cable & Wireless multinational customers based in the Monaco Telecom is an integrated telecommunications United Kingdom and other regions, Cable & Wireless operator created in 1997 following the privatisation of the continues to operate in the United States.
Principalitys incumbent public telecommunications operator.
Monaco Telecom has a licence to provide public The licences held by TeleYemen, Cable & Wireless telecommunications services throughout Monaco, with subsidiary in Yemen, expired on 31 December 2003 and the exclusive rights to provide xed line, mobile, internet access, Group ceased operations in Yemen from that date.
and cable services in Monaco until at least 2014.
Internationally, Monaco Telecom has operated a mobile In addition, during 2004 the Group disposed of certain network in Kosovo since 2000, under a management contract domestic businesses in Sweden, Belgium, the Netherlands, and at the beginning of 2003 it was awarded the second Italy, Switzerland, France and Germany and the domestic GSM licence in Afghanistan as the strategic partner in a data business in Russia.
consortium 51 per cent owned by the Aga Khan Fund for On 28 May 2004, Cable & Wireless announced the purchase Economic Development.
of the share capital of Bulldog Communications Limited Bulldog, a UK company specialising in the provision of For the year ended 31 December 2003, Monaco Telecom broadband services, for a sum of 18.6 million.
Bulldog reported consolidated turnover of Euro 172 million, net offers a wide range of high-speed broadband services using profit of Euro 18 million, and had Euro 74 million of net digital subscriber line technology, both on the basis of BT assets at that date which included Euro 73 million of cash.
