corporate governance Internet acceptable use prohibited from undertaking, such as those which violate the law or threaten the integrity of any network or computer Cable & Wireless has an Internet Acceptable Use Policy system.
As part of the policy, Cable & Wireless encourages AUP which is designed to protect and limit exposure to customers to label their content using a self-rating system, legal action.
The policy confirms that Cable & Wireless such as that provided by the Internet Content Rating customers are solely responsible for their content and Association.
The AUP is publicly available on www.
It contains a list of activities which customers are DIRECTORS AND SENIOR MANAGEMENT The following are the Companys directors and senior Robertson of Port Ellen was Secretary General of NATO and management as at the date of this report.
Chairman of the North Atlantic Council from October 1999 to December 2003, Secretary of State for Defence from 1997 to 1999 and Member of Parliament for Hamilton and Hamilton Richard Lapthorne South from 1978 to 1999.
He is a Non-executive Director of Non-executive Chairman: Chairman, Nominations the Weir Group PLC and Smiths Group PLC, Strategic Advisor Committee to the Royal Bank of Canada, Europe and a member of the Richard Lapthorne was appointed to the Board as Chairman Advisory Board of Engleeld Capital.
Richard Lapthorne is a Non-executive Chairman of Morse PLC, Avecia plc, and Oasis International Francesco Caio Leasing in Abu Dhabi, Vice Chairman of JP Morgan Chief Executive officer Investment Bank and the former Chairman of Amersham International plc.
Richard Lapthorne joined the Board of Francesco Caio was appointed to the Board as Chief Executive Amersham International plc in 1988 as a Non-executive officer in April 2003.
Francesco Caio founded Netscalibur Director and became Chairman in 1999, holding this ofce Italia, the European business telecommunications and internet until May 2003.
He was Finance Director of British service provider, in 2000.
From 1997 to 2000 he was Chief Aerospace plc from July 1992 and was appointed Vice Executive officer of Merloni Elettrodomestici, one of Europes Chairman in April 1998 before retiring in September 1999. leading household appliance companies.
In 1996 he was Chief He was awarded the CBE for services to the British Executive officer of Olivetti having previously headed the aerospace industry in 1997.
He was Finance Director of telecommunications and multimedia divisions.
He led the Courtaulds plc from 1986 to 1992, having previously been creation and launch of Omnitel Pronto, Italys second largest Group Financial Controller.
Age 61. mobile phone company before its acquisition by Mannesmann, and was its first Chief Executive officer from 1994 to 1996.
He has also worked with McKinsey in London.
Francesco Caio is Robert Rowley a Non-executive Director of Netscalibur Italia SpA, and a Executive Deputy Chairman former Non-executive Director of Merloni Elettrodomestici Robert Rowley was appointed a Non-executive Director in and was a Board member of Motorola between November September 2002 and became Chairman of the Audit 2000 and May 2003.
Following a restructuring of the Board, he relinquished his Chairmanship of the Audit Kevin Loosemore Committee and was appointed as Executive Deputy Chief Operating officer Chairman on 21 January 2003.
Robert Rowley is a Nonexecutive Director of Prudential plc, where he is Chairman Kevin Loosemore was appointed to the Board as Chief of the Audit Committee, Taylor Nelson Sofres plc and Operating officer in April 2003.
Kevin Loosemore was Liberty International plc.
He was on the Board of Reuters appointed Corporate Vice President and General Manager, from 1990, serving as Finance Director of Reuters Group Europe, Middle East and Africa EMEA, Global from 1990 until 2000, then as Chief Executive of Telecommunications Solutions Sector, Motorola in June Reuterspace until he retired in 2001.
2001, becoming President, EMEA in September 2001 and President, Motorola Professional Services Group.
Kevin The Right Honourable Lord Robertson of Port Ellen Loosemore was previously Chief Executive officer of IBM G. C. M. G. UK from 2000 to 2001 and Managing Director for fide La Rue Card Systems from 1997 to 1999.
He began his career Executive Deputy Chairman with IBM in 1981, remaining with them until 1997.
Kevin Lord Robertson of Port Ellen was appointed to the Board as Loosemore is a Non-executive Director of The Big Food Executive Deputy Chairman on 1 February 2004.
Page 57 corporate governance Charles Herlinger Kasper Rorsted Chief Financial officer Non-executive Director, Chairman, Community Investment Committee Charles Herlinger was appointed Chief Financial officer and a member of the Board on 1 December 2003.
Prior to Kasper Rorsted was appointed a Non-executive Director in joining Cable & Wireless, Charles Herlinger worked for May 2003.
He is a member of the Audit, Remuneration and Siemens AG, most recently as Corporate Vice President and Nominations Committees.
Kasper Rorsted is Senior Vice Group Controller.
Between 1995 and 1998, he was Chief President and General Manager, EMEA for Hewlett Packard Financial officer and Executive Vice President Siemens holding this role since the merger of Hewlett Packard and Energy and Automation.
He was previously with Compaq as Controller of Siemens Corporation.
Between 1990 and 1993, Vice President and General Manager for EMEA having held he was Director of the Overseas Mergers and Acquisitions various other senior management positions since 1995.
He joined the Siemens group in 1987.
From 1985 to has previous experience with Oracle, Digital and Ericsson.
1987 Charles Herlinger was with LOre al as Assistant Age 42.
Controller in the United States.
He qualied as a chartered accountant in the United Kingdom and as a certied public Dr Janet Morgan accountant in the United States with KPMG, with whom he Non-executive Director worked from 1977 to 1985.
Janet Morgan was appointed a Non-executive Director in 1988.
She is a member of the Audit, Remuneration and Bernard Gray Nominations Committees.
She will retire as a Director of the Non-executive Director: Chairman, Remuneration Committee Company at the 2004 Annual General Meeting.
Janet Bernard Gray was appointed a Non-executive Director in Morgan is also a Non-executive Director of the Scottish January 2003 and is Chairman of the Remuneration and a American Investment Trust plc, the Scottish Oriental Smaller member of the Audit and Nominations Committees.
Bernard Companies Investment Trust plc, BPB plc, Murray Gray is Chief Executive officer of CMP Information, the International Investment Trust plc and Stagecoach plc and is UK publishing and events division of United Business Media Chairman of the Nuclear Generation Decommissioning Fund UBM.
Prior to his current role, he was Director of Ltd. Age 58.
Previous roles have included Special Advisor to the Secretary of State for Defence from Anthony Rice 1997 to 1999 during the UKs Strategic Defence Review and Non-executive Director: Chairman, Audit Committee almost 10 years with the Financial Times Group, including Anthony Rice was appointed a Non-executive Director and two years on the Lex column.
Bernard Gray began his career Chairman of the Audit Committee in January 2003.
He is working in capital markets in London and New York.
also a member of the Remuneration and Nominations Age 43.
He is Chief Executive of Tunstall Holdings Ltd and prior to taking up this role in 2002 his career has largely Graham Howe been spent with British Aerospace plc from 1986 to 2002.
In Non-executive Director: Senior Independent Director this role he was at various times Group Treasurer, Group Graham Howe was appointed a Non-executive Director in Managing Director Commercial Aircraft and was involved in May 2003.
He is a member of the Audit, Remuneration and the nancing and otation of Orange plc.
He is a NonNominations Committees and is the nominated Senior executive Director of Atlantic Coast Airlines.
Until 30 April 2003 Graham Howe was Deputy Chief Executive officer and Chief Operating Andrew Garard officer of Orange S. A. having joined them in 1992 as one Group General Counsel and Company Secretary of the founding Directors.
His previous experience includes senior positions at Hutchison Telecom, First Pacic Andrew Garard was appointed Company Secretary on 1 May Company and Touche Ross Management Consultants.
