corporate governance DIRECTORS REPORT Principal activities and business review Directors The following served as Directors of the Company during Cable & Wireless is an international telecommunications the year under review: company.
Its principal operations are in the United Kingdom including Europe and the United States, the Caribbean, Sir Winfried Bischoff resigned 25 July 2003 Japan, Panama and Macau.
Cable & Wireless provides Francesco Caio appointed 4 April 2003 voice, data and IP services to business and residential Adrian Chamberlain resigned 3 September 2003 customers and wholesale services to carriers, mobile Bernard Gray operators and content, application and internet providers.
Charles Herlinger appointed 1 December 2003 Graham Howe appointed 27 May 2003 Details of the Groups performance during the year are Richard Lapthorne contained in the Operating and Financial Review on pages Robert Lerwill resigned 3 June 2003 22 to 52.
Kevin Loosemore appointed 2 April 2003 Dr Janet Morgan Overseas trading branches of the Company exist in David Prince resigned 1 December 2003 Ascension, Diego Garcia, Falkland Islands, Singapore and Anthony Rice St. Helena.
Lord Robertson of Port Ellen appointed 1 February 2004 Kasper Rorsted appointed 27 May 2003 Share capital Robert Rowley Graham Wallace resigned 4 April 2003 Details of shares issued during the year are shown in Note 23 to the Financial Statements.
Biographical details for the current Directors are set out on pages 57 to 58.
Acquisitions and disposals In accordance with the Companys Articles, Dr Janet Morgan will be retiring at the 2004 AGM and will not be Details of acquisitions and disposals in the year are set out offering herself for re-election.
Charles Herlinger and Lord in Business Description - Recent acquisitions and Robertson of Port Ellen, having been appointed Directors disposals.
since the 2003 AGM will also retire at the 2004 AGM and, being eligible will offer themselves for election.
The Results and dividends unexpired portion of the service contracts for Charles Herlinger and Lord Robertson of Port Ellen is disclosed on The Groups loss for the year after taxation and minority page 70.
Due to the Board of Directors being reconstituted interests amounted to 237 million.
since January 2003, it is proposed that Richard Lapthorne and Graham Howe should seek re-election at the 2004 AGM To give greater financial exibility the Board decided in notwithstanding the fact that they were elected by June 2003 to suspend dividends for 12 months.
However, the shareholders at the 2003 AGM.
Following this, Richard Board has recommended a full year dividend for 2004 of Lapthorne and Graham Howe will be subject to re-election 3.15p per Ordinary Share consisting of 2.1p final dividend at the 2007 AGM.
This will help stagger the re-election of and 1.05p interim dividend which subject to approval by Directors going forward.
shareholders at the 2004 Annual General Meeting AGM, will be paid on 13 August 2004 to shareholders on the Disclosable interests register at 23 July 2004.
The Directors have no interest in the Ordinary Shares of the Subject to shareholder approval at the AGM, the Company Companys subsidiaries.
The beneficial interests of the will introduce a Scrip Dividend Scheme for the full year Directors and their immediate families in the Ordinary dividend payable on 13 August 2004 and all future Shares of the Company are shown in the Directors dividends.
The dividend reinvestment plan has been Remuneration Report on page 73. suspended and, subject to the approval and introduction of the Scrip Dividend Scheme, will be terminated.
Full details Employment policies are contained in a brochure called Scrip Dividend Scheme and a copy can be obtained from the Companys Registrar Details of employment policies are set out in Social, or from the Company Secretary.
Environmental and Ethical Report Employment Issues.
Page 59 corporate governance 2003 Number of Percentage Charitable and political donations and community Cable & of Issued responsibility Wireless Ordinary During the year, 1.1 million was donated for charitable Ordinary Share purposes in the United Kingdom.
World wide, including the Shares capital United Kingdom, the total expenditure on donations and sponsorship for the benefit of the community amounted to Shareholder 5.1 million.
The Company has made no donations to Franklin Resources, Inc. 108,105,460 4.54 political parties in the United Kingdom.
It is not proposed to FMR Corporation & Fidelity change the Companys policy of not making contributions to International Ltd. 93,127,830 3.91 any political party.
However as a precautionary measure in Legal & General Investment light of the wide denitions in The Political Parties, Management 80,687,822 3.39 Elections and Referendums Act 2000, a resolution to permit the Company to make political donations and incur political expenditure will be proposed at the 2004 AGM.
Full details 2002 Number of Percentage of this are given in the Chairmans letter accompanying the Cable & of Issued Notice of AGM.
Wireless Ordinary Ordinary Share Payments to suppliers Shares capital In the United Kingdom, the Group agrees payment terms Shareholder with its suppliers when it enters into binding purchase Franklin Resources, Inc. 237,485,398 9.97 contracts.
The Group seeks to abide by the payment terms Verizon Inc Bell Atlantic agreed with suppliers whenever it is satisfied that the Corporation 128,378,147 5.39 supplier has provided the goods or services in accordance Legal & General Investment with the agreed terms and conditions.
The Group seeks to Management 78,079,443 3.28 treat all its suppliers fairly and has a standard, which deals Prudential Plc 74,004,717 3.11 specifically with the payment of suppliers.
The Group has established an e-procurement procedure which is being adopted worldwide.
The e-procurement procedure standardises across the Group the procedures for procuring Related Party Transactions goods and services and the internal authorisations required to Transactions with joint ventures and associated approve spending and supplier selection.
companies The Company had 65 days purchases 2003 70 days All transactions with joint ventures and associated purchases outstanding at 31 March 2004 based on the companies arise in the normal course of business.
The average daily amount invoiced by suppliers during the year aggregate transactions recorded by Cable & Wireless with ended 31 March 2004. joint ventures and associated companies, which are Substantial shareholdings considered to be material, are disclosed below and in Notes 17, 20 and 21 to the Financial Statements.
Except for the holdings of Ordinary Shares listed below, the Directors are not aware of any person holding three per cent For the year ended 31 March 2004 2003 2002 or more of the Ordinary Share capital of the Company as at 1 m m m June 2004, the latest practicable date prior to the issue of this report.
Comparative gures for 2003 and 2002 are also given.
Turnover 1 27 2004 Number of Percentage Outpayments 2 46 Cable & of Issued Other operating expenses Wireless Ordinary payable 2 Ordinary Share Dividends received 25 28 26 Shares capital Purchase of xed assets 4 Shareholder Legal & General Group plc 106,545,863 4.47 Loans to joint ventures and associated companies, amounts The Trustees of the BT Pension owed by joint ventures and associated companies and owed Scheme 79,356,278 3.33 to joint ventures and associated companies are set out in the Notes to the Financial Statements contained herein.
The Page 60 corporate governance largest loan amount outstanding since 1 April 2003 was of the New York Stock Exchange Listed Company Manual, 1 million.
The amount outstanding at 1 June 2004 was except that in the UK it is recommended that the nomination 1 million.
The interest rate on the loan is nil.
committee be comprised of a majority, rather than entirely, of independent non-executive directors.
Transactions with Directors The following sections of the Annual Report set out the Except as disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report, Companys existing corporate governance structure and as of 1 June 2004, neither the Company nor any of its compliance with the existing Combined Code.
It also covers subsidiaries was a party to any material transactions, or progress towards compliance with the relevant provisions of proposed transactions, in which any Director, any other Sarbanes-Oxley and the New York Stock Exchanges Executive officer, any spouse or child under 18 years of age corporate governance rules.
of a Director or Executive officer had or was to have a direct or indirect material interest.
Compliance The Board confirms that the Company was fully compliant During the years ended 31 March 2002, 31 March 2003 and with all the provisions of section one of the existing 31 March 2004, and as of 1 June 2004, no Director nor any Combined Code throughout the period with the exception of other Executive officer, nor any associate of any Director or Directors service contracts, as set out on pages 70 to 73. any other Executive officer was indebted to the Company or The Statement of Directors Responsibilities for preparing any of its subsidiaries.
the financial statements is set out on page 81.
Corporate governance The Board Good corporate governance has been and remains the The Board rmly believes in good corporate governance and responsibility of the whole Board of Directors.
The particularly that strong governance controls improve the governance environment has undergone a significant change performance of the business and enhance shareholder value.
since the Companys last published Annual Report, notably The Boards role includes: with the publication of the new Combined Code in July 2003 which came into effect for reporting years beginning r reviewing and deciding on the strategy of the Group: on or after 1 November 2003.
The Company is still required r increasing shareholder value by assessing business to report on compliance with the existing Combined Code opportunities and measuring and controlling associated for the financial year ended 31 March 2004. risks: r ensuring compliance with legal, regulatory and However, the Company is reviewing the new Combined corporate governance requirements: Code and is considering any changes it will need to make to r promoting and maintaining good corporate citizenship its governance structure to implement the new Combined and high standards of ethical behaviour by the Groups Code.
It is intended that the Companys Corporate employees: Governance Report for the financial year ending 31 March r providing the Chief Executive officer with appropriate 2005 will refer to the Companys compliance with the new support to drive and improve the performance of the Combined Code and include the additional disclosures it will Group: be required to make.
r setting and monitoring challenging performance Due to the Companys listing on the London Stock objectives and benchmarks for the Chief Executive Exchange it is required to comply with the listing rules of officer and the executive team: the United Kingdom Listing Authority UKLA.
In r setting an appropriate control environment within which addition due to the Companys listing on the New York executive management can operate: Stock Exchange, it is also required to comply with many of r constituting subcommittees of the Board covering the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act Sarbanesremuneration, nominations and audit matters: and Oxley as well as the New York Stock Exchanges r the appointment and removal of the Company corporate governance rules.
The Company monitors compliance with such rules The Board is chaired by Richard Lapthorne, Francesco Caio applicable to foreign registrants and is in compliance with is the Chief Executive officer and Kevin Loosemore is the rules that are currently in force.
The Company follows Chief Operating officer.
Rob Rowley and Lord Robertson of UK corporate governance practice, except as set out under Port Ellen are both Executive Deputy Chairmen.
Charles Compliance below, which does not differ signicantly from Herlinger is Chief Financial officer.
There are five the corporate governance standards set out in section 303A independent Non-executive Directors, namely: Bernard Gray, Page 61 corporate governance Graham Howe, Dr Janet Morgan, Anthony Rice and Kasper The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it Rorsted.
Graham Howe is the Senior Independent Director.
for decision including approval of matters such as: Up to the date of his resignation on 25 July 2003, Sir r strategy and objectives: Winfried Bischoff was the nominated Senior Independent r annual budgets: Director and was considered by the Board to be independent.
r dividends: The Chairmans role is to lead and manage the business of r acquisitions and disposals of businesses: the Board of Directors in setting the strategy and delivering r expenditure over a certain financial limit: performance of the Group to its shareholders and other key r financial results: and stakeholders.
The Chief Executive officer is responsible for r appointments to the Board.
the performance of the Group to its shareholders and other key stakeholders.
The division of responsibilities between A copy of the formal schedule of matters reserved for the the Chairman and Chief Executive officer has been Board is available from the Company Secretary or the approved by the Board of Directors and is set out in writing.
A copy of this is available from the Company Secretary or the Companys website.
Full biographical details of each of The Board additionally delegates specic responsibilities to the Directors are set out on pages 57 to 58.
The Board has Board committees, notably the Audit, Remuneration and nine scheduled meetings a year concentrating on strategy, Nominations Committees.
Additional Board meetings are called as required to deal with specic matters.
To enable Directors to perform their duties properly and to During the year under review there were a total of 21 Board ensure the effective functioning of the Board and its meetings.
Committees, they are given full and timely access to all relevant information.
In addition, each of the Directors has The agenda for Board meetings are set by the Chairman in access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
consultation with the Chief Executive officer, Chief Financial officer and Company Secretary.
Formal minutes On joining the Board and under the direction of the recording decisions of all Board and Committee meetings Chairman, a new Director receives appropriate induction, are prepared and circulated to each Director as appropriate.
involving meetings with other Directors, senior management If a Director objects to a particular proposal this will be and key advisors.
In addition, the new Directors are provided recorded in the minutes of Board or Committee meetings.
with appropriate background materials covering the business, There were no such objections in the year under review.
the financial performance of the Company and the legal and corporate governance environment.
The Directors further The Board considers that all of the Non-executive Directors receive appropriate ongoing briengs and information to are independent, namely Bernard Gray, Anthony Rice, enable them to perform their roles both on the Board and its Kasper Rorsted, Graham Howe and Dr Janet Morgan.
This involves both internal briengs Non-executive Directors come from diverse business and external training where appropriate.
backgrounds and each has unique expertise covering finance, telecoms, IT and government relations.
This combination of The Board has adopted a procedure whereby Directors may, skills and expertise materially enhances the judgement and in the furtherance of their duties, take independent overall performance of the Board.
professional advice on any matter at the Companys expense.
With the exception of Dr Janet Morgan, all of the NonThe Company additionally maintains Directors and Ofcers executive Directors have been appointed since January 2003. liability insurance.
Dr Janet Morgan has served as a Director of the Company Under the direction and control of the Chairman, the Board since 1988.
She is due to retire from the Board at the AGM considers its performance both as a group and as individual to be held on 22 July 2004.
Each of the Non-executive members.
This involves regular discussions between the Directors is of independent mind and character and actively individual Board members.
The Board will also consider the contributes to the effective performance of the Board and its need for external support in conducting an annual evaluation Committees.
Page 62 corporate governance As part of the evaluation process, the independent NonExecutive officer with the appropriate level of support from executive Directors meet privately without the Chairman, the Board of Directors, its principal committees in and as a group with the Chairman, as necessary, at least particular the Audit Committee and the senior management once a year, and similarly with both the Chairman and the team.
Chief Executive officer, to consider management There have been no questions raised at the Board or its performance and succession issues.
The independent Noncommittees that have been inadequately addressed by the executive Directors also review annually the relationship Executive Directors.
This is not to say that all questions between the Chairman and Chief Executive officer to ensure were capable of being answered fully at the time.
The that the relationship is working to promote the creation of Company was managing itself through risk and uncertain shareholder value.
situations where knowledge grew over time.
Statement from Independent Directors Despite this period of change for the Company, through the The Independent Directors meet three times during the year significant efforts of the Board of Directors, its principal in addition to Board meetings to formally discuss committees and the senior management team, the governance issues once with the Chairman and Chief Independent Directors are satisfied that the appropriate Executive officer present, once with the Chairman present, corporate governance controls have been effective during the and once on their own.
After the third meeting, Graham year ended 31 March 2004.
Howe, Senior Independent Director, provided feedback to the Board on the Independent Directors collective views of Board Committees the following: REMUNERATION COMMITTEE r the perceived quality of the relationship between the The Remuneration Committee determines and recommends Chairman and the Chief Executive officer: to the Board the framework or broad policy for the r the degree of openness between the Chief Executive remuneration and long term incentive arrangements of the officer and the Board: Companys Chairman, Executive Directors and senior r the visibility of checks and balances within the executives.
The Committees full terms of reference are Executive directors team: and available either from the Company Secretary or the r whether all questions asked by the Non-executive Companys website.
The Committee currently comprises all Directors in the Board have been adequately addressed.
the independent Non-executive Directors of the Company, namely: Bernard Gray Chairman, Dr Janet Morgan, From January to the beginning of April 2003, the Company Anthony Rice, Graham Howe and Kasper Rorsted.
Sir was searching for a new Chief Executive officer under the Winfried Bischoff was Chairman until his resignation on guidance of the Chairman, Richard Lapthorne.
The Chairman, Chief Executive officer and period, the Chairman effectively led the executive HR Director may be invited to attend and speak at meetings management in the running of the business.
With the of the Committee, but do not participate in any matter which appointment of Francesco Caio as Chief Executive officer impacts upon their own remuneration arrangements.
on 4 April 2004 and the appointment of an entirely new Meetings are scheduled in February, March, May and June executive team, there has been a conscious effort by the each year but may be held at other times.
There were seven Chairman to step back and create the necessary space for the meetings in the year ended 31 March 2004.
Chief Executive officer to run the business.
The Chairman and the Chief Executive officer have complementary skills The Directors Remuneration Report on pages 66 to 80 and their relationship is a good one.
includes details on remuneration policy, practices and the remuneration of the Directors.
The Chief Executive officer is by nature open with the Board and no circumstances have arisen during the year NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE where the Board doubted this.
The year has been The Nominations Committee reviews the composition of, characterised by the sheer quantity of issues needing to be and succession to, the Board and recommends to the Board addressed.
This has sometimes led to crowded agendas and appointments of Executive and Non-executive Directors there have been many additional meetings.
following a formal and rigorous review process.
This The Company has seen a significant amount of involves an ongoing assessment of the overall balance and organisational change during the past year with the performance of the Board and its individual members appointment of an entirely new executive team.
Throughout ensuring a strong executive and independent non-executive this period of change, the primary governance checks and team.
This takes account of existing and proposed corporate balances were managed by the Chairman and the Chief governance requirements and emerging best practice.
Page 63 corporate governance The Committee in particular considers the experience and that it will not name any single member as having such skills of individuals who may be suitable as Directors.
The Committees full terms of reference are available from Members of the Committee abstain when matters affecting either the Company Secretary or the Companys website.
In their own appointments are discussed.
The Committee is summary the Committee: authorised to engage the services of external advisors as it deems necessary at the Companys expense in order to carry r makes recommendations to the Board on the out is function.
appointment of the Companys auditors: the Board seeks shareholder approval at every AGM for the Any Director appointed since the last AGM is required, appointment of the Companys auditors: under the Companys Articles of Association, to retire and r determines the level of audit fees and the scope of the seek election by the shareholders at the next AGM.
The audit in accordance with the authority given by the Articles also require that all Directors retire every third year Companys shareholders at every AGM: from when last elected by the shareholders.
Due to the r assesses the independence of the auditors: Board of Directors being re-constituted since January 2003, r reviews and agrees the process for the approval of audit it is proposed that Richard Lapthorne and Graham Howe and non-audit services provided by the auditors: should seek re-election at the 2004 AGM, notwithstanding r reviews the internal audit programme and considers the the fact that they were elected by shareholders at the 2003 effectiveness of the internal audit function: AGM.
Both will be subject to re-election at the 2007 AGM.
r reviews the financial integrity of the financial This will help stagger the re-election of Directors going statements of the Company: forward.
r reviews the Companys compliance with legal and regulatory requirements arising from its listings in The Committee currently comprises the Chairman, Richard London and New York: Lapthorne, who also chairs the Committee, the Chief r reviews material complaints regarding accounting, Executive officer, Francesco Caio and any three of the internal controls and auditing raised by the Companys independent Non-executive Directors namely Bernard Gray, employees: and Graham Howe, Dr Janet Morgan, Kasper Rorsted and r monitors the Companys whistle blowing procedures.
The composition of the committee was changed during the year under review to reect emerging The Audit Committee has established a policy which is best practice.
intended to maintain the independence of the Companys auditors when acting as auditor of the Group accounts.
The The Committee met three times during the year under policy governs the provision of audit and non-audit services review.
provided by the auditor and its associates to the Company and its subsidiaries.
The policy clearly identies those The Committees full terms of reference are available either services which are permitted and those which are prohibited from the Company Secretary or the Companys website.
from being provided by the auditor.
In addition, the policy clearly sets out the procedure to be followed for the AUDIT COMMITTEE approval of all audit and non-audit services.
The Audit Committee currently comprises all the The Committee is authorised to engage the services of independent Non-executive Directors of the Company, external advisers, as it deems necessary, at the Companys namely: Anthony Rice Chairman, Bernard Gray, Graham expense in order to carry out its function.
Howe, Dr Janet Morgan and Kasper Rorsted.
The Chairman, Richard Lapthorne who was a member of the Committee The Committee met seven times during the year under until 5 May 2004, and the Executive Directors attend the review.
meetings of the Committee by invitation but are not members.
The Group Director of Internal Audit, Group Annual General Meeting General Counsel and representatives of the Companys auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, also attend meetings by Business at the Companys AGM, to be held on 22 July invitation.
Other employees of the Company may be invited 2004, will cover the Annual Report and Accounts, Directors to attend meetings as and when required.
Remuneration Report, election re-election of Directors, the re-appointment of the auditors, the authorisation for the The Board considers that the membership of the Committee Directors to set the auditors fees and the full year dividend.
as a whole has sufficient recent and relevant financial Special business will cover scrip dividend authority, share experience to discharge its function, but it has concluded buy back authority, amendment to the Articles of Page 64 corporate governance Association, authority to offer the Incentive Plan in France, could impede the achievement of their objectives and general authority for political donations and amendment to records them in a Risk Register.
For each significant risk, the rules of the Incentive Plan and Deferred Short Term line managers document an overview of the risk, consider Incentive Plan.
the effectiveness of the current mitigating controls in place and identify any improvement actions required.
In addition Full details and an explanation of these resolutions are set to this, the Groups Executive Directors monitor all out in the Chairmans Letter and Notice of AGM.
At the significant risks through a structure of Risk Review Boards.
AGM, a business review is presented to shareholders by the The Risk Review Boards comprise the Chief Executive Chief Executive officer.
All Directors including the officer, Chief Financial officer and other relevant senior Chairman of the Audit and Remuneration Committees attend executives.
There is also a schedule of the Groups risks that and are available to answer shareholders questions.
All covers significant operational, financial and strategic risks resolutions at the AGM are taken on a poll, in accordance and this is reviewed by the Group Audit Committee.
Results are announced to the London assessment process is also adopted as an integral part of Stock Exchange and published on the Companys website.
major capital or change programmes.
The Company recognises that the Risk Review Boards work evolves over Apart from the AGM, the Company communicates with its time and it is committed to continuous improvement of the shareholders by way of the Annual Report or the Annual Risk Review Boards processes.
Review and Summary Financial Statements.
The Companys web site also contains investor relations material including The past few years have been transitional ones for the results presentations, dividends and share capital history.
In Group, with the Company making a number of acquisitions addition, the Company communicates with its institutional and disposals and having undergone a number of shareholders through regular analyst and broker meetings restructurings.
As with all acquisitions or reorganisations, the throughout the year.
Furthermore, an independent survey of Company has had to dedicate resources to try and bring the investors views on the Company and its management is embedded processes and controls across its businesses up to conducted each year and this is reported back to the full standards acceptable to the Group.
Finally all analysts reports are circulated to the Board of Directors, including the Non-executive Directors.
A comprehensive control self-assessment exercise is The Company clearly recognises the importance of conducted annually to complement the work of Group maintaining a regular dialogue with shareholders to ensure Internal Audit, the risk management framework and the that the Companys strategy and performance are external auditors.
This exercise requires management to understood.
assess the effectiveness of their fundamental operating controls over all aspects of their operations, not just financial Internal control and risk management controls.
The results of this exercise are considered by The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal Group Internal Audit in planning their work for the control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
confirms that it has adopted a process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the In addition to the self-assessment and management review Group in accordance with the guidance of the Turnbull procedures, the Group monitors its internal financial control Committee on Internal Control.
system through a programme of internal audits.
The Groups Internal Audit function has a formal charter approved by the The Board considers that the Groups system of internal Board that describes its purpose, authority and responsibility.
control is appropriately designed to manage, rather than Its annual audit plan is approved by the Group Audit eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives Committee.
It supports the Board in assessing key internal and provides reasonable but not absolute assurance against controls through a structured review programme.
The concept of reasonable assurance recognises that the cost of a control procedure At the end of the financial year, the finance and general should not exceed the expected benets.
The Board reviews management of operating units are required to sign a letter the Groups systems of internal control to improve them as of representation to confirm that their financial reporting is necessary, taking into account emerging best practice.
based on sound data, that they are fully aware of their During the year and up to the date of this report procedures responsibility to operate internal control systems and that were in place throughout the Group to ensure compliance their results are properly stated in accordance with Group with the report of the Turnbull Committee.
Additionally, a structure has Using a common risk management framework, each been developed to assess the Groups corporate social principal business and functional unit identies risks that responsibility including social, environmental and ethical Page 65
