business description BUSINESS DESCRIPTION This section contains: Summary 6 Property 17 Business overview 8 Legal proceedings 18 Regulatory framework 14 SUMMARY Cable & Wireless is an international telecommunications In August 2000, Cable & Wireless disposed of its interest in business with annual revenue of 3.7 billion in the year to Cable & Wireless HKT Limited based in Hong Kong to a 31 March 2004, of which 3.4 billion related to continuing subsidiary of PCCW Limited.
Cable & Wireless received operations, and customers in some 80 countries.
cash and shares in PCCW equivalent to an interest of Headquartered in London, Cable & Wireless principal approximately 20 per cent in the enlarged company.
The operations are in the United Kingdom, Europe, the PCCW shares were subsequently sold by Cable & Wireless Caribbean, Panama, Macau and Japan.
Cable & Wireless in September 2000 and June 2003 for a total consideration provides voice, data and IP services to business and of approximately 1,160 million.
residential customers and wholesale services to carriers, mobile operators and content, application and internet In September 2001, Cable & Wireless disposed of its interest providers.
in Cable & Wireless Optus Limited based in Australia to a subsidiary of Singapore Telecommunications Limited SingTel.
Cable & Wireless received cash and SingTel History shares and bonds, which were subsequently sold.
For over 120 years, Cable & Wireless has provided telecommunications services, networks and equipment to The web services and hosting businesses, Digital Island, Inc. business and residential customers around the world.
Except and selected assets and the majority of business activities of for some 30 years as a state-owned company after the EXDS, Inc formerly Exodus Communications, Inc were Second World War, Cable & Wireless has been a publicly acquired in 2002. owned limited company since its earliest days.
Recent acquisitions and disposals In the United Kingdom, Cable & Wireless, through Mercury Communications, was an early competitor in the liberalised In June 2003, Cable & Wireless announced that it planned to telecommunications market.
In April 1997, Cable & withdraw from the US domestic market.
On 8 December Wireless Communications plc CWC was formed by the 2003, Cable & Wireless USA, Inc. and Cable & Wireless merger of Mercury Communications with Nynex Internet Services, Inc. together, with certain of their CableComms, Bell Cablemedia and Videotron.
afliates, referred to as Cable & Wireless America or CWA entered into an agreement with an afliate of In September 1998, Cable & Wireless acquired MCI Gores Technologies LLC Gores to sell substantially all Telecommunication Corporations internet business in the of the assets of CWA for a sum of US$125 million, subject United States and worldwide.
In June 1999, Cable & to higher and better offers pursuant to a court-supervised Wireless acquired International Digital Communications Inc. competitive auction conducted under Section 363 of the US now re-named Cable & Wireless IDC Inc., one of Japans Bankruptcy Code.
On that date, and at the request of Gores, international telecommunications carriers.
CWA led for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection under the US Bankruptcy Code.
In October 1999, Cable & Wireless completed the sale of its interest in One2One, its UK mobile phone business, to As a result of the subsequent auction process, on 23 January Deutsche Telekom.
One2One was a joint venture with 2004, SAVVIS Communications Corporation SAVVIS MediaOne Group Inc and the joint venture partners received entered into an agreement with CWA for SAVVIS to acquire 6.9 billion in cash.
substantially all of the assets of CWA for a sum of US$155 In May 2000, Cable & Wireless took full ownership of the million in cash and approximately US$12.4 million of corporate, business, IP and wholesale operations of CWC assumed liabilities.
The contract contained certain conditions CWC DataCo, while the consumer telephone, internet and of a standard nature, including regulatory approvals.
All of cable TV operations CWC ConsumerCo were acquired by the conditions to the sale were satisfied and completion of ntl Incorporated.
the sale was announced on 8 March 2004.
