corporate overview CORPORATE OVERVIEW The telecommunications industry continues to face redesigning systems and processes.
The benets of the challenging market conditions.
Revenues from traditional initiatives taken in these areas are reected in the financial voice services continue their gradual decline in favour of a performance of the UK business this year.
The business variety of mobile and IP services.
Trends indicate that achieved stable revenues after several years of decline and increased volumes of voice and data trafc will be carried tightened control of capital expenditure, which together have over IP networks and, while traditional voice will continue led to the generation of a pre-exceptional operating profit to be important, reduced demand will keep margins under and of break-even cash ow.
As the telecommunications landscape evolves it The UK business has been restructured around three will be those providers that can address the needs of customer segments, Enterprise, Business and Carrier customers in their migration to new low-cost, more exible Services.
Enterprise customers are estimated to comprise the IP based solutions that will prosper.
top 550 businesses and institutions that together represent In the past year, significant restructuring has been initiated in 50 per cent of the UKs annual telecommunications business line with the priorities set by management in June 2003.
Products and services based on internet protocol IP first step in this process was to re-organise the Group on a are increasingly critical to this segment.
geographic basis, enabling management to examine the In the UK the majority of data trafc has yet to migrate to market dynamics and regulatory environment faced by each IP and this presents an important opportunity.
The objective was to begin to stabilise Wireless has an established position in this segment.
Its operations by introducing new management, reducing costs, strength in voice services, its IP backbone, skills and controlling cash and, most importantly, addressing customer experience enable it to partner Enterprise customers needs.
beginning their migration to new IP services.
National Telcos An estimated 400,000 Business customers represent the Liberalisation progressed in most markets in which the remaining 50 per cent of the annual telecommunications Group operates, leading to greater competitive pressure for business revenue in the UK.
Cable & Wireless serves most National Telco businesses.
In response, the Group is between 10 and 15 per cent of these customers and has developing operating priorities to limit margin erosion and renewed its focus on this segment.
Business customers maximise cash ow.
In the Caribbean, where liberalisation is require cost effective voice services and, until recently, made advanced, senior management have increased their limited use of data.
However, the acceleration of broadband involvement in the businesses to ensure better co-ordination penetration in the UK has the potential to change the and accountability.
The regional management structure was economics of access for Business customers, providing highdelayered and a local Head of Operations for the Caribbean quality, low-cost voice and data applications on a single was appointed.
Initiatives were also undertaken to address platform.
Cable & Wireless acquisition of Bulldog the growth in demand for mobile services through an Communications in May 2004 strengthens its opportunities accelerated roll out of the GSM network and a refocusing of to meet the growing demand for broadband access.
In sales and marketing programmes to serve the most attractive addition, the changes to the regulation of local loop customer segments.
Across all National Telcos, common unbundling have the potential to reduce the cost of access metrics are being introduced to measure and drive and increase penetration.
performance and to facilitate the transfer of skills and The Carrier Services segment, which generates close to 50 experience between business units.
per cent of revenues in the UK business, was also important In June 2004, Cable & Wireless acquired a controlling stake to the stabilisation of the UK business during the year as it in Monaco Telecom from Vivendi Universal.
Monaco enabled the business to utilise available network capacity for Telecom has the exclusive licence to provide xed line, short-term wholesale contracts.
Continued opportunities in mobile, internet access and cable services in Monaco until at this segment are offered by new entrants to consumer least 2014. telecommunications using carrier pre-select services, the growth in demand for mobile services and the increasing demand for IP and broadband.
UK Business In June 2003, management outlined a three-year Europe and Japan transformation plan for the UK business.
The objective in year one was to stabilise operations by reducing capital In continental Europe, the Group primarily provides services expenditure and operating costs, introducing new skills and to other licensed telecommunications operators and to Page 4 corporate overview multinational corporations some of which are headquartered The Group continues to face challenges in implementing its in the UK.
strategic initiatives including those linked to the rapid changes in the telecommunications industry, global Cable & Wireless IDC provides international voice and data economic conditions and the markets in which the Group services to companies in Japan and South East Asia.
The Group remains committed to capitalising on its markets in which it operates are dominated by Nippon core skills and its key customers.
Please see Risk Factors Telegraph and Telephone Corporation.
for further commentary on certain of the challenges facing the Group.
Both operations have achieved significant cost reductions during the year and cost containment will continue to be an area of focus.
