business description Capital expenditure r the continued rollout out of the GSM mobile network primarily in the Caribbean and Panama and upgrades to Capital expenditure on plant, equipment and property existing networks, totalling 120 million: totalled 0.3 billion in 2004 compared with 0.8 billion in r information technology IT, totalling 79 million, 2003 and 1.9 billion in 2002. including expenditure on billing systems, network management systems, and IT support for capital Cable & Wireless capital expenditure in 2004 included the projects: and following third party investments: r network terminating equipment and customer premises r network build, totalling 70 million, mainly relating to equipment totalling 72 million.
international and pan-regional capacity as well as the UK network: The above numbers include working capital allocations.
BUSINESS OVERVIEW Products and services own xed line and mobile network facilities.
In other regions, customers are primarily connected to the Cable & Wireless network via third party local loops and leased line facilities or directly via bre or microwave links.
Data Cable & Wireless has a portfolio of data services including traditional data transport services frame relay and national and international switched and dedicated services based on ATM Asynchronous Transfer Mode, a high speed digital transmission technology.
Cable & Wireless provides a variety of services including voice, data, IP and mobile to its customers through its IP national and international operations.
Cable & Wireless focuses on three IP product sets: IP communications that enable customers to migrate from Voice traditional telecommunications services to IP services with Cable & Wireless offers domestic and international voice improved functionality: access solutions: and transit to IP services via switched and dedicated facilities to residential, networks and the internet.
Access solutions include valuebusiness, corporate and multinational customers.
added security services such as managed rewalls, intrusion detection and response, scanning and analysis such as email Through its Carrier Services operations, Cable & Wireless virus protection and authentication and encryption services.
provides wholesale services and interconnect to mobile operators and carriers with customers including incumbent former monopolies, mobile operators and regional Cable & Wireless IP-VPN QoS solution delivers these telecommunications companies and service providers.
products through a multi protocol switching based IP solution which creates virtual private networks and allows Cable & Wireless offers mobile voice and messaging customers to prioritise trafc to best t their business needs.
services, principally using GSM Global System for Mobile IP-VPN QoS delivers a secure intranet environment over Communications and TDMA Time Division Multiple which voice, video, data and other trafc can ow and can Access technology.
As at 31 March 2004, Cable & Wireless incorporate business partners and remote workers as well as subsidiaries, branches and associates provided mobile the customers own sites.
telecommunications services to 3.1 million customers around the world, of which some one million relates to associate In the Caribbean, Panama, Macau and Rest of the World, companies.
Cable & Wireless also provides residential and business In countries where Cable & Wireless is the local incumbent customers with dial-up IP and other internet services, operator, such as the Caribbean, Panama and Macau, including broadband ADSL Asymmetrical Digital customers are typically served through Cable & Wireless Subscriber Line solutions.
Page 8 business description Geographic operations The UK business provides a full range of services to businesses, from international and domestic voice, data and IP services to complex web hosting solutions and professional services.
significant progress has been made in transforming the UK business with the exit or sale of 34 properties, the insourcing of some IT activities and an overall headcount reduction of approximately 1,280, net of recruitment activities to enhance the skill mix of the business.
With the cash position of the business stabilised and the asset base realigned, future capital expenditure will be focused on the delivery of new capabilities and system improvements.
Enterprise Revenue 453 million Cable & Wireless principal operations are in the United Kingdom, Europe, the Caribbean, Japan, Panama and Macau.
Enterprise generates approximately 27 per cent of the UK Rest of the World comprises the Groups operations in business revenues.
This segment comprises large national Guernsey, Bahrain and the Maldives, together with smaller and international businesses which purchase operations in the Seychelles, Bermuda, Sakhalin in Russia, telecommunications services in the business territories.
In Diego Garcia, Falkland Islands, Fiji, Ascension, St Helena, the UK market, Enterprise customers represent 50 per cent Vanuatu and the Solomon Islands.
of the telecommunications market spend from businesses with more than five employees.
Companies in this segment Cable & Wireless provides voice, data and IP services to buy telecommunications services from a variety of suppliers, large corporate customers, business and residential although many have a longer-term relationship with a customers.
In addition, the United Kingdom, the Caribbean, primary supplier.
Panama and Macau provide specialist wholesale services to carriers, mobile operators and content, application and The UK business has a number two position in the enterprise internet providers.
For approximately 50 enterprises, Cable & Wireless UK supplies over half of their For a discussion of Cable & Wireless revenue by requirements and is the main partner in developing and geographic market for the past three years, see Operating managing their telecommunication networks.
For other and Financial Review Group Turnover.
enterprise customers in the UK market, Cable & Wireless is typically the second provider of voice based services.
United Kingdom Cable & Wireless objective in the enterprise market is to become the partner of choice for more companies as they transition from legacy voice to IP.
Cable & Wireless believes that this will lead to a gradual shift in the revenue mix away from switched voice.
However, switched voice will continue to generate the majority of revenues in the shorter term.
A key step in achieving this objective was the creation of a separate professional services division in April 2004.
Cable & Wireless professional services offering includes consultancy, project management and a portfolio of managed services for a broad range of customers which builds on component products such as Home and Remote Working, Customer Interaction Management Services Call Centres, Overview Business Continuity and Security Services.
The UK telecommunications market is mature with a considerable number of competitors, significant network The professional services division includes the UK capacity and competitive pricing.
In the United Kingdom, Infrastructure services group which provides a single source Cable & Wireless is the largest xed line for hardware installation and the maintenance of voice, data telecommunications services provider after BT.
and cabling systems, together with systems development and Page 9 business description integration services for information and communications Europe technologies.
Business Revenue 445 million Services to Business customers generated some 27 per cent of the UK revenues.
Cable & Wireless provides both voice and data services to the business segment, with voice representing over 80 per cent of total Business revenues.
However, customers are increasingly beginning to purchase voice and data as a bundled service to simplify the purchasing process.
There is rapid growth in demand for new services including: r the replacement of leased lines with ADSL and symmetric digital subscriber lines: r combination of voice and data on a single network: and r increased bandwidth.
Carrier Services Revenue 763 million Carrier Services generate approximately half of Cable & Wireless UK business revenue.
This market is highly competitive.
The UK Carrier Services operations serve customers in three main segments: The principal operations in continental Europe are in Germany, France, Spain and Italy, together with smaller r large international telecommunications companies, operations in Russia, Belgium, the Netherlands, Switzerland mainly focused on long distance international voice: and Sweden.
r national mobile operators, buying international voice and transport backbone services, which are one of the The continental European telecommunications market fastest growing sectors in the United Kingdom: there is comprises EU countries which are mature and fully also small but increasing demand from the mobile liberalised: mature and competitive non-EU markets: and the operators for new data services such as Roaming for liberalising markets of Eastern Europe.
data, GSM, short messaging services SMS and multimedia messaging services: and During the last 12 months the continental European r regional and domestic operators, including resellers and operations have been refocused on Enterprise customers and ISPs.
Cable & Wireless Europe has withdrawn from the provision of IP and data Carrier Services also provide carrier pre-select services a connectivity services to small and medium sized business method of indirect voice access to UK providers who resell customers.
In Spain, Cable & Wireless has retained its telecommunication services under their own brands to network integration business, which operates across all residential customers.
This enables UK residential consumers segments of the Spanish market.
to select an alternative operator to BT for their voice calls in The continental European reorganisation has resulted in a advance, without having to dial additional codes or reduction in the European network coverage, a reduction in programming on-site equipment.
work force from 1,136 to 519 employees and a reduction in customers from 29,000 to fewer than 1,000.
US network Cable & Wireless continues to operate in the US market Carrier Services Revenue 208 million through a small, predominantly international network.
The business provides US connectivity for data and IP services to Carrier Services revenues represent over three-quarters of Cable & Wireless multinational customers based in other revenue in continental Europe.
The main Carrier Services regions: primarily those served by the United Kingdom and customers are mobile operators and telecommunications Japan.
Page 10 business description Caribbean connect, web hosting, web-site design and ADSL services which provide broadband access.
As at 31 March 2004 a significant proportion of Caribbean revenues were exposed to competition with most markets in which Cable & Wireless operates fully liberalised.
Others are in transition from monopoly environments to competitive markets.
Cable & Wireless is engaged in dialogue with those host governments to provide for an orderly liberalisation.
The table below shows the dates of market liberalisation for the principal Caribbean operations.
Country National International Mobile Data & Internet Jamaica Sep-01 Mar-03 Mar-00 Mar-00 Cable & Wireless operates in 16 Caribbean countries.
The following statements apply to these countries unless Barbados Nov-03 See Note 1 Aug-03 Long standing otherwise stated.
The principal businesses are in Jamaica 82 Trinidad and Tobago See Note 2 See Note 2 See Note 2 Long standing per cent owned, Barbados 81 per cent owned, the Cayman Cayman July-03 April-04 Feb-04 Nov-03 Islands 100 per cent owned and Trinidad and Tobago 49 per cent owned.
Note 1: Under discussion with the Government of Barbados and the Government of Barbados has expressed its intention to introduce competition in international services in July 2004.
In nearly all of the Caribbean countries in which it operates, Note 2: In Trinidad and Tobago the Government is in the process of Cable & Wireless is the incumbent, xed and mobile finalising the passage of the Telecommunications Act 2001.
Thereafter, operator providing some or all of the domestic and management believes that the mobile market will be liberalised within one international telecommunications services.
year, with national and international market sectors to follow, although no timetable has yet been announced.
In the Caribbean countries where Cable & Wireless subsidiaries and branches provide domestic telephone Jamaica services, the number of telephone lines in service totalled approximately 830,000 at 31 March 2004, an overall Jamaica is the largest of the Caribbean operations generating decrease of approximately 30,000 in the year.
During the 38 per cent of the Caribbeans revenue in 2004.
Cable & same period, Cable & Wireless mobile subscribers of these Wireless holds an 82 per cent interest in Cable & Wireless territories increased from 943,000 to 1,141,000.
Jamaica Limited, the largest provider of telecommunications services in Jamaica.
Cable & Wireless has mobile licenses in all of its Caribbean countries with the exception of the British Virgin Islands, Cable & Wireless Jamaica provides domestic and Guadaloupe and Martinique.
The Caribbean operations international xed line, internet, data and mobile provide a range of mobile services, including preand  services to residential and business paid services, SMS and international inbound and outbound customers.
In additon to Cable & Wireless Jamaica, there roaming.
are currently two active competitors in the mobile sector with a third licence recently announced, ten active ISPs Cable & Wireless has accelerated its investment in a new out of a total of 64 licensed parties, 27 licensed data GSM network in the Caribbean.
At 31 March 2004 GSM service providers and one competitor in the domestic xed services had been launched commercially in Jamaica, line sector, as well as a number of resellers.
The Barbados, the Cayman Islands, St Lucia, Grenada, Dominica international carrier market has been liberalised since March and St Vincent.
2003 and now comprises 59 licensed carriers, of which 14 are active and interconnect with Cable & Wireless Jamaica.
At 31 March 2004, there were over 500 base stations with land mass coverage typically ranging from 60 per cent to 90 per cent.
GSM technology provides higher transmission Barbados speeds enabling Cable & Wireless to offer new mobile Cable & Wireless Barbados Limited is 81 per cent owned services including internet access, multimedia messaging and by Cable & Wireless and provides domestic and E-banking.
international xed line, internet, data and mobile The Caribbean operations also provide a full range of telecommunications services to residential and business internet services to customers, including dial-up, direct customers.
Page 11 business description Three mobile licences have been issued to competitors in Japan and Asia Barbados and two of these competitors launched services in February 2004.
Four ISPs offer internet services to end customers over Cable & Wireless network.
The domestic telecommunications market is now fully liberalised.
The introduction of competition in international services is currently under discussion with the Government which has expressed its intention to introduce such competition in July 2004.
Cayman Islands Cable and Wireless Cayman Islands Limited provides domestic, international, internet, data and mobile services to residential and business customers in the Cayman Islands.
In July 2003, the Government of the Cayman Islands and Cable & Wireless agreed terms under which Cable & Wireless would surrender its exclusivity.
The market is now fully liberalised.
At 31 March 2004, 20 new entrants had been licensed in various telecommunications, broadcasting and other communication market sectors.
Trinidad and Tobago In Trinidad and Tobago Cable & Wireless operates through its 49 per cent owned joint venture, Telecommunications Services of Trinidad and Tobago Limited TSTT.
The controlling 51 per cent shareholding is owned by National Overview Enterprises Limited, a public company with majority state The Japan division comprises Cable & Wireless operations ownership.
TSTT provides domestic and international xed in Japan and Asia, excluding Macau.
Japan accounts for over line, internet, data and mobile telecommunications services 88 per cent of the divisions revenue.
to residential and business customers.
TSTT contributed 21 per cent of the Caribbeans operating profit in 2004. Business and residential Revenue 174 million Cable & Wireless IDC Inc. sells voice, data, IP and hosting products to the small and medium sized business market in Japan through its own sales force and also through a variety of agents and partners.
Smaller business customers and residential customers are served mainly through indirect channels and resellers.
Cable & Wireless IDC Inc. had 75,000 residential and 22,000 business customers as at 31 March 2004.
Carrier Services Revenue 60 million Cable & Wireless operations in Japan and Asia sell voice, IP and data products to other operators and ISPs.
Enterprise Revenue 52 million Cable & Wireless IDC Inc. together with operations in Hong Kong, Singapore, Australia and India provide corporate enterprises with international networking services.
In addition, these operations offer full design and management services for a variety of IP based solutions.
Page 12 business description Panama Macau In Macau, Cable & Wireless subsidiary is Companhia fide Cable & Wireless owns a 49 per cent interest in, has Telecomunicac o es fide Macau S. A. R. L. CTM.
CTM is management control of and consequently consolidates, the managed and 51 per cent owned by Cable & Wireless.
The largest telecommunications company in Panama, Cable & other shareholders of CTM are Portugal Telecom Group, 28 Wireless Panama S. A.
The Panamanian Government holds per cent, CITIC Pacic Limited, 20 per cent, and Direcc a o 49 per cent of the shares while the remaining two per cent dos Servic os fide Correios fide Macau, one per cent.
are held by the companys employees through a trust fund.
In Macau, CTM is the domestic incumbent offering a full As at 31 March 2004, some 50 competitors had over 100 range of international and domestic, xed, internet, data and licences to offer basic voice telephony services.
Wireless Panama is in the process of negotiating interconnection agreements with several of these operators.
CTM owns and operates fully digital domestic xed line At 31 March 2004, competition in xed line services was networks and international interconnect facilities via largely confined to international and national long-distance microwave, satellite systems and international submarine and services.
CTM has exclusive rights to operate local and international xed telecommunications services within, to Cable & Wireless has one direct mobile competitor in and from Macau until the end of 2011 when the asset may Panama.
Current regulations provide for a duopoly within revert to the Macau Government at zero value.
The mobile until 2007. exclusivity is to be reviewed by the Macau Government and CTM in 2006 and its conditions may be changed subject to Cable & Wireless Panama provides a full range of internet agreement.
The Macau Government has the right to redeem services to customers, including dial-up, web hosting, webthe concession in 2006 with one year prior notice subject to site design and broadband access.
The internet sector has compensation as set out in the relevant Concession been competitive for many years and at 31 March 2004 Agreement.
In 2003, the government enacted the External there were some 13 internet access providers and 130 Facilities Act, which provides for competition in leased lines internet web related service competitors in the sector.
As at 1 June 2004, no licence had been issued under the Act.
CTM operates a GSM mobile network.
The mobile market was liberalised in 2001 and two competitors launched services in August 2001.
CTM has two main competitors.
CTM retains a significant market share.
In the Macau telecommunications market, mobiles outnumber xed lines.
The government is considering the issue of Third Generation Wireless 3G and Code Division Multiple Access licences.
As at 1 June 2004 no tender arrangements had been announced.
CTM also operates a data centre offering a wide selection of web-based and hosting services and an ATM network for broadband ADSL access.
