business description LEGAL PROCEEDINGS Class action litigation against Cable and On 5 May 2004, the Court issued a Memorandum of Wireless plc Opinion, which dealt with the motion of Sir Ralph Robins to dismiss.
The Opinion held that the Court has neither specic Between December 2002 and February 2003, 10 shareholder nor general jurisdiction over Sir Ralph Robins because his class action lawsuits were led in the United States District contacts with the United States were minimal.
Court for the Eastern District of Virginia naming Cable and Wireless plc and several of its ofcers and directors as In addition, on 15 June 2004, the Court issued a defendants.
Memorandum of Opinion and Orders relating to the previous orders issued in March 2004.
The Court stated that it would In March 2003, the Court consolidated all of the cases into not grant leave to amend the complaint and ordered that one action, styled as In re Cable and Wireless plc Securities judgement be entered against the plaintiffs.
The Court found Litigation, Civil Action No.
that the complaint, which alleged violations of US securities laws, failed to state a claim.
The Memorandum of Opinion In May 2003, the lead plaintiffs led a consolidated and Orders issued on 15 June 2004 disposed of all remaining complaint that alleged violations of certain sections of the claims in the case against Cable and Wireless plc, subject to Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 and the rules appeal.
A central allegation was that the defendants made false and misleading statements about the Resolution of dispute with IBM UK Limited Companys financial condition by failing to disclose on a timely basis the existence of a tax indemnity and a ratings Disputes between 1 Cable and Wireless plc and IBM trigger to place money in escrow until any liability which United Kingdom Limited, 2 Cable & Wireless USA, Inc. the Company may have had under the tax indemnity was and International Business Machines Corporation and 3 nally determined.
The indemnity and ratings trigger IBM Japan Limited and Cable & Wireless IDC Incorporated appeared in an agreement reached in 1999 between the collectively Cable & Wireless and IBM respectively Company and Deutsche Telekom for the sale of the arose out of a Global Framework Agreement GFA dated Companys interest in the mobile telephone company that 20 December 2000, and related agreements, pursuant to operated under the name One2One.
which IBM agreed to supply to Cable & Wireless information technology services.
In addition to the allegations relating to the tax indemnity, the consolidated complaint also alleged that the defendants On 8 September 2003, an amicable resolution of the matters made false and misleading statements by: 1 failing to in dispute was agreed upon by Cable & Wireless and IBM disclose certain lease liability commitments and 2 the terms of which are condential following which, by improperly recognising revenue received from sales of consent, Cable & Wireless and IBM entered a Tomlin Order capacity to other carriers.
at the High Court of England and Wales.
The effect of that order was to stay the legal proceedings, which existed The plaintiffs sought unspecified money damages in their between Cable & Wireless and IBM in relation to the complaints.
On 31 December 2003, the terms of the GFA expired Cable & Wireless having given notice to terminate The Company and related individuals led motions to the same in June 2003 and in January 2004, all services dismiss the class action complaint, which were heard on previously provided by IBM under the terms of the GFA 31 October 2003.
In March 2004, the Court issued orders in were insourced back to Cable & Wireless.
respect of the motions to dismiss.
Class action securities litigation against Digital The Court orders state in summary that: Island, Inc. Cable & Wireless and others r the defendants motions including Cable and Wireless Digital Island Inc. Digital Island, Cable and Wireless plc to dismiss the consolidated class action complaint plc, Dali Acquisition Corp. Dali a former subsidiary of are granted: Cable & Wireless which subsequently merged with Digital r the motion of Sir Ralph Robins, the Companys former Island to form Cable & Wireless Internet Services, Inc., and chairman, to dismiss the claims against him for lack of certain of the then present and former directors of Digital personal jurisdiction is granted: and Island, were named as defendants in six separate putative r the defendants alternative motions to dismiss the class action lawsuits alleging various claims arising out of claims of foreign non-US purchasers for lack of Cable & Wireless acquisition of Digital Island in August subject matter jurisdiction are denied.
Three of the lawsuits were led in the US District Page 18 business description Court for the District of Delaware and three were led in the Claim against the Minister of Finance and Economy, Delaware Court of Chancery.
The three federal lawsuits Panama were consolidated into a single case.
On 16 December 2002, a complaint was led by two Panamanian lawyers exercising a public action at the Third The federal suit alleged that the defendants violated federal Chamber of the Supreme Court of Justice of Panama securities laws by failing to disclose on a timely basis that questioning the law governing and rules of Public Bid Digital Island had entered into certain business agreements No.
06 96 won by INTEL, S. A. now Cable & Wireless with Bloomberg, L. P. and Major League Baseball.
Complaints led at the Third Chamber of the alleged that compensation agreements with certain ofcers Supreme Court of Justice must be led against the public and or directors of the company violated the federal officer who enacted the relevant regulation of act.
One state lawsuit alleged complaint was led against the Minister of Finance and violations of Delaware law based upon similar allegations.
Economy in Panama specifically alleging that the Operating Agreement executed between Cable and Wireless CALA The other two state lawsuits alleged various violations of Management Services Limited and INTEL, S. A. now Cable Delaware law against the same corporate defendants and the & Wireless Panama, S. A. as part of the privatisation present and former Digital Island directors, including that agreements was null and void ab initio, on the grounds that they failed to disclose all material facts relating to Digital it had not been published in the Ofcial Gazette in Panama.
Islands relationship with Microsoft, and that they failed to obtain a fair price for Digital Island shares.
The Operating Agreement enables Cable & Wireless Panama, S. A. to use the technical and management knowOn 10 September 2002, a federal District Court granted the how of Cable and Wireless CALA Management Services defendants motion to dismiss the federal lawsuits with Limited to more effectively full its obligations under the prejudice.
Plaintiffs appealed the decision to the US Circuit concession granted to it by the Government of Panama to Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit.
On 6 February 2004, install, operate and exploit telecommunication services in the US Circuit Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit upheld Panama.
Cable & Wireless Panama, S. A. due to its close the decision of the federal District Court that the lawsuits be interest in the outcome of the complaint requested dismissed.
This decision is final as to Cable and Wireless recognition by the Court and permission to participate in the plc.
Litigation with Cibertec Internacional, S. A. and On 21 March 2003, the Court permitted the claim to Inversiones Kamasu, S. A. proceed.
Cable & Wireless Panama, S. A. led an appeal against the admission of the claim to proceed, however the Cibertec Internacional, S. A. and Inversiones Kamasu, S. A.
Court confirmed its decision to permit the claim to proceed initiated proceedings against Cable & Wireless Panama, S. A. on 17 March 2004. and Cable and Wireless CALA Management Services Limited in Panama on 29 October 1999.
The claim was for As required by Panamanian law, the Administrations General approximately US$125 million and alleged breach of Attorney has provided an opinion to the Court in defence of contract.
On 18 December 2002, the Civil Circuit Judge of the law or regulation which is the subject of the complaint.
the First Judicial Circuit of Panama handed down a decision The Administrations General Attorney has opined that the against Cable & Wireless Panama, S. A. awarding damages Operating Agreement complied with all the requirements of US$67,255,000, including moral damages and costs.
The established by the law and by the rules of Public Bid judge dismissed the complaint against Cable and Wireless No.
06 96 and was countersigned by the General CALA Management Services Limited.
Comptroller acting with due authorisation.
Cable & Wireless Panama, S. A. subsequently appealed the The proceedings are on-going.
judgment on 3 December 2002 and the parties settled the case on 28 October 2003.
The settlement was approved by Panamanian counsel consider this claim to be without merit the First Superior Court of Panama on 6 November 2003. and none of Cable and Wireless plc, Cable & Wireless Under the terms of the settlement, Cable & Wireless Panama, S. A. or Cable and Wireless CALA Management Panama, S. A. did not accept or recognise any liability to the Services Limited is party to the complaint.
However, if the plaintiffs but voluntarily agreed to make a payment of complaint were to be successful, the concession under which US$14.5 million to the plaintiffs.
The plaintiffs have waived Cable & Wireless Panama, S. A. operates will not be all claims in this matter against Cable & Wireless Panama, affected, however the Operating Agreement could be S. A. and Cable and Wireless CALA Management Services declared null and void and then the complainants could le a Limited.
complaint against Cable and Wireless CALA Management Page 19 business description Services Limited requiring the return of all management Caribtel is to refrain from using the Dedicated Internet fees collected under the agreement since its execution on 20 Access DIA facility in breach of the service provider May 1997.
This would amount to approximately 60 agreement and upon execution of a new agreement for million.
In the event that this complaint is successful, Cable Dedicated Internet for Voice and Data incorporating a DIA & Wireless and its subsidiaries intend to vigorously pursue facility, the existing DIA agreement will be terminated.
any legal recourse available to them.
Arbitration between Tilts Communications A S Claim by Caribtel Caribbean Limited Cable and Wireless plc Sonera OY and Republic of Latvia Lattelekom SIA On 9 May 2003, Caribtel Caribbean Limited, a telecommunications operator specialising in calling cards, In September 2001, Cable and Wireless plc was joined as a led a suit against Cable & Wireless Jamaica Limited in the party to an arbitration in connection with its former Supreme Court of Judicature of Jamaica.
Caribtel has alleged participation with Sonera OY Sonera in the joint venture that Cable & Wireless Jamaica Limited wrongfully Tilts Communications A S Tilts.
disconnected Caribtels local access telephone services, resulting in a breach of contract and a violation of the Through Tilts, Cable and Wireless plc and Sonera purchased Jamaican Fair Competition Act and the Telecommunications a 49 per cent shareholding in a Latvian telecommunications Act.
Caribtel is claiming US$50 million of lost income to its company, Lattelekom SIA in 1994.
Cable and Wireless plc pre-paid local access calling card business for the period sold its interest in Tilts to Sonera in June 1998. from 25 April 2003 to 25 April 2006.
Caribtel has also claimed aggravated and or exemplary damages of On 3 March 2004, all of the parties in the arbitration signed Jamaica $300 million and is seeking injunctive relief to a Settlement Agreement, which settled all past and present require Cable & Wireless Jamaica Limited to reinstate claims.
The successor entity to Sonera, TeliaSonera AB, Caribtels local access telephone service.
agreed to pay The Republic of Latvia Latvian Lat1 million under the Settlement Agreement.
Cable and Wireless plc was On 22 May 2003, Caribtel presented a petition for injunctive not required to pay any sums to settle the arbitration.
Sonera relief before the Supreme Court of Jamaica requesting that and subsequently TeliaSonera AB indemnified Cable & Cable & Wireless Jamaica Limited be required to reinstate Wireless for any of its liabilities including costs incurred in Caribtels local access telephone service: be restrained from the arbitration and, to date, has paid a substantial amount of disconnecting any other telecommunications facility these costs.
currently supplied to Caribtels business premises until trial: and be prevented from calling on a prior bank guarantee that Arbitration between PT Cable, Inc. Cable and Caribtel had provided to Cable & Wireless Jamaica Limited Wireless plc, Cable & Wireless IDC, Inc. and others in conjunction with a settlement agreement entered into PT Cable, Inc. PT Cable the US end owner of NPC between the parties in February 2003 relating to breaches of Cable System spanning from the United States to Japan, contract by Caribtel in December 2002.
The injunctions were has initiated an arbitration proceeding against the Company, not granted by the Court.
However, Cable & Wireless Cable & Wireless IDC, Inc. IDC and other users of Jamaica Limited gave an undertaking that it would not capacity on that system for unpaid operations and disconnect the direct internet access facility pending a maintenance fees with respect to the US end.
To date, the hearing scheduled for 2 June 2003. unpaid component by Cable & Wireless is less than Prior to the hearing of 2 June 2003, Caribtel approached US$2 million.
Cable & Wireless and all 14 other owners Cable & Wireless Jamaica Limited with a view to arriving at have counter-claimed against PT Cable for overcharging a settlement.
The parties entered into negotiations as a result operation and maintenance fees.
PT Cable is cross-claiming of which the matter was taken off the Court list by consent against Cable & Wireless and IDC in their capacity as of both parties.
Once an indirect access product had been maintenance authorities and alleges that the Company and IDC should be liable to contribute to any damages the nalised and approved by the Ofce of Utilities Regulation Arbitrator may award against PT Cable.
Three arbitrators in Jamaica, a settlement agreement was executed between have been appointed and are in the process of preparing the Caribtel and Cable & Wireless Jamaica Limited on 30 July terms of reference for the proceeding.
Under that settlement agreement Caribtel has withdrawn its Potential exposure of PT Cable is between US$13 million claim against Cable & Wireless Jamaica Limited and treats and US$33 million.
PT Cables counter-claim against Cable the claim as settled.
Cable & Wireless Jamaica Limited is & Wireless and IDC is for an unquantifiable proportion of not required to make any payment to Caribtel, however that amount.
Page 20 business description Pender Insurance Limited pending claims, proceedings investigations or reviews against the Company or any of its subsidiaries, which the Legal proceedings have recently been led and served Company believes will if determined adversely to the Group against Cable & Wireless Groups wholly owned insurance have a material adverse effect on the Groups liquidity or subsidiary, Pender Insurance Limited Pender bya results of operation.
former policy holder of Pender.
As these claims have not yet been fully quantied or substantiated by the plaintiff, it remains impracticable to estimate their financial effects.
As a result of the deconsolidation arising from the Pender intends to vigorously defend these proceedings.
withdrawal from the US domestic market, there are no legal From time to time, the Company and its subsidiaries are proceedings involving CWA being Cable & Wireless USA, subject to legal or regulatory claims, proceedings, Inc. Cable & Wireless Internet Services, Inc. together with investigations or reviews.
Other than the above, there are no certain of their afliates set out in this section.
