business description United States FCC.
Private carriers generally are not subject to these requirements, but are required to make contributions to the As discussed more fully at the beginning of this section, on federal universal service fund based on international and 23 January 2004, Cable & Wireless Internet Services, Inc. interstate telecommunications revenues, in the same manner and Cable & Wireless USA, Inc. together with certain of as common carriers.
Intrastate telecommunications services their afliates referred to as CWA entered into an are subject to regulation by the relevant state public utility agreement with SAVVIS Communications Corporation commission and may be subject to licensing requirements, SAVVIS for SAVVIS to acquire substantially all of the tariffs, and or subsidy mechanisms.
This followed the sale process under Chapter 11, Section 363 of the US Bankruptcy Code.
All of Other markets the conditions to the sale were satisfied and the completion of the sale was announced on 8 March 2004.
Cable & Wireless Panama operates in a fully liberalised market.
The regulator is Ente Regulador fide Los Servicios In order to provide US connectivity for data and IP services Publicos.
to Cable & Wireless multinational customers based in other regions, Cable & Wireless continues to operate in the United CTM Macau has an exclusive concession agreement to States through its subsidiary Cable & Wireless Americas provide xed national and international services until 2011 Operations, Inc. CWAO.
CWAO provides international, subject to review in 2006.
Mobile and IP services were interstate and intrastate communications services to liberalised in 2001.
CTM Macau is subject to the regulation customers who require service to, from or through the of the Ofce for the Development of Telecommunications United States.
Under US law, interstate and international and Information Technology.
telecommunications services are regulated by the Federal Communications Commission FCC while intrastate Batelco, a Cable & Wireless associate company in which services are regulated by state commissions.
Non-dominant Cable & Wireless has a holding of 20 per cent, operates in service providers such as CWAO are subject to a lesser Bahrain where the market is in the process of liberalisation.
degree of regulation than designated dominant service Currently there is competition in domestic mobile and providers.
CWAO also provides information services which internet services with the remainder of services liberalising generally are not regulated in the United States.
Batelco is regulated by the The regulated telecommunications services provided by Telecommunications Regulatory Authority.
CWAO may be classied as either common carrier or private carrier services depending upon the nature of the The licence TeleYemen held for operating the international service offering.
As a general matter, US law requires that carrier in Yemen expired at the end of 2003.
As a common carrier services be offered a upon reasonable consequence Cable & Wireless has now exited that market.
request, b on rates, terms and classications which are just and reasonable, c without unjust discrimination or undue Cable & Wireless has smaller operations and interests in preferences basis, and d pursuant to authorisation of the other countries, which are at varying stages of liberalisation.
PROPERTY As at 31 March 2004, Cable & Wireless and its subsidiaries The size of Cable & Wireless property portfolio has lease or own in excess of 2,000 properties.
The majority of reduced signicantly over the last financial year primarily as sites are located in the United Kingdom, Panama and the a consequence of the disposal of the US domestic business Caribbean although the spread of properties extends across together with other smaller operations in and around Europe.
continental Europe, Asia, and islands in the Atlantic and Additionally, a continuing rationalisation programme is Indian Oceans.
Numerically, the bulk of properties are small being carried out, generally focusing on reducing ofce technical sites, which house equipment necessary to support space, to match Cable & Wireless reduced headcount and Cable & Wireless operations.
In general, Cable & Wireless ongoing operational requirements.
Acquisition of both ofce technical properties enjoy the protection of and technical sites occurs where required.
telecommunications legislation, which has the aim of ensuring the continuity of Cable & Wireless networks.
