business description Rest of the World undertake a feasibility study.
Internet services were liberalised in January 2003.
Bahrain Cable & Wireless owns 20 per cent of its associate Bahrain Telecommunications Company Batelco.
Batelco provides domestic and international xed line and mobile telecommunication, data and internet services to residential and business customers.
The Government of Bahrain has announced its intention to sell its equity holding in Batelco.
The Government has a holding of 36.67 per cent.
The telecommunications market in Bahrain has begun to be liberalised, with MTC Vodafone launching a mobile service in December 2003.
Rest of the World comprises Cable & Wireless businesses in Guernsey, Bahrain and the Maldives, together with Infrastructure smaller operations in the Seychelles, Bermuda, Sakhalin in In the Caribbean, Panama, Macau and Rest of the World, Russia, Diego Garcia, Falkland Islands, Fiji, Ascension, St Cable & Wireless typically operates as the domestic Helena, Vanuatu and Solomon Islands.
Guernsey and the incumbent, owning and operating the domestic xed line Maldives account for 54 per cent of the Rest of the World networks and associated international interconnect facilities.
Cable & Wireless also has international and domestic network facilities in the United Kingdom, Japan, continental Guernsey Europe and the United States.
Cable & Wireless owns 100 per cent of Cable and Wireless Guernsey Ltd C&W Guernsey.
C&W Guernsey is the Cable & Wireless operates significant international incumbent operator in Guernsey providing xed and mobile submarine cable and satellite systems.
Many of Cable & voice and data services to all segments of the market, Wireless subsidiaries and associates also own and operate including residential, businesses and government.
Examples include Jamaica GSM and provider is planning to launch 3G mobile services in TDMA and Trinidad and Tobago GSM and TDMA in the summer 2004 in line with the States of Guernseys Caribbean as well as Panama GSM and TDMA, Macau liberalisation policy.
GSM, the Maldives GSM and Bahrain GSM.
Maldives Cable & Wireless continues to expand its GSM network in the Caribbean and has rolled out GSM networks in Jamaica, Cable & Wireless has a 45 per cent interest in, and management control of, Dhivehi Raajjeyge Gulhun Private Barbados, Cayman, St Lucia, Dominica, Grenada and Limited Dhiraagu.
The remaining 55 per cent are held St Vincent with further GSM launches planned across the by the government of the Maldives.
Dhiraagu provides Caribbean during 2004. exclusive domestic and international xed and mobile telecommunication services to residential and business Cable & Wireless companies also operate some 20 data customers.
The government has announced its intention to centres within its national and international operations license a second mobile operator and has invited bids to offering a wide selection of web-based and hosting services.
REGULATORY FRAMEWORK Cable & Wireless, like other international telecommunication regulation is administered through enforcement of conditions providers, faces regulatory and market access constraints in contained in operating and service licences held by the various countries resulting from laws, public policies and Group and its subsidiaries.
This reects the perception of telecommunications as a public service, a history of special Many of the markets in which Cable & Wireless operates or exclusive rights to provide services and, often, a are in transition from monopoly environments to competitive structured move towards liberalisation and the introduction markets.
With the global trend towards liberalisation, Cable of competition.
Generally, specialist telecommunications & Wireless is engaged with host governments, who want to Page 14 business description modify exclusive licences, in order to facilitate an orderly specified times, the whole or part of the Groups transition to a fully competitive environment.
The shareholding in the operating company.
discussions involve negotiating revised regulatory arrangements which provide for equal treatment and The international trend is for telecommunications opportunity during the transitional period.
liberalisation and the replacement of exclusive licences with non-exclusive licences alongside rules governing competition In all jurisdictions where it operates, Cable & Wireless is between operators.
Jurisdictions that currently support required to comply with regulations which affect its monopoly provision may also decide to promote business.
The Group believes it complies in all material competition, and Cable & Wireless anticipates that some respects with all material regulatory obligations and where existing exclusive licences will not be renewed on an regulatory compliance issues emerge it takes action to ensure exclusive basis or that governments will seek to withdraw compliance.
their exclusivity before the licence expires.
Licensing The Group is committed to participating in discussions on the introduction of competition in any territory where its Cable & Wireless provides international and domestic government wishes to do so.
telecommunications services under exclusive and nonexclusive licences in the jurisdictions in which it operates.
There is no guarantee that an agreement to provide either a These licences are either held by Cable & Wireless itself or monopoly or franchised service will remain in effect for the by local operating entities owned either wholly or partly, full term of the agreement.
directly or indirectly, by Cable & Wireless.
The Group believes it has all licences material to the Regulation by jurisdiction running of its business.
It is possible that from time to time, The regulatory institutions and policies of the jurisdictions in as further products and services are deployed or changed, which the Group operates are varied.
additional licences or authorisations will be required.
Where the Group identies the need for further licences or authorisations, it intends to acquire such licences.
The terms Europe of the Groups licences vary, although most remain in effect Following the transposition of the EU electronic for a xed period of 10 to 25 years, or for an indefinite communications directives into national laws, member states period subject to notice of termination after a specified will no longer require market entrants to hold an individual minimum period.
Licence fees are sometimes required, either licence.
Instead, providers of electronic communications as a xed annual fee or a fee equal to a percentage of the networks and services are regulated through general revenue or profits arising from the licence.
Accordingly the individual licences that Cable & Wireless holds in EU member states have been or Following the implementation of the European Union will be revoked in the near future.
Outside the European electronic communications directive, which was intended to Union, Cable & Wireless operates in Guernsey, the Isle of be transposed into national law by member states by 25 July Man, Norway, Russia and Switzerland with relevant licences 2003, member states of the European Union will no longer and authorisations.
issue individual telecommunications licences to companies except in exceptional circumstances such as the allocation of The regulatory framework in member states of the European spectrum.
Therefore, Cable & Wireless expects that Union is harmonised by EU directives though there are substantially all telecommunications licences it holds in EU divergences in regulatory policy and practice between member states will be revoked.
Cable & Wireless will member states.
The directives of the European Union 2003 continue to offer telecommunications services subject to electronic communications package were adopted by the obligations set forth in general conditions as dictated by the European Union in February 2002 and seek to harmonise electronic communications directive and individual member telecommunications across the European Union.
states were required to implement the directives by 25 July Some licences provide that, upon their termination, the 2003, although many have not met this requirement.
The relevant government may purchase, or have the option to legislative package involves the concept of significant purchase, the property, plant and equipment of the licensee market power to determine which operators should have in that territory at a fair market value.
In some cases, where prior obligations placed on them, on the grounds that such the Group owns an operating company jointly with operators might exploit that market position to the detriment government, that government has the right to purchase, at of competition and therefore consumers.
Page 15 business description United Kingdom Cable & Wireless Barbados operates in fully liberalised xed line and mobile domestic markets.
The international The telecommunications market in the United Kingdom is market is scheduled to be liberalised later in 2004.
The regulated primarily under the Communications Act 2003 regulatory authority for xed telecommunications in UK Comms Act.
The UK Comms Act sets the Barbados is the Fair Trading Commission.
Mobile framework for the regulation of telecommunications telecommunications are regulated by the Ministry of Industry broadcasting markets as well as the civilian use of spectrum and International Business.
Insofar as it applies to telecommunications markets, it updates the Cable & Wireless Cayman Islands operates in a fully Telecommunications Act 1984 and transposes the EU liberalised market.
Cable & Wireless Cayman Islands is electronic communications directives into UK law.
It also subject to the regulation of the Information and lays out the powers and duties of the industry regulator, the Communications Technology Authority.
Five member states of the Organisation of Eastern Caribbean Following reviews by Ofcom, BT has been designated as States Dominica, Grenada, St Kitts and Nevis, St Lucia, St having significant Market Power in a number of markets.
Vincent and the Grenadines are contracted in a single BT is therefore required to provide cost-based jurisdiction for telecommunications regulation with a interconnection for switched voice services and leased line regional regulator, the Eastern Caribbean Telecoms access circuits Partial Private Circuits to providers of Authority ECTEL, and are also subject to the public electronic communications networks such as Cable & jurisdiction of national regulators, the National Telecoms Wireless on non-discriminatory terms.
Such services are Regulatory Committees.
Telecommunications markets in the subject to network charge controls.
ECTEL states are fully liberalised.
Following the review of wholesale International Direct Dial IDD markets, Cable & Wireless has a designation of Japan significant Market Power on wholesale IDD routes from the Cable & Wireless IDC is a registered telecommunications United Kingdom to four destinations: Ascension, Diego business and is approved by the Ministry of Public Garcia, Montserrat and Turks & Caicos.
The obligations Management, Home Affairs, Posts and Telecommunications.
associated with this designation are minimal.
Among the services Cable & Wireless IDC provides in Japan are web hosting, international and domestic voice and In addition, in common with all other providers of xed data services, IP access, managed corporate services, and public voice networks in the United Kingdom, Cable & wholesale services to other carriers in the Asian region.
Wireless has been designated as having significant Market Power in the markets for geographic call termination on the Substantial revisions to the Telecommunication Business UK network.
As this designation has been applied to all Law came into effect as of 1 April 2004.
Under these operators, obligations are likely to be minimal and the Group revisions, the separation of telecommunication business expects that there will be little or no impact.
licences between Type I facilities and Type II services Ofcom has launched a review of the UK telecommunications was abolished.
Telecommunication licences now are regulatory framework which Cable & Wireless understands classied as notied or registered telecommunication is scheduled to be completed by end of calendar year 2004. licences.
The revisions also introduced a significant degree of tariff deregulation, relieving non-dominant operators of The Caribbean the need to le tariffs.
Cable & Wireless has businesses in 16 countries in the Interconnection charges for origination and termination of Caribbean.
Cable & Wireless is, or has been, exclusively trafc on the networks of Nippon Telegraph and Telephone licensed in the majority of these territories which are now NTT East Corporation and NTT West Corporation either fully liberalised or are in transition.
Cable & Wireless impact the profitability of Cable & Wireless IDCs voice is engaged in ongoing dialogues with host governments to business.
The Ministry of Public Management, Home facilitate an orderly transition to liberalisation.
Affairs, Posts and Telecommunications regulates these interconnection charges.
Certain interconnection charges The regulatory frameworks in which the most significant used by Cable & Wireless IDCs voice services were Cable & Wireless Caribbean businesses operate are retroactively adjusted to reect actual trafc trends resulting described in this section.
in an increase of approximately 10 per cent from 1 April Cable & Wireless Jamaica operates in a fully liberalised 2003 compared to the prior year.
There is the possibility of market, regulated by the Ofce of Utilities Regulation.
further retrospective increases later in 2004.
