The Merchants Trust PLC Investment Managers Review Economic Background Market Trends After growing by 2% in 2002, the UK economy appears to have The FTSE 100 Index started the last financial year at 3567 and, achieved growth of the order of 2.5% in 2003.
If anything this whilst February saw little change, sentiment crumbled in March rate of growth was accelerating towards the end of the year in with the index falling nearly 5% to 3287 on 12 March.
This the face of high government spending and a relaxed monetary marked the low point for the year and, with hindsight, for the policy.
After the rapid expansion in earlier years, consumer two year bear market.
These events also coincided with the expenditure showed some signs of decelerating in 2003 but, in invasion of Iraq and sentiment built from then on, as the general, the housing market remained reasonably buoyant.
military campaign was seen to be a success.
As the graph on Business investment was subdued, following on from the overthis page shows, the market appreciated in a fairly consistent investment seen in earlier years.
Overseas, the US economy fashion over the rest of the financial year.
This occurred in spite expanded well, growing by nearly 5% on an annualised basis by of the fact that investors became increasingly convinced, as the the year end, but Europe recorded very modest growth, year progressed, that UK interest rates would have to be raised.
handicapped by the recovery in the Euro.
In the Far East, the Indeed by December, futures markets were discounting base emergence of China as a major industrial power had a rates of approximately 5% by the end of 2004. significant impact on commodity prices, and Far East stock markets recovered well.
The best performing sectors in the last year were information technology 96.7% and cyclicals such as automobiles UK base rates started the year at 4%, and saw two % cuts in 78.1% and leisure 65.6%.
Many of these sectors had February and July before rising again by % to 3% in performed poorly in previous years.
In contrast the dull November.
Just after the Trusts last year end, there was a performers were food producers 11.9%, oils 13.0% and further % increase to 4% as the Monetary Policy Committee utilities 13.7%.
This latter group are clearly less economically attempted to take some of the heat out of consumer sensitive, however the under-performance of the oil sector was expenditure.
Indeed this change in interest rate policy appears at odds with the sustained strength of the crude oil price.
to have been one of the key factors behind sterlings strength Perhaps the most significant trend in the last year was the over the latter half of last year.
Nevertheless sterling fell by strong performance by the FTSE 250, or mid cap, index, approximately 5% against the Euro over the whole of the twelve which returned a total of 54.9%, reflecting its cyclical months to January, but appreciated by nearly 10% when characteristics.
compared with the US dollar.
A number of major UK companies now declare their dividends in US dollars, including BP and HSBC, and in the short term this factor has inhibited the growth in the Trusts dividend income.
