The Merchants Trust PLC Investment Managers Review Portfolio Changes Future Policy Following the change in market sentiment, from March 2003 Looking ahead, equity markets, particularly in the UK, face a onwards the Managers were actively seeking to find new and number of challenges in the current year.
Share prices have follow on investments, which would gain from the more appreciated substantially, interest rates are moving upwards, positive environment.
Additions to existing holdings included sterling has risen and taxes have also been increased.
Despite Dixons, Hanson and Lonmin whilst the key new investments these factors, the corporate sector is in general coping well, were EMI, Friends Provident, GKN and Kesa, the electrical with profitability continuing to benefit from the trends seen in retail business fide-merged from Kingfisher.
Indeed this new found confidence is being reflected in a revival of merger and acquisition activity as well as a pick-up in In the property sector, where the current tax regime may be new issues.
subject to a favourable review as announced in the Budget, there were purchases of Great Portland and Slough.
Elsewhere In the last year a number of important UK market sectors have a new holding was purchased in BAT in the light of the not reaped the full benefit from the rise in overall share values.
proposed new structure for its US business.
The managers As a result there are still some attractive opportunities, subscribed for the rights issues announced by Rexam and especially in the FTSE 100 Index where the Trust is United Utilities as well as for four new issues: Benfield, predominately invested.
This is expected to provide the platform Northumbrian, Vedanta and Yell.
Overall the number of for further progress in capital values in the current year, as well holdings remained broadly unchanged at just over 60. as under-pinning the Trusts dividend base.
As part of the policy of changing the emphasis in the portfolio, there were a number of disposals in the utility sector including Pennon, Severn Trent and Scottish Power.
There were also disposals of Associated British Ports and Boots, where their share price valuations appeared to discount fully their trading prospects.
Additionally the Trusts holding in Royal Sun Alliance was sold in anticipation of a large rights issue.
Lastly the portfolio benefited from two take-over bids in the cases of Wilson Connolly and Safeway, the latter commencing just before the start of the 2003 4 financial year.
In the former case the Trust took shares in the successful bidder, Taylor Woodrow, and this new holding was increased following the bids success.
Performance Attribution Analysis for the year ended 3 1 January 2004 % Capital return of FTSE 100 Index23.1 Relative return from Portfolio 0.6 Capital return of Portfolio 23.7 Impact of gearing on Portfolio 9.0 Expenses charged to capital 2.0 Change in Net Asset Value per Ordinary Share 30.7 8
