The Merchants Trust PLC Risk Review Financial Reporting Standard 13 Liquidity risk Liquidity risk relates to the capacity to meet liabilities.
Derivatives and Other Financial Instruments: Disclosure The Companys assets mainly comprise realisable securities, FRS 13 requires entities to disclose narrative and numerical which can be sold to meet funding requirements if necessary.
information about the financial instruments that they use.
Short-term flexibility can be achieved through the use of overdraft facilities, where necessary.
This information is given so that investors in the Company can decide for themselves whether their investment is high or low Interest rate risk risk.
It allows them to assess what kind of impact the use of Interest rate risk is the risk of movements in the value of financial instruments investments, cash overdraft and financial instruments as a result of fluctuations in interest rates.
borrowings will have on the performance of the entity.
Short term debtors and creditors are not considered to be financial The Company invests predominantly in equities, the values of instruments.
They have been included at the bottom of the which are not directly affected by changes in prevailing market numerical disclosure in Note 20 a merely to enable users of the interest rates.
Therefore there is minimal exposure to interest accounts to reconcile the summary provided to total net assets rate risk.
The Company finances its operations through a mixture of share The narrative below explains the different types of risks the capital, retained earnings and long term borrowings.
Numerical disclosures are listed in Note 20 to the Accounts.
These disclosures are in line with the requirements of FRS 13.
Foreign currency risk Foreign currency risk is the risk of movement in the values of As an investment trust, the Company invests in securities for overseas financial instruments as a result of fluctuations in the long term.
Accordingly it is, and has been throughout the exchange rates.
year under review, the Companys policy that no short term trading in investments or other financial instruments shall be The Company invests predominantly in UK listed securities.
Accordingly, the capital value of the Companys investments are not materially affected by exchange rate movements.
As a The main risks arising from the Companys financial proportion of the investments pay their dividends in US dollars, instruments are market price risk, liquidity risk and interest rate income can be subject to exchange rate risk.
The risk profile and the policies adopted to manage risk did not change materially during either the current or previous year.
Credit risk Credit risk is the risk of default by a counterparty.
Market price risk Market price risk arises mainly from the uncertainty about In February 2000 the Company commenced stock lending in future prices of financial instruments held.
It represents the order to generate additional income.
The risk of default is potential loss the Company might suffer through holding market managed by holding collateral, in the form of letters of credit positions in the face of price movements.
The Board meets and FTSE 100 equities amounting to 105% of the mid market regularly to consider the asset allocation of the portfolio in order value of the stock on loan.
The level of collateral required is to evaluate the risk associated with particular industry sectors.
dedicated fund manager has the responsibility for monitoring the existing portfolio selection in accordance with the Companys investment objectives and seeks to ensure that individual stocks meet an acceptable risk reward profile.
