The Merchants Trust PLC Investor Information Results Half-year announced September Full-year announced March Report and Accounts posted to Shareholders April Annual General Meeting held May Ordinary Dividends First quarterly paid August Second quarterly paid November Third quarterly paid February Final usually paid May Preference Dividends Payable half-yearly 1 August and 1 February Market and Portfolio Information The Companys Ordinary Shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The market price, price range, gross yield and net asset value are shown daily in The Financial Times and The Daily Telegraph.
The net asset value of the Ordinary Shares is calculated weekly and published by the London Stock Exchange Regulatory News Service.
The geographical spread of investments and ten largest holdings are also published monthly by the London Stock Exchange Regulatory News Service.
They are also available to any enquirer of Allianz Dresdner Asset Management on 0800 317 573 or on the Managers website: www.
Share Prices The share prices quoted in The London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for 31 January 2004 were 326.0p-326.5p.
For CGT indexation purposes at 31 March 1982 the share price, after adjustment for bonus issues, was 48.75p.
Savings Scheme The Allianz Dresdner Asset Management Investment Trust Savings Scheme provides a convenient and economical way for shareholders to increase their existing holdings.
Investments can be in the form of a regular payment or an individual lump sum and there is an arrangement for the reinvestment of dividends.
There are also facilities for selling and switching.
Full details of the scheme are available from Allianz Dresdner Asset Management on 0800 317 573 or on the Managers website: www.
Investment Trust Maxi ISA & PEP Transfer Shareholders can invest in the shares of the Company through the Allianz Dresdner Investment Trust Maxi ISA and PEP.
Full details are available from Allianz Dresdner Asset Management on 0800 317 573 or on the Managers website: www.
Website Further information about the Company is available on the Managers website www.
15 The Merchants Trust PLC Investor Information The Managers On 30 January 2004 Allianz Dresdner Asset Management UK Limited, Allianz Groups regulated UK fund management company, re-registered as RCM UK Limited.
Allianz Dresdner Asset Management is the marketing name of RCM UK Limited, which is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
Allianz Dresdner Asset Management Group is one of the largest fund managers in Europe.
As at 31 December 2003, the Allianz Dresdner Asset Management Group had combined assets of 709 billion under management.
Allianz Dresdner Asset Management, through its predecessors, has a heritage of investment trust management expertise in the UK stretching back to the nineteenth century and had 1.04 billion assets under management in a range of investment trusts as at 31 December 2003.
Payment of Dividends Direct to Bank Accounts Cash dividends will be sent by cheque to first-named shareholders at their registered address together with a tax voucher.
Dividends may be paid directly into shareholders bank accounts.
Details of how this may be arranged can be obtained from Capita Registrars, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU.
Dividends mandated in this way are paid via BACS Bankers Automated Clearing Service.
Tax vouchers will then be sent directly to shareholders at their registered address unless other instructions have been given.
Association of Investment Trust Companies AITC The Company is a member of the AITC, the trade body of the investment trust industry, which provides a range of literature including fact sheets and a monthly statistical service.
Copies of these publications can be obtained from the AITC, Durrant House, 8-13 Chiswell Street, London EC1Y 4YY.
Category: UK Growth and Income 16
