Directors Peter Stormonth Darling David W J Price Chairman Aged 56, is chairman of F&C Management Limited, Gartmore Aged 71, is chairman of Atlas Capital Group Holdings S. A. and Asia Pacific Trust plc and a non-executive director of The Big a non-executive director of Merrill Lynch Asset Allocator plc and Food Group plc and Scottish American Investment Howard fide Walden Estates.
Until 1992, he was chairman of Company plc.
Until 1997, he was deputy chairman of Mercury Mercury Asset Management Group plc.
He is a member of the Asset Management Group plc.
Investment Committee of the United Nations Joint Staff Pension Fund and a director of The International Institute for Strategic John L Walker-Haworth Aged 59, was formerly a managing director in the investment Studies.
banking division of UBS, although not connected with the team which acts as broker to the Company: he was last employed by Mark S Evans Aged 70, was formerly a partner of Laing & Cruickshank and UBS in 2000.
He is deputy chairman of The Takeover Panel and retired as chairman of Credit Lyonnais Laing Corporate Finance chairman of GB Group plc.
He is a non-executive director of TT electronics plc.
He is chairman of the Companys Audit and Management Edmund A Wallis Aged 64, has recently retired as chairman and group chief Engagement Committee.
executive of Powergen Ltd and a director of London Transport Limited.
Richard A F McClean Aged 66, retired as chief executive and publisher of the International Herald Tribune in March 1998.
He is a nonexecutive director of Henderson Electric and General Investment Trust plc and Johnsons International Group Ltd. Beatrice Philippe Aged 56, is president of PIM Gestion France SA and Philippe Investment Management Inc, a New York based investment advisory company.
She is a director of CBrooke Investment Partners Limited in the UK and Philippe European Opportunities Fund PLC in Dublin.
All the directors are non-executive and were all appointed to the Board of the Company in 1994, with the exception of Mr Walker-Haworth, who was appointed to the Board in 2000.
The Board as a whole constitutes the Audit and Management Engagement Committee.
Merrill Lynch European Investment Trust plc 15
