Investment Managers Report Performance of the portfolio In an environment of generally improving investor sentiment, European equity markets posted a marked reversal to last years cyclical sectors such as software and computer services and IT downward trend, with the FTSE World Europe ex UK Index hardware benefited the most, whereas the more defensive increasing 36.4% in Sterling terms.
Over the same period, the segments of the market such as food retailers and portfolios diluted net asset value rose 31.5%, thus pharmaceuticals failed to participate fully in the rally.
The Company benefited from being geared in a positive market, The strong gains posted by European equity markets during the contributing to the undiluted net asset value performance of year masked significant volatility.
Sentiment shifted rapidly 34.6% in Sterling terms.
The effective level of gearing was during the period, driven by macroeconomic and geopolitical 7.1% at the year end.
factors, such as the progress of the war in Iraq and terrorism.
The Company also benefited from its emerging European and Investors started 2003 with concerns about the extent of the Russian holdings.
The emerging European markets in particular, slowdown in the global economy, given rising unemployment once again delivered robust returns due to improving economic and fragile consumer confidence.
However, the beginning of performance.
Profits were taken in one of the New Century hostilities in Iraq marked a turning point in investor sentiment Holdings funds, reducing the exposure to this region to 1.4% of and we saw a sustained rally in equity markets for nearly eleven investments at the year end.
Investors believed that the coalitions invasion of Iraq would lead to a swift victory which would bolster confidence in The Companys underperformance was largely attributable to the US and drive a recovery in global demand.
The portfolio was positioned too defensively at benefited as earnings were steadily upgraded on the back of the beginning of the financial year with exposure to sectors improving economic data and robust company results.
However, such as pharmaceuticals and food producers.
As investors began as weaker macroeconomic data emerged on the horizon in to take on a greater appetite for riskier shares after the onset of February, and news of the Madrid terrorist bombings permeated the Iraq war, these defensive sectors did not rally as much as markets in March, investor sentiment began to decline at the their higher risk counterparts, such as software and telecoms.
Renewed appreciation of the Euro Although we added significantly to our positions in more versus the US Dollar has represented a further challenge for economically-exposed sectors, we were not early enough to European companies.
take full advantage of the gains.
Euro continued to strengthen against the US Dollar The portfolio has also maintained an emphasis on shares with high quality management and steadily increasing earnings in a US Dollar to Euro exchange rate year of high volatility.
Unfortunately this year, lower quality 1.25 stocks generally have outperformed higher quality names, both in Europe and globally.
Negative contributors to performance 1.20 included Gucci, Heineken, Schering and Unilever.
There were also a number of stocks that we did not own that delivered 1.15 outstanding returns, such as Allianz which rose 123% during the year.
1.10 On the positive side, holdings in the cyclical service sector, such 1.05 as Adecco, Publicis and Pinault Printemps Redoute which latter holding was sold prior to the year end, all boosted portfolio 1.00 returns.
The Companys most significant contributors were to be found in IT hardware, in telecom equipment suppliers Ericsson and Alcatel.
These holdings are particularly exposed to the Source: Datastream.
recovery in consumer demand and have benefited from substantial management restructuring.
6 Mar-03 Jun-03 Sep-03 Dec-03 Mar-04 Investment Managers Report continued Outlook Portfolio distribution by market capitalisation as at 31 March 2004 Compared to a year ago, European equity markets have appreciated substantially, as economic recovery has started to deliver improvements in corporate profits.
Global and European business and consumer confidence indicators have also shown 55% significant improvement and now suggest that the largest global economies are in a more sustainable expansion mode.
42% The principal drivers have been the renewed growth in world trade, the recovery in US industrial production due to stimulative fiscal and monetary policy and the strong performance of the Chinese economy.
A number of leading indicators are now peaking, suggesting that equity markets may move into a different phase.
We believe that higher quality companies that 3% are delivering consistent earnings growth will lead the market Euro 10bn between Euro 2bn to 10bn Euro 2bn from here after a period dominated by lower quality stocks that were more geared to the early stages of economic recovery.
Source: Merrill Lynch Investment Managers.
European confidence indicators are improving Investment activity 10 The Company remains invested in a concentrated number of stocks, which totalled 63 at the year end excluding the Eastern 5 European funds.
As already noted, we increased the exposure 0 to cyclical and growth stocks during the period.
In particular, we -5 purchased Siemens, and added to existing holdings in Ericsson -10 and Nokia.
In the more defensive industries, we sold the entire -15 holding in Aventis and reduced the holdings in Royal Dutch Petroleum and Total.
-20 -25 Several other themes have run through our investment strategy Industrial confidence -30 Consumer confidence this year.
We have been seeking returns from corporate -35 reconstructions, such as in the Italian banks Banca Intesa and Capitalia.
We have also been seeking exposure to companies which are increasing their capital investment, such as the hotel Source: European Commission, Datastream.
chain Accor and the construction company Holcim.
Finally, we have been investing in companies with superior sales growth Profitability at the corporate level has reached remarkably high driven by product advantage, such as Ericsson and LVMH.
levels for this stage in the economic cycle, indicating that the significant restructuring efforts by companies in the last few years are delivering results.
Costs have remained low as sales growth has recovered, leading to an increase in operating margins and when combined with continued reductions in borrowings, this has resulted in earnings growth of around 25% in 2003 and the prospect of a double digit increase in 2004.
Merrill Lynch European Investment Trust plc 7 Dec-89 Dec-91 Dec-93 Dec-95 Dec-97 Dec-99 Dec-01 Dec-03 Investment Managers Report continued A major risk facing equity investors relates to geopolitical factors such as terrorism which by their nature are hard to predict.
It is likely that the accommodative monetary policy of the main central banks will gradually normalise leading to higher short term interest rates.
Valuations 8 FTSE World Europe ex UK - dividend yield 7 European Benchmark Bond yield 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 Source: Datastream.
We believe, however, that there are a number of catalysts for share price outperformance for many of our holdings over the coming months.
The Company is well positioned to take full advantage of European equity market gains, particularly if economic recovery proves sustainable.
Merrill Lynch Investment Managers Limited 1 June 2004 8 Mar-93 Mar-94 Mar-95 Mar-96 Mar-97 Mar-98 Mar-99 Mar-00 Mar-01 Mar-02 Mar-03 Mar-04
