Investment Managers Report Portfolio performance As commodity prices are denominated in dollars and natural As set out in the Chairmans statement, we are pleased to resources equities could thus be viewed as dollar earners it is report that a good second half performance was enough to to be expected that a structurally weak dollar will have a wipe out the negative returns seen in the first half of 2004. sizeable effect on returns in the Companys portfolio.
Certainly However taking the year as a whole the performance of the the short dollar and long commodities pair trade has been portfolio was somewhat disappointing given that commodity popular amongst dollar-based investors aiming to protect prices were generally stronger and many companies in the themselves from a falling paper currency by holding physical mining sector reported record earnings.
The correlation between the trade weighted dollar and the Companys net asset value NAV and share price with net both commodity equities and commodities is well documented income reinvested rose by 2.7% and 2.8% respectively.
In and there is no doubt that a weak dollar is usually good for capital only terms the NAV rose by 1.6% and the share price mining and gold shares.
This compares with the HSBC Global Mining Index sterling terms which rose by 2.5% capital only and 4.4% The situation is not though without its complexities.
commodity-linked currencies such as the Australian dollar, the Canadian dollar and especially the South African rand have all Although the overall gain achieved during the year was modest been stronger than one would expect to see just from dollar it is noteworthy that the Companys share price and NAV weakness.
As a consequence, corporate earnings have been reached new all-time highs during 2004 of 226.75p and crimped in these areas relative to those in dollar zone areas.
This is certainly one of the reasons why mining equities responded in such an insipid fashion in comparison with the Mining share overview price movements of virtually all commodities during 2004.
The global capital market backdrop was broadly neutral to mildly positive in 2004 with lacklustre economic activity in the In addition to currency movements, two other key factors US and especially Europe matched by continuing strength of contributed to the unusual divergence between commodity economic growth in China.
Ongoing political and military prices and the shares of the companies that produce the problems in Iraq though, coupled with the high oil price, sapped commodities: worries over Chinese growth and worries over the enthusiasm for equities generally in the first half of the year.
Federal Reserve action to raise interest rates.
These long term However the second half of the year saw stronger performance factors impact because the pool of participants in commodity in the equity markets meaning the MSCI World Index finished markets is different from that of equities and they have different 2004 up 14.7% US$ terms.
Currency effects have again been motivations.
Sometimes market events which impact important for investors in world equities and a Euro or Sterling commodities have little impact on equities and contrariwise.
For based investor will have found the returns from the MSCI World example between January and mid-May 2004 mining equities Index less appealing than a dollar based investor at 4.7% and suffered badly as a consequence of long term equity investor 7.0% respectively.
jitters concerning the outlook for the Chinese economy.
Commodity markets on the other hand tended to focus more Weakness of the dollar was a persistent stock market theme on the here and now and largely ignored the potential during the year and is likely to remain important for the slowdown paying more attention to the continuing strength of Companys portfolio as we progress through 2005.
Similarly equity market concerns about has come under pressure due to deep seated concerns about Federal Reserve tightening tend to be shrugged off by the sustainability of the USs large current account deficit.
Furthermore, despite the recent dollar weakness, the US trade position has remained poor and Novembers trade deficit of $60bn was the highest ever and equivalent to $205 for every man, woman and child in the country.
With US interest rates remaining at a low level in both real and nominal terms there is little obvious incentive to hold dollar cash.
Merrill Lynch World Mining Trust plc 5 Investment Managers Report continued This divergence is illustrated in the chart below which compares Price %Change % Change mining equities with an index of base metal prices.
It can be seen 31 12 04 12 month Average 04 03 that the divergence reached its widest point towards the end of Gold US$ troy oz 438 5.0% 12.6% April early May when China worries were at their peak and the Silver US$ troy oz 6.81 14.3% 36.5% first Federal Reserve tightening for several years loomed.
In fact Platinum US$ troy oz 861 5.9% 22.3% April turned out to be the fourth worst month for absolute Nickel US$ tonne 15,202 8.6% 43.7% returns of mining equities in the past twenty years and the Companys portfolio fell by over 15% during that month alone.
Copper Cents lb 148 41.3% 61.1% In the second half of the year metal prices resumed their Aluminium US$ tonne 1,963 23.3% 19.9% upwards trend and investor confidence returned to the mining Zinc US$ tonne 1,269 26.0% 26.6% sector which then was able to catch up much of the lost Tin US$ tonne 7,762 18.3% 73.5% performance.
Gold and precious commodities Gold equities performed poorly in 2004 with the FT Gold Mines 180 Index dropping 6.9% in dollar terms despite the gold price 170 HSBC Global Mining Index reaching new 16 year highs towards the end of the year.
As was MG Base Metal Index 160 the case in 2003, market enthusiasm for gold shares was 150 eroded by a stream of opportunistic capital raisings coupled 140 with poor earnings performances from the major companies in 130 the sector.
110 Golds performance was helped by a combination of a weak 100 dollar, low interest rates, stagnant gold mine output down 4% in 2004 according to consultants GFMS, rising investment 90 demand and gold mine hedge buybacks.
Investment demand 80 Sep 03 Dec 03 Mar 04 Jun 04 Sep 04 Dec 04 in particular received a big boost from the long awaited launch of the StreetTRACKS gold Exchange Traded Fund on the New Source: Datastream.
York Stock Exchange which for the first time will allow US institutional investors an easy route into the gold market.
The Virtually all commodities both hard and soft rose in price during gold ETFs have now in aggregate soaked up about 200 tonnes the year.
The table shows the price moves of those metals and of gold.
On the supply side, the gold market took heart from minerals that are most important to the Companys portfolio.
the renewal of the Central Bank Gold Agreement which locks Although as mentioned above some of the gloss was taken off the leading European Central Banks into a further five years of by currency movements, the better pricing environment showed gold sales quota albeit with a limit raised to 500 tonnes per through in some good earnings numbers for the leading annum.
It is though far from certain that the European Central companies in the mining industry.
Despite mounting pressure on Banks will entirely fill their quota as the Bundesbank has production costs, the big diversified mining companies are declared that it will pass up all but eight tonnes of its sales mostly expected to have achieved record earnings for the year entitlement next year.
This decision is due to Bundesbank and will also be making record returns to shareholders.
reservations about using the proceeds of gold sales to help plug Germanys yawning budget deficit.
Investment in gold shares has not been a large feature of the portfolio strategy in 2004.
At year end 2003 gold exposure in the portfolio stood at 19.2% and at end 2004 it stood at 11.3%.
This reduction reflects the weaker capital performance of gold shares in comparison with other parts of the mining sector as well as further reduction in positions.
Nonetheless gold 6 Indexed at 100 Investment Managers Report continued remains an important element in the portfolio gold shares in of the Murowa diamond mine 78% Rio Tinto 22% RioZim.
Although production has started off at a low level of 200,000 carats per annum, there is scope to lift this to 1 million carats The most disappointing gold shares in 2004 were again the per annum.
The Companys portfolio includes a holding South African producers Harmony 1.6% of the portfolio and equivalent to 6% of RioZims issued capital.
This stock is carried Gold Fields 2.9%.
The strong rand pressured their profitability in the portfolio at zero value in view of the poor marketability of all year and in October Harmony launched a hostile takeover bid the stock and the difficulty of currency conversion.
for its fellow South African producer with the aim of exploiting synergies and gaining more critical mass.
We voted the Base metals Companys shares against this transaction as we were Base metals had an excellent year with China underpinning unconvinced of the argument that shareholder value would be demand and a weak dollar flattering the price trend.
Subsequent to the commencement of the bid, the inventories in London Metal Exchange LME warehouses shares of both companies have fallen in value.
The outcome of declined reflecting favourable supply and demand trends.
For all the corporate battle remains in the balance.
of the base metals, inventories are either at or approaching levels where we would normally expect to see price strength The largest gold holding in the portfolio, Buenaventura 5.1% and volatility.
The MG Base Metals Index a basket of metals of the portfolio, also had a difficult year and was impacted by rose by 24.3% during the year and the average price was up by local and national Peruvian politics.
At the local level, farmers in over 39% in comparison with the average for 2003.
Base metal Peru have become increasingly sensitised to land use issues and equities as a whole though were barely changed with the base have caused Newmont and Buenaventura to suspend metals sub index of the HSBC Global Mining Index up by 2% in exploration in a portion of their Yanacocha mining lease.
national level the Peruvian Government is planning to introduce sales-based tax that will impact the sector.
We believe that profit Nickel, 2003s strongest base metal, proved to be the weakest in based taxation is more appropriate for cyclical sectors.
2004, declining from US$7.54 lb to US$6.89 lb over the course of the year.
Nickel was the only major base metal to fall in price Platinum remained firm in 2004 and in April reached a new all year on year although the average price for 2004 was time high of US$936 oz.
This strength can be attributed to the significantly higher at US$6.28 lb vs US$4.38 lb in 2003.
The slow ramp-up of production in South Africa together with strong pricing environment led to a surge in earnings and cash buoyant demand from the autocatalyst market.
There are signs flows of the main nickel producers in the portfolio.
Nonetheless that the jewellery industry is resistant to paying such highly the share prices of the North American producers Inco and elevated prices for metal.
The Companys portfolio currently Falconbridge were disappointing with Inco 1.5% of the holds three platinum equities: Impala Platinum 4.6% of the portfolio posting a fall of 7.6% during the year and portfolio, Aquarius Platinum 0.4% and Anglo American Falconbridge 4.8% only managing a rise of 7.0% US dollar Platinum 0.3%.
All three have operations based in South terms.
Star performer was the French nickel-manganese Africa and have thus been impacted by the strong rand.
Impala company Eramet 1.1% which rose by 85% in US dollar terms and Aquarius both completed major Black Economic and stunned analysts with earnings far in excess of Empowerment BEE transactions during the year.
The worst performer in the nickel area was case, this involved divesting its holding in Lonplats into a BEE Norilsk Nickel down 20.7% which was impacted by vehicle for a substantial cash consideration.
This will be used to Russia concerns.
support a stock buy-back in the coming months.
Several of the nickel-related companies were involved in The diamond market was again strong this year with fide Beers corporate action in 2004.
The two largest proposed implementing three price rises.
Our largest diamond equity transactions  and WMCholding is Aber Diamond 4.0% of the portfolio which owns a Xstrata are discussed elsewhere in this report.
The other large 40% stake in the Diavik mine in Canada with Rio Tinto holding nickel deal to affect the portfolio was the agreed bid for the 60%.
This mine continues to show great promise and as we Australian stock MPI Mines by the Canadian nickel miner predicted in last years annual report Aber has now paid its Lionore.
This was consummated in January 2005 and we have maiden dividend.
In Zimbabwe, Rio Tinto began commissioning Merrill Lynch World Mining Trust plc 7 Investment Managers Report continued retained the resulting holding in Lionore in the portfolio and developing the Kansanshi copper mine in Zambia and also disposed of the gold spin-off Leviathan.
enjoyed success on its extensive exploration properties on the border between the Democratic Republic of Congo and Zambia.
At year end, nickel exposure in the portfolio stood at 8.9% down a little from end 2003 10.1% reflecting mainly the Most other copper equities in the portfolio such as Antofagasta partial disposal of the holding in Inco and outright sale of the 1.6% of the portfolio, Southern Peru Copper 0.8%, Jiangxi holding in the Australian producer Minara which continued to Copper 1.7% and Amerigo Resources 1.4% had excellent struggle in attempting to reach design capacity.
earnings but returned only small gains.
Palabora Mining 1.4% once more proved a laggard dropping by 33% and has As we predicted, copper continued its strong run in 2004, grappled with a combination of the strong rand and operational starting the year at 105.3c lb and finishing at 148.7c lb for a problems at its mine in South Africa.
Interestingly, a possible year on year gain of 41.3%.
The average for the year exceeded solution to Palaboras woes may come from iron ore. As a bythe average for 2003 by 61.1%.
The price strength resulted product of copper mining Palabora has accumulated an 238mt from a combination of good underlying demand especially in stockpile of magnetite which is now economically viable at China and supply disruptions.
The most notable production todays iron ore prices and will be shipped over the next several side problem came at Freeport Coppers Grasberg mine in years.
We re-established a holding in Freeport McMoRan Indonesia where a large pitwall failure led to some 180,000t of Copper & Gold 0.2% of the portfolio following the resumption lost production.
Grasberg is the worlds largest copper mine and of normal mining at Grasberg.
We sold the holdings in Ivanhoe the shortfall exacerbated an already tight market.
Inventories of and Norddeutsche Affinerie during the year.
copper in LME, COMEX & Shanghai warehouses slipped to historically low levels of 124,000 tonnes equivalent to less Thanks to the strong cash flows, dividend flow from copper than one week of consumption.
Not surprisingly the low companies picked up sharply in 2004.
Southern Peru more than inventory levels encouraged speculative activity which pushed tripled its payout in 2004 and is currently trading on a dividend copper as high as 149.1c lb in October the highest price since yield of 5.5%.
Freeport Copper also lifted its payment by over 1988.
In addition to the high copper price many copper mining 300% despite the operating difficulties suffered earlier in the companies also received an added boost from by-product year.
Cerro Verde paid a maiden dividend and announced a molybdenum which surged from 6.25US$ lb to 33.00US$ lb.
major investment programme to lift production substantially at its Peruvian mine.
4,000,000 160 The strong underlying cash flows within the copper industry 140 3,500,000 coupled with the lacklustre share price performance has restored 3,000,000 120 considerable value into the equities.
As a result we expect to see a resumption of corporate activity in this area of the market.
In 2,500,000 100 2004, corporate action in the copper industry centred on the long- 2,000,000 80 running merger proposal of Southern Peru with Grupo Mexicos 1,500,000, 60 mining business.
We quite like the commercial logic of this deal and once consummated may lift the overall size of the holding.
1,000,000 40 500,000 20 With many of the copper equities behaving in a lacklustre 0 0 manner we attempted to capture some of the benefits of the rising price through direct investments in copper futures.
At year end all the physical copper positions had been liquidated.
At the LME COMEX Shanghai Copper Price RHS LME LME COMEX end of 2004, copper exposure in the portfolio was 9.9% compared with 10.6% at the end of 2003.
Given the strength of the market the performance of the Companys copper equities was disappointing.
Best performer Aluminium continued to lag behind other base metals during was First Quantum Minerals 2.2% of the portfolio and up 43% 2004, weighed down by the large stockpiles of metal in LME in dollar terms this company made considerable progress in warehouses and elsewhere.
Nonetheless aluminium reached 8 Tonnes 000 Jan 00 Apr 00 Jul 00 Oct 00 Jan 01 Apr 01 Jul 01 Oct 01 Jan 02 Apr 02 Jul 02 Oct 02 Jan 03 Apr 03 Jul 03 Oct 03 Jan 04 Apr 04 Jul 04 Oct 04 Cents lb Investment Managers Report continued nine year highs towards the end of the year and gained 23.3% occurs then we expect that zinc prices could become buoyant.
over the course of the year.
This price strength failed to inspire Regrettably, after years of depressed prices there are few the equity markets and Alcoa, the worlds largest aluminium sizeable zinc plays for us to invest in.
However March 2004 saw company fell in price by 17% during the year.
the flotation of the Australian company Zinifex a new company emerging phoenix-like from the ashes of the former At current price levels Alcoa is, in our view, becoming an Pasminco.
Zinifex endured a poor stockmarket debut and this increasingly attractive investment.
At end December Alcoa gave us the opportunity to build up a holding now 1.9% of the represented 1.6% of the portfolio a considerable portfolio at an attractive price.
Towards the end of the year we underweight position in comparison with our benchmark also participated in an equity issue by the Swedish zinc miner index 5.3%.
One of the ways that we have been aiming to Boliden 0.4% of the portfolio.
This integrated base metal increase the Companys holding is through put writing in company operates the Tara mine in Eire Europes largest zinc which we agree to potentially buy stock at a fixed price on a mine as well as the Aitik copper mine and a number of other fixed date in exchange for an option premium.
We currently polymetallic mines in Sweden.
At the junior end of the market have written puts covering 80,000 shares which, if exercised we invested in an equity issue by Griffin Mining which is would lift Alcoa to about 2.6% of the portfolio.
The Chinese developing the Caijiaying zinc gold project in China due to aluminium company Chalco the best performing stock in the enter production in the summer of 2005. portfolio during 2003 also fell substantially by about 23%.
Chalco has been impacted by tariff changes in China.
We took Our investment in the Peruvian tin miner Minsur 1.1% of the considerable profits from the holding in Chalco during the year portfolio had a good year with the shares rising by 60.7% in and it now represents only 1.6% of the portfolio.
Minsur is one of the largest and certainly the most profitable tin miners in the world and benefited from the high The best performing aluminium share in the portfolio was Alcan tin price as well as the disposal of its holding in Corporacion Aluminium 1.2% of the portfolio which rose by just under 5% Backus in 2003.
This debt free company has accumulated a during the year.
Alcan has been successfully integrating last considerable cash-pile and while some of this was paid out as a years acquisition of Pechiney and recently announced the spinsizeable dividend at year end, the remainder might be out of its rolling business into a new company Novelis.
earmarked for a new gold discovery that the company has reportedly made.
The largest aluminium investment in the portfolio representing 4.0% is the Australian company Alumina Ltd the shares of The portfolio has futures positions in zinc and tin equivalent to which dropped by 5% during 2004.
We like Alumina Ltd 0.4% and 0.1% of the portfolio respectively.
because of its high quality long life assets and its dominant market position it is well placed to grow into the expanding Diversified mining companies and industrial commodities demand from smelters.
We are also expecting to see an increase The UK listed diversified mining companies mostly had a good in the price of the companys alumina production in comparison year buoyed up by record breaking bulk commodity prices and with the price of aluminium itself a helpful factor for margins.
Robust demand from the Chinese Overall, the portfolios exposure to aluminium alumina closed steel industry was again the reason why iron ore and coking the year at 8.9% compared to 13.4% at the end of 2003. coal moved higher with record price rises achieved by producers.
There is every indication that the markets will strengthen further The minor base metals continued to improve their prices during in 2005. the year with lead going to a 14 year high of US$1,055 tonne, tin reaching a 15 year high of US$10,087 tonne and zinc The best performing stock was Xstrata up by over 58% in US moving to a five year high of US$1,269 tonne.
Xstrata 4.0% of the portfolio was the last of the performance of zinc is particularly encouraging as it always major coal producers to settle 2004 contract prices and seems to be a perennial laggard.
Inventories of zinc in LME therefore achieved significantly better prices than others who warehouses have been declining and China has turned around struck terms earlier.
Furthermore, the company benefited from from being a net exporter of the metal to being a modest net its timely purchase of MIM in early 2003 and has therefore importer.
This change suggests that zinc might see a sizeable had good exposure to the recovery in base metals prices.
The deficit of supply in comparison with demand in 2005.
If this net result for Xstrata was a 413% surge in net profits.
In Merrill Lynch World Mining Trust plc 9 Investment Managers Report continued October, Xstrata sought to keep up the momentum by making a returning surplus capital to investors a factor which Rio Tinto hostile cash bid for WMC Resources.
If Xstrata is successful in its has now rectified following its annual results presentation.
bid, it will deepen the companys exposure to copper and add uranium and nickel to the suite of products thereby Apart from Xstratas bid for WMC Resources, the largest broadening the companys appeal to international investors.
corporate deal in the sector in 2004 was Brascans proposed WMC has itself had an excellent year in 2004 with the strong disposal of its holding in Noranda.
As mentioned in the base metals prices contributing to a surge in cash flow dividends Companys interim report we had accumulated sizeable holdings and earnings.
WMC Resources has already indicated that it will in both Noranda and Falconbridge Norandas majority owned make a 30c share capital return to shareholders in 2005 as well mining arm in anticipation that Brascans disposal might trigger as buying back $250m of stock.
We like the proposed business an auction for these businesses.
In the event however, there was combination of Xstrata and WMC but in view of the sizeable less interest in Noranda than expected and the only serious premium of the WMC share price to Xstratas offer we have cut buyer China Minmetals appears to be in no hurry to our holding substantially.
As a result we have disposed of the portfolio holding in Noranda while retaining the holding in 2003s best performer BHP Billiton 6.5% of portfolio had Falconbridge 4.8% of the portfolio which has enjoyed an another excellent year and achieved record earnings and cash excellent year in 2004 thanks to strength in nickel and copper.
BHP Billiton had a perfect product mix and was able to take advantage of stronger iron ore coal and oil gas markets.
As mentioned above, the iron ore market has been strong in BHP Billiton has led the way in demonstrating commitment to 2004 and the Companys two holdings in this area CVRD and shareholder value by returning $2bn through a stock buyback Caemi have both been good performers up by 41% and 95% and $1.5bn through dividends up by 87% on the 2003 levels.
CVRD is the largest investment in the portfolio at The shares rose by 34.2% in dollar terms during the year.
10.2% of assets, and has a fine portfolio of long life and low cost assets.
A substantial increase in the iron ore price is New kid in the sector, Vedanta Resources 1.9% of the expected in 2005.
CVRD is a strong dividend payer and we portfolio, which listed in December 2003 had a much better expect Caemi to declare a maiden dividend in 2005. year in 2004 after its shaky IPO.
The company is the only stock offering exposure to the high-growth Indian market and it made Although the US domestic coal market has not been as strong good progress with its business plan during the year by as the seaborne coking coal market, there have nonetheless recapitalising its local subsidiary Sterlite and pressing ahead with been good price rises for producers.
Inventories at utilities are development projects in zinc copper alumina and iron ore.
In low and the high price of natural gas is forcing utilities to October it acquired Konkola Copper Mines in Zambia, an maximise their coal burn.
This situation is likely to improve acquisition which appears to have been made at an attractive further in 2005.
Our main holding in this area Peabody Energy price.
The shares rose by 15% over the year.
1.5% of the portfolio proved to be one of the best investments in the portfolio up by 94% on the back of the Anglo American and Rio Tinto were the laggards in the UK much improved outlook.
Another strong coal related play was group.
Anglo American 1.5% of the portfolio, which rose by the Canadian company Teck Cominco 3.2% of the just under 10% in dollars, was, like all companies with portfolio.
Teck controls Fording Coal North Americas largest significant South African exposure, adversely impacted by rand coking coal producer.
Teck also has significant exposure to strength.
Rio Tinto second largest holding in the portfolio at copper and zinc both of which are generating improving 7.2% did worse, and rose by only 6.5% in dollar terms despite cashflows.
Teck has finished 2004 free of net debt and favourable underlying price trends in virtually all its products.
Rio announced a doubling of its dividend towards the end of the Tinto suffered from several one off problems including its year.
We like Tecks asset mix and have added to the holding in share of the Grasberg pitwall failure as well as weather related recent months.
Rio Tinto appears to be suffering from a perception amongst investors that it has less Iluka Resources, the Australian minerals sands company growth opportunities than its peers a point that we would announced an excellent exploration discovery in November.
Furthermore both Anglo American and Rio deposit known as Jacinth is rapidly emerging as the best Tinto have been slow to reveal to shareholders a strategy for zircon discovery in many years and will materially add to Ilukas 10 Investment Managers Report continued production profile and valuation.
We have been adding to the moderate from the high levels of recent years it should still be Iluka holding which now stands at 3.4% of the portfolio.
sufficient to support higher commodity prices across a broad front especially the bulk commodities iron ore and coal.
Derivatives activity Within guidelines agreed by the Board, the Group sometimes We expect to see a continuation of the upward trend in gold.
trades in derivatives options contracts, with virtually all of the Mine supply fell 4% in 2004 and is likely to fall further.
activity focused on selling either puts or calls in order to Meanwhile investment demand is growing and central bank generate option premium revenues.
This activity has resulted in sales are likely to decline.
This is a good environment for gold profits in excess of 3.5 million.
These positions, which are especially if the dollar weakens again and the Federal Reserve always small in comparison with the total size of the Group, keeps rate rises on a slow track.
usually have the effect of obliging us to buy or sell stock or futures at levels which we believe are attractive.
At 31 December Our portfolio strategy at the start of 2005 is three pronged: the Group had written put options on Alcoa for 80,000 shares, written call options on WMC Resources for 396,000 shares, and 1 Fully invested portfolio.
Emphasis on companies with strong held futures on 100 tonnes of tin and 2,500 tonnes of zinc.
cashflow and the potential to lift returns to shareholders through higher dividends and share buybacks.
Gearing In addition, at 31 December the Group was utilising 20m of its 2 Emphasis on companies producing those commodities in 35m overdraft facility.
Net gearing is equivalent to 6.0% of net short supply in China i. e. iron ore and coking coal.
The gearing which can be repaid at any time, reflects the Managers positive view of the markets.
A subsidiary 3 Tactical investment in commodities.
of the Company also has a number of futures contracts and investments which has the effect of increasing the gearing of Overall we expect that the mining sector will resume its the Group by a further 1.2%.
outperformance against broader global equities after the lull in 2004.
Outlook and strategy for 2005 The weak improvement in the price of mining equities during Graham Birch & Evy Hambro 2004 against a background of improving commodity prices has Merrill Lynch Investment Managers Limited made the valuations of our largest investments appear 14 February 2005 increasingly attractive.
We believe that global economic growth in 2005 will be sufficiently robust to ensure that supply demand balances in the metals and minerals markets remain favourable with positive implications for prices.
If we are right about the pricing environment then many companies in the portfolio will report record earnings and cash flow.
Given that balance sheets have already strengthened markedly during 2004 there is every likelihood that these strong cash flows will translate into higher dividends and more share-buybacks.
There is also the possibility of additional corporate activity providing further support for the market.
For the fourth year running we expect China to be a key theme in the commodity markets.
Although economists differ widely in their economic growth assumptions for China there is little doubt that its rank in the global economy will continue to increase.
While it seems likely that demand growth will Merrill Lynch World Mining Trust plc 11
