Directors Report The directors present the annual report and financial statements Results and dividend of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings for the year The revenue for the Group is set out in the consolidated revenue ended 31 December 2004. account on page 28.
Consolidated revenue for the year, after taxation, was 4,899,000 2003: 2,816,000.
Principal activity and business review The Company carries on business as an investment trust.
Its The directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 1.75p principal activity is portfolio investment and that of its two per share and have declared a special dividend of 0.75p per share subsidiary undertakings, Merrill Lynch Gold Limited and World in respect of the year ended 31 December 2004 2003: 1.70p.
Mining Investment Company Limited, is investment dealing.
The dividends will be paid on 31 March 2005 to shareholders on the register of members at close of business on 25 February 2005.
A review of the business is given in the Investment Managers The cost of the dividends amount to 4,070,000.
Share capital Status of the Company Details of the Companys share capital are given in note 18 on In the opinion of the directors, the Company has conducted its page 40. affairs during the year under review, and subsequently, so as to qualify as an investment trust for the purposes of section 842 of On 26 March 2004 the Company made a bonus issue of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 ICTA.
The last 1 warrant for every 5 ordinary shares held, resulting in the issue accounting period for which the Company has been treated as of 32,559,564 warrants.
Each warrant entitles the holder to approved as an investment trust by the Inland Revenue was for subscribe for one new ordinary share on 29 April 2005 at 219p.
It is the Companys The Company will write to warrantholders prior to April to intention to continue to seek approval under section 842 of remind them of their subscription rights.
Derivative transactions The Company is an investment company and can take Details of the Groups derivative transactions are given in the advantage of section 265 of the Companies Act 1985 which Investment Managers Report on page 11 and in note 16 on allows an investment company to disregard losses on the capital pages 38 to 39. account when paying dividends out of revenue account.
Directors The Company is not a close company within the meaning of the The directors of the Company on 31 December 2004, all of provisions of ICTA.
whom held office throughout the year under review unless otherwise detailed, and their interests in the ordinary shares The Companys shares are eligible for inclusion in the stocks and and warrants of the Company, are shown in the table below.
shares component of an Individual Savings Account.
As reported in the interim report, Mr A R Fleming resigned as a Continuation of the Company director on 17 June 2004.
As agreed by shareholders in 1998, an ordinary resolution for the continuance of the Company is proposed at each Annual 1 January 2004 31 December 2004 Ordinary Ordinary General Meeting AGM.
Shares Warrants Shares Warrants Going concern P S Wilmot-Sitwell 45,000 45,000 9,000 The accounts of the Company have been produced on a going I C S Barby 5,000 concern basis.
The directors think this is the appropriate basis as O A G Baring appointed the continuation vote, being an annual event, is considered to 4 November 2004 be a routine item, and the majority of the Companys assets are C A M Buchan 20,000 20,000 4,000 readily realisable.
The Company is able to meet all of its liabilities A E Buxton 8,000 8,000 from its assets.
G H Sage 10,000 10,000 2,000 18 Directors Report continued All of the holdings of the directors are beneficial.
No changes to Number of % of Issued Ordinary these holdings had been notified up to the date of this report.
Ordinary Shares Share Capital Lazard Asset Management 13,175,900 8.1 The directors retiring by rotation are Mr P S Wilmot-Sitwell and Mr G H Sage, who both offer themselves for re-election.
Legal & General Investment Management Limited 6,141,803 3.8 Mr Buxton will be retiring after the forthcoming Annual General Reed Elsevier Ltd Pension Scheme 5,700,000 3.5 Meeting on 17 March 2005, as he will have attained the age of 70 by that date and this would be in accordance with the Investment policy Companys established practice.
The Companys investment objective is to maximise total returns to shareholders through a worldwide portfolio of mining and Mr Wilmot-Sitwell has been a director and Chairman of the Company since 1994 and Mr Sage has been a director since metal securities.
Up to 10% of the assets may be invested in 2001.
Both directors have considerable knowledge and physical metals.
No material change will be made to the experience of the mining sector worldwide, as well as wider objective without shareholder approval.
commercial experience, and their re-election is recommended to shareholders.
Mr Wilmot-Sitwell will attain the age of 70 before While the Company may hold shares in other listed investment the 2006 AGM and it would therefore be his intention to retire companies including investment trusts, the Board has agreed at that meeting.
The Board will identify his successor before that that the Company will not invest more than 15% of its gross date.
assets in other UK listed investment companies.
Mr O A G Baring, having been appointed as a director on Investment management and administration 4 November 2004, also retires and offers himself for election.
Merrill Lynch Investment Managers Limited MLIM is the Mr Baring brings to the Board his extensive knowledge of the Investment Manager of the Company under a contract mining sector, as well as wider corporate finance and terminable at six months notice.
The management fee is 0.95% commercial experience.
per annum of gross assets.
The value of any investment in MLIM managed funds is excluded when calculating the management Mr Buchan will become Chairman of the Audit & Management fee.
Engagement Committee, in place of Mr Buxton when he retires.
Mr Sage will become the Senior Independent Director on No penalty on termination of the investment management Mr Buxtons retirement.
contract would be payable by the Company in the event that six months written notice is given to MLIM.
There are no provisions None of the directors has a service contract with the Company.
relating to payment of fees in lieu of notice.
Directors remuneration report Merrill Lynch Investment Managers Group Services Limited The directors remuneration report is set out on page 22.
An MLIMGS acts as the secretary and administrator of the ordinary resolution to approve this report will be put to Company and receives an annual fee of 0.05% of gross assets.
members at the forthcoming AGM.
No persons entitlement to The Bank of New York Europe Limited BNYE is the custodian remuneration is conditional upon the resolution being of the Companys assets.
BNYE received an annual fee of 0.1% approved.
of gross assets until 30 April 2004.
The fee payable to BNYE has been renegotiated with effect from 1 May 2004 and now is Substantial shares interests payable at rates depending on the number of trades effected The Company has been advised that the following shareholders and location of securities held.
owned 3% or more of the ordinary shares of the Company on 11 February 2005.
Both MLIM and MLIMGS are subsidiaries of Merrill Lynch & Co. Inc. Merrill Lynch World Mining Trust plc 19 Directors Report continued Appointment of the Investment Manager Donations The Board keeps the resources and performance of the The Company made no political or charitable donations during Investment Manager under review, and a comparative review of the year.
the terms is undertaken annually.
Payment of suppliers The Board believes that the continuing appointment of the It is the policy of the Company and its subsidiaries to settle all Investment Manager, on the terms disclosed above, is in the investment transactions in accordance with the terms and interests of all shareholders.
The specialist nature of the conditions of the relevant market in which it operates.
Suppliers Companys investment remit is, in the Boards view, best served of goods and services are generally paid within 30 days of the by the Natural Resources team at MLIM, who have a proven date of any invoice.
The Company has no trade creditors.
track record in successfully investing in the mining sector.
Authority to buy back shares Gearing policy A total of 98,490,586 ordinary shares had been purchased and The Manager believes that tactical use of gearing can add value cancelled up to 14 February 2005, although no shares have from time to time.
This gearing typically is in the form of an been bought back since October 2002.
The latest authority to overdraft or short term facility, which can be repaid at any time.
purchase ordinary shares for cancellation was granted to the The level and benefit of gearing is discussed and agreed with directors on 25 March 2004 and expires on 24 September 2005. the Board regularly.
The directors considered it was unnecessary to buy back any shares in 2004 as there was continuing demand for the The Investment Manager generally aims to be fully invested.
The Companys shares in the market, and the discount at which the gearing limit is currently 15% of the Companys net assets.
shares traded to their underlying net asset value remained narrow compared with historic levels and the investment trust Voting policy sector as a whole.
The directors are proposing that their The exercise of voting rights attached to the Companys authority to buy back shares be renewed at the forthcoming portfolio has been delegated to the Investment Manager.
The main objective of any buy back would be to enhance However, the consent of the Chairman of the Board is sought the net asset value per share of the remaining shares.
prior to the Investment Manager voting against incumbent management in respect of any stock held in the portfolio.
Purchases of ordinary shares will only be made through the market for cash at prices below the prevailing net asset value The Investment Managers voting policy states: per ordinary share.
Under the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority the maximum price which can be paid is 5% We will vote in favour of proposals which we expect to above the average of the market values of the ordinary shares enhance shareholder value and on routine issues where we for the five business days before the purchase is made.
In are generally supportive of a companys management: making purchases, the Company will deal only with member firms of the London Stock Exchange.
The directors are seeking We will vote against proposals which we believe may damage authority to purchase up to 24,400,000 ordinary shares being shareholders rights or economic interests: in these situations 14.99% of the issued share capital.
This authority, unless we would normally have raised our concerns with renewed, will expire on 16 September 2006. management in advance: Although the Investment Manager initiates the buy backs, the We will abstain on proposals which we feel unable to support policy and parameters are set by the Board and reviewed at but believe it would be against our clients interests to oppose regular intervals.
The Company intends to raise the cash needed publicly: and to finance the purchase of ordinary shares either by selling securities in the Companys portfolio or by short term In all situations the economic interests of our clients will be borrowing.
20 Directors Report continued The Company currently holds no shares in treasury but will seek Auditor authority to use treasury shares at the forthcoming AGM.
The The auditor, Ernst & Young LLP, has indicated its willingness to Companies Acquisition of Own Shares Treasury Shares continue in office and resolutions proposing its reappointment Regulations came into force on 1 December 2003.
The and authorising the directors to determine its remuneration for Regulations allow companies to hold shares acquired by way of the ensuing year will be submitted at the AGM.
market purchase as treasury shares, rather than having to cancel them.
Up to 10% of the issued shares may be held in this way.
By order of the Board These shares may be subsequently cancelled or sold for cash.
Merrill Lynch Investment Managers Group Services Limited This would give the Company the ability to reissue shares Secretary quickly and cost efficiently, thereby improving liquidity and 14 February 2005 providing the Company with additional flexibility in the management of its capital base.
The Board currently intends only to authorise the sale of shares from treasury at prices at or above the prevailing net asset value per share plus costs of the relevant sale.
This should result in a positive overall effect on shareholders if shares are bought back at a discount and then sold at a price at or above the net asset value per share plus costs of the relevant sale.
By law, directors require specific authority from shareholders before selling shares out of treasury for cash without first offering them to existing shareholders in proportion to their holdings.
Resolution 10 empowers the directors to allot new shares for cash or to sell shares which are held by the Company in treasury, otherwise than to existing shareholders on a pro-rata basis, up to an aggregate nominal amount of 407,000 which is equivalent to 8,140,000 ordinary shares of 5p each and 5% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital.
Unless renewed, this authority will expire on 16 September 2006.
The authority requested above is in addition to the authority granted at the Extraordinary General Meeting of the Company on 25 March 2004, in respect of the issue of bonus warrants, and which expires on 31 May 2005.
Merrill Lynch World Mining Trust plc 21
