DIRECTORS REPORT Directors Report The Directors have pleasure in submitting their After payment of the dividend the within the meaning of section 266 of the Annual Report together with the results of the accumulated revenue balance is decreased Companies Act 1985.
Corporate Governance Review of Activities Status Compliance During the year under review the Company The Company carries on business as an The Board has considered the principles set has followed the normal activities of an investment trust.
It was approved by the out in the 1998 Combined Code the 1998 investment trust company.
A review of the Inland Revenue as an investment trust Code and has also considered the revised main features of the year is contained in the under section 842 of the Income and Combined Code on Corporate Governance Chairmans Statement and in the Managers Corporation Taxes Act 1988 for the year the revised Code and the AITC Code on Portfolio Review on the preceding pages.
For the year ended Corporate Governance the AITC Code, 30 April 2003 the Company has received both of which were published in July 2003. approval under section 842 subject to The Board believes that the Companys Dividends matters that may arise from any subsequent current practice, given the special enquiry by the Inland Revenue into the The Board recommends a final dividend of circumstances of an investment trust company, Companys tax return.
In the opinion of the 0.65p per ordinary share which, together is in all material respects, consistent with the Directors the Company has subsequently with the interim already paid, makes a total principles of the 1998 Code and that it has conducted its affairs so as to enable it to of 1.05p for the year.
taken the necessary steps to comply with the continue to obtain such approval and it will principles of the revised Code that are continue to seek approval under section 842 If approved, the recommended final dividend relevant to it.
The Company has complied of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act on the ordinary shares will be paid on throughout the year under review with the 1988 each year.
6 August 2004 to shareholders on the provisions set out in Section 1 of the 1998 register at the close of business on 16 July Code which are relevant to it unless The Company is an investment company 2004. otherwise stated below.
26 ANNUAL REPORT 2004 DIRECTORS REPORT The Board is also adhering to the principles Company also maintains Directors and believes that this does not affect Mr and recommendations of the AITC Code Officers Liability insurance.
McDougalls independence and that he is except that it does not disclose Directors independent in character and judgement and The number of meetings of the Board and the shareholdings in companies where the there are no relationships or circumstances Audit Committee during the year and the Company has a notifiable stake or where the that are likely to affect his judgement.
Sir attendance of the individual Directors at those holding represents 1% or more of the total Charles Nunneley, having served on the meetings is shown in the following table.
Board for more than nine years, will offer himself for re-election for a further period of Audit The Board one year.
The Board takes the view that his Board Committee The Board has overall responsibility for the independence has not been compromised by Companys affairs.
It has a number of matters Number of meetings 62 his length of service and that his experience reserved for its approval including strategy, Sir Charles Nunneley 62 adds significantly to the strength of the Board.
investment policy, borrowings, treasury CC Ferguson 41 Mr Ferguson and Mr McDougall are both matters, dividend and corporate governance JGD Ferguson 62 directors of The Independent Investment Trust policy.
Full and timely information is provided EM Harley 62 but the Board does not believe that this to the Board to enable the Board to function Lord Howell 62 affects their independent judgement.
Lord effectively and to allow Directors to discharge DCP McDougall 62 Howell is the Senior Independent Director.
The Board also reviews MB Sayers 21 Given the non-executive nature of the Board a the financial statements, investment CFE Shakerley separate nomination committee has not been transactions, revenue budgets and established.
It is the view of the Board that performance.
Mr MB Sayers attended all the meetings the appointment of new Directors should be a held up to the date of his retiral and Under the provisions of the Companys matter for consideration by the Board as a Ms CC Ferguson attended all the meetings Articles, a Director appointed during the year whole.
Due to ill health, is required to retire and seek election by Mr CFE Shakerley was unable to attend the During the course of the year the Board shareholders at the next Annual General meetings held prior to his retiral.
reviewed its composition having regard to the Meeting.
The articles also require that one present and future needs of the Company third of the Directors retire by rotation and The Board currently comprises six Directors all and the need for a balanced Board.
submit themselves for re-election at least once of whom are non-executive and are every three years.
The Board has resolved considered to be independent.
The executive Mr MB Sayers and Mr CFE Shakerley retired further that any Director who has served on responsibilities for investment management from the Board on 6 August 2003.
Mr EM the Board for more than nine years will submit have been delegated to the Companys Harley, who was appointed to the Board on himself for re-election annually.
Managers and Secretaries, Baillie Gifford & 3 June 2003, is a director at Cazenove Fund Co, and in the context of a Board consisting Management and brings considerable New Directors appointed to the Board have entirely of non-executive Directors there is no experience of overseas markets to the Board.
a formal induction meeting with the Manager.
Ms CC Ferguson, who was appointed on Directors will receive other relevant training as Mr McDougall was a senior partner of Baillie 1 September 2003, is a former partner in necessary.
Wood Mackenzie & Co, stockbrokers, a Gifford & Co until he retired on 30 April There is an agreed procedure for Directors to director of Gartmore Smaller Companies 1999.
He is also a director of Pacific seek independent professional advice if Trust plc and the Association of Investment Horizon Investment Trust plc which is necessary at the companys expense.
She brings considerable managed by Baillie Gifford & Co.
The Board THE MONKS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 27 DIRECTORS REPORT financial services experience to the Board.
Baillie Gifford & Co is responsible for the The Board has undertaken a full review of all Lord Howell will retire from the Board at the design, implementation and maintenance of aspects of the published guidance Internal conclusion of the forthcoming Annual General control policies and procedures to safeguard Control: Guidance for Directors on the Meeting and Sir Charles Nunneley will retire the assets of the Company and to manage its Combined Code the Turnbull guidance and immediately following the Annual General affairs properly.
This responsibility also has established an ongoing process for Meeting in 2005. extends to maintaining effective operational identifying, evaluating and managing the and compliance controls and risk significant risks faced by the Company, in During the year, the Chairman appraised management.
accordance with the Turnbull each of the Directors.
The Board, under the recommendations.
To ensure that risk The Companys investments are segregated leadership of the Senior Independent Director, management and internal controls are from those of Baillie Gifford & Co and its appraised the Chairman.
In addition, the considered on a regular basis and that a full other clients through the appointment of The Board assessed its collective performance.
risk and control assessment is undertaken on Bank Of New York Limited as independent Each Directors performance continues to be an annual basis, the following processes custodian of the Companys investments.
effective and each remains committed to the have been established in compliance with the Company.
guidance: Baillie Gifford & Co has an established compliance function in accordance with The Directors have appropriate business and internal controls strategy has been Financial Services Authority regulations.
The financial experience to enable the Board to formalised following the production of a compliance function provides the Board with provide effective strategic leadership and detailed risk map whereby significant risks a report on monitoring procedures at least proper governance of the Company.
are identified and the key controls to annually.
Baillie Gifford & Co conducts an Information about the Directors, including manage these risks are confirmed as in annual review of its system of internal controls their relevant experience, can be found on place and operating effectively: which is documented within an internal pages 9 and 10. controls report.
This report is independently reporting procedures for the internal audit Remuneration reviewed by Baillie Gifford & Cos auditors.
department, in respect of its risk framework Since all the Directors are non-executive, a A copy of the internal controls report is monitoring and audit programme, and the Remuneration Committee is considered submitted to the Board.
The Baillie Gifford & compliance department, in respect of its unnecessary.
The Companys policy on Co heads of internal audit and compliance regulatory monitoring programme, are remuneration is set out in the Directors provide the Board with regular reports on its defined and formalised within a service Remuneration Report on pages 31 and 32. monitoring programmes.
level agreement: and Internal Controls and Risk Management The Directors acknowledge their responsibility regular reports on internal controls are The practical measures to ensure compliance for the Companys system of internal controls prepared by the Managers and submitted with regulation and company law, and to and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The system for Board review.
provide effective and efficient operations and of internal controls is designed to manage investment management, have been rather than eliminate risk and can only These procedures ensure that consideration is delegated to the Managers and Secretaries, provide reasonable but not absolute given regularly to the nature and extent of the Baillie Gifford & Co, under the terms of the assurance against material misstatement or risks facing the Company and that they are loss.
The Directors confirm that they have Management Agreement.
The Board being actively monitored.
Where changes in acknowledges its responsibilities to supervise reviewed the effectiveness of the system and risk have been identified during the year they and control the discharge by the Managers they have procedures in place to review its also provide a mechanism to assess whether and Secretaries of their obligations.
further action is required to manage the risks 28 ANNUAL REPORT 2004 DIRECTORS REPORT Directors Interests Nature Ordinary 5p shares held at Name of interest 30 April 2004 30 April 2003 Sir Charles Nunneley Beneficial 10,000 10,000 CC Ferguson appointed 1 September 2003 Beneficial 29,265 JGD Ferguson Beneficial 10,000 10,000 EM Harley appointed 3 June 2003 Beneficial 10,000 Lord Howell Beneficial 9,013 6,150 DCP McDougall Beneficial 1,375,000 1,375,000 The Directors at the end of the year under review, and their interests in the Company, were as shown above.
There have been no changes intimated in the Directors interests up to 14 June 2004.
Holding at date of appointment identified.
The Board confirms that these at the address on the back cover.
The Investment Manager procedures have been in place throughout the An Investment Management Agreement Companys Annual General Meeting Companys financial year, are operating between the Company and Baillie Gifford & provides a forum for all communication with effectively and continue to be in place up to Co sets out the matters over which the shareholders and the Board announces the the date of approval of this Report.
Managers have authority in accordance level of proxies lodged.
The notice period for with the policies and directions of, and the Annual General Meeting is at least subject to restrictions imposed by, the 20 working days.
The Management Agreement is The respective responsibilities of the Directors terminable on not less than 12 months The Company has given discretionary and the auditors in connection with the notice.
Details of the fee arrangements voting powers to the investment managers, Financial Statements are set out on pages 33 with Baillie Gifford & Co are shown on Baillie Gifford & Co.
The Managers vote and 34. page 41. against resolutions considered damaging to The accounts have been prepared on the shareholders rights or economic interests.
The Board considers the Companys going concern basis as it is the Directors Baillie Gifford & Co gives due weight to investment management and secretarial opinion that the Company will continue in what it considers to be socially responsible arrangements for the Company on an operational existence for the foreseeable investment when making investment ongoing basis and a formal review is future.
decisions, but its overriding objective is to conducted annually.
The Board considers, produce good investment returns for An Audit Committee has been established in amongst others, the following topics in its shareholders.
compliance with the Combined Code review: quality of policy guidance: success consisting of non-executive Directors, all of of investment strategy: investment Directors whom are considered by the Board to be performance: the level of service provided Information about the Directors, including independent.
Its authority and duties are in terms of accuracy and timeliness of their relevant experience, can be found on clearly defined within its written terms of reports to the Board: quality of marketing pages 9 and 10. reference which are available on request.
efforts: comparative costs and The Chairman of the Board, who is a communications with shareholders.
Mr MB Sayers and Mr CFE Shakerley retired Chartered Accountant, is Chairman of the Following the most recent review the Board from the Board on 6 August 2003.
Audit Committee in view of his extensive and is of the opinion that the continued relevant financial experience.
appointment of Baillie Gifford & Co as Lord Howell will retire from the Board at the investment managers, on the terms agreed, The Committee meets at least twice a year conclusion of the Annual General Meeting.
is in the best interests of shareholders.
to review the Companys interim and annual financial statements.
The Committee keeps Relations with Shareholders Sir Charles Nunneley retires by rotation, and, under review the scope and effectiveness of The Companys Managers meet regularly having served on the Board for more than the external audit and considers on a with shareholders and their representatives nine years, offers himself for re-election for a regular basis the independence and and report to the Board.
The Chairman is further period of one year.
The Board has objectivity of the external auditors.
It meets available to meet with shareholders as considered the re-election of Sir Charles at least annually with the external auditors appropriate.
Shareholders wishing to Nunneley, appraised his performance and and approves the level of fees for audit and communicate with the Chairman, the Senior reviewed his independent status.
Sir Charles, non audit services.
It also reviews regularly Independent Director or any other member of who will retire from the Board following the the terms of the Investment Management the Board may do so by writing to the person Annual General Meeting in 2005, has a Agreement.
concerned, for the attention of the Secretaries, wealth of financial services and investment THE MONKS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 29 DIRECTORS REPORT Substantial Holdings No.
of ordinary Name 5p shares held % of issue Scottish Widows Investment Partnership Ltd 15,586,706 5.30 U. S. Steel and Carnegie Pension Plan 12,820,000 4.36 The Standard Life Assurance Company 10,942,365 3.72 Barclays PLC 9,462,789 3.21 Legal and General Investment Management Limited 9,071,665 3.08 The above information has been intimated to the Company as at 14 June 2004 in compliance with section 198 of the Companies Act 1985. trust experience which adds significantly to Shares are purchased at a price after Creditor Payment Policy the strength of the Board.
The Board therefore allowing for costs below the net asset value It is the Companys payment policy to obtain recommends his re-election.
and subsequently cancelled, thereby the best terms for all business.
In general, the reducing the issued share capital see note Company agrees with its suppliers the terms Ms CC Ferguson was appointed to the 16 on page 47.
As a result of such on which business will take place and it is its Board on 1 September 2003 and her purchases, since April 1999 the net asset policy to abide by these terms.
The Company appointment falls to be confirmed at the value per share of the Company is had no trade creditors at either 30 April Annual General Meeting.
Ms Ferguson has approximately 4% higher than it would 2003 or 30 April 2004. valuable financial services experience and the otherwise have been.
The Directors are seeking shareholders Auditors approval at the Annual General Meeting to Resolutions to reappoint Repurchase of Shares renew the authority to purchase up to  LLP as auditors to the The Companys buy-back authority was last 14.99% of the Companys ordinary shares in Company and to authorise the Directors to renewed at the AGM on 6 July 2003 in issue at the date of passing of the resolution, determine their remuneration will be proposed respect of 44,123,858 shares of 5p each such authority to expire at the Annual General at the AGM.
equivalent to 14.99% of its then issued share Meeting of the Company to be held in capital.
No shares were bought back during respect of the year ending 30 April 2005 or By order of the Board the year under review.
2 February 2006, whichever is the earlier.
BAILLIE GIFFORD & Co Under the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Managers and Secretaries The principal reasons for share buy-backs Authority of the Financial Services Authority, are: 16 June 2004 the maximum price that may be paid on the exercise of the authority must not exceed i to enhance net asset value for continuing 105% of the average of the middle market shareholders by purchasing shares at a quotations for the shares over the five discount to the prevailing net asset value: business days immediately preceding the date ii to address any imbalance between the of purchase.
The minimum price that may be supply of and the demand for Monks paid will be 5p per share.
Purchases of shares that results in a discount of the shares will be made within guidelines quoted market price to the published net established, from time to time, by the Board.
Your attention is drawn to Special Business, Resolution No.
8, in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
