MANAGERS PORTFOLIO REVIEW 1 BOC 2 British Land BOC provides gases to a wide British Lands Meadowhall is range of industrial and medical one of the largest and most customers.
successful shopping centres in the UK.
Picture courtesy of British Land.
United Kingdom 1 2 The market rally which began in March low point and we anticipate further modest included BSkyB, Lloyds TSB and Aviva increases.
Against this background a boom while we also reduced our large positions 2003 continued throughout the Companys year and the FTSE World UK index appears unlikely and we expect a in three highly successful investments, returned 19.3%, the first positive return after continuation of steady growth with modest Wolseley, Man Group and Diageo.
As a four years of declines, while our portfolio inflation but with the risks perhaps now result the proportion of the fund invested in again outperformed by a healthy margin, tilted more towards slowdown than the UK fell from 23.3% to 21.4%.
In part the recovery acceleration.
simply reflects the unwinding of some of At current levels the UK market offers those technical pressures, principally forced We continue to focus on companies with relatively secure growth and attractive long selling by life insurers and pension funds, secure and visible growth and reliable term value although share prices have risen accounts which should make healthy further than is justified by the modest which so depressed the UK market last spring but the stronger than expected progress whatever the economic improvement in near term profit background.
Turnover within the portfolio expectations and valuations now look global economy also played its part.
While much of the world has moved from was modest during the year, with the only reasonable rather than outstanding.
We slump to renewed growth, the UK economy significant new purchase being BOC but remain confident that our portfolio consists has continued to grow at close to trend we were more active on the sell side, of good quality and strong companies.
Growth in making net sales of over 22m from the Government spending has been a major UK to fund purchases elsewhere in the factor in the economys resilience and world.
A notable example was the sale of ought to offset any softening in consumer BP, which followed the disposal of Shell demand but the industrial sector is also the previous year, with the proceeds being switched into emerging market oil stocks beginning to show some early signs of renewed life.
The Bank of England has with greater growth prospects and significantly lower valuations.
Other sales begun to raise interest rates from a 50 year THE MONKS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 15 MANAGERS PORTFOLIO REVIEW 1 SKF 2 ABB Assembly of large size spherical New counter-rotating Azipod roller bearing.
extension of the Azipod family is the Contra Rotating Azipod Propulsion CRP unit, which extends the concept to high power applications like ultra-large container vessels and ferries crossing the Baltic Sea and English Channel.
Continental Europe 1 2 European stockmarkets provided a good undertaken.
In such an environment it is We did have some success investing in absolute return in the year to April 2004, not surprising that individuals prefer to corporate turnarounds in cases where the gaining 23.0% in sterling terms.
We are build up savings against an uncertain underlying business was strong and the disappointed to report that Monks future.
prospects for growth were attractive.
European portfolio underperformed the Media conglomerate Vivendi Universal, broad index by a considerable margin, Market conditions at the start of the year electrical equipment company ABB and, in gaining only 14.0%.
The Companys were characterised by very high levels of particular, telecoms equipment company investment in European equities fell during liquidity as central banks made a coEricsson provided positive returns in this the year, to around 13% of total assets.
ordinated effort to prevent deflation taking context.
Interest rates were pushed to very low European companies benefited from the levels, credit spreads tightened The European part of the Companys better global economic conditions considerably and investors risk tolerance portfolio contains a number of companies although the stimulus for higher revenue increased dramatically.
Companies that that will benefit from further demand for and profitability came predominantly from had previously been struggling with weak capital goods from a corporate sector that outside continental Europe.
The core balance sheets were, as a result, able to is currently enjoying record levels of countries of Europe continued to refinance themselves with fresh debt and profitability and cash flow.
SAP, Atlas experience GDP growth well below both equity.
We were slow to comprehend the Copco, SKF and ABB fall into this group.
the global average and their own effect that this easier availability of capital We also have significant holdings in potential.
Exports grew strongly but would have on the share prices of such European luxury goods companies such as consumer demand remained very patchy.
Our bias towards investing in Hermes, Porsche, BMW and LOreal, on There is clearly a connection between the stronger and more profitable European the basis that their exceptional profitability the lack of self-sustaining domestic growth companies proved unhelpful in this will be maintained whilst their customer consumption growth in Europe and the environment.
base in both the developed and society-wide reforms that have to be developing world continues to expand.
16 ANNUAL REPORT 2004 MANAGERS PORTFOLIO REVIEW 1 Sherwin-Williams 2 Mohawk Industries A typical interior of a SherwinMohawk is a leading manufacturer Williams paint store.
Picture and distributor of floor coverings.
Picture courtesy of Mohawk Industries.
North America 1 2 In the year under review the S&P 500 rose A couple of significant additions were expenses, optimistic pension fund by about 11% in sterling terms.
The made to existing holdings.
Moodys is one assumptions, and recurring restructuring Companys North American stocks of the two dominant global debt ratings charges.
We regard this exceptional American investments have changed little business as a cash royalty on the growth of compared to a year ago, as the underlying Three factors contributed to the good international debt markets, and are also businesses continue to trade well, and we relative performance.
First, Altrias share attracted by managements commitment to believe their prices remain attractive.
Third, price rebounded sharply, as news eschew diversification in favour of share the characteristics of the Companys North improved about the pricing and litigation buybacks.
Mohawk is a leading US American stocks are substantially different background for its US cigarette subsidiary.
producer and distributor of floor coverings.
from the index: they have cleaner Headline litigation risk and the associated We like managements astute investment of accounts, higher profitability, and trade on short term share price volatility may never the groups free cash flow, and the low lower multiples of profits.
However, we continue to valuation of the shares.
their prospects in any single year is believe its shares are cheap given its cash unpredictable, but over time we expect generation and secure growth outlook.
While annual investment reports tend to their collective operating characteristics to Second, the oil price remained high, which focus on what has changed over the past produce superior returns.
provided a beneficial operating twelve months, it is important to note that in environment for the companys large oil our view three features remain largely and gas holdings.
First, we still believe that the the Companys largest individual stock excesses of the late 1990s have yet to be investment, continued to trade well.
One result of this is our view the growth prospects of this the generous valuation of most North adjustable-rate mortgage lender are American companies, especially once substantially undervalued by the market.
proper account is made for option THE MONKS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 17 MANAGERS PORTFOLIO REVIEW 1 Asahi Glass 2 Canon Asahi Glass is a leader in the Canons colour photocopiers production of glass for flat panel such as this machine continue television sets.
Picture courtesy of to attract new users.
Japan 1 2 Having fallen to their lowest levels in two property bubble of the 1980s may be sector.
These businesses continue to decades, Japanese equities produced one ending.
expand and we believe that their shares of the higher returns of developed markets Consumer prices appear to be stabilising, should produce satisfactory returns over during the Companys fiscal year.
The as are property prices in certain areas.
However, the attractions of such TOPIX index, for example, which is a Deflationary pressures in the Japanese businesses are generally understood and broad index of Japanese shares, rose by economy have produced challenging valuation levels tend to reflect their 49% in yen terms over the year, although conditions for many businesses in recent strengths.
Japan is also home to companies slight yen weakness versus the pound did years, limiting the options for companies that boast less successful track records reduce the sterling return.
Our portfolio facing higher labour costs, increasing the but have the potential for profitability to did less well than this, though it was burden on the most indebted, and be transformed.
Such companies nevertheless one of the main contributors hampering the banking sectors attempts to comprise the second category of to our overall return.
For example, we purchased a stake in department store Takashimaya The economy grew at a moderate pace We are encouraged by the signs of during the year.
Takashimayas operating last year, helped by overseas demand and improvement, and have increased the performance has been unimpressive for domestic business investment, as well as by Companys investment in Japan during the many years, but we are heartened by further improvement in the industrial year.
The holdings are of two types.
In the the management teams recent production cycle.
Labour market conditions first category are businesses with excellent endeavours to reduce costs.
Needless to have also strengthened, and private market positions such as Toyota Motor, say, shares in businesses such as these consumption has continued to expand.
Canon, and the less prominent Kao, which tend to sell at much lower valuation makes a range of consumer products.
Such levels versus their sales, assets and An interesting question for investors in companies have been managed efficiently potential profits.
We will continue to Japan is whether the period of falling for years and we believe that they search for similar situations in Japan in prices that followed the speculative represent the best of Japans manufacturing the future.
18 ANNUAL REPORT 2004 MANAGERS PORTFOLIO REVIEW 1 Fosters 2 CNOOC Advertising for their new product, New offshore well goes into pink sparkling wine.
Picture courtesy courtesy of Fosters.
Asia Pacific and Other Emerging Markets 1 2 In the year to 30 April 2004 the FTSE Asia many items from electricity to shipping.
forward, it seems likely that interest rates The combination of cheap money and a will be on the rise and that China will be Pacific ex Japan Free index rose by 32.8% in sterling terms, and the FTSE All World seductive growth story brought in heavy growing at a less heady rate than in 2003 Emerging Markets index also rose strongly, flows of speculative capital, causing a and early 2004.
The Companys holdings in degree of excess in some of the more therefore be more difficult, but we believe these regions made a positive contribution exotic markets.
Our holdings in Petrobras that on a longer view this remains a very to performance, primarily as a result of the and Chinese offshore company CNOOC attractive area for investment.
substantial overweight position in the Asia both made strong contributions, but our Pacific region.
The largest single holding more defensive direct holdings, particularly remains the Baillie Gifford Pacific Fund, to in tobacco and brewing, underperformed.
Within domestic economies, most notably which we made a small further addition during the year.
The Pacific Fund returned Hong Kong, there have been encouraging signs that the crushing deflation of recent 38.0%.
Net investment in Asia Pacific and Emerging Markets for the year amounted to years may be abating.
investment potential of a number of companies, and the balance of the Pacific Monetary conditions were very easy Funds portfolio has been altered to reflect throughout the year, which gave strong these new opportunities.
The Chinese economy grew very strongly, driving By Christmas there were some fears that demand for commodities, including oil.
bond markets were discounting too little risk, and it was becoming clear that the Prices of raw materials rose strongly, setting the tone for the outperformance of heavy Chinese engine of growth was in danger of becoming a runaway train.
Looking industrial sectors, as shortages appeared in THE MONKS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 19
