DIRECTORS AND MANAGEMENT Directors and Management Members of the Board come from a broad variety of backgrounds.
The Board can draw on a very extensive pool of knowledge and experience.
Baillie Gifford & Co, a leading UK investment management firm, who act as Managers and Secretaries to the Company has been involved in investment management since 1908.
Directors Edinburgh fund management group.
deputy chairman of the Association of 1 Sir Charles Nunneley Thereafter she moved to Wood Mackenzie, Investment Trust Companies and is a former Charles Nunneley, who is 68, was stockbrokers, becoming a partner in 1984. member of the Executive Committee of the appointed a Director in 1977, became Her most recent position was as Finance Fund Managers Association.
Chairman in 1996 and is Chairman of the Director for Timney Fowler, a textiles Audit Committee.
He is also chairman of company.
She is a non-executive director 4 EM Harley JP Morgan Fleming Income & Capital and chairs the audit committees of the Edward Harley, who is 44, was appointed Investment Trust plc.
After qualifying as a Dental Practice Board and Gartmore a Director of Monks in June 2003.
He chartered accountant he spent his working Smaller Companies Investment Trust plc.
joined Cazenove in 1983, becoming a life from 1962 to 1996 at Robert Fleming, Her current non-executive appointments also partner in 1994.
He has considerable where he was in charge of investment include the Chartered Accountants experience of overseas markets, having management operations and was group Compensation Scheme and the worked in New York and latterly with deputy chairman.
He has held a number of Association of Investment Trust Companies.
responsibility for the firms business in Latin other senior positions inside and outside the America, S. E. Asia and Australia.
He is financial services industry, and has been 3 JGD Ferguson currently a director at Cazenove Fund chairman of the Investment Management James Ferguson, who is 56, was Management and is deputy president of Regulatory Organisation, Nationwide appointed a Director in 2002.
He is the Historic Houses Association.
He is also Building Society, Edinburgh Fund Managers chairman of Value and Income Trust plc involved with the charitable sector both as and The National Trust.
He was knighted in 2003 for services to the heritage.
and The Scottish Oriental Smaller a trustee and as a member of investment Companies Trust Plc and a director of The committees.
2 CC Ferguson Independent Investment Trust Plc, Northern Carol Ferguson, who is 57, was appointed 3 VCT Plc and Edinburgh U. S. Tracker Trust.
He joined Stewart Ivory in 1970, a Director in September 2003.
A qualified becoming chairman and chief executive in Chartered Accountant, she began her 1989 and retiring in 2000.
He is a former investment career with Ivory & Sime, an THE MONKS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 9 DIRECTORS AND MANAGEMENT 1 2 3 4 5 6 5 Lord Howell 6 DCP McDougall Gifford, WS, which had been involved in Lord Howell of Guildford, who is 68, was Douglas McDougall, who is 60, was investment management since 1908. appointed a Director in 1993 and is the appointed a Director in 1999.
He is Baillie Gifford is one of the largest Senior Independent Director.
Lord Howell is chairman of The Scottish Investment Trust investment trust groups in the UK and currently the Shadow Spokesman on plc, The Law Debenture Corporation plc, currently manages eight investment trusts.
Foreign Affairs in the House of Lords.
He 3i Bioscience Investment Trust plc, The Baillie Gifford also manages unit trusts and was previously Secretary of State in Mrs Independent Investment Trust PLC, Foreign Open Ended Investment Companies, Thatchers first Cabinet and has held & Colonial Eurotrust plc and Pacific together with investment portfolios on numerous other political offices.
He has Horizon Investment Trust PLC.
From 1969 behalf of pension funds, charities and other served as a non-executive director of to 1999 he was a partner in Baillie institutional clients, both in the UK and several companies, was a member of the Gifford & Co and from 1989 to 1999 overseas.
Funds under the management or International Advisory Board of the Swiss was joint senior partner and chief advice of Baillie Gifford total around 28 Bank Corporation from 1989 to 1996, investment officer.
He is a former Chairman billion.
Based in Edinburgh, it is one of the and Advisory Director at UBS-Warburg of the Investment Management Regulatory leading privately owned investment from 1996 to 2000.
He is a consultant to Organisation, the Fund Managers management firms in the UK, with 27 two leading Japanese companies, was Association and the Association of partners and a staff of over 400. chairman of the UK-Japan 21st Century Investment Trust Companies.
The manager of Monks portfolio is Richard Group from 1990 to 2001 and received All Directors are members of the Audit Burns, a senior partner of Baillie Gifford.
the Order of the Sacred Treasure from the Committee.
Stock selection is primarily the responsibility Emperor of Japan in 2002.
He is an of specialist teams covering all the regions economist by training, also the author of Managers and Secretaries of the world.
three books and a regular contributor to national and international newspapers.
Monks is managed by Baillie Gifford & Co, The firm of Baillie Gifford & Co is an investment management firm formed in authorised and regulated by the Financial 1927 out of the legal firm Baillie & Services Authority.
