Investment Managers Review Background Compared with the Higher Yield Index the portfolio gained from its exposure to cyclical sectors such as Equity investors enjoyed a year of strong investment returns as share prices recovered from the depths of mining, chemicals and leisure.
A decision to increase the recent bear market.
The rise in share prices was exposure to the real estate sector during the year not however equally spread throughout the year, benefited the portfolio, as this sector enjoyed a rewhich was split into two distinct periods.
For the rating, partly due to the expectation that the Government would introduce a more favourable tax first half of the Companys financial year share prices rose steadily, as the appetite for risk amongst regime for the industry.
The biggest negative investors increased.
Worldwide, investors preferred contributors to relative performance came from the media and aerospace sectors where the portfolio shares of more cyclically exposed companies whose earnings would benefit from a revival in economic exposure was relatively small.
Also, in the relatively defensive beverage sector, the overweight portfolio conditions.
The UK stockmarket is relatively underrepresented in these shares, particularly amongst the exposure was not helpful.
The largest sector largest companies, and so investors looked to smaller weightings within the portfolio remained the oil & gas and bank sectors, although the weightings were companies.
These outperformed sharply with the Mid Cap index producing a total return of 19.1% in consistently below those of the benchmark Higher the six months to 31 December 2003, which Yield Index as the Manager sought to reduce the stock specific risk within the portfolio.
Together, compares with the 12.8% produced by the larger companies within the FTSE100 Index.
these two sectors had a neutral effect upon the Since December, the mood has changed and equities relative performance of the portfolio.
worldwide, including the UK, have struggled to make Attribution Analysis 1 year any further progress.
Although the economic background is satisfactory and corporate profit Net Asset Value total return for year growth good, investors became more concerned per Ordinary share 18.7% about a future slowdown.
The continued high level FTSE 350 Higher Yield Index total return 19.1% of the oil price, which remains over $40 due to a Relative return 0.4% combination of high demand and increased international tension, has not been helpful.
In Analysis of relative return addition, the prospect of rising levels of interest Stock selection rates, which have already increased by over 1% in Resources 0.5% this country from the low point, acted to dampen Basic Industries 0.2% sentiment towards equities.
General Industrials 0.6% Cyclical Consumer Goods 0.0% Helped by the continued high level of public sector Non-Cyclical Consumer Goods 1.0% expenditure and the willingness of the consumer to Cyclical Services 0.1% take on more debt, the UK economy grew by 3.7% Non-Cyclical Services 0.0% over the year under review, which is well ahead of its Utilities 0.0% trend level.
Although the rate of inflation remains Financials 0.2% relatively low, the Bank of England continues to be Total stock selection 1.2% concerned about the continued strength of the Asset allocation 0.2% housing market and this was a contributory factor in Gearing cash effect 1.6% the process of increasing interest rates.
Management fees & other expenses 1.0% Total 0.4% Performance Sources: Russell Data Services AAM FTSE Although the overall performance of the portfolio Notes: Selection effect measures the effect of security selection within each asset category.
Allocation effect measures the was strong in absolute terms, producing a total impact of over or underweighting each asset category, relative to return of 18.7%, this was slightly below the 19.1% the benchmark weights.
Gearing cash effect measures the produced by the benchmark FTSE 350 Higher Yield impact on relative returns of net borrowings.
It was, however, ahead of the broader based & other expenses - these reduce total assets and therefore FTSE All-Share Index, which rose by 16.9% and, as reduce performance.
It is calculated by dividing expenses incurred during the year by average total assets less liabilities.
from 1 July 2004, is now the portfolio benchmark.
Murray Income Trust PLC 15 Investment Managers Review continued Strategy year, inexpensive.
Since it can be easily repaid The portfolio has consistently been run with the aim without cost there is no distortion to the Net Asset of maintaining a relatively low risk and diversified Value.
Turnover within the portfolio was again range of investments in larger companies.
Over the relatively low, at 13%, although the current year is last year approximately 20% of the portfolio has likely to be higher due to the impact of the change been held in stocks outwith the benchmark Higher in benchmark.
The number of holdings was almost unchanged at 59 and the Manager expects a modest Yield Index which has made the portfolio less increase in the current year.
The flow of income into concentrated at both the stock and sector level.
the portfolio remained strong and there has again The recent change to the benchmark, which became been a transfer to revenue reserves.
Shareholders effective on 1 July 2004 at the start of the should note however that the portfolio benefited Companys new financial year, has, as expected, not from the final payment on the Additional Value led to radical changes to the make-up of the Shares, which had been issued by Royal Bank of portfolio.
There have been reductions made in the Scotland following the takeover of National size of the very largest holdings within the portfolio, Westminster Bank four years ago.
In line with the particularly BP and HSBC, with the money invested Companys accounting policies this payment, which both into existing and new holdings.
The proportion accounted for 3% of the revenue for the year, was of the portfolio invested in stocks within the credited to the revenue account.
FTSE100 Index of larger companies has been reduced and that in the Mid 250 Index, containing The entire holding in Rio Tinto, a mining stock, was smaller companies, has been increased but these sold and switched into BHP Billiton within the same changes have not been significant.
sector as this stock appeared to offer better value.
This was successful as the valuation differential The Manager is now concentrating more upon the reduced and the switch was subsequently partially individual company prospects when assessing stocks reversed.
The holding in Slough Estates convertible for inclusion within the portfolio, with less emphasis preference shares was sold and the proceeds upon stock and sector weightings relative to the switched into the ordinary shares which offered benchmark.
This change follows closely the better value.
With the real estate sector appearing investment process of Aberdeen Asset Management, attractive additional ordinary shares were also which places a high importance upon meeting purchased and the holding in Land Securities was companies and favouring those with good also increased.
The weighting within the banks management and strong market positions.
Less sector was modestly reduced following the sale of regard is placed upon stock and sector weightings the holdings in Alliance & Leicester and Abbey relative to the benchmark.
These two stocks are more exposed to the It is important to stress to Shareholders that the consumer sector, where lending growth has been emphasis upon a relatively high and sustainable consistently high and where the share ratings were yield is unchanged and this, together with the strong relatively expensive.
level of revenue reserves within the Company Amongst the new holdings in the portfolio is Kesa balance sheet, should ensure that the policy of Electricals, an electrical retailer, Greggs, which increasing dividends each year will continue.
operates a chain of sandwich shops, and Wolverhampton & Dudley Breweries, an integrated Activity pub operator and brewer.
The portfolio had an In the rising market of this financial year, the exposure to Kesa Electricals via Kingfisher but the maintenance of a modest level of gearing was business was divested during the year.
The new beneficial for Shareholders.
The amount of debt was shares were initially trading at a relatively low rating 40m at the year end, which compared with 35m and this gave the opportunity to increase the at the equivalent period a year earlier.
The business trades under the Comet name debt is short-term in nature and, despite the in the UK and as Darty in France, where the bulk of increases in short-term interest rates over the last its business takes place.
Greggs has consistently 16 Murray Income Trust PLC grown profits and dividends in recent years.
It is continuing to open new stores and is testing the format in Europe.
Wolverhampton & Dudley Breweries has a strong emphasis upon generating good returns for shareholders.
Outlook The performance of the UK equity market so far in 2004 has been relatively disappointing with share prices trading within a narrow band without making any significant upward progress.
This is despite the strong growth being experienced in the UK economy and the encouraging news from the corporate sector where profits and dividends continue to meet expectations.
Interest rates have risen in the UK and now world financial markets are adjusting to a background of rising interest rates in the USA.
A further headwind for equity prices is the continued high level of the oil price, due to strong demand and concern about threats to supply.
With this background it is unsurprising that equity prices have stalled.
There is good value in the UK equity market at current levels and a positive outlook for both profit and dividend growth.
In time this will be reflected in share prices but the short-term outlook remains unexciting.
Ross Watson Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited Investment Manager 10 September 2004 Murray Income Trust PLC 17
