Corporate Summary Objective The Company aims to achieve a high and growing income combined with capital growth through investment in a portfolio of UK equities.
Benchmark The Companys benchmark was, until 30 June 2004, the FTSE 350 Higher Yield Index.
On I July 2004, the benchmark was changed to the FTSE All-Share Index, as your Board believes that the new benchmark is now more appropriate to the investment aims of the Company.
Investment Policy The Company pursues a policy of investing in shares of UK companies that have potential for real earnings and dividend growth, while at the same time providing an above average portfolio yield.
Following extensive Shareholder research and a full review of the management of the Companys assets, some alterations have been made to the way in which the portfolio is structured.
In particular, the emphasis on the management of risk and of the absolute return from the portfolio has been increased, through ensuring appropriate diversification of stocks and sectors.
The Board stresses that the Company retains its essential character, in particular: There is no change to the current dividend policy.
The Company continues to invest a high proportion of its assets in strong, well-known British companies.
The Company continues to use low cost, flexible borrowing facilities to enhance Shareholder returns when appropriate.
History Murray Income Trust is an investment trust traded on the London Stock Exchange and is a constituent of the FTSE Actuaries All-Share Index.
The Caledonian Trust Company Limited as Murray Income Trust PLC was originally called was formed in 1923 to invest in growth areas of the day.
It was very highly geared, borrowing at 3% and investing at 5%, almost entirely in fixed income securities.
In January 1930, after a year which saw substantial profits, there were 497 holdings: 52.5% were bonds, loans and debentures, 28.5% preferred stocks and shares and only 18.9% equities.
The portfolio spread was huge 31% Home, 10.5% British Colonies and Dependencies, 18% Europe, 15% USA, 7% Argentina, and so on down to 1% each in Cuba and Mexico and 5.5% in other countries.
The big move into equities came after the 1930s slump, when bond defaults forced the purchase of higher yielding equities to fund the costs of the Trusts gearing.
After a number of amalgamations and reorganisations, Caledonian Trust Company emerged as a generalist investment trust.
However, many trusts had a similar broad remit and there was a glut, so in 1979 the Board defined the investment brief more narrowly as income growth and changed the name of the Company to Murray Caledonian Investment Trust.
Symbolised by the name change to Murray Income in 1984, the focus has since been on a relatively high yielding portfolio of UK blue chip equities.
Capital Structure The Companys issued share capital as at 30 June and 13 September 2004 consisted of 69,562,458 and 68,907,458 Ordinary shares of 25p each respectively.
Total Assets and Net Asset Value At 30 June 2004, the Company had Total Assets see definition on page 56 of 385.1m and a Net Asset Value per Ordinary share of 496.2p.
Murray Income Trust PLC 1 Corporate Summary continued Borrowings The borrowings at 30 June 2004 of 40 million represent 11.6% of Net Assets.
Financial covenants contained within the relevant loan agreements provide, inter alia, that borrowings shall at no time exceed 45% of Net Assets and that the Net Assets must exceed 120 million.
The Net Assets were 345.1 million at 30 June 2004.
If any of the financial covenants are breached the Lender is entitled, following the serving of notice to the Company, to declare the loans and all accrued interest, fees and other sums owed under the agreements to be immediately due and repayable.
Duration The Company does not have a fixed life.
Risk The UK equity market is volatile and short-term movements may therefore be greater than justified by longer term trends.
The use of gearing is likely to lead to an increase in this volatility so that any movements in the Companys Net Asset Value will be magnified.
Currently 50% of the investment management fees and interest costs are taken out of capital.
This increases distributable income at the expense of capital growth which will be reduced to the same extent.
The policy of investing in higher-yielding shares may also diminish capital growth.
There is no guarantee that the market price of investment trust shares will accurately reflect their underlying Net Asset Value or move in line with it.
Share dealing Shares in Murray Income Trust can be bought in the open market through a stockbroker.
They can also be purchased through the Aberdeen savings schemes and fully qualify for inclusion within tax-efficient ISA wrappers see page 55.
Management Agreement The Company has an agreement with Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of Aberdeen Asset Management PLC, for the provision of investment management and other services for a fee, as detailed in the Directors Report on pages 28 and 29 and in Note 3 on page 42.
AITC Murray Income Trust is a member of the Association of Investment Trust Companies.
com Company Secretary Aberdeen Asset Management PLC, 123 St. Vincent Street, Glasgow G2 5EA.
co. uk Customer Services Freephone: 0500 00 00 40 open Monday - Friday 9am - 5pm Email: inv.
com 2 Murray Income Trust PLC
