"Marketing Strategy Murray Income Trust contributes to the Marketing Programme run by Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited ""AAM"", on behalf of a number of investment trusts under its management."
This agreement sees the Companys contribution matched by AAM and from 1 July 2004 is 286,500 plus VAT a year.
The purpose of the Programme is to communicate effectively with existing Shareholders and gain more new Shareholders, thus improving liquidity and thereby enhancing the value and rating of the Companys shares.
AAMs experience has also shown that well-targeted marketing of the Companys investment merits through packaged products, whether singly, or in conjunction with other trusts run by AAM, can be a cost-effective way of gaining new investors.
These aims can be met in several ways: Investor relations programme AAM runs an investor relations programme to existing and prospective institutional investors in investment trusts.
Each month, institutional investors and prospects receive a Managers report on your Company that includes detailed performance analysis.
Group Schemes AAM runs a group Share Plan, PEP and ISA.
These schemes allow investment free of dealing costs and with only nominal exit charges, have proved popular with private investors.
Direct response advertising The Manager advertises the packaged product availability of the Trust in selected national broadsheets as well as the specialist financial press.
Direct mail Periodic mail shots of information packs inviting named addressees to respond is a low-cost method of building awareness and investor databases.
Target groups include existing holders of other AAM investment trusts as well as known buyers of investment trusts.
"Newsletter The ""Bulletin"" newsletter, an informed commentary on markets and investment trusts managed by AAM is distributed free of charge."
Public relations The Manager undertakes to brief journalists, write regularly through placed articles and ensure Company results and any corporate activity are brought to public attention.
Shareholder services AAM runs an investment help desk for retail enquirers and investors.
Enquirers or investors will be sent any relevant literature on request and have queries answered immediately.
The Marketing Programme is under the direction of AAMs Investment Trust Marketing Director, who has eighteen years experience in the marketing and communications of investment products.
He is supported by a team of three marketing professionals.
Internet Murray Income Trust has its own dedicated website: http: www.
This allows web users to access information on the Companys share price performance, capital structure, stock exchange announcements and monthly reports.
The site is continuously being evaluated for improvement.
It is intended that ongoing Programme activities in these various fields, both proactive and supportive, will assist the Company to increase and maintain its Shareholder base, improve liquidity and sustain ratings.
The Company is committed to a close monitoring of the Marketing Programme.
The Marketing Director provides a written summary quarterly to the Board.
If you have any questions about your Company, the Manager or performance, please telephone our Customer Services Department direct private investors on 0500 00 00 40 or our Broker Desk on 0800 592 487 Institutions and IFAs.
Alternatively, internet users may e-mail us on inv.
com or write to us at 10 Queens Terrace, Aberdeen AB10 1YG.
54 Murray Income Trust PLC Other ways to Invest in Murray Income Trust PLC Aberdeen Investment Trust Share Plan ISA Costs AAM runs a Share Plan the Plan through which shares There are no brokerage or initial charges for the ISA, in Murray Income Trust can be purchased.
There are no although investors will suffer the bid-offer spread, which dealing charges on the initial purchase of shares, although can be a significant amount.
Investors only pay investors will suffer the bid-offer spread, which can, on Government Stamp Duty currently 0.5% on purchases.
some occasions, be a significant amount.
Lump sum Selling costs are 15 VAT.
The annual ISA management investments start at 250, while regular savers may invest charge is 0.5% VAT, calculated monthly and deducted from just 50 per month.
Investors simply pay from income half yearly.
Under current legislation, Government Stamp Duty currently 0.5% on entry.
Selling investments in ISAs can grow free of income or capital costs are 10 VAT.
There is no restriction on how long an gains tax.
investor need invest in a Plan, and regular savers can stop or suspend participation by instructing AAM in writing at Company Information any time.
In common with other schemes of this type, all If investors would like details of Murray Income Trust or investments are held in nominee accounts.
Investors have information on the Share Plan or ISA please telephone full voting and other rights of share ownership.
0500 00 00 40 or write to Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited, 10 Queens Terrace, Aberdeen AB10 1YG or e-mail AAM offers both a Mini and Maxi stocks and shares ISA, at inv.
Details are also available through which shares in Murray International Trust can be by accessing the internet on the following pages: purchased.
co. uk Maxi ISA An investment of up to 7,000 in Murray Income Trust can be made in the tax year 2004 2005.
Mini ISA AAM offers a Mini ISA which will enable investors to invest up to 3,000 in the tax year 2004 2005.
The information above is issued and has been approved for the purposes of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 by Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited, One Bow Churchyard, Cheapside, London EC4M 9HH which is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
