Your Board All the Directors are non-executive and are members of the Management Engagement Committee, the Audit Committee, the Nomination Committee and the Remuneration Committee.
Further details regarding the Board and its Committees are included in the Directors Report on pages 26 to 29 and in the Statement of Corporate Governance on pages 30 to 35.
Length of service is stated at the balance sheet date.
Blaise Hardman Chairman Status: Independent Non-Executive Director Age: 64 Length of Service: 15 years 10 months as a Director, including 5 years 5 months as Chairman Experience and other public company directorships: Blaise Hardman was a merchant banker and former chairman of Morgan Grenfell & Co Limited.
His other directorships include J P Morgan Fleming Japanese Investment Trust and Whiteaway Laidlaw Bank Limited.
Employment by Manager: None Other connections with the Trust or Manager: None Shared Directorships with any other Trust Directors: J P Morgan Fleming Japanese Investment Trust with Mr P A F Gifford until Mr Giffords retirement from that Board on 28 July 2004.
Shareholding in Company: Beneficial - 10,000 Ordinary shares Remuneration: Year ended 30 June 2004 - 18,000 Meetings attended during year ended 30 June 2004 Board Meetings: 5 Audit Committee: 2 Management Engagement Committee: 1 Nomination Committee: 1 Remuneration Committee: 1 Adrian Coats MA, ACA, FCT Chairman of Audit Committee Status: Independent Non-Executive Director Age: 49 Length of Service: 5 years 5 months as a Director, including 1 year as Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Experience and other public company directorships: Adrian Coats is director of treasury for Scottish Power, a director of a number of companies in the Scottish Power Group, a Trustee of the Scottish Power Pension Scheme and a member of PacifiCorps pension investment committee.
He was formerly a director of Grand Metropolitan Finance and chairman of the Scottish Branch of the Association of Corporate Treasurers.
Employment by Manager: None Other connections with the Trust or Manager: None Shared Directorships with any other Trust Directors: None Shareholding in Company: Beneficial - 5,000 Ordinary shares, Non-Beneficial - 10,000 Ordinary shares Remuneration: Year ended 30 June 2004 - 15,000 Meetings attended during year ended 30 June 2004 Board Meetings: 5 Audit Committee: 2 Management Engagement Committee: 1 Nomination Committee: 1 Remuneration Committee: 1 Murray Income Trust PLC 3 Your Board continued Patrick Gifford BA Chairman Elect Status: Independent Non-Executive Director Age: 59 Length of Service: 4 years 11 months E x p e rience and other public company dire c t o rs h i p s : Pa t ri ck Giffo rd was prev i o u s ly a director of Ro b e rt Fleming Holdings and chairman of Fleming Investment Trust Manage m e n t. He is chairman of Mart i n C u r rie Pa c i fic Tru s t, 3i European Technology Trust and Vtesse Networks.
He is also a director of BFS UK Dual Return Investment Trust, J P Morgan Fleming Emerging Markets Investment Trust, J P Morgan Fleming Russian Securities, Merrill Lynch Asset Allocator and NIB Holdings International.
Employment by Manager: None Other connections with the Trust or Manager: None Shared Directorships with any other Trust Directors: J P Morgan Fleming Japanese Investment Trust with Mr B N A Hardman until 28 July 2004.
Shareholding in Company: Beneficial - 10,708 Ordinary shares Remuneration: Year ended 30 June 2004 - 13,000 Meetings attended during year ended 30 June 2004 Board Meetings: 5 Audit Committee: 2 Management Engagement Committee: 1 Nomination Committee: 1 Remuneration Committee: 1 Marian Glen MA LLB Status: Non-Executive Director Age: 44 Length of Service: 16 months Experience and other public company directorships: Marian Glen is head of Funds and Financial Services at Shepherd Wedderburn solicitors.
She is also a director of a number of companies in the Shepherd Wedderburn group but is not a director of any other public company.
Employment by Manager: None Other connections with the Trust or Manager: Shepherd Wedderburn have provided legal advice to companies within the Aberdeen Asset Management group Shared Directorships with any other Trust Directors: None Shareholding in Company: Nil Remuneration: Year ended 30 June 2004 - 13,000 Meetings attended during year ended 30 June 2004 Board Meetings: 3 Audit Committee: 1 Management Engagement Committee: 1 Nomination Committee: 1 Remuneration Committee: 1 4 Murray Income Trust PLC Sir David Trippier RD DL Status: Non-Executive Director Age: 58 Length of Service: 8 years 8 months Experience and other public company directorships: Sir David was elected to Parliament in 1979 and held a number of Ministerial posts.
He is chairman of WH Ireland & Co Stockbrokers and Murray VCT.
He is also a director of Granada Television and Nord Anglia.
Employment by Manager: None Other connections with the Trust or Manager: Murray VCT Shared Directorships with any other Trust Directors: None Shareholding in Company: Beneficial - 1,959 Ordinary shares Remuneration: Year ended 30 June 2004 - 13,000 Meetings attended during year ended 30 June 2004 Board Meetings: 5 Audit Committee: 2 Management Engagement Committee: 1 Nomination Committee: Remuneration Committee: 1 Humphrey van der Klugt BSC Hons, FCA Status: Independent Non-Executive Director Age: 50 Length of Service: 2 months Experience and other public company directorships: Humphrey van der Klugt was, until his retirement in January 2004, an executive director of Schroder Investment Management Limited.
In a twenty year career at Schroders, he was a member of the Group Investment and Asset Allocation Committees: and as a UK equity manager, he was directly responsible for 3 billion of funds under management, including the Schroder UK Equity and Schroder Income Funds.
He has also held directorships of Schroder Split Fund plc and Schroder Investment Management UK Limited and is currently chairman of the Supervisory Board of Schroder Exempt Property Unit Trust.
Employment by Manager: None Other connections with the Trust or Manager: None Shared Directorships with any other Trust Directors: None Shareholding in Company: Beneficial - 5,000 Ordinary shares Remuneration: Year ended 30 June 2004 - 2,030 Meetings attended during year ended 30 June 2004 Board Meetings: 2 Director who is retiring by rotation and does not seek re-election.
Director who is retiring by rotation and offers himself for re-election for a further period of three years.
Director who will offer herself for re-election annually see Statement of Corporate Governance on page 30.
Director who is standing for re-election at the first Annual General Meeting following his appointment.
