The Investment Process Philosophy and Style monetary factors, value and performance.
Country Long term investment success demands a clear focus and selection is driven overall by short and medium term a sound structure.
The Aberdeen Asset Management estimates of macroeconomics, politics and liquidity, and Group AAM has, as its primary objective in managing the market implications of those.
Murray International Trust, the delivery of consistent outperformance against the benchmark based on the Stock Selection concept of seeking growth at a reasonable price.
The investment manager, Bruce Stout, has responsibility for portfolio construction across all regional segments.
To achieve this, a disciplined investment process has been Working closely with the relevant underlying desks in each developed.
However, to meet the different performance case, portfolio construction is an interactive process.
The objectives mandated for specific funds, there is built-in Manager utilises a Global Equity Buy List which is flexibility.
constructed by each of the specialist country desks.
This Key decisions are implemented consistently across all list contains all buy and hold recommendations for each funds and portfolio risk limits are set and closely desk, which are then used as the investment universe.
A continuous watch is kept over critical factors stock no longer meets the criteria to be included on the that influence investment decisions, so that when views Buy List, it is sold within 30 days.
This process enables the change, action is taken swiftly and decisively to reposition investment manager to better reflect top down themes portfolios.
that emerge from the global equity strategy and investment themes meetings that take place monthly.
Asset Allocation Based on the guidelines set by the AAM Investment Risk Controls Strategy Committee, and after consultation with relevant Integral to the investment process is regular provision, by AAM area specialists, the investment manager of Murray a specialised team, of performance and risk analysis data International Trust, Bruce Stout, recommends asset to ensure that funds are operated within the terms of allocation to the Board.
There is a strong top down their mandate.
influence to establish the economic overview and to As well as market price risk inherent in all portfolio identify potential investment themes.
The approach is investment, Murray International Trust is also exposed to highly focussed and portfolios are tightly constructed to risk from movements in foreign exchange rates and provide the greatest scope for outperformance within the changes in interest rates.
Market price risk is managed by agreed risk parameters.
strict adherence to parameters set for portfolio For Murray International Trust, regional allocation of funds construction.
The foreign exchange risk involved may be in line with guidelines set by the AAM Investment Strategy hedged by the use of forward currency contracts.
Interest Committee is the first stage of the portfolio construction rate risk lies with the portfolio holdings of fixed income process.
At this stage, house views on specific global securities and on-call deposits.
A detailed risk profile of sectors are also taken into account.
the Company is given in Note 19 to the financial statements on pages 53 to 56.
Established themes and trends are considered within the process of country allocation, which is also influenced by analysis of key data covering macroeconomic and 18 Murray International Trust PLC
