Marketing Strategy Murray International Trust contributes to the Marketing Newsletter Programme run by Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited AAM, on The Bulletin newsletter, an informed commentary on markets behalf of a number of investment trusts under its management.
and investment trusts managed by AAM is distributed free of This agreement sees the Companys contribution matched by charge.
AAM and is now 330,000 plus VAT a year, reviewed on an annual basis.
Public relations The Manager undertakes to brief journalists, write regularly The purpose of the Programme is to communicate effectively through placed articles and ensure Company results and any with existing Shareholders and gain more new Shareholders, thus corporate activity are brought to public attention.
improving liquidity and thereby enhancing the value and rating of the Companys shares.
AAMs experience has also shown that Shareholder services well-targeted marketing of the Companys investment merits AAM runs an investment help desk for retail enquirers and through packaged products, whether singly, or in conjunction with investors.
Enquirers or investors will be sent any relevant literature other trusts run by AAM, can be a cost-effective way of gaining on request and have queries answered immediately.
Marketing Programme is under the direction of AAMs Investment These aims can be met in several ways: Trust Marketing Director, who has nineteen years experience in the marketing and communications of investment products.
He is Investor relations programme supported by a team of marketing professionals.
AAM runs an investor relations programme to existing and prospective institutional investors in investment trusts.
Each Internet month, institutional investors and prospects receive a Managers Murray International Trust has its own dedicated website: report on your Company that includes detailed performance http: www.
This allows web users to access analysis.
information on the Companys share price performance, capital structure, stock exchange announcements and monthly reports.
Group Schemes The site is continuously being evaluated for improvement.
AAM runs a group Share Plan, PEP and ISA.
These schemes allow It is intended that ongoing Programme activities in these various investment free of dealing costs and with only nominal exit fields, both proactive and supportive, will assist the Company to charges, have proved popular with private investors.
increase and maintain its Shareholder base, improve liquidity and sustain ratings.
Direct response advertising The Manager advertises the packaged product availability of the The Company is committed to a close monitoring of the Trust in selected national broadsheets as well as the specialist Marketing Programme.
The Marketing Director provides a written financial press.
summary quarterly to the Board.
If you have any questions about your Company, the Manager or Direct mail performance, please telephone our Customer Services Periodic mail shots of information packs inviting named Department direct private investors on 0500 00 00 40 or our addressees to respond is a low-cost method of building awareness Broker Desk on 0800 592 487 Institutions and IFAs.
Target groups include existing holders of Alternatively, internet users may e-mail us on other AAM investment trusts as well as known buyers of inv.
com or write to us at 10 Queens investment trusts.
Murray International Trust PLC 61 Other ways to Invest in Murray International Trust PLC Aberdeen Investment Trust Share Plan There are no brokerage or initial charges for the ISA, although AAM runs a Share Plan the Plan through which shares in investors will suffer the bid-offer spread, which can be a Murray International Trust can be purchased.
There are no dealing significant amount.
Investors only pay Government Stamp Duty charges on the initial purchase of shares, although investors will currently 0.5% on purchases.
The suffer the bid-offer spread, which can, on some occasions, be a annual ISA management charge is 24 VAT, calculated monthly significant amount.
Lump sum investments start at 250, while and deducted from income half yearly.
Under current legislation, regular savers may invest from 100 per month.
Investors simply investments in ISAs can grow free of income or capital gains tax.
pay Government Stamp Duty currently 0.5% on entry.
There is no restriction on how long an PEP Transfer investor need invest in a Plan, and regular savers can stop or PEPs are an easy way to make medium and long term tax efficient suspend participation by instructing AAM in writing at any time.
In investments in the stock markets.
All income and capital gains are common with other schemes of this type, all investments are held free of tax.
Since 5 April 1999 no further subscriptions can be in nominee accounts.
Investors have full voting and other rights of made into a PEP.
You can however transfer existing PEPs to AAM.
The minimum lump sum for a PEP transfer is 1,000 and is subject to a minimum per trust of 250.
AAM offers both a Mini and Maxi stocks and shares ISA, through which shares in Murray International Trust can be purchased.
Trust Information If investors would like details of Murray International Trust Maxi ISA or information on the Share Plan or ISA please telephone An investment of up to 7,000 in Murray International Trust can 0500 00 00 40 or write to Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited, be made in the tax year 2004 2005 and 2005 2006.
10 Queens Terrace, Aberdeen AB10 1YG or e-mail at inv.
Details are also available by Mini ISA accessing the internet on the following page: AAM offers a Mini ISA which will enable investors to invest up to http: www.
