Investment Managers Report Background position in Latin America.
Stock selection within all regions was good relatively to benchmarks, and The past twelve months witnessed many significant international, economic and financial events, some of particularly so in North America and in Japan.
which were expected, most of which were not.
The timing USA and magnitude of monetary tightening in the United States, which began in June and signalled an end to four After four years of extremely accommodative monetary years of declining interest rates, was essentially in line policy, the US Federal Reserve began the gradual process of raising interest rates in the summer of 2004.
The same could be said for the upward move in global price indices.
Rising inflation from cyclical invigorated the economy through extended monetary lows was paradoxically welcomed by most Central Banks stimulus to above trend economic growth, it was deemed as confirmation that the threat of worldwide deflation had appropriate to begin the tightening cycle in order to guard against potential inflationary pressures and discourage finally been vanquished.
However, many other events confounded expectations.
Global economic growth proved excessive debt induced consumer spending.
Given that much stronger than predicted, the 5% increase being the consumption equates to roughly 70% of total US GDP and has constantly been the engine of growth for the past highest yearly expansion for over twenty years.
Against all expectations and arguably common sense, debt laden four years, the focus of such policy seemed logical.
Five consumers in the US and UK ignored rising debt-servicing consecutive tightenings raised the overnight rate from 1% to 2.25% by year end but there remains scant evidence to commitments, and borrowed more.
For the most part, this explained the surprisingly strong growth.
Fiscal deficits, suggest US consumers have lost their propensity to spend.
again in the US and UK, deteriorated significantly as the However, the monetary authorities will have to tread respective Governments spent well beyond their means, carefully along the path towards re-establishing real interest rates.
The US economy is more leveraged than and the geopolitical uncertainty initiated in Iraq last year spread into neighbouring Middle Eastern countries.
With a current account deficit of 6% of GDP, a fiscal the futility of trying to predict oil prices was demonstrated deficit of 5% of GDP and a household debt mountain of record proportions, external financing from increasingly once again, when against all expectations the price per barrel surged through $50 in the final quarter of the year.
nervous overseas investors has fuelled this over consumption.
Creditor confidence is key when such Despite higher growth, inflation and interest rates, equity fundamental imbalances prevail.
The continued markets produced above average returns.
None more so depreciation of the US dollar suggests the world is than in the Pacific and Emerging Markets, where total becoming increasing impatient with the rhetoric and returns in sterling terms were 17.1% and 19.5% progress made so far.
This leaves the policy makers the respectively.
Conversely, for the third consecutive year, the task of tightening policy to some optimum level enough US market return of 3.6% in sterling terms was the lowest to cool the economy but not to an extent that would of the major global regions.
Not only will this be tough to engineer, it may take several years to successfully implement.
It Performance remains the Managers view that imbalances entrenched in The Net Asset Value Total Return for the year to the US economy will remain until such time as fiscal 31 December 2004 with net dividends reinvested was discipline and realistic expectations are restored.
No 14.1% compared with a return on the benchmark index of country can live beyond its means forever.
A full attribution analysis is given on page 22 which details the various influences on the performance of the The FTSE World US Index managed to rise 11.1% in dollar portfolio.
It is pleasing to note that each of the main terms, but currency weakness substantially reduced this drivers of performance contributed positively to the overall return to 3.6% in sterling terms.
Financially strong energy and telecom stocks performed well, but traditionally results for the year.
In summary, of the 650 basis points before expenses of performance above the index, asset defensive sectors such as Pharmaceuticals and Consumer allocation contributed 330, stock selection 290 and Staples suffered a torrid twelve months, dragged down by ongoing disappointments in profitability.
The overall structural effects relating to the fixed interest portfolio, net of borrowing and hedging costs, 30 basis points.
portfolio stance of being significantly underweight the US Within asset allocation contributions came from our market and dollar assets proved advantageous, and outperformance at the stock level reflected ongoing significant underweighting of the United States but there were also material contributions from an overweight preference for high quality, well managed companies with Murray International Trust PLC 19 Investment Managers Report continued higher than average dividend yields and strong cash flow Europe directed towards dividend growth.
New positions Economic fundamentals in the Eurozone didnt change established included telecom provider Verizon and much over the past twelve months.
Growth began the property maintenance company ServiceMaster.
Holdings year below trend and ended the year relatively subdued.
in Bristol-Myers, Pfizer, Lexmark and Pepsico were sold Monetary policy remained completely static with the 2% outright.
The Manager intends to retain this benchmark rate prevailing throughout, ignoring upward underweighting and defensive portfolio stance for the pressure on interest rates in other parts of the world.
Despite this stimulative liquidity environment and respectable 5% monthly growth in monetary aggregates, UK the European Central Banks public optimism about The UK economy began 2004 in relatively good condition, imminent economic recovery failed to materialise.
with above trend GDP growth, muted inflation and Arguably, the explanation for this was relatively straight interest rates only 25 basis points higher than the forty forward.
Unlike the credit dependent economies of the US year low of 3.5% that prevailed in Autumn 2003. and UK, the Eurozone has a stricter attitude towards debt.
Unfortunately, the political rhetoric of balanced budgets, Consumption has traditionally been financed more from competitive industry and reduced economic vulnerability savings than borrowings, with consumer confidence the to the property cycle now appears distinctly hollow key influence on domestic demand.
The relationship twelve months down the line.
Not only were these between confidence and the labour market is also strong objectives not met, the macro economic reality proved the in Europe.
Given that the pan European unemployment exact opposite.
By mid year it became apparent that the rate has remained stuck at around 9% for over two years, UK economy was descending into a debt-dependent entity disposable income has been muted and hence confidence without the political will nor policy directives to change low.
The new entrants to the EEC, and soon to be full direction.
Fiscal and current account deficits expanded members of the European Union, have become more than beyond even the most negative predictions, total just a threat to high-cost manufacturing in Germany as consumer debt surged through the 1 trillion mark and jobs increasingly move East.
Unfortunately, against this house price inflation raced upwards on a monthly basis.
backdrop, it is difficult to identify a catalyst that might The MPCs response was to hike interest rates by 100 basis lead to stronger European growth over the next twelve points to 4.75%, in order to cool overheating sectors of months.
Until such time, we expect current conditions to the economy.
Consumption did moderate slightly, but prevail.
additional sterling strength eroded industrial Contrary to consensus wisdom, we remained overweight competitiveness and sucked in even more imports.
Now in the region throughout the year.
This position was the UK economy finds itself facing exactly the same vindicated when, for the second consecutive year, Europe problems that prevail in the United States.
With an was the best performing global region in sterling terms election only months away it is difficult to see unpopular over the period.
Positive stock selection as shown on fiscal restraint being implemented.
Until a devaluation of page 22 enhanced returns.
It has been the Managers sterling occurs, it is also difficult to see how the view for some time that the attractiveness of European competitiveness issue improves.
As for the mountain of markets was, and still is, primarily centred on low consumer debt and the economys increased vulnerability expectations and low stock valuations relative to overall to house prices, only time will correct these imbalances.
rates of profitability and dividend growth.
Companies The portfolio response to such fundamentals was a such as Altadis, RAS, Nordea, ING Group and Matav are reduction of total UK asset exposure plus a more high quality, core holdings within the portfolio that have defensive stance towards individual company selection.
consistently demonstrated stringent capital management Economically sensitive sectors, particularly Banks and in a low growth environment whilst simultaneously Retailers were further reduced and currently represent a returning cash to Shareholders in the form of rising large underweighting in the UK portfolio.
In the future environment, and at the right exposure to Insurance, Tobacco and Utilities was increased price, this is the type of company we will continue to own.
on greater visibility of earnings and dividend growth.
The Manager will remain vigilant towards opportunities that Japan may arise in the UK market, but the persistent overAs befits an economy emerging from over a decade of valuation of sterling merely adds to the unattractiveness deflation, economic recovery in Japan remained very of UK assets in a global context.
Vibrant exports of capital goods to Asia 20 Murray International Trust PLC contributed to over 4% GDP growth during the first half of The rest of the emerging world continued to contribute 2004, but by year end the rate had slowed to 2%.
A positively to overall capital and income returns.
Despite a stronger labour market and improving consumer relatively eclectic country mix, common characteristics of sentiment boosted retail sales growth into positive good quality, strong balance sheets, significantly higher territory for only the third time in ten years, which, if than average equity yields and visible dividend growth are sustainable, bodes well for the future.
Unfortunately the found throughout the portfolios exposure to emerging Bank of Japan and the bond markets remain sceptical that markets.
The total return from holdings such as Brazilian this can be achieved.
Zero interest rate policy was energy giant Petrobras, Hungarian telco Matav or Mexican maintained throughout, and ten year yields remained airport operator Aeropuertos del Sureste more than relatively flat.
For now, the eagerly anticipated return to justified inclusion in an international portfolio, and such positive inflation is being attributed to higher imports of opportunities will continue to be utilised by the Manager.
oil rather than broad-based economic recovery, but on a longer term outlook, economic progress achieved last year Outlook is encouraging.
The Japanese stock market return of It is the Managers belief that the current global growth 7.9% was at the lower end of regional performance, but cycle will decelerate this year, predominately due to subadditional gains from stock selection enhanced portfolio trend growth in the US economy.
Financial holdings such as Bank of Kyoto, undoubtedly take time, US growth underperforming the Orix and Mitsubishi Tokyo Financial served the portfolio rest of the world will help to correct some of that well, as did more domestic oriented companies such as countrys imbalances.
Whilst economic fundamentals in retailer Ito-Yokada and property developer Daito Trust.
For the UK remain worryingly similar to those of the US, lower the coming year, we will continue to focus on high-quality, equity valuations and higher dividend yields provide some domestic growth oriented companies over more currency degree of comfort for maintaining current exposure.
Europe still looks reasonably priced relative to low expectations and scope exists for dividend growth to again Asia and Emerging Markets surprise on the upside.
We still wait patiently for domestic Whilst economic developments in China commanded recovery in Japan, but balance sheet strength at the most peoples attention in 2004 as the Peoples Bank of company level plus experience of dealing with low growth China introduced a range of monetary measures aimed at environments makes the market an interesting cooling the economy from double digit growth rates, the diversification position at this juncture.
The case for Asia rest of Asia quietly delivered steady improvement.
In the to take up the slack in global growth remains on track.
wake of a shock defeat of the incumbent BJP in India, the Internally financed domestic expansions are robust in new Congress moved swiftly to calm business concerns.
many economies, and whilst unlikely to deliver the high Foreign Direct Investment inflows continued unabated and growth rates witnessed in the Asian export boom of the ongoing economic momentum delivered the strongest 1990s, these will still be sufficient to support decent growth in India for over fifteen years.
Above all, however, the Manager continued to exceed expectations in Hong Kong, Malaysia, will continue to focus intensely on total return.
Earnings Singapore and Taiwan which, not surprisingly, placed growth will prove tougher to achieve in a decelerating increasing upward pressure on local exchange rates versus global economy, making dividend income an increasingly the US dollar.
Although Central Banks consistently worked important component of total return.
To maximise hard to sterilise capital inflows, foreign exchange reserves potential returns, your Company will focus on those moved sharply higher.
With over 1.5 trillion US dollars of companies with balance sheets strong enough to finance foreign exchange savings currently gaining interest in growing dividends and higher payout ratios.
The Manager Asian central banks, the regions evolving role in financing perceives a tougher environment for equity returns this the debtor nations of the developed world should not be year, but selective markets and quality stock picking still underestimated.
The regional return from Asia was ahead provide scope for adding value and delivering superior of our benchmark, positively enhancing total return given relative returns.
Stock selection was good, and dividend growth from individual companies Bruce Stout exceeded expectations.
Increasing returns of cash to Investment Manager Shareholders in Asia are adding to what remains a very 10 March 2005 attractive growth and investment opportunity.
