Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2004 20 Board of Directors 1.
Kevin Hart Bill Gammell Malcolm Thoms 2.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2004 21 Board of Directors Bill Gammell, Chief Executive 52 Norman Murray, Non-Executive Chairman 57 Bill Gammell holds a BA in Economics and Accountancy Norman Murray was appointed an independent nonfrom Stirling University.
He founded Cairn and was executive director of Cairn in 1999 and Chairman in 2002. appointed Chief Executive on its initial listing in 1989.
He qualified as a Scottish Chartered Accountant and has He has over 25 years experience in the international oil been involved in every aspect of the venture capital industry and gas industry and is also a director of the Scottish for some 25 years.
He is a former Chairman of Morgan Institute of Sport and Artemis AiM VCT plc.
Grenfell Private Equity Limited and was also a director of Morgan Grenfell Asset Management Limited and a nonMike Watts, Exploration Director 49 executive director of Bristow Helicopter Group Limited.
He is Mike Watts holds a BSc Hons and a PhD in Geology from Cardiff a past Chairman of the British Venture Capital Association University.
He began his career in 1980 with Shell International and is currently a Vice-President of the Institute of and subsequently worked for Burmah Oil Exploration and Chartered Accountants of Scotland and a non-executive Premier Oil.
In 1991 he became Managing Director of Holland director of Greene King PLC and Robert Wiseman Dairies plc.
Sea Search Holding N. V. HSSH, where he developed an acreage strategy for South Asia.
HSSH was acquired by Cairn in Hamish Grossart, Non-Executive Deputy Chairman 48 1995 and he transferred to Cairn after the completion of the Hamish Grossart was appointed an independent nonacquisition.
He was closely associated with Cairns acquisition executive director of Cairn in 1994 and became Deputy of Command Petroleum Limited in 1996 a major shareholder Chairman in 1996.
He is currently Chairman of Indigo Vision in HSSH.
He was appointed an executive director at Cairn in Group plc, Deputy Chairman of Scottish Radio Holdings plc 1997.
He is the executive director with delegated responsibility and British Polythene Industries PLC and a director of for providing assurance to the Board on health, safety, Martin Currie Income & Growth Trust plc, Sigma Technology environment, community and human rights matters.
Group plc and Artemis Investment Management Limited.
He has 20 years experience in executive and non-executive Kevin Hart, Finance Director 36 positions in listed groups covering a wide variety of Kevin Hart holds a BSc Hons in Physics and Natural industries.
He is also the Companys senior independent Philosophy from Edinburgh University.
Prior to joining non-executive director.
Cairn as Finance Director in 1998, he spent nine years in London working in investment banking where he was Ed Story, Non-Executive Director 61 a senior associate director with Deutsche Morgan Grenfell, Ed Story was appointed an independent non-executive specialising in oil and gas sector mergers and acquisitions.
He is President, Chief Executive He is also a non-executive director of Glasgow Income Trust and founder of SOCO International plc and has over 35 years PLC.
He is the executive director with delegated experience in the international oil and gas industry.
He responsibility for employee matters.
serves as the Honorary Consul of Mongolia in Houston.
Malcolm Thoms, Group General Manager 49 Todd Hunt, Non-Executive Director 52 Malcolm Thoms holds a BSc Hons in Physics from Edinburgh Todd Hunt was appointed an independent non-executive University and an MBA from Heriot-Watt University.
He is President and joint He started his career as a field engineer with Schlumberger owner of Atropos Exploration Company and Atropos and subsequently became manager of their businesses in Production Company based in Dallas, Texas.
He has over Qatar and Brunei.
He joined Cairn in 1989 where he held a 30 years experience in the oil and gas industry.
number of senior management positions prior to his appointment as an executive director in 2000.
He is also Mark Tyndall, Non-Executive Director 47 a non-executive director of Revus Energy AS.
Mark Tyndall was appointed an independent non-executive director of Cairn in October 2003.
He is Chief Executive of Phil Tracy, Engineering & Operations Director 54 Artemis Investment Management Limited and a director Phil Tracy holds an MSc in Petroleum Engineering from of Standard Life European Private Equity Trust PLC and Imperial College and a BSc in Chemical Engineering from Micadant Plc.
He is a Chartered Engineer with over 30 years experience in the international oil and gas industry.
He originally Andrew Shilston, Non-Executive Director 49 joined Cairn in 1988 and served as an executive director from Andrew Shilston was appointed an independent non- 1989 until 1999.
He subsequently became managing director of executive director of Cairn in November 2004.
He is a Providence Resources P. L. C. before re-joining Cairn in 2002 as Chartered Accountant and has been the Finance Director Chairman of Cairn Energy India Pty Limited.
He was appointed of Rolls-Royce plc since 2003.
Prior to that he was the Engineering & Operations Director in February 2004.
He is also a Finance Director of Enterprise Oil plc from 1993 to 2002. non-executive director of Vienco Oil & Gas Limited.
He has over 20 years experience in the oil and gas industry.
