Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2004 32 Directors Report The directors of Cairn Energy PLC present their annual Post Balance Sheet Event report for the year ended 31 December 2004 together with In March 2005, the transaction completed with ONGC whereby the financial statements of the Group for the year.
These will Cairn farmed-out interests in Blocks KG-DWN-98 2 90% and be laid before the shareholders at the Annual General CB OS-2 15% exploration interest and 10% interest in the Meeting to be held on Friday 3 June 2005.
Lakshmi and Gauri Development Areas and farmed-in interests in Blocks GV-ONN-97 1 30% and CB-ONN-2001 1 30%.
Results and Dividend On completion, Cairn received pre tax proceeds of $135m.
The Group made a profit after tax and exceptionals of 10.8m which has been transferred to reserves.
Charitable and Political Donations The Company has a Charities Committee which is responsible The directors do not recommend the payment of a dividend for distributing the Companys charitable donations to for the year ended 31 December 2004, preferring that the selected charities within an overall annual budget.
During the Groups profits are reinvested in the business.
year the Group made various charitable contributions in the UK totalling 61,750 2003: 46,030.
In addition, during the Principal Activities year the Group made various charitable contributions in India The principal activity of the Company and its subsidiary and Bangladesh totalling 232,000 and announced that it undertakings is the exploration for and development and would make a donation of $200,000 to the Tsunami appeal.
production of oil and gas in India, Bangladesh and Nepal.
No political donations were made and no political expenditure A review of the business, including details of Cairns was incurred during the year.
exploration, development and production activities during the year and its position at the year end is given in the Directors Chairmans Statement and in the Operational Review and The names and biographical details of the current directors Financial Review on pages 4 to 19.
Details of Cairns offices of the Company are given on page 21.
The beneficial and advisers are given on page 81. interests of the directors in the ordinary shares of the Company are shown below: As at 31 December 2003 As at 31 December 2004 As at 19 April 2005 or, if later, date of appointment Bill Gammell 880,000 1,095,000 1,095,000 Mike Watts 152,041 250,000 250,000 Kevin Hart 221,811 290,000 290,000 Malcolm Thoms 260,000 315,002 315,002 Phil Tracy - 5,000 5,000 Norman Murray 60,000 100,000 100,000 Hamish Grossart 50,000 100,000 100,000 Ed Story 50,000 50,000 50,000 Todd Hunt 30,000 35,000 35,000 Mark Tyndall - 5,000 5,000 Andrew Shilston - 5,000 5,000 Bill Gammells interest includes 138,548 shares which are held in discretionary trusts, where Mr Gammells children are potential beneficiaries.
At 31 December 2004, none of the directors or any members of their families holds an interest in options over ordinary shares in the Company.
Details of the share options exercised by certain of the directors during the year are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 45.
None of the directors has a material interest in any contract, other than a service contract, with the Company or any of its subsidiary undertakings.
Details of the directors service contracts are set out on page 42.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2004 33 Directors Report continued Major Interests in Share Capital The Company has been notified, in accordance with sections 198 to 202 of the Act, of the under-noted interests in its ordinary shares as at 19 April 2005.
Number of Shares % of Share Capital Fidelity Investments 23,848,637 14.97 Merrill Lynch Investment Managers 21,087,228 13.24 Lazard Asset Management 7,673,716 4.82 Legal & General Investment Management 6,670,922 4.19 F&C Asset Management 6,439,668 4.04 Deutsche Asset Management 6,025,190 3.78 Baillie Gifford 5,425,041 3.41 Aegon Asset Management 5,230,251 3.28 Creditor Payment Policy and Practice Share Capital Authorities It is Cairns payment policy to ensure settlement of suppliers Resolution 9 in the Notice of Annual General Meeting seeks to services in accordance with the terms of the applicable give the directors authority to allot up to 53,098,788 unissued contracts.
In most circumstances, settlement terms are ordinary shares, being up to an aggregate nominal amount of agreed prior to business taking place.
This maximum amount represents one third of Company at 31 December 2004 were equivalent to 3 days the nominal value of the Companys total issued share capital as purchases, based on the average daily amount invoiced by at 19 April 2005.
As at 19 April 2005 the Company holds no suppliers to the Company during the year.
shares in treasury, representing 0% of the total ordinary share capital calculated exclusive of treasury shares.
The authority Election Re-election of Directors conferred by this resolution will expire on 2 June 2010.
The Andrew Shilston joined the Board on 8 November 2004 and directors consider that the authority proposed to be given is due to retire at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 3 pursuant to resolution 9 is desirable to allow the Company to June 2005 being the first Annual General Meeting following retain flexibility, although they have no present intention of his appointment and, being eligible, offers himself for exercising this authority.
Mr Shilston is a chartered accountant and has been the Finance Director of Rolls-Royce plc since Resolution 11 in the Notice of Annual General Meeting seeks 2003.
Prior to that he was the Finance Director of Enterprise to give the directors power to allot unissued ordinary share Oil plc from 1993 to 2002.
He has agreed to become the capital and to sell ordinary shares held in treasury for cash chairman of the audit committee following the conclusion of up to an aggregate nominal amount of 796,481.80 in the Annual General Meeting to be held on 3 June 2005. aggregate without first being required to offer such shares to existing shareholders but this authority is limited to: Norman Murray, Ed Story and Bill Gammell retire by rotation at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 3 June i the allotment of ordinary shares and sale of treasury 2005 in accordance with the Companys articles of association shares avoiding legal or practical problems should there and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election as be an offer of shares or other securities to shareholders directors.
Hamish Grossart has served on the Board for more pro rata in the future: and than nine years and in accordance with the Combined Code requires to be re-elected as a director on an annual basis.
ii the allotment and sale of up to 7,964,818 ordinary shares and treasury shares for cash for any purpose representing The Board has carried out a formal performance evaluation 5% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as and confirms that, after rigorous review, it has determined at 19 April 2005. that the performance of each of the directors who are subject to re-election continues to be effective and that each The authority conferred by this resolution will expire on demonstrates commitment to the role.
An explanation of the 2 June 2010. performance evaluation procedure carried out by the Company is contained in the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 23 to 31.
The directors biographies are on page 21.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2004 34 Directors Report continued Purchase of Own Shares Reduction of Authorised Share Capital Cancellation of Resolution 12 in the Notice of Annual General Meeting will Unissued Redeemable Preference Shares be proposed to authorise the Company to make market In connection with a scheme of arrangement the Scheme purchases of its own ordinary shares.
Shares repurchased by under section 425 of the Act, which became effective on the Company pursuant to such authority may be cancelled or 19 February 2003, 49,999 non-voting redeemable preference held in treasury and then either sold in whole or in part for shares of 1 each in the capital of the Company the cash or cancelled in whole or in part.
Redeemable Shares were issued by the Company to Cairn Energy Bangladesh Limited formerly the ultimate holding The directors intend to take advantage of the flexibility company of the Group.
The issue of the Redeemable Shares afforded by this resolution as they deem appropriate.
No enabled the Company to re-register as a public limited dividends will be paid on treasury shares and no voting company prior to the Scheme becoming effective.
On 24 June rights attach to them.
2003 the 49,999 Redeemable Shares were redeemed by the Company at par, in accordance with the Companys articles of The maximum aggregate number of ordinary shares which association.
may be purchased pursuant to the authority shall be 14.99% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at Since then, the Redeemable Shares have remained part of 3 June 2005.
The maximum price which may be paid for an the authorised share capital of the Company.
The directors ordinary share pursuant to this resolution exclusive of do not anticipate that the Company will have any future expenses shall be an amount equal to 105% of the average requirement to issue any or all of the Redeemable Shares of the middle market quotations for the Companys ordinary and accordingly, in order to simplify the share capital of the shares for the five business days immediately preceding the Company, it is proposed to reduce the authorised share date of purchase.
The minimum price which may be paid for capital by cancellation of the Redeemable Shares by an ordinary share pursuant to this resolution exclusive of paragraph a of resolution 10 in the Notice of Annual expenses shall be ten pence.
This resolution is to be proposed as a special resolution, as it also incorporates the adoption of In accordance with the Listing Rules, the Company will not new articles of association, as explained below.
repurchase shares in the period of two months immediately preceding the preliminary announcement of its annual or If this resolution is passed, it will result in a reduction of the interim results or, if shorter, the period from the end of the authorised share capital of the Company by 49,999, such financial period concerned up to and including the time of a that the Companys remaining authorised share capital will relevant announcement or except in accordance with the be 22,500,000, divided into 225,000,000 ordinary shares.
Listing Rules, at any other time when, in terms of the Model This reduction in the authorised share capital is not a Code, the directors would be prohibited from dealing in reduction in, or a repayment of, all or any part of the issued shares.
share capital of the Company and will not affect the underlying financial position of the Company in any manner.
This authority, if conferred, will only be exercised if to do so would be in the best interests of shareholders generally.
Adoption of new articles of association The current articles of association the Existing Articles This authority will expire on the earlier of 2 December 2006 were adopted by the Company in November 2002, prior to or the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the the Scheme becoming effective.
Since then, the Companies Company to be held in 2006 unless previously revoked, Acquisition of Own Shares Treasury Shares Regulations varied or renewed by the Company in general meeting.
2003 the Treasury Shares Regulations have come into force, allowing UK listed companies to hold their own shares As at 19 April 2005, options to subscribe for shares were in treasury after being repurchased from shareholders.
In outstanding over an aggregate of 1,661,087 ordinary shares addition, there have been developments in the practice of UK representing 1.04% of the issued share capital of the Company listed companies in relation to uncertificated securities, as at 19 April 2005.
If the outstanding amount of the existing electronic communications to and from such companies and buy-back authority granted at the 2004 Annual General their shareholders and the administration of general Meeting is utilised in full prior to the 2005 Annual General meetings.
The directors believe that it is desirable to make a Meeting and the new authority is granted at the Annual General number of amendments to the Existing Articles to reflect Meeting to be held on 3 June 2005 and is then utilised in full, such developments in UK listed company practice and the the options outstanding at 19 April 2005 would represent introduction of the Treasury Shares Regulations.
Rather than 1.43% of the issued share capital of the Company.
making extensive amendments to the Existing Articles, it is proposed that new articles of association the New Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2004 35 Directors Report continued Articles be adopted in place of the Existing Articles.
A parties, whether the shares representing such fractional summary of the principal differences between the Existing entitlements are in certificated or uncertificated form.
Articles and the New Articles is set out below.
Shares The adoption of the New Articles is proposed as paragraph Article 16.1 Unissued shares and treasury shares at the b of resolution 10 in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
disposal of the directors has been amended to clarify that the As stated above, this resolution will be proposed as a special directors have authority, subject to shareholders statutory preresolution.
emption rights, to resell or cancel shares repurchased by the Company and held in treasury.
The inclusion of this wording is Although it would be possible to propose the cancellation of the a matter of best practice for listed companies: the necessary Redeemable Shares and the adoption of the New Articles as authority is contained within the amendments to the Act made separate resolutions, in view of the references to the by the Treasury Shares Regulations.
Redeemable Shares in the Existing Articles it is considered by the directors to be simpler to deal with the cancellation as part Certificates of the resolution proposing the adoption of the New Articles.
Article 22.1 Authentication and form of certificates has been amended given that it is no longer a requirement under Copies of the New Articles and of the Existing Articles will be the Act for share certificates or other certificates to be available for inspection by shareholders at the Companys issued under seal.
In addition, article 22.1 has been updated registered office at 50 Lothian Road, Edinburgh EH3 9BY to permit the Company to issue automated share certificates, between 9.00 a. m. and 5.00 p. m. Monday to Friday other by expressly authorising the directors to determine how than public holidays from the date of the Notice of Annual share certificates may be authenticated or executed on General Meeting to the conclusion of the Annual General behalf of the Company.
Meeting to be held on 3 June 2005.
The following articles have, subsequently, been amended to Principal differences between the Existing Articles take account of the possibility that shares may be in either and the New Articles certificated or uncertificated form: article 39 Sale or Set out below is a summary of the principal differences cancellation of forfeited or surrendered shares, article 40 between the Existing Articles and the New Articles.
The Arrears to be paid notwithstanding forfeiture or surrender, references to articles below corresponds to the numbering article 47 Refusal to register, article 48 Requirements for of the Existing Articles unless otherwise specified.
registration of transfer, article 53.2 Registration or transfer on death, bankruptcy, etc and article 55.3 Sale Capital procedure and application of proceeds.
The cancellation of the 49,999 Redeemable Shares which currently form part of the authorised share capital of the Disclosure of interests in shares Company is proposed as paragraph a of resolution 10 Article 54.2 Disenfranchisement has been amended to in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
Accordingly, exclude shares held in treasury from the calculation of the references to the Redeemable Shares have been removed 0.25% threshold, beyond which the Company may withhold from article 6 Share capital.
Article 7A Redeemable dividend payments and other rights from a disenfranchised shares of the Existing Articles, which sets out the rights shareholder.
attaching to the Redeemable Shares, has been deleted from the New Articles.
In addition, article 7 Redeemable shares Location of general meetings and shares with special rights has been amended to provide The provisions in respect of the location of general meetings for the possibility that the shareholders may authorise the and related matters article 63 have been revised and directors to determine the rights attached to any preference, supplemented to reflect current UK listed company practice.
deferred or other shares with special rights.
The principal changes are that: Alteration of capital i the directors will be able to permit persons entitled to Article 13.2 Fractions arising has been amended to provide attend a general meeting to do so by simultaneous for the possibility that fractional entitlements could arise on attendance and participation at other locations a either a consolidation or a consolidation followed by a subsatellite meeting place, subject to the chairman being division.
The wording in the Existing Articles only addresses satisfied with the communication and other facilities at the latter.
Article 13.2 also gives express authority to the the satellite meeting places.
Such persons will be entitled directors to effect the sale of fractional entitlements to third to vote, speak, appoint a proxy and have access to all documents as if they were at the principal meeting place: Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2004 36 Directors Report continued ii the chairman will be able to interrupt or adjourn a Proceedings at general meetings general meeting if he is not satisfied with the facilities The provisions in respect of proceedings at general meetings at the principal meeting place or any satellite meeting have been revised and supplemented to reflect current UK place: listed company practice.
iii the directors have the discretion to make arrangements Article 72 Time and place of adjourned meetings has been for persons to listen to and or watch the proceedings expanded to provide for the possibility of a general meeting at any general meeting, if they are not present at the being held at a principal meeting place and satellite meeting principal meeting place or a satellite meeting place.
place s and permits shareholders who cannot attend an Such persons will not, however, be deemed to be adjourned meeting reconvened at short notice to appoint a present at such a meeting and will therefore not be proxy for that meeting.
In addition, it empowers the entitled to vote.
This may be used to control attendance directors to determine a record date in respect of members numbers at the official venues: entitlement to attend and vote at an adjourned meeting in the same manner as in respect of the original meeting iv the directors will be permitted to postpone or change pursuant to article 64 Period and omission or non-receipt of the location of a general meeting at short notice and notice and article 65 Contents of notice.
without serving a new notice of meeting if they consider it unreasonable or impracticable to hold it at Article 73 Amendments to resolutions has been amended the location s specified in the notice of meeting.
If to, firstly, provide that proposed amendments to resolutions practicable, the directors must advertise the change of may be lodged by electronic communication, and, secondly, arrangements in national newspapers: and provide the chairman with discretion to permit amendments to be considered and voted upon at short notice.
v the Board and the chairman of a general meeting will have the power to take appropriate steps to ensure Article 78 Continuance of meeting has been amended to security at a general meeting, including the exclusion clarify that where a demand for a poll has been withdrawn, of any person who refuses to comply with these steps.
the chairman is not obliged to proceed with the poll.
Notice of general meetings Directors Article 64 Period and omission or non-receipt of notice has Article 92 Limits on number of directors has been been expanded to provide that the directors are entitled to amended to set the limit of the maximum number of specify a record date for entitlement to receive notice of a directors other than alternate directors at no more than general meeting subject to a maximum of 21 days prior to 14 as compared to the present limit of 12.
Article 94 the sending of the notice in accordance with the Directors fees permits the payment of fees to directors Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001. in an aggregate amount not exceeding 600,000 per annum as compared to the present figure of 250,000.
Since the Article 65.4 Contents of notice is a new article that clarifies Existing Articles were adopted by the Company in November the position under the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2002, three new non-executive directors have been 2001, in terms of which the directors may set a record date appointed in order to address the requirements of the new for entitlement to attend and vote at a general meeting at Combined Code on composition of the Board.
The increase any time in the 48 hours prior to the commencement of the in the aggregate limit of fees also reflects the increase in meeting.
fees payable to the non-executive directors recommended in the remuneration review carried out by New Bridge Street Article 66 Routine business has been amended to expressly Consultants.
See page 38 of the Directors Remuneration include the approval of the directors remuneration report as Report for further details.
routine business at an Annual General Meeting.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2004 37 Directors Report continued such rights, the members shall have the same rights of Article 99.2 When termination of appointment automatic dissent and consequential rights as if such action was taken and article 99.3 When termination of appointment not pursuant to a special resolution under section 110 of the automatic have been amended to clarify that when a Insolvency Act 1986. director retires by rotation and is re-elected in the normal course of business, he does not lose his executive office.
Auditors Ernst & Young LLP have expressed their willingness to Appointment, disqualification and retirement of directors continue as auditors and their re-appointment at the Article 104 Identity of directors to retire has been Annual General Meeting to be held on 3 June 2005 will be amended to clarify that any director who is disqualified from proposed in accordance with section 385 of the Act.
acting under section 293 of the Act relating to the age limit for directors may not be counted in the number of directors Annual General Meeting 2005 who are due to retire by rotation.
The resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 3 June 2005 are set out in the Notice Proceedings of directors of Annual General Meeting on pages 82 to 85.
Please note Article 118 Resolutions in writing has been amended to that this Annual Report and Accounts which includes the permit a directors written resolution to be executed by an Notice of Annual General Meeting is an important document alternate director who has been appointed by a director who and requires your immediate attention.
If you are in any is unable to act through ill health or disability.
Previously, all doubt as to what action you should take, you should consult directors, regardless of health, were required to execute a your stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor, accountant or directors written resolution in order for it to have effect.
This amendment would also apply in respect of written resolutions of a committee with appropriate delegated If you have sold or transferred all your shares in authority.
Cairn Energy PLC please send this document and the accompanying Form of Proxy to the purchaser or transferee Authentication of documents or to the bank, stockbroker or other agent through whom Article 132 Authentication of documents has been the sale or transfer was effected, for transmission to the amended to provide for the possibility that documents purchaser or transferee.
requiring authentication may be in electronic form.
Recommendation Dividends The directors consider that all of the resolutions set out Article 136 Interim dividends and article 144 Procedure in the Notice of Annual General Meeting are in the best for payment have been amended to enable the directors to interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole pay interim dividends in specie.
and recommend that shareholders vote in favour of each of them.
2 Procedure for payment is a new article that empowers the directors to determine a specific mechanism for a member to elect not to receive payment of dividends in By order of the Board respect of uncertificated shares through CREST.
Duncan Wood Company Secretary Winding up 19 April 2005 Article 163 Distribution of assets other than in cash has been amended to provide that any division in specie of assets among the members by a liquidator may be other than in accordance with the existing rights of the members, but if any division is resolved otherwise than in accordance with
