42 | Board of Directors Board of Directors The Board has ten members, with two executive and eight non-executive directors.
Professor Nkuhlu joins the Board as an additional non-executive director on 1 March 2005 2 3 1 4 6 7 5 8 10 11 9 Board of Directors | 43 2 2 1 MIKE LEVETT 65 7 WARREN CLEWLOW 68 B. Com.
hc, FIA, FFA, FASSA, is non-executive Chairman, OMSG, CA SA, D. Econ.
hc, has been a non-executive director of the having previously held the role of Chairman and Chief Executive until October Company since March 1999.
He became Chairman of Nedcor Limited in 2001.
He has also been Chairman of the Nomination Committee since May 2004, having previously been its Deputy Chairman.
He has also been February 2003.
He is a non-executive director Chairman of Barloworld Limited since 1991.
He was previously Chief of Barloworld Limited, Central Africa Building Society, Mutual & Federal Executive of the Barloworld group and has managed many of its various Insurance Company Limited and Old Mutual South Africa Trust plc.
He is also a non-executive director of Sasol Limited.
2 1, 2, 3 2 JIM SUTCLIFFE 48 8 CHRISTOPHER COLLINS 65 B. Sc.
FIA, became Chief Executive in November 2001, having been FCA, has been a non-executive director of the Company since March 1999 appointed to the Board as Chief Executive of the Groups life businesses and became the senior independent non-executive director in February in January 2000.
He is also a non-executive director of Nedcor Limited 2003.
He chairs the Remuneration Committee.
He has been Chairman of and of Nedbank Limited.
Before joining the Group, he was Chief Executive, Hanson PLC since 1998, a position that he will be relinquishing in April 2005 UK, of Prudential plc and Chief Operating Officer of Jackson National, before succeeding Mr Levett as non-executive Chairman of the Company Prudentials US subsidiary.
following the Annual General Meeting in May 2005.
He is Chairman of Forth Ports PLC and a non-executive director of The Go-Ahead Group plc and of 3 JULIAN ROBERTS 47 Alfred McAlpine PLC.
A. FCA, MCT, is Group Finance Director, a position he has held since 1, 2 joining the Group in August 2000.
He is also a non-executive director of 9 RUSSELL EDEY 62 Mutual & Federal Insurance Company Limited and of Nedcor Limited.
He FCA, has been a non-executive director of the Company since June 2004. was formerly Group Finance Director of Sun Life & Provincial Holdings PLC.
He is deputy chairman of N M Rothschild Corporate Finance Limited, a Before joining Sun Life & Provincial Holdings PLC, he was a director and non-executive director of FKI plc and Chairman of Anglogold Ashanti Limited.
Chief Financial Officer of Aon UK Holdings Limited.
He previously served on the boards of English China Clays plc, Wassall plc, Northern Foods plc and Express Dairies plc.
His career began in the 1, 2, 3 4 NIGEL ANDREWS 57 Finance Division of the Anglo American Corporation of South Africa Limited in B. Sc.
MBA, has been a non-executive director of the Company since June Johannesburg.
In the 1970s he was General Manager Corporate Finance 2002.
He is a non-executive director of the Companys principal US holding of Capel Court Corporation in Melbourne.
He joined Rothschild in 1977 company, Old Mutual US Holdings, Inc. and chairs that companys and was Head of Corporate Finance from 1991 to 1996.
He is non-executive Chairman of Great Lakes 2, 3 Chemical Corporation, a member of the board of the Victory Funds and 10 MICHAEL MARKS 63 a governor of the London Business School.
Previously he was an Executive CBE, has been a non-executive director of the Company since February Vice President and member of the office of the CEO of GE Capital, having 2004.
He is one of the founding partners of New Smith Capital Partners LLP spent 13 years with The General Electric Company Inc. and is also a non-executive director of RIT Capital Partners PLC.
Until February 2003 he had held a number of senior roles with Merrill Lynch, 1, 2 5 RUDI BOGNI 57 including Executive Chairman of Merrill Lynch Europe, Middle East and D. Econ.
Bocconi, has been a non-executive director of the Company since Africa and Executive Vice-President of Merrill Lynch & Co.
He chairs the Actuarial Review Committee.
He is Chairman Merrill Lynch in 1995, he had been Chairman of Smith New Court PLC, of Medinvest International SCA, Luxembourg and of the International Advisory having earlier been responsible for the international operations of that company Board of Oxford Analytica.
He is also a member of the boards of the LGT in New York, Hong Kong, Singapore and South Africa.
He was also formerly Foundation, Common Purpose International Limited and Prospect Publishing, a non-executive director of the London Stock Exchange, Chairman of the and of the governing council of the Centre for the Study of Financial Innovation.
London Investment Banking Association and Vice-President of the British He served previously as a member of the Executive Board and Chief Executive, Bankers Association.
Private Banking of UBS AG, and before that he was Group Treasurer and a member of the Executive Committee of Midland Bank plc.
CTA, MBA, has been appointed as a non-executive director from 1, 2, 3 6 NORMAN BROADHURST 63 1 March 2005.
He is a qualified chartered accountant, Chief Executive of the FCA, FCT, has been a non-executive director of the Company since March 1999 New Partnership for Africas Development and a former economic adviser and will succeed Mr Collins as senior independent non-executive director in to South African President Thabo Mbeki.
He is also a non-executive director May 2005.
He chairs the Group Audit Committee.
He was Group Finance of the Companys South African life subsidiary, Old Mutual Life Assurance Director of Railtrack plc from 1994 to 2000.
He is Chairman of Freightliner Company South Africa Limited.
His previous appointments include Limited and of Chloride Group plc.
He is also a non-executive director of presidency of the South African Institute of Chartered Accountants and Cattles plc, Tomkins plc and United Utilities plc.
chairmanship of the Development Bank of Southern Africa.
Key: 1 Member of the Group Audit Committee 2 Member of the Nomination Committee 3 Member of the Remuneration Committee
