REPORT OF THE BOARD TO THE SHAREHOLDERS ON STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES IN RELATION DIRECTORS REMUNERATION Continued TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The directors are required by the Companies Act 1985 to prepare The directors have responsibility for ensuring that the Company Deferred Bonus Scheme financial statements for each financial year which give a true and keeps accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy Details of individual entitlements of the directors under the Deferred Bonus Scheme at 30 September 2003 and 30 September 2004 are: fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group as at the financial position of the Company and which enable them to AWARD DATE TRANSFER MARKET J P L PERRY N S TERRINGTON N KEEN J A HERON P PANDYA the end of the financial year and of the profit or loss for the ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies DATE PRICE AT financial year.
AWARD DATE NUMBER NUMBER NUMBER NUMBER NUMBER The directors consider that in preparing the financial statements The directors have general responsibility for taking such steps as on pages 34 to 72, the Company has used appropriate accounting are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group Awards outstanding at 30 September 2003 or at date of appointment: policies, consistently applied and supported by reasonable and and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
---- - prudent judgements and estimates, and that all accounting Awards made in the year: standards which they consider to be applicable have been followed.
27 02 2004 01 10 2006 387.60p 29,940 45,284 32,934 13,473 16,467 At 30 September 2004 29,940 45,284 32,934 13,473 16,467 Under the Deferred Bonus Scheme the shares awarded will be transferred to the scheme participants as soon as is reasonably practicable after the transfer date.
Under the Deferred Bonus Scheme, the following awards are due to be granted in respect of bonuses for the year ended 30 September 2004: J P L Perry 14,113 shares N S Terrington 52,694 shares N Keen 39,490 shares J A Heron 20,528 shares P Pandya 20,528 shares Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors Gavin A F Lickley Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 15 December 2004 26 THE PARAGON GROUP OF COMPANIES PLC THE PARAGON GROUP OF COMPANIES PLC 27 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE TO THE MEMBERS OF THE PARAGON GROUP OF COMPANIES PLC We have audited the financial statements of The Paragon Group of We read the directors report and the other information contained The Combined Code, which sets out Principles of Good Corporate All directors are able to take independent professional advice in the Companies PLC for the year ended 30 September 2004 which in the annual report for the above year as described in the contents Governance and Code provisions, was issued by the London Stock furtherance of their duties whenever it is considered appropriate to comprise the consolidated profit and loss account, the balance section including the unaudited part of the directors remuneration Exchange in June 1998.
Throughout the year the Company has do so.
sheets, the consolidated cash flow statement and the related notes report and consider the implications for our report if we become been in compliance with the Code provisions set out in section 1 of The Board also operates through a number of committees covering 1 to 38 together with the reconciliation of movement in aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies the Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
A statement on how certain specific matters, these being: consolidated shareholders funds.
These financial statements have with the financial statements.
the Company has applied the Principles of Good Corporate The Remuneration Committee, consisting of Gavin Lickley, who been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We Governance and a statement explaining the extent to which the have also audited the information in the part of directors chairs the committee, David Beever and Christopher Newell.
provisions in the Code relevant to companies have been complied Basis of audit opinion remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
The Audit and Compliance Committee, consisting of Christopher with appear below.
We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in Newell, who chairs the committee, David Beever and Gavin The Board notes the publication in July 2003 of the revised auditing standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
The committee meets at least three times per year.
It Combined Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council, which includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys monitors the integrity of the Groups financial reporting, reviews applies to listed companies for periods commencing on or after amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of members those matters we are required to state to them in an the Groups internal control and risk management systems, the directors remuneration report described as having been 1 November 2003 the revised Combined Code.
The Company auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent monitors and reviews the effectiveness of the Groups internal audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates will report formally on its compliance with the revised Combined permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to audit function, monitors the relationship between the Group and and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the Code, as required under the Listing Rules, next year.
However, the anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as the external auditors and provides a forum through which the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are Board has reviewed the main and supporting principles and a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we Groups external and internal audit functions report to the nonappropriate to the circumstances of the Company and the Group, provisions set out in the revised Combined Code and is taking steps have formed.
The committee is also responsible for consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
to ensure that it will be in a position to meet its requirements.
ensuring that the system and controls for regulatory compliance We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the Respective responsibilities of are effective.
information and explanations which we considered necessary in directors and auditors Directors order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable The Nomination Committee, consisting of Jonathan Perry, who As described in the statement of directors responsibility, the assurance that the financial statements and the part of the The Board of Directors comprises the Chairman, four executive and chairs the committee, Nigel Terrington and two non-executive Companys directors are responsible for the preparation of the directors remuneration report described as having been audited four non-executive directors, all of whom bring to the Company a directors, David Beever and Christopher Newell.
The committee financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or broad and valuable range of experience.
Jonathan Perry has been is convened as required to nominate candidates for membership law and accounting standards.
They are also responsible for the other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated Chairman since February 1992 and Nigel Terrington Chief of the Board, although ultimate responsibility for appointment preparation of the other information contained in the annual report the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Executive since June 1995.
In accordance with the Code, all rests with the Board.
including the directors remuneration report.
Our responsibility is to financial statements.
directors will submit themselves for re-election at least once in The Asset and Liability Committee, consisting of appropriate audit the financial statements and the part of the directors every three years.
The names of the directors in office at the date of heads of functions and chaired by Nigel Terrington, the Chief remuneration report described as having been audited in this report and their biographical details are set out on pages 12 Opinion Executive.
It meets regularly and monitors Group interest rate accordance with relevant United Kingdom legal and regulatory and 13. risks, currency risks and treasury counterparty exposures.
In our opinion: The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and Chief We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements The Credit Committee, consisting of appropriate senior the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state Executive is clearly established, set out in writing and agreed by the give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and of affairs of the Company and the Group as at 30 September executives and chaired by Nicholas Keen, the Finance Director.
There is a strong non-executive representation on the the part of the directors remuneration report described as having 2004 and of the profit of the Group for the year then ended: and It meets regularly and is responsible for establishing credit Board, including David Beever who has been nominated as the been audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the policy and monitoring compliance therewith.
the financial statements and the part of the directors senior independent non-executive director.
This provides effective Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the remuneration report described as having been audited have All Board committees operate within defined terms of reference.
The Board meets regularly throughout the directors report is not consistent with the financial statements, if been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have year and is responsible for overall Group strategy, for approving The composition of the Board and its committees is kept under Act 1985. not received all the information and explanations we require for our major agreements, transactions and other financing matters and review, with the aim of ensuring that there is an appropriate audit, or if information specified by law or the Listing Rules for monitoring the progress of the Group against budget.
All balance of power and authority between executive and nonregarding directors remuneration and transactions with the directors receive sufficient relevant information on financial, executive directors and that the directors collectively possess the Company and other members of the Group is not disclosed.
business and corporate issues prior to meetings and there is a skills and experience necessary to direct the Company and the formal schedule of matters reserved for decision by the Board.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects Deloitte & Touche LLP the Companys compliance with the seven provisions of the All the non-executive directors are independent of management Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the and all are appointed for fixed terms.
They are kept fully informed Birmingham Financial Services Authority and we report if it does not.
We are not of all relevant operational and strategic issues and bring a strongly 15 December 2004 required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal independent and experienced judgement to bear on these issues.
control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
28 THE PARAGON GROUP OF COMPANIES PLC THE PARAGON GROUP OF COMPANIES PLC 29 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Continued There is an established process for external appointments through The directors are responsible for the system of internal control Relations with shareholders Going concern basis the Nomination Committee.
Ultimately, the appointment of any new throughout the Group and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a The Board encourages communication with the Companys After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation director is a matter for the Board.
Executive director appointments system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of institutional and private investors.
All shareholders have at least that the Group and the Company have adequate resources to are based on merit and business need.
Non-executive failure to achieve business objectives, and can provide reasonable, twenty working days notice of the Annual General Meeting at which continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For appointments are based upon the candidates profiles matching but not absolute, assurance against the risk of material the directors and committee chairmen are available for questions.
this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in those drawn up by the Nomination Committee.
In all cases the misstatement or loss and that assets are safeguarded against The Annual General Meeting is held in London during business preparing the accounts.
Board approves the appointment only after careful consideration.
In assessing what constitutes hours and provides an opportunity for directors to report to reasonable assurance, the directors have regard to the relationship The Board, individual directors and Board committees are investors on the Groups activities and to answer their questions.
between the cost and benefits from particular aspects of the Compliance statement appraised annually.
The performance of the Chief Executive is Shareholders will have an opportunity to vote separately on each control system.
The performance of the Finance resolution and all proxy votes lodged are counted and the balance The Listing Rules require the Board to report on compliance with Director and the other executive directors is appraised by the Chief The system of internal control includes documented procedures for and against each resolution is announced.
the forty-five Code provisions throughout the accounting period.
Executive in conjunction with the Chairman.
The results of these covering accounting, compliance, risk management, personnel Throughout the year ended 30 September 2004 the Company has The Chairman, Chief Executive and Finance Director have a full appraisals are presented to the Remuneration Committee for matters and operations, clear reporting lines, delegation of been in compliance with the Code provisions set out in Section 1 of programme of meetings with institutional investors during the consideration and determination of remuneration.
authority through a formal structure of mandates, a formalised the Combined Code of Corporate Governance issued by the course of the year and the Companys web site at www.
paragonbudgeting, management reporting and review process, the use of Financial Services Authority.
The Board utilises the services of an external consultant to group.
co. uk provides access to information on the Company and its key performance indicators throughout the Group and regular facilitate a Board evaluation.
All Board directors are required to businesses.
meetings of the Asset and Liability and Credit Committees and complete a detailed questionnaire on the performance of the Board senior management.
and Board committees and the Board subsequently discusses the Accountability and audit results of the evaluation.
The Board receives regular reports setting out key performance and risk indicators.
In addition the Board operates a formal risk Detailed reviews of the performance of the Groups main business The non-executive directors meet at least annually to review the management process, from which the key risks facing the business lines are included within the Chairmans Statement and Chief performance of the Chairman.
The process results in reports to the Board on how Executives Review.
The Board uses these, together with the these risks are being managed.
The Board has a programme of Directors Report on pages 14 to 16 to present a balanced and Directors remuneration regular presentations from senior management to enable the understandable assessment of the Companys position and Board to review the operation of internal controls in relation to the prospects.
The Remuneration Committee reviews the performance of risks associated with their specific areas.
executive directors and members of senior management prior to The directors responsibility for the financial statements is determining its recommendations on annual remuneration, The system of internal control is monitored by management and by described on page 27. performance bonuses and share options for the Boards an internal audit function that concentrates on the areas of greater An on-going process for identifying, evaluating and managing the determination.
risk and reports its conclusions regularly to management and the significant risks faced by the Group, which is regularly reviewed by Audit and Compliance Committee.
The internal audit work plan is The Report of the Board to the Shareholders on Directors the Board, was in place for the year ended 30 September 2004 and approved annually by the Audit and Compliance Committee, which Remuneration is on pages 19 to 26. to the date of these financial statements.
The directors confirm that reviews the effectiveness of the system of internal control annually they have reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system of and reports its conclusions to the Board.
internal control for this period and that these procedures accord with the guidance Internal Controls: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code.
30 THE PARAGON GROUP OF COMPANIES PLC THE PARAGON GROUP OF COMPANIES PLC 31
