Financial review Treasury policy and financial risk management The board approves treasury policies and Sterling exchange rates used in 2003 and 2004 the groups treasury function manages the Polish Czech Hungarian Slovak Mexican day-to-day operations.
The board delegates zloty crown forint crown euro peso certain responsibilities to the treasury Average exchange rate committee.
The treasury committee, which is during 2004 6.68 47.00 370.21 58.99 1.47 20.66 chaired by John Harnett, the groups Finance Exchange rate as at Director, is empowered to take decisions 31 December 2004 5.77 42.87 346.36 54.70 1.41 21.34 within that delegated authority.
Treasury Average exchange rate activities are reported to the board on a during 2003 6.33 45.96 365.12 59.90 1.44 17.61 regular basis and are subject to periodic Exchange rate as at independent reviews and audits, both internal 31 December 2003 6.66 45.83 372.65 58.33 1.42 20.04 and external.
Treasury policies are designed to manage the main financial risks faced by the group in relation As far as possible, we aim to hedge the currency There has been no impact on the performance to funding, investment and hedging.
These risk associated with expected future cash flows statements of the group in 2004 or 2003 as a policies ensure that the borrowings and which are denominated in local currency and which result of the adoption of UITF 38. investments are with high quality counterparties: we expect to arise in the following 12 months.
are limited to specific instruments: the exposure International Financial to any one counterparty or type of instrument is Accounting policies Reporting Standards controlled: and the groups exposure to interest rate and exchange rate movements is maintained The groups UK GAAP accounting policies Consistent with all publicly listed companies in within set limits.
are chosen by the directors to ensure that the the European Union EU, the group is required accounts present a true and fair view.
All of to report under EU adopted International The treasury function enters into derivatives the groups accounting policies are consistent Financial Reporting Standards IFRS for the transactions, principally interest rate swaps, with the requirements of Accounting Standards, financial year ending 31 December 2005. currency swaps and forward currency contracts.
Urgent Issues Task Force UITF Abstracts and The purpose of these transactions is to manage Over the last 18 months the group has invested company law.
the interest rate and currency risks arising from a significant amount of resources in preparing the groups underlying business operations.
No Where there is a choice between accounting for the introduction of IFRS.
This has included a transactions of a purely speculative nature are policies, the most appropriate policy is selected significant investment in training accounting staff undertaken and written options may only be used for the purpose of giving a true and fair view.
This and a detailed review of all accounting and when matched by purchased options.
choice is made against the objectives of relevance, treasury policies to ensure full compliance with reliability, comparability and understandability.
The necessary changes to internal Interest rate risk The group seeks to limit the The continued appropriateness of the accounting IT systems and reporting procedures are also being net exposure to changes in interest rates.
This policies, and the methods of applying those introduced and the group continues to actively is achieved through a combination of natural policies in practice, is reviewed annually.
manage the implementation of IFRS into its hedging, which allows the increased cost of internal reporting systems.
borrowing resulting from higher interest rates The accounting policies adopted in preparing to be offset by increased investment income the 2004 accounts are consistent with those and vice versa, and by the use of derivative adopted in 2003 except for the first time instruments such as interest rate swaps.
adoption of UITF 38 Accounting for ESOP Trusts.
Shares in Provident Financial plc held by the Currency risk As the group expands internationally, QUEST, a discretionary trust established for the our exposure to movements in exchange rates is benefit of the employees of the group, are now increasing.
Our policy is to minimise the value of classified as a deduction from the profit and our net assets denominated in foreign currencies loss account reserve rather than being held as by funding a high proportion of our overseas a fixed asset investment.
The reclassification has receivables by borrowings in local currency or by been treated as a prior year adjustment and sterling borrowings swapped into local currency comparatives have been restated accordingly.
for the duration of the loans.
Provident Financial Annual Report & Accounts 2004 40
