Operating review continued Scandinavia We continue to drive forward the pan Nordic organisational In 2004 we continued to focus on our core initiative, in conjunction with the performance improvement operations and produced good results, both in programme, which has already shown positive results and is financial terms, with a COR of 95.4% and an expected to drive additional operational improvements in the coming years.
We are committed to delivering on our targets by underwriting profit of 51m, and in respect continuously improving our claims handling and underwriting of customer satisfaction and innovation.
We capabilities as well as constantly monitoring and rening our are committed to continuously improving our product offering.
methods of working, with a focus on customer We will continue to develop and improve our distribution channels satisfaction and loyalty.
in Scandinavia, where most insurance is written direct through the Internet, call centres and tied agents for both personal and Overview of major strategies commercial insurance.
Unlike many other countries, only a limited In line with the rest of the Group, our strategy is to focus on proportion of the commercial book is written through brokers.
general insurance in markets where we hold positions that enable us to see the benefit of our underwriting and pricing actions.
In Business progress against strategies both Denmark and Sweden we are the third largest insurer with The results for 2004 improved signicantly compared to 2003.
We are supported by our growing commercial business, with a COR of 88.7%, performed particularly operations in Latvia and Lithuania where we also hold significant well due to the initiatives over the recent years in respect of market positions and are the leading general insurers, although reunderwriting of the entire book of business and increases in premium volume is relatively small.
In the Nordic region as a premium rates to levels that properly reect the risk.
In personal whole we are the third largest general insurer.
lines, the COR of 101.8% was satisfactory.
The underlying level of improvement was masked by reserve strengthening for prior We will continue to deliver, rene and enlarge the performance years on personal injury claims, primarily in our Swedish business.
improvement programme introduced in 2003 to improve future profitability and growth.
This programme involves rening our A number of factors influenced the level of net premium written pricing, through a review of both the price structure and the across the region, including improvements to the way in which elements upon which the price is based.
An integral part of the we structure our reinsurance covers.
We also continued to apply programme is an enhancement of processes and exchange of premium rate increases and, while the levels of increase that we knowledge between our companies in the region.
achieved in 2004 were not as substantial as in previous years, they remained at the levels that we required and are the reason for Where we can make expense savings, drive best practices, or the growth in Swedish personal lines.
generally be more efficient, we implement initiatives across the region.
This applies to such areas as IT, claims, HR, finance and We have rened our concept of dynamic pricing, where we set systems.
We also recognise that each country is different and our prices based on market factors, price elasticities and technical customer propositions, customer segmentation, pricing models price, running several pilot projects in respect of these initiatives, and brands are all adapted for the local market.
As a result, we and will build them into our pricing.
This resulted in the launch remain committed to our multibrand strategy in our primary of a new rate plan for Danish personal property using a larger markets where we trade under a variety of brand names, eg in number of variables, which further improved technical price Denmark as Codan, Trekroner and Privatsikring, and in Sweden setting, and we will expand and develop this structure in 2005. as Trygg-Hansa and Aktsam.
Our main brand names, Codan and In 2004 we continued the work to expand our rate plan based Trygg-Hansa, have very high prompted brand awareness, with pricing to our commercial book, which previously was manually close to 100% having heard of the respective companies.
We are committed to delivering on our targets by continuously improving our claims handling and underwriting capabilities as well as constantly monitoring and rening our product offering.
Jens Erik Christensen Chief Executive, Scandinavia 22 Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2004 We have seen continued positive development in the customer Acquisitions, disposals and investments surveys in both Denmark and Sweden stemming from our In line with our strategy of becoming a pure general insurer work with customer satisfaction and loyalty programmes, we disposed of our life insurance operations.
This transaction and improvements to our value propositions.
We believe that completed on 1 October, with our share of the sale price, based our work around customer loyalty and satisfaction is a major on our 71.7% shareholding, amounting to approximately 173m.
contributor to our improved retention rates, especially within We also sold our 51% shareholding in Nordenfjeldske in Norway Danish personal lines business.
to the distribution partner Focus Bank and disposed of our Danish disability lines of business as part of the life sale transaction.
We continue to develop our operations in Latvia and Lithuania, in terms of infrastructure and by transfer of best practices.
Outlook We remain committed to improving our core capabilities in pricing, Market and economic conditions underwriting and claims handling, which we believe can give The Scandinavian markets are highly consolidated: in Sweden additional operational improvements in 2005.
In addition, the top five players represent 90% of the market, and in Denmark we will be looking for further efficiency improvements as the top five players represent 75% of the market.
We do not we implement best practices across the Scandinavian region.
expect significant changes to the level of consolidation in the We will continue to rene our dynamic pricing and intend to near future, although in 2004 we saw a limited increase in the expand this to further lines of business.
We believe that these entrance of new players to the market, particularly in the initiatives will help to mitigate the effect of any softening of commercial lines segment.
the rating environment and maintain profitability.
In 2004, the Scandinavian markets were dominated by During 2005, we will maintain our focus on the markets and the earnings effect from the hardening of premium rates businesses where we have sufficient market share and where in previous years.
Especially in commercial lines, rate levels the prospects of profitable sustainable growth are promising.
have been increasing following several years of unsatisfactory Additionally we will seek to develop our position in areas underwriting results.
The hardening of rates was helped by where we can grow profitably.
the industrys relatively low financial strength following the investment losses incurred in previous years.
We do expect some softening of the Scandinavian market in 2005, primarily in larger exposures, and do not generally expect rate increases above indexation.
We responded proactively to the pressure from consumer organisations to offer policies which run for less than one year, and offer products with these characteristics, although demand has been very limited.
Interest rates in the Scandinavian market remained at a low level and were, against expectations, at a lower level than at the end of 2003.
These low interest levels have led to low investment returns and underlined the need for profitable underwriting results.
Scandinavia m 2004 2003 General business Net premiums written 1,287 1,167 1 Underwriting result 51 4 General business result 163 96 Overall combined operating ratio COR 95.4% 99.3% Return on capital employed 23% 15% 1.
See note 1 on page 19 Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2004 23
