with our exit from the life market we have achieved our long term goal of becoming a focused general insurer.
we now have a well balanced portfolio of ongoing businesses that are performing ahead of target We have restructured the business to focus on markets where we can achieve sustainable, profitable performance We have exited or disposed of non strategic, non performing and high risk operations and lines of business We now have a well balanced portfolio with a good mix across geographies and business lines With a combined operating ratio of 94.0%, our ongoing operations are performing ahead of their target 100% average across the cycle 8 Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2004 In Scandinavia we are the third largest insurer across the In 2003 we undertook a major review of the region and the third largest insurer in both Denmark and Group to determine what countries and lines Sweden.
We have a market share of around 10% in the of business we should be operating in.
In the Nordic market time since then we have been focused on Our International businesses are active in both the well getting the Group into the shape that the established and emerging markets.
In Canada we are in the top tier of insurers and have a market leading direct operation under the Johnson brand, which now During 2004 this has involved selling our operations in Peru, accounts for 32% of the Canadian business Poland, France, Malta, Pakistan and our associate interests in South Africa and the Philippines.
We also achieved the sale of In Ireland we are the fourth largest insurer and the largest our UK and Scandinavian life operations on good terms.
The household underwriter with a 28% market share sale of our Japanese operations was announced in 2004 and In Italy we are a niche player and are achieving profitable completed at the end of February 2005. growth at a higher rate than the average for the market Since the beginning of 2003 we have exited 14 countries.
We are well positioned in the emerging markets of Latin But one of the strengths of the Group is its network of global America, Asia and the Middle East with a mix of established partners offering distribution and administrative support to our businesses and longer term opportunities such as India insurance businesses.
Through this network we have retained and China the ability to write insurance in over 130 countries, including those where we no longer have a local operation.
In the US, since the successful completion of the renewal rights deals with Travelers and XL during 2004 we are no Through our restructuring we have developed a franchise longer active in the majority of the market.
The exception of ongoing businesses with a balance of premiums and is non standard auto, which is a niche, specialty insurer earnings by geography that we feel is right for the Group producing good results.
We have a range of businesses at different points in the insurance cycle and a good mix between With the life exits and the portfolio restructuring over the commercial and personal lines in mature and emerging last 18 months, as well as the actions taken and announced in markets.
Each business has a recent track record of delivering the US, there is now clarity around the shape of the business.
good financial performance: in 2004 our ongoing operations Our core competency is general insurance.
We are focused on increased their profit by 37%.
running a portfolio of businesses with strong market positions, where we can see the benefit of our pricing, our underwriting In the UK we are the second largest commercial lines insurer and our claims actions and where we can deliver sustainable and the third largest provider of personal motor and household good performance.
We insure around 65% of FTSE 250 retailers and we are the single largest insurer of social housing Geographical split of ongoing operations premiums 2004 UK Commercial 33% UK Personal 16% Scandinavia 24% International 23% US 4% Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2004 9
