with a stronger capital base and less risk on the balance sheet we are well positioned to meet the challenges of the changing regulatory landscape We have improved our capital position by 1.6bn as a result of our actions during 2004 Standard & Poors and Moodys have both upgraded their outlook for the Group to stable At 31 December 2004 our proforma surplus under the Insurance Groups Directive was 0.6bn On every key capital measure we are compliant by a comfortable margin 10 Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2004 Following our reserving actions in the US in February 2005, Our programme of actions in 2004 ensured that Moodys announced a review of our Group rating for possible we comfortably met our capital requirements upgrade.
under all of the existing and prospective bases Capital management and after allowing for the impact of International We continue to review our balance sheet structure and Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
composition given the current and expected regulatory requirements.
As part of this ongoing capital management Capital actions programme we are rigorously reviewing capital usage and During 2004 the Financial Services Authority introduced a number allocation.
To meet the demands of these changes we undertook a specic programme of actions during 2004.
Capital surpluses These actions ensured that the Group met all of the Financial With our implementation of IFRS from 1 January 2005 there will Services Authoritys new regulatory capital requirements at be a number of changes to the way in which we calculate our 31 December 2004. shareholders funds, which are detailed in the Chief Financial Actions taken include: Ofcers report.
At the end of 2004 the proforma impact of all of these changes was a reduction of approximately 0.4bn.
Disposing of our UK and Scandinavian life operations releasing Taking account of the reduction resulting from the move to capital of 800m IFRS, our proforma capital surpluses under the main existing Rewording our Euro denominated subordinated debt and so and prospective capital measures at 31 December 2004 were: ensuring that all 500m 352m continued to qualify as capital under the new regulations Group Insurance Groups Directive approximately 0.6bn Raising 450m of new Upper Tier II capital and using 150m to be introduced as a hard test at the end of 2006 of this to repay our Yen denominated subordinated loan Internal Risk Based Capital assessment, 1.5bn At a regional level, actions such as reducing the number of insurance entities in the US and disposing of operations and lines RSAI plc of business have also reduced the overall capital requirement.
Enhanced Capital Requirement approximately 0.6bn In total our actions during 2004 have increased our regulatory currently a soft test with no date set for becoming a hard test capital position by approximately 1.6bn.
Solvency 1, 1.3bn Given our strengthened capital position, we decided not to On every key measure we are compliant by a comfortable proceed with our application for the renewal of the discount margin which is a significant step forward for the Group and waiver which expired in September 2004. gives us a good platform for the future.
Rating agencies In recognition of the improvement in the capital position of the Group and the actions taken to date, both Standard & Poors and Moodys Investor Services upgraded their ratings outlook for the Group to stable from negative during the fourth quarter of 2004.
Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2004 11
