Operating review continued International disciplined underwriting practices and rigorous expense International businesses comprises a portfolio control, together with an improvement in claims frequency of operations primarily in Canada, Europe, and a reduction in claims ination.
Latin America, Asia and the Middle East.
The Our business in Italy has maintained its reputation for profitability businesses produced excellent results in 2004 with growth.
This rate of growth continues to outstrip that of with an underwriting profit of 45m and a the Italian insurance industry.
COR of 96.6% reecting the restructuring In Latin America and the Caribbean, the strategy of reducing volatility by withdrawing from the more hurricane prone work of the last few years.
markets in the Caribbean was borne out in 2004 with a highly active hurricane season failing to have any significant impact.
Overview of major strategies With the exception of the Dutch Antilles, this region is now Following the strategic and operational review in 2003, we entirely Latin American.
The region continues to maintain its have focused on securing our position in our chosen countries focus on strengthening its risk and governance efforts as well and market segments, raising standards in our underwriting as rigorous underwriting and claims management, people and and claims, improving our customer management techniques process improvement.
and strengthening our risk and governance environment.
In 2005, following the sale of our Japanese business, we have Business progress against strategies merged the regional ofces in Asia and the Middle East.
The new Our refocus has largely been achieved through the disposal of enlarged region provides an opportunity for greater growth and non strategic portfolios and investment in our key development efficiency building on the continued profitable results of 2004. businesses.
We have now substantially completed the final stages of our restructuring plan and made good progress in our move Market and economic conditions to transform ourselves into a robust collection of businesses that Despite the geographical and cultural diversity, there are a are well placed to deliver consistently strong results for the Group.
number of common patterns that are shaping and inuencing our overall trading environment.
The performance of our business in Canada improved considerably in 2004 and the operation continues to benefit from its pricing The insurance regulatory environment in many countries is strategy, improved claims processes and prudent portfolio changing with higher standards of regulation generally being management.
It has made significant progress in turning around applied, particularly where banking and insurance regulators its commercial business by repositioning itself as a specialised have merged.
This is the case in some parts of the Middle East insurer targeting small, middle market business along with and in Ireland.
Such reforms should bring benets to local other specic segments.
markets and their insurance industries.
The operation also made good progress in its intermediated Elsewhere, we have witnessed some price competition.
In Asia, personal lines business and the Johnson Corporation, our direct 2004 saw insurance rates drift from their 2003 highs and the weak arm, continues to grow and deliver exceptional results.
Johnsons US dollar, to which many Asian, Latin American and Middle distinct competitive advantage stems from a combination Eastern currencies are linked or pegged, meant that premium of disciplined underwriting and risk selection, low cost base, growth in Sterling terms was difficult to achieve.
Wherever we effective use of technology and excellent customer service.
see price competition, our approach has been to maintain our pricing discipline through a rigorous focus on our target segments.
Our business in the Republic of Ireland delivered a good financial We have and will continue to sacrifice volume for profitability.
result despite difficult market conditions.
Its success stems from We have now substantially completed our restructuring plan and made good progress in our move to transform ourselves into a robust collection of businesses that are well placed to deliver consistently strong results Simon Lee Chief Executive, for the Group.
International Businesses 24 Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2004 The year was overshadowed by the Indonesian earthquake Indian In Hong Kong, the countrys Environmental Protection Department Ocean tsunami that occurred on 26 December 2004, which granted our operation the Gold Wastewi$e award for the third resulted in a human tragedy on an immense scale.
Insured losses time in four years in recognition of its achievements in protecting arising from this event however, were very small and did not the environment through its various waste reduction efforts.
have any significant impact on the overall result.
In India, our joint venture company Royal Sundaram launched a large scale customer service campaign to coincide with its Other initiatives third anniversary of trading.
The operation was the first general Our Canadian operation has reshaped its approach to small insurer to be awarded a licence in Indias liberalised insurance business customers and has reestablished a regional presence, sector and has rmly set its sights on becoming one of the leading developed a web quoting tool and improved service to its general insurers in the country.
An innovative new web facility has now been established in all Acquisitions, disposals and investments of Canadas intermediated personal insurance regions.
Known as Our restructuring has resulted in the disposal in 2004 of a WebBusiness, the service enables brokers to process new business number of non strategic portfolios including Peru, Poland, and policy changes at their own ofces, while the client is present.
France, Malta, Pakistan and our associate interests in South At the end of 2004, 70% of all eligible transactions were handled Africa and the Philippines.
The sale of Japan was announced in this way.
in 2004 but did not complete until February 2005.
All of these disposals are consistent with our strategy of concentrating on In Ireland, we have introduced a new organisational structure our preferred markets and business segments.
and secured our position as the largest household product underwriter in the country.
We have also launched a new Our commitment to profitability and growth was underlined by Enterprise product for small to medium sized commercial our decision to invest further capital to strengthen our position business which, through class leading technology, provides in China and we have created a joint venture company in Oman, brokers with unrivalled standards of quotation, policy issue which will build on our leading position in the Sultanate.
Outlook Our Italian operation launched its broker extranet marking yet We will continue to develop and invest in markets and segments another critical improvement in the operations commitment that offer realistic prospects for profitable and sustainable growth.
We will also explore opportunities to acquire small scale Latin Americas market oriented approach has been rewarded businesses or portfolios in support of our strategic objectives.
with good feedback from customer surveys and industry awards.
In addition, we will build upon current initiatives in the areas of In particular Answer Seguros, the direct operation in Argentina, underwriting and claims, customer management, governance was ranked among the top six insurance brands and won two and risk control.
These actions will further consolidate our media awards for its advertising.
Further investment in this position as a key and profitable contributor to the Groups business is planned for 2005.
We also expanded elsewhere in overall performance.
the region, opening new branches in Mexico and Brazil and investing in customer facing technology to support our key distribution strategies.
International m 2004 2003 General business Net premiums written 1,217 1,268 1 Underwriting result 45 18 General business result 176 143 Overall combined operating ratio COR 96.6% 98.4% Return on capital employed 20% 17% 1.
See note 1 on page 19 Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2004 25 Operating review continued US Expense management, ensuring that our expense base is in As expected, 2004 was an extremely challenging line with our operational needs.
In 2004 our expense base year both nancially and operationally for the was reduced to $340m, from $610m in 2003 and headcount US, although significant progress was made reduced from 3,898 to 2,159.
42 IT systems have now been decommissioned.
Highlights include the completion of our renewal rights sale to Transition of resources and assets, managing the consolidation of our US operations to a stabilised, cost effective structure St Paul Travelers, substantial progress on other that can support continuing obligations.
With the renewal transactions, and the implementation of a rights transaction substantially completed, our focus is shifting more proactive approach in claims.
to managing our remaining in force business and post expiration activities.
Overview of major strategies Legal our proactive approach aims to mitigate risks and Our restructuring is designed to safeguard assets appropriately position us for the best possible litigation results.
and minimise the risk of volatility in the overall Group operating result.
Major challenges remain, however, as evidenced by a 274m Investment management our investment portfolio continues operating loss including reserve strengthening of 160m, resulting to be well positioned to meet US liquidity requirements, with from further prior year adverse claims development, 95m of 2004 income on target with our plan.
which related to workers compensation.
This was a disappointing Reinsurance recoverables our efforts to maximise the cash development, although in line with market experience and available to our operations through reinsurance collections consistent with the rationale for the setting up of the contingent yielded significant results in 2004. liability at the time of the rights issue.
Following the reserving, AM Best downgraded their financial strength rating of a number More than 70 projects supported the key drivers during 2004. of our US companies: however, the rating of non standard auto They are designed to ensure proper process implementation and was not changed.
discipline, working in conjunction with our ongoing operational teams.
Major projects included Ofce Consolidation Planning, Tight management controls are working to bring the operation Enterprise Control and Governance, and the Claim Litigation to a point of stabilisation but this process will take time.
Business progress against strategies Governance continues to be a top priority.
This emphasis was Achievement of our stabilisation strategy was driven through reected in the greater process controls implemented across the six critical drivers that we outlined to shareholders in last the operation, robust risk assessment, and performance years report: management initiatives.
The US internal audit team has also begun embedding staff within the functional areas to assist Claims management, meeting our policyholder obligations them with implementation and process renement, a move while providing stewardship over our corporate assets.
that supports a restructure of this size.
We have closed 15 claims departments and moved to a centralised operating structure focused on technical expertise A major milestone of the year was approval of our plan to and a proactive litigation management strategy, to reduce reduce the number of insurance entities in the US.
By the end the total cost per claim.
of 2004 it stood at ten, and by the end of the first quarter of With the successful implementation of our stabilisation plan in 2004, the priority for 2005 is to achieve our structural change.
John Tighe President & CEO, Royal & SunAlliance USA 26 Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2004 2005 we expect it to stand at eight, less than half the number We also appointed two new directors to the US Board, in at the beginning of 2004 and down from a high of 35, following March 2005.
Bill Shea, our new Chairman, was CEO of US insurer the 1999 Orion Capital acquisition.
Reaching this goal will improve Conseco from 2001 until 2004.
He restructured the company our ability to manage capital, while further reducing operating and returned it to profitability.
Mike Crall has been appointed expenses and risk, and has already lowered our risk based capital as a non-executive director.
He was the first CEO of Equitas, the requirement by $90m.
company formed to manage and reinsure the pre 1993 liabilities of Lloyds of London, and remains a non-executive director.
With As part of our programme of structural change in relation to their highly relevant experience, they will be working closely with our US business, we have also consolidated certain US insurance the US management team in the next phase of the restructuring.
companies, reducing the number of domiciliary regulatory states from 11 to six, which reduces the complexity of the structure.
With the successful implementation of our stabilisation plan in 2004, the priority for 2005 is to achieve structural change.
The At the year end, we reviewed the level of capital in the light of announced sale of non standard auto and the appointments of the stabilisation that had been achieved and it was determined our two new directors are the start of this process.
that the sale of non standard auto was the right action to achieve an appropriate level of capital support in the US.
Year end US lings have been submitted showing a consolidated US regulatory capital and surplus position at 31 December 2004 of $1,018m, which is at 1.8 times the NAIC ratio.
Constructive dialogue is underway with US regulators on corrective plans, which include the proposed sale of non standard auto.
Our non standard auto business works through a network of some 7,900 independent agents in 27 states.
In 2004, policies in force per employee rose by 16% while the expense ratio reduced by two points.
Non standard autos financial results were again strong, with net written premium of $395m and a 90.2% combined operating ratio.
Policies in force grew by nearly 4% to 422,000.
Transactions conducted through AutoLink, their proprietary web based agency interface system, were up 30% reaching seven million: this and other technology advances continue to reduce expenses.
Outlook During 2005, we will continue the work to identify a solution to the challenges that we face in the US.
We will seek to ensure that we achieve a sale of non standard auto on competitive terms that are in shareholders best interests.
US m 2004 2003 General business Net premiums written 105 1,090 1 Underwriting result 424 651 General business result 274 469 1.
See note 1 on page 19 Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2004 27
