Board of Directors N A, R John Napier Age 62.
Director of the Group from January Edward Lea Age 63.
Director of the Group from July 2003.
2003 and Chairman of the Group from March 2003.
Chairman Chairman of the Audit & Compliance Committee from October of the Nomination Committee from March 2003.
Director of Redbourn Group plc property management Chairman of Kelda Group plc water utility.
Director of IDC Plugs Limited electrical services.
Chairman and Chief Executive of Kelda Group plc.
Former Director of MacIntyre Care charity.
Previously a director of Chairman of Booker plc cash and carry.
Former Managing The British United Provident Association BUPA.
Director of Hays plc business services.
Former Managing Director R of AGB plc international market research and information services.
Director of the Group from March 2004.
European President of JER Partners Limited property E Andy Haste Age 43.
Director and Group CEO from April 2003. investment.
Former Deputy Chief Executive of Morley Fund Former Chief Executive of AXA Sun Life plc and director of AXA Management investment fund manager.
Former Deputy CEO UK plc life and pensions.
Former President and Chief Executive of ING-Barings finance.
officer of Global Consumer Finance Europe at GE Capital UK, A, R, N Western Europe and Eastern Europe financial services.
President of National Westminster Banks US Consumer Credit Chairman of the Remuneration Committee from October 2003. Business retail banking.
Chairman of DX Services plc trucking.
Director of Provident Financial plc financial services.
Director of Homeserve plc E George Culmer Age 42.
Chief Financial officer and director of electric utilities.
Governor of the Royal Ballet School.
Chairman the Group from May 2004.
Former Head of Capital Management of the Institute of Advanced Motorists.
Former executive director at Zurich Financial Services insurance.
Former Director General Chief Executive officer of The Automobile Association Limited.
Director of the Group from March E 2004.
Director of Tube Lines Limited, Metronet Rail SSL Limited David Paige Age 53.
Group Risk Director from February 2005. and Metronet Rail BCV Limited transport.
Deputy Chairman of Former Global Finance Transformation Programme Director and Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation Europe Limited finance.
former Group Risk & Audit Director of Aviva plc insurance.
Former Chief Operating officer of Citibank International plc Former Group Risk Director of Zurich Financial Services finance.
Former Chief Financial officer of retail business, National Westminster Bank plc banking.
E Executive Director A Member of Audit & Compliance Committee N Member of Nomination Committee R Member of Remuneration Committee 1 John Napier 2 Andy Haste 3 George Culmer 12 3 4 Noel Harwerth 5 Edward Lea 6 Malcolm Le May 7 John Maxwell 8 David Paige 4 5 6 7 8 16 Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2004
