through our relationships with our customers we are maximising the potential of our products, people and brands We use the benets of the size of the Group to achieve economies of scale particularly in purchasing, while keeping a differentiated local focus We have a strong worldwide brand presence through the Royal & SunAlliance name as well as high prole local market identities like Codan, Trygg-Hansa, Johnsons and MORE TH N We develop market leading products and efficient platforms locally that can then be shared across the Group We have already achieved 190m of annualised expense savings and are confident of achieving our 270m target From this combination we believe we can consistently deliver for our customers 14 Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2004 Investment Around the Group we are working to improve Our 300m investment in our performance improvement our service levels and the products that we programme is designed to improve our offerings to customers offer to ensure that we retain existing customers at the same time as managing down our infrastructure and services costs.
We have already generated annualised savings and attract new ones.
of 190m and are confident of reaching our 270m target.
We believe that these savings, together with the work that Brands has been done to improve our claims management, will allow Around the world we use our main brand name, Royal & us to keep our prices and service standards at levels that are SunAlliance, for our commercial lines of business.
This allows us competitive but also profitable.
to leverage the worldwide strengths of the Group into individual markets.
Our personal customers are more concerned with Claims the national strengths and focus of the Group and so we use We believe that one of the real differentiators between brands which have meaning in the local market.
For example, in companies these days is the way that claims are handled.
Getting Scandinavia, Codan and Trygg-Hansa have very high prompted it right can really help develop customer loyalty.
We put a lot brand awareness, with close to 100% recognition.
In the UK, of emphasis on this part of our service as demonstrated in the our direct arm MORE TH N has prompted brand awareness recent ooding in Carlisle, in the UK.
Within 48 hours we had of around 80%.
claims staff on the ground locally helping our home insurance customers and we began issuing cheques to our car insurance Product development customers within five days.
Wherever possible we operate a policy of building once and using many times.
A good example of this is our Enterprise We completely overhauled our UK claims operation during 2004. product which is now available to brokers in the UK and Ireland, A key part of our new strategy is active supply chain management, having originally been developed in Canada under the brand allowing us to leverage our 500m direct annual spend.
The proposition is simple: it is based on of this we launched a commercial supply chain network, the giving the broker a quote within five minutes and producing first end to end solution in the market.
Also, following rigorous the policy for the customer the following day.
At the time we benchmarking, in October 2004 Lloyds TSB selected us as its launched Enterprise the market standard was one day for a personal property supply chain partner.
This is testament to our quote and policy documentation within a month.
We have market leading capabilities.
redened service levels in this segment and, as a consequence, Building on our UK experience, we introduced Scalepoint in lessened the impact of price in decision making.
It allows customers to repurchase their required items instantly and online.
This idea is not new from a UK Technology perspective, but is a market leading tool in the Scandinavian Wherever possible we are using advances in technology to market.
It has increased customer satisfaction while giving us improve the experience of our clients when dealing with us.
scale advantages with our suppliers where, in some cases, we For example, Canada have introduced a tool called WebBusiness have been able to negotiate discounts of up to 39%.
In addition, to their personal lines brokers.
It allows brokers to process Scalepoint allows for a more unied, semi automated claims new business and make policy changes in real time while their handling approach and increased productivity, reducing claims customers are present.
The advantage for us is improved efficiency handling costs.
Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2004 15
