Financial review continued Sensitivity analysis Movement by Change in by Investments Equities FTSE 100 points or equivalent Net assets 31m Gilts Interest rate 100 BPS Net assets 304m Currencies against Sterling US Dollar 10c change Net assets 24m Danish Kroner 1 Kr change Net assets 66m Euro 10c change Net assets 12m Underwriting Operating ratio Reduction by 1% General business net of tax ROC 1.2% Investment returns Equities Long term return 1% higher Group operating result 21m Gilts Long term return 1% higher Group operating result 109m Sensitivity The Groups financial position can be analysed in terms of its sensitivity to change in certain economic and operating parameters.
The table above summarises the principal sensitivities.
36 Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2004 | | | Contents 38 Directors Report 40 Corporate Governance 46 Remuneration Report 50 Directors Emoluments | 52 Directors Interests 55 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Group plc | | 56 Accounting Policies 59 Estimation Techniques, Uncertainties and Contingencies 62 Consolidated profit and Loss | Account: Technical Account General Business 63 Consolidated profit and Loss Account: Technical Account Long | | Term Business 64 Consolidated profit and Loss Account: Non-Technical Account 65 Statement of Total Recognised | | | Gains and Losses 65 Movements in Shareholders Funds 66 Consolidated Balance Sheet 68 Parent Company | | | Balance Sheet 69 Consolidated Shareholders Cash Flow Statement 70 Notes on the Accounts 90 Segmental | | Information 92 Principal Subsidiary Companies 93 Principal Associated Undertakings and Other significant | | | Shareholdings 94 Five Year Financial Review 97 Shareholder Information 98 Frequently Asked Questions 99 Financial Calendar Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2004 37 Directors Report The directors of Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Group plc present A particular focus in 2004 has been equal pay: for example, an their report and the audited financial statements of the Company equal pay audit of the UK business has been carried out and the for the year ended 31 December 2004.
UK business is working in partnership with Amicus and the TMA to follow up its recommendations.
Principal activity The Group continues to support its employees with targeted skills The Company is the holding company of the Royal & SunAlliance development programmes in order that they can deliver high levels Group of companies whose principal activity is the transaction of of performance.
At the executive level, in addition to recruitment personal and commercial general insurance business.
During 2004, from the external market, we have improved our process for the Group operated in around 30 countries worldwide.
identifying the internal talent pool globally, and introduced new development programmes and activities to enhance their Review of the year and future developments leadership capabilities.
These are outlined in the Chairmans Statement and Group CEOs Review and the Operating Review beginning on page 2.
The Groups We place great emphasis on clear communication with our employees, consolidated financial statements are shown on pages 62 to 69. especially during times of change.
The Group recognises that effective communication is a key driver of employee satisfaction Dividends and is committed to engaging employees at all levels.
Employee The directors recommend a final dividend of 2.96p per share which, engagement has been highlighted as a key theme at the Groups if approved, will be due for payment on 2 June 2005 to holders of Leaders Conferences during 2004.
These events take place twice a ordinary shares on the register at the close of business on 18 March year, and provide a forum for the Group CEO and the senior team 2005.
This, together with the interim dividend of 1.65p per share, to communicate business strategy, performance and challenges will make a total dividend for the year of 4.61p per share.
to a group of around 120 leaders from across the Group, who are responsible for cascading the message down throughout the business.
The preferential dividend at the rate of 3.6875% for the period from 1 October 2004 to 31 March 2005 is to be paid on 1 April 2005 to In 2004 the Group conducted its first web based worldwide holders of preference shares on the register at the close of business employee survey replacing the existing regional surveys and on 18 March 2005.
87% of eligible employees took the opportunity to contribute.
We are committed to giving full consideration to what our Employment policy employees tell us, and we are proactively following up the survey The Groups employment policy reects our belief that the results through a structured programme of actions across the performance of our business is critically dependent on the quality, Group.
Our objective is to become recognised as an employer of diversity, motivation and development of our employees at all choice.
Leaders at all levels in the business are measured against levels of the organisation.
their employee survey results and the 2005 survey will allow us the opportunity to assess what progress has been made.
We are committed to the promotion of equal opportunities and diversity across the Group.
This involves: recruiting, retaining Our policy is to encourage employee share ownership.
Employees and developing people solely on grounds of ability to do the job: from the majority of our global businesses are encouraged to establishing and promoting an environment which is free from participate in the International Share Option Plan ISOP which discrimination: recognising, accepting and valuing differences: is an Inland Revenue approved all employee sharesave scheme.
treating all individuals fairly, without bias or prejudice: supporting The Group actively encourages employees to become involved the training and career development of all available talent: and in supporting their local communities, both through recognising providing equality related awareness training and development.
charitable efforts or fundraising by employees, or via formal The Group is committed to preventing discrimination on the grounds partnerships and corporate sponsorships.
Further details are provided of disability.
This includes ensuring that all job applicants, including in the Corporate Responsibility section of this report on page 28. those with a disability, are considered solely on their ability to do the job, and making reasonable adjustments to working environment, Environmental policy working arrangements and working conditions to support disabled Details of our environmental policy can be found on our website at employees.
We are committed, wherever possible, to supporting www.
com the rehabilitation and return to work of employees who become disabled during their career with us.
Corporate governance A report on corporate governance appears on pages 40 to 45.
The Group is committed to fostering a constructive dialogue with independent trade unions wherever they are recognised, ensuring Supplier payment policy a regular and constructive dialogue on business issues and early It is the Groups policy to agree appropriate terms and conditions in consultation on changes affecting the workforce.
In the UK, Amicus advance with its suppliers and to make payment in accordance with is formally recognised through a partnership agreement which those terms and conditions, provided that the supplier has complied covers collective consultation and bargaining on behalf of non with them.
In most cases, agreements for the supply of goods or management employees.
The Management Association TMA services are made under standard terms of contract that lay down represents managerial employees under a separate consultative payment terms.
In the UK these are available on request from UK agreement.
In August 2004 more than 20 elected delegates Purchasing, Leadenhall Court, 1 Leadenhall Street, London EC3V 1PP.
from our European businesses attended the annual European Consultative Forum, which is a cross European body created to The Companys outstanding indebtedness to trade creditors on enable information sharing and consultation on transnational 31 December 2004 amounted to 3,323,748, corresponding to issues with the European workforce.
12 days payment when averaged over the year.
38 Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2004 Share capital Charitable and political contributions During the year, 449,832 ordinary shares of 27.5p each were issued The Company and its subsidiaries worldwide made charitable in satisfaction of the exercise of employee share options for a total donations of 557,000 during the year.
The largest donation of consideration of 0.3m, and 31,669,408 ordinary shares of 27.5p 250,000 was made to the Samaritans Partnership.
The Group did each were issued under the Companys scrip dividend scheme for not make any donations to European Union EU political parties, a total consideration of 24m.
An authority from the shareholders nor to political parties outside the EU during 2004, and it is not for the Company to purchase up to 288,025,262 of its own ordinary the Groups policy to do so.
shares representing 10% of its issued share capital as at 10 March 2004 remained in force at 31 December 2004.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting will be held at the Queen Elizabeth II Substantial share interests Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London SW1P 3EE As at 9 March 2005, Brandes Investment Partners LLC, Barclays plc on Friday 27 May 2005 at 11.00am.
and its subsidiaries and Legal & General Group plc had declared an Enclosed with this report is a letter from the Chairman to interest in ordinary shares of 27.5p each in the Company representing shareholders.
Attached to the letter is the Notice convening the 8.1%, 4.0% and 3.2% respectively of the issued ordinary share capital, meeting which will include items of ordinary and special business in accordance with Part VI of the Companies Act 1985. that are explained in the letter.
Directors Auditors Members of the Board of Directors are listed on page 16.
 LLP have confirmed their willingness to Stephen Hill and Susan Hooper retired from the Board on 30 March continue in ofce as auditors of the Company and a resolution for 2004.
Noel Harwerth and Malcolm Le May were appointed to the their reappointment will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Julian Hance resigned from the Board on 2 April 2004.
George Culmer was appointed to the Board on By order of the directors 1 May 2004.
Bob Ayling retired from the Board on 11 August 2004.
Mark R Chambers David Paige was appointed to the Board on 16 February 2005.
General Counsel and Group Company Secretary London At the 2005 Annual General Meeting David Paige will be eligible 9 March 2005 for reappointment under Article 110.
Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2004 39 Corporate Governance Compliance with the provisions of the Combined Code Board.
The Chairmans main responsibilities are to lead the Board, The Group complied throughout 2004 with the Principles and liaising as necessary with the Group CEO on developments between Provisions of section 1 of the new Combined Code and with the meetings of the Board, and to ensure that the Group CEO and his Schedules except with respect to: executive management team have appropriate objectives and that their performance against those objectives is reviewed.
a meeting of the non-executive directors without the Chairman present to appraise the Chairmans performance Provision A.
1.3 : The Group CEO is responsible to the Board for the executive management of the Group and for liaising with the Chairman the appointment of a senior independent director Provision A.
3.3 : and keeping him informed on all material matters.
a formal evaluation of the Boards performance Principle A.
6 : and The Groups Delegated Authority Policy species how executive a majority of independent directors on the Nomination Committee authority is delegated from the Board to the Group CEO and then Provision A.
4.1. onto the other executives in the Group.
Individual executive licences issued by the Group CEO to each of his direct reports set out their The principal explanation for these exceptions is the significant specic limits of authority in terms of entering into financial, restructuring of the Board that has taken place in the last two years.
underwriting and other business commitments.
Each direct report Since April 2003, there has been a change of all non-executive and is responsible for ensuring a similar process of delegation is in place executive directors and many principal executive managers.
The within their area of responsibility.
last executive director appointments were made in May 2004 and February 2005.
The last two non-executive director appointments The Articles of Association of the Company require directors to were made in March 2004. submit themselves for reappointment at the first annual general meeting after their appointment and for reelection every three Sarbanes Oxley years thereafter.
In 2004, the Group has run a project to prepare it for the need The Board met 14 times during 2004.
Ten Board meetings were to comply with the requirements of the Sarbanes Oxley Act 2002, scheduled before the start of 2004 and four Board meetings were which arises from its listing on the New York Stock Exchange.
In addition, there were eight occasions when directors met as a Committee of the Board in order to authorise The Board transactions already agreed in principle at Board meetings.
On those The Board is responsible for organising and directing the affairs of occasions, a quorum of either two or three directors was required.
the Company and the Group in a manner that is in the best interests of the shareholders, meets legal and regulatory requirements and is Directors also consistent with good corporate governance practices.
There is a The Boards period of significant restructuring, which was reported formal document setting out the way in which the Board operates.
last year, has continued in 2004 with the retirement of four directors The Board is also ultimately responsible to the Financial Services and the appointment of three new ones.
Details of the appointments Authority FSA for ensuring compliance with the Groups UK and retirements can be found on page 50 and biographical details of regulatory obligations.
all current directors can be found on page 16.
The appointment of another executive director David Paige with effect from February The principal matters reserved to the Board, which follow, include 2005 was announced during 2004. items that are delegated to committees, but ultimately require Board approval: Attendance at meetings of the Board and the Audit & Compliance, Nomination and Remuneration Committees is shown in the table approval of the Groups long term objectives and commercial on page 45. strategy: Given the short period during which the newly constituted Board approval of changes to the Groups management structure and has been operating, the directors considered that it was too early corporate governance arrangements: for a productive meeting to appraise the Chairmans performance approval of the Groups overall risk appetite: or for the whole Board to undertake a full, formal evaluation of its performance or of all of its committees or the individual directors.
annual review of internal control arrangements: These activities will take place in 2005 when the Board will have approval of the annual operating and capital budgets: had the opportunity to further develop its operating style.
changes to the Groups capital structure and approval of all In seeking new directors, the Chairman and the Nomination significant capital and other expenditure: Committee have had regard to the size of the Board and the balance of executive and non-executive directors as well as the skills and approval of proposals to raise finance from external sources, experience which are already represented and those which would including the setting of limits on the Groups external borrowings: be desirable on the Board going forward.
approval of treasury and investment policy: At all times during the year, at least half of the Board was comprised approval of the Groups preliminary and quarterly results, including of non-executive directors.
interim and final dividends: and The Chairman meets regularly with the non-executive directors approval of any significant changes to accounting practices both individually and collectively without the executive directors.
The Board considers that all of the non-executive directors who The division of responsibilities between John Napier, the Chairman, have served during the year were independent.
Bob Ayling, who and Andy Haste, the Group CEO, has been clearly established by retired during 2004, was originally appointed to the Board of Sun way of written role statements, which have been approved by the Alliance Group plc in April 1993, but had only been a director of 40 Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2004 the merged Group since 1996.
The Board further considers he was Committees independent since he had no other connections with the Chairman, Details of the chairmen and membership of the Audit & Compliance, Group CEO or Chief Financial officer, exhibited an open and Nomination and Remuneration Committees are set out in the table challenging approach in meetings of the Board and its committees on page 45 together with details of attendance at meetings.
and brought an extensive business knowledge to the Boards During 2004, the Board established an Investment Committee, deliberations.
which meets biannually under the chairmanship of John Napier.
The Chairman met the independence criteria in the Combined Code All non-executive directors are members of the Committee, which on his appointment in 2003.
There have been no changes to his assists the Board in setting the Groups investment strategy and external commitments in 2004 which might affect his responsibilities monitors the execution of that strategy and the Groups investment to the Group.
None of the executive directors are on the board of performance.
The Board Risk Committee was chaired in 2004 by Andy Haste.
Non-executive directors are aware that they have to report any This Committee manages all aspects of risk faced by the Group in change in their circumstances or those of the members of their accordance with the Board approved risk appetite, which is set out families that might lead to the Board reconsidering whether they in policies, control limits and other mechanisms in relation to such are independent.
Directors are also aware that they have to inform risks.
David Paige, the Group Risk Director, has assumed the role of the Board of any conict of interest they might have in respect of Chairman of the Committee with effect from March 2005. any item of business and absent themselves from consideration of The Board Risk Committee, which meets monthly, comprises the any such matter.
executive directors and other executive management.
Its purpose is Directors have the right to have their concerns about the running to define the Groups risk appetite prior to approval by the Board, of the Company minuted and documented in a written statement approve policy and minimum standards that are consistent with the on resignation.
appetite, ensure risks that are outside the appetite are mitigated in an appropriate manner and oversee and challenge the Groups risk The Company has arranged appropriate insurance cover in respect management processes.
The Committee achieves these objectives by of legal action against its directors and ofcers.
considering reports from risk specialists both internal and external to the Group, and by reviewing Group level risk management Professional development and training information.
On appointment, new directors are subject to a formal induction programme and receive training and guidance on their duties and Risk management and internal control responsibilities.
Continuing professional development is offered to The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups systems of all directors and the Board is given guidance on new developments, risk management and internal control and for reviewing their such as the introduction of International Financial Reporting Standards effectiveness at least annually.
The systems are designed to manage, and new regulatory requirements.
rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives In order to promote awareness and understanding of the Groups and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against operations, the Chairman ensures there are additional opportunities material financial misstatement or loss.
for the non-executive directors to meet with senior management Executive management has the responsibility for establishing outside of the Board and its committees.
In 2004, non-executive and implementing appropriate systems and controls in their own directors visited the Groups operations in the UK, the US, and areas of remit.
The Group Risk Management Framework provides Scandinavia and these visits included attendance at meetings of the mechanism through which risk management and control is regional audit committees in the US and the UK.
Each business is required to The views of investors are conveyed to non-executive directors follow a consistent process to identify, assess, manage and monitor by the presentation at Board meetings of surveys of shareholder their key risks.
A central risk management function the Group Risk opinion carried out by the Groups brokers and of analysts reports function oversees this process and reports progress to the Board and also by feedback from the executive directors who regularly Risk Committee.
Group risk appetite Resources The Group has established a statement of Group risk appetite Directors have access to the services and advice of the General which sets business volumes for certain higher risk insurance classes, Counsel and Group Company Secretary, and may take additional stipulates loss retention limits, reinsurance protection, targets for independent professional advice at the Groups expense in credit rating and solvency margins, and other appropriate measures.
The terms of reference of the Audit There is a formal escalation process for potential or emerging risks & Compliance, Nomination and Remuneration Committees have that are outside the risk appetite.
been considered by their members with a view to ensuring they Work continues on integrating the capital and risk management have available adequate resources to discharge their duties.
frameworks, which will enable the Group to measure, on a consistent basis, the relative risk of its operations worldwide and to allocate Corporate Governance Framework capital on the basis of an assessment of risk and return.
In the 2003 The Groups Corporate Governance Framework describes and Corporate Governance Report we outlined the work underway to prescribes how the Group is directed and managed by setting ensure compliance with the FSAs Integrated Prudential Sourcebook out the matters reserved for the Board, the terms of reference PRU in time for its implementation on 31 December 2004.
This work of Board and management committees, role statements, policies, was subject to external review in 2004 and was completed successfully systems, procedures and controls.
as part of the capital and risk management transformation Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2004 41 Corporate Governance continued programme, thereby enabling the Group to comply with PRU and Detailed sub classications have been developed but the helping to further embed economic capital management principles following details some of the key current practices, tools within the organisation.
and other arrangements for each risk category.
Risk framework Insurance risk The Group has adopted a risk management model known as the The Groups general insurance activities are primarily three lines of defence governance model.
The framework for the concerned with the pricing, acceptance and management of oversight and management of risk is as follows: risks arising from our contracts with customers.
The management of the underwriting and claims risks uses a number of key tools, Management the first line of defence, in setting strategy, including territorial underwriting licences that authorise countries performance, measurement, establishment and maintenance to write certain higher risk classes of business, reviewing the of internal control and risk management in the business.
performance and management of all the individual insurance Risk assessment the second line, formal risk management portfolios throughout the Group and the investigation of framework within which the Group policies and minimum potential emerging insurance risks.
standards are set and objective oversight and challenge of risk Claims development and reserving levels are monitored closely.
management across the Group is achieved.
This includes the Each Region is required to provide reserving reports for review Board Risk Committee, supported by the Group Risk function.
by the Group Actuarial and Group Risk functions.
These reports Independent assurance the third line of defence, providing include a reserve analysis for each business segment, both gross and independent and objective assurance of the effectiveness of the net of reinsurance.
Oversight by the Board Risk Committee includes Groups systems of internal control established by the first and consideration of a risk dashboard covering reserving positions on second lines of defence.
This is the Audit & Compliance Committee, major business portfolios across all territories.
supported by Group Internal Audit.
Reinsurance risk Group risk policy statements The Groups reinsurance strategy and appetite are set and agreed Group risk policy statements set out the minimum standards to by the Board Risk Committee and published and disseminated via be maintained by the Groups operations in order to manage their the Group reinsurance policy statement.
The Group Reinsurance risks in a way that is consistent with the risk appetite.
Business Credit Committee oversees the implementation of the counterparty managers are responsible for complying with Group and local risk credit aspects of this strategy.
policies and for managing risk by taking mitigating actions where A small Group reinsurance team monitors and controls reinsurance risks are outside the appetite.
The Board Risk Committees oversight activity throughout the Group, and has responsibility for the and challenge role includes consideration of risk mitigation.
purchase of Groupwide and other multi territory covers.
Policy statements are drafted by Group Risk in consultation with Major treaty purchases are analysed using various sophisticated regional business units and approved by the Board Risk Committee.
modelling tools to ensure that the level of cover purchased is They are mandatory policies that business units must comply with aligned with Group risk appetite and strategy.
unless they obtain approval for a variation of or dispensation from a particular requirement.
Breaches that are identied by Regions, or Operational risk through monitoring activity, must be escalated to the appropriate Operational risk exists in every facet of the organisation, including level, with material breaches being reported to the Committee.
those areas that are not viewed as operating units.
As such, all Processes are in place to keep policies under review in order to reect areas of the Group and its major outsourcing providers are involved changes in circumstances and the risk appetite.
In the 2003 Corporate in addressing and controlling operational risk.
Governance report we stated that a number of new policies had been developed.
Policy development continued throughout 2004, The Group uses a suite of risk tools to help manage operational risk particularly in relation to credit, market, liquidity and operational using a common categorisation of risk.
These tools include Risk and risk management.
Accompanying these policies there are a number Control Self Assessments, Key Risk Indicators, Scenario Analyses, of detailed documents setting out best practice in key areas of Incident Management and Loss Data.
Risk and Control Self Assessments are undertaken on a regular basis as part of the business risk assessment process BRAP.
This is Risk categories a Groupwide risk assessment process and has three main elements: Within the Group the risk elements are viewed under the following high level risk assessments, which review risks from the top down: headings, which broadly correspond to headings used in the FSAs bottom up risk self assessments, which are completed using the Integrated Prudential Sourcebook PRU : software tool RSA@Risk: and external events and material change Insurance underwriting and claims risk.
assessments, which assess risks during times of significant change to the organisation, infrastructure and business operating environment.
A series of forward looking key risk indicators are used to assess Operational risk.
potential future trends in operational risks, whilst data collected Credit, market and liquidity risk.
on actual operational risk incidents and near misses captures past experiences.
In addition, the use of scenario analyses enables Regulatory risk.
the Group to assess whether certain operational events that have We also take account of strategy risk and of the contagion risk that occurred elsewhere could manifest themselves within the Group.
different types of risk or risks in different parts of the Group arise When taken together, the tools provide a complementary set of from a single cause.
indicators of the Groups operational risk prole.
42 Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2004 Credit, market and liquidity risks They must present financial statements for each financial year which The primary sources of credit risk within the Group are investment give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and and treasury activities and reinsurance counterparty risk.
With Group and of the profit or loss for that period.
In preparing such regard to credit risk and other risks arising from investment financial statements, they are required to: management and treasury activities, a range of bank counterparty select suitable accounting policies and apply them on a consistent limits and other controls are in place to restrict exposure to these basis using reasonable and prudent judgement: risks.
New reinsurance cover is placed only with reinsurers that are authorised as Approved Reinsurance Counterparties under criteria state whether or not applicable accounting standards have been approved by the Board Risk Committee.
followed and explain any material departures: and Market risk arises from the Groups investment portfolios.
The use the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to do so.
Global Investment Strategy Team is the management committee that oversees the execution of the Groups investment strategy Basis of accounts under the oversight of the Investment Committee and operating The directors have satisfied themselves that the Group has adequate within risk limits set by the Board Risk Committee.
resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable future having given consideration to the uncertainties and contingencies Liquidity risk is considered to be a low risk category.
Operations disclosed in the financial statements and have therefore prepared must maintain a minimum level of cash, or near cash, resources the financial statements on a going concern basis.
or assets that can be liquidated within a maximum stated period of time.
Internal controls The Board reviews annually the effectiveness of the Groups system Regulatory risk of internal controls in order to safeguard the Groups assets and The Group operates in a number of geographical locations with shareholders investment.
This system includes governance, financial diverse regulatory requirements but internationally the regulatory controls, the risk management framework and operational, regulatory environment is becoming more complex and demanding.
In response and compliance requirements.
to this the Group has worked to strengthen its arrangements for regulatory compliance and to ensure that it maintains open and The Board through the Audit & Compliance Committee receives cooperative relationships with its regulators.
reports from the Group Chief Auditor and his team on the integrity of the control environment and also receives reports from the Risk review visits external auditors based upon their audit work.
The Audit & In addition to setting policy and standards, Group Risk undertakes Compliance Committee also receives reports on the Groups an annual cycle of risk review visits to regional operations, reviewing arrangements for ensuring regulatory compliance.
The Board, regional risk management practices.
These reviews cover insurance, through the Board Risk Committee, considers reports from risk operational, credit, market, liquidity and strategic risks.
specialists both internal and external to the Group, and reviews Group level risk management information.
The reviews are conducted through an on site visit to the country or operation and take two to four days each to complete, depending Each quarter there is a self certication process completed by on the size of the operation.
These visits base themselves on the business managers across the Group to confirm the adequacy of requirements and obligations of the Groups policy statements and controls and their compliance with Company policies, laws, rules are intended to assess the application of risk management processes and regulations.
by the first line of defence.
In addition, they cover the financial The Board considers that collectively this reporting framework performance of the operation as relevant to risk management gives it sufficient information upon which to monitor the systems and regulatory compliance.
of internal control and to review their effectiveness as required by the Combined Code.
Annual General Meeting AGM AGM Notices are despatched to shareholders at least 20 working Report of the Audit & Compliance Committee days before the relevant meeting and contain separate resolutions Membership on each issue, including a resolution to adopt the Annual Report & The membership of the Committee and the attendance record of Accounts.
At AGMs, the Chairman of the Group and the chairmen of directors in 2004 are shown in the table on page 45.
All members the Audit & Compliance, Nomination and Remuneration Committees of the Committee are independent non-executive directors.
Both make themselves available to take questions from shareholders.
Edward Lea and John Maxwell have recent and relevant financial The Company has put arrangements in place with its registrars to experience.
ensure that all proxy votes are received and accurately accounted In 2004, the Committee met eight times for scheduled meetings for.
The level of proxies lodged on each resolution, including votes and there was also one unscheduled meeting.
The Chairman, for, against and abstained are published on the Groups website Group CEO, Chief Financial officer, Group Risk Director, Director at www.
Regulatory Risk and Compliance and the Group Chief Auditor are regular attendees.
Other members of executive management Directors responsibilities are also invited to attend from time to time.
The directors are required to ensure that adequate accounting records are maintained so as to disclose at any time, and with reasonable accuracy, the financial position of the Group.
They are also responsible for taking reasonable steps to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2004 43 Corporate Governance continued Principal duties The Board has accepted the Committees recommendation that The Committees principal duties are as follows: a resolution be put to the 2005 AGM for the reappointment of  LLP as external auditors.
to coordinate and have oversight of the financial reporting process: to monitor compliance: Whistleblowing It is the Committees responsibility to keep the procedures laid to have oversight of the internal and external audit functions and out in the Group whistleblowing policy under review.
This policy of risk management: deals with employees who wish to raise serious concerns in good to manage the Groups systems of internal controls: faith, and either do not feel comfortable raising the matter with local management or are not satisfied with the local management to review the Groups financial performance: response.
They can raise their concerns with the Group Chief to review all matters relating to the legal integrity of the Group: Auditor, who will either investigate or arrange for an investigation of the matter.
Employees are offered such safeguards and support to provide assurance on the effectiveness of the Groups risk as may be necessary to protect their personal integrity and, where management and internal audit arrangements: and possible, identity.
to have oversight of the Groups arrangements to prevent and detect fraud, money laundering and other financial crimes and to Report of the Nomination Committee allow employees to report these and other matters condentially.
Membership The membership of the Committee and the attendance record of In addition, adherence to the FSA solvency regime is monitored directors in 2004 are shown in the table on page 45.
The Committee at a Group level.
In this respect the oversight and challenge of met three times during 2004. the operational, financial and risk management processes of the Groups regulated entities in the UK is also the responsibility of Principal duties the Committee.
The Committees principal duties are to review the structure, size The terms of reference of the Audit & Compliance Committee, and composition of the Board and to evaluate the directors skills, which explain its role and the authority delegated to it by the knowledge and experience.
It had access to external recruitment Board of Directors, are available on the Companys website at consultants to ll the vacancies arising in 2004.
com or on request from the General considers the leadership needs and succession planning of the Counsel and Group Company Secretary.
Board when making decisions on new appointments.
Resolutions to reappoint directors whose retirement by rotation falls due at The Chairman of the Audit & Compliance Committee has carried an AGM are not proposed automatically, but are subject to the out an evaluation of its effectiveness to which the members have approval of the Board, taking into account the recommendations contributed.
Internal audit The terms of reference of the Committee, which explains its role The Group has an internal audit function, whose activities and and the authority delegated to it by the directors, are available on effectiveness are monitored and reviewed by the Committee.
The the Companys website at www.
com or on request Committee is responsible for approving the appointment and removal from the General Counsel and Group Company Secretary.
The terms of the Group Chief Auditor, and for ensuring that adequate access and conditions of appointment of the non-executive directors will to information and resources is given to the holder of that position.
be available for inspection at the AGM.
External auditors By order of the directors The Committee meets regularly with internal and external auditors Mark R Chambers without management present.
The partner of the Groups external General Counsel and Group Company Secretary auditors who is responsible for the audit is invited to attend all London meetings.
Each year, the Committee considers the performance of 9 March 2005 the external auditors prior to proposition of a resolution on their reappointment and remuneration at the AGM.
During the year,  LLP were, on a number of occasions, engaged as advisors.
In order to maintain their independence, such appointments are only made in accordance with a protocol developed by the Board available on the Companys website.
This gives guidance to businesses within the Group on the appropriateness of engaging external auditors as advisors and sets down the procedures to be followed to authorise such an engagement.
The Committee is satisfied that this protocol has been followed and there are no matters that would compromise the independence of the auditors or affect the performance of their statutory duties.
 LLP have also considered their position and have confirmed their independence to the Company in writing.
44 Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2004 Board and board committee membership and attendance in 2004 The number of Board and board committee meetings attended by directors during 2004 was: Audit & Compliance Nomination Remuneration Notes Board Committee Committee Committee Total number of meetings in the year 14 9 3 8 Bob Ayling 1 7 11 6 7 3 3 4 6 George Culmer 2 9 9 Julian Hance 3 3 4 Noel Harwerth 4, 11 9 9 6 6 Andy Haste 14 14 Stephen Hill 5 1 4 1 2 2 2 Susan Hooper 5 3 4 2 2 Edward Lea 6 13 14 9 9 5 5 Malcolm Le May 7, 11 8 9 4 5 John Maxwell 8, 10 12 14 9 9 1 1 8 8 John Napier 9 14 14 3 3 8 8 Chairman of the Board or board committee Notes: 1.
Bob Ayling retired from the Board, Audit & Compliance Committee, Nomination Committee and Remuneration Committee on 11 August 2004.
George Culmer was appointed a director on 1 May 2004.
Julian Hance resigned as a director on 2 April 2004.
Noel Harwerth was appointed a director on 30 March 2004 and a member of the Audit & Compliance Committee on 26 April 2004.
Stephen Hill retired from the Board, Audit & Compliance Committee and Remuneration Committee on 30 March 2004.
Susan Hooper retired from the Board and Remuneration Committee on 30 March 2004.
Edward Lea was appointed to the Remuneration Committee on 26 April 2004.
Malcolm Le May was appointed a director on 30 March 2004 and a member of the Remuneration Committee on 26 April 2004.
John Maxwell was appointed to the Nomination Committee on 26 April 2004.
John Napier resigned from the Remuneration Committee on 24 December 2004.
John Maxwell was not expected to attend two Board meetings in 2004 due to long standing pre existing commitments.
Noel Harwerth and Malcolm Le May were not expected to attend the scheduled Board meeting held one week after their appointments, as they had pre existing commitments.
This meeting has been disregarded in their attendance records.
Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2004 45 Remuneration Report Remuneration report 2004 Determining the structure of short term incentives for the Group The following report by the Remuneration Committee the CEO, the other executive directors and senior executives reporting Committee has been approved by the Board, for submission to the Group CEO the Executive Team.
to shareholders at the 2005 Annual General Meeting AGM.
The Committee also considers and advises the Board on the Groups broader remuneration policy in relation to members Overview of the Executive Team.
The creation and reinforcement of a high performance culture is central to the business strategy of Royal & SunAlliance.
Remuneration, Members of the Committee have no personal financial interest for executives and for other employees, is a key element of this other than as shareholders in the Committees decisions and they cultural development.
We are building a business where clear targets have no conicts of interest arising from cross directorships.
are set and individuals are held accountable for the delivery of results.
The Chairman, John Napier, served as a member of the Committee In this context, the policy of the Committee is to ensure that there until 24 December 2004.
His involvement was considered essential is a strong link between remuneration and performance, and that to provide continuity during a period which saw the departure of the measures of performance used appropriately reect the ability three Committee members and the induction of two new members.
of the business to deliver and grow shareholder value.
John Napier has now resigned from the Committee and will not serve as a member during 2005.
During 2004 the Committee worked to ensure that performance was appropriately reected in all aspects of remuneration policy In constitution and operation, the Committee complies fully with and practice within their remit.
Base salary increases for the the Combined Code as appended to the Listing Rules of the UK executive directors and members of the Executive Team were set Listing Authority.
with reference to an external assessment of the market rate for the The membership of the Committee and the attendance record of role, and with reference to personal performance.
Annual bonuses members in 2004 are shown in the table on page 45. were driven by business results against targets agreed in advance with the Board, together with delivery of pre agreed personal Membership objectives.
Long term incentive grants were determined with During the year the following directors served on the Committee: reference to individual performance as well as market practice.
John Maxwell, Chairman: Edward Lea appointed 26 April 2004 : Additionally, at the 2004 AGM shareholders approved an interim Malcolm Le May appointed 26 April 2004 : John Napier resigned share based long term incentive plan for senior executives the Share from the Committee as from 24 December 2004 : Bob Ayling Matching Plan, which takes account of both personal performance retired as a non-executive director of the Company with effect in determining the initial deferred award and business performance from 11 August 2004 : Susan Hooper retired as a non-executive in determining the matching award if any.
director of the Company with effect from 30 March 2004 and In 2005, the Committee will further develop its remuneration policy.
Stephen Hill retired as a non-executive director of the Company The programme will include: with effect from 30 March 2004.
Consultation with shareholders on a replacement for the Share All of the non-executive directors on the Committee were Matching Plan, which expires at the end of 2005.
Alongside determined by the Board to be independent.
this the Committee will consider whether the Company should continue to offer executive share options as part of the executive Advisors remuneration package.
If a decision is taken to continue with In developing remuneration strategy the Committee actively option grants, the Committee is committed to removing the single seeks advice and obtains survey data from various independent retest which is permitted under the terms of the current plan, for consultants.
During the year the Committee obtained advice from grants made in 2006 and thereafter.
Watson Wyatt and New Bridge Street Consultants LLP.
Watson Wyatt are also the appointed actuaries of one of the Companys A review of the contribution of pension provision to the total UK dened benefit pension schemes.
remuneration package for senior executives.
This will include but will not be driven by a consideration of the impact of forthcoming New Bridge Street Consultants LLP provided no other services to changes in pensions legislation.
All the remuneration consultants were selected and appointed as advisors by the Committee independently.
The Committee is accountable to shareholders through its annual The terms of engagement for remuneration consultants for 2005 remuneration report which is voted on at the AGM, and remains are available to shareholders on request and on the Royal & committed to reecting the interests of shareholders and the SunAlliance website www.
pursuit of best practice in remuneration policy.
The Committee welcomes and values its ongoing dialogue with our shareholders The Group CEO is invited to attend all meetings of the Committee, on remuneration policy.
except those when his own contract and remuneration are being discussed, to inform the Committee on company strategy and The Remuneration Committee performance and senior executive pay strategy.
The Group Human The Committees responsibilities are set out in its Terms of Reference Resources Director normally attends meetings to provide information which are available to shareholders on request and on the Royal & on wider remuneration strategy and practice within the Group.
These include: Remuneration policy principles Determining the terms and conditions and remuneration of the The Committees remuneration policy reects its desire to support Chairman, and the terms and conditions and remuneration of the development of a high performance culture across the Group.
the Group CEO and the other executive directors.
The main principles are: Overseeing the operation of the Companys share based long term Total remuneration will be set at a level which enables incentive schemes, including approving the value and phasing of the recruitment, retention and incentivisation of top class awards and overseeing the application of performance conditions.
46 Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2004 There is a strong link between executives remuneration and In 2004 the Group CEO was awarded a base salary increase of shareholder interests.
This principle is reected in the design of 16.7% reecting his strong performance in his first year with the the Share Matching Plan and in the introduction of strengthened Company, and an assessment of market relativity.
George Culmer, share ownership guidelines in 2004.
Chief Financial officer, was appointed as an executive director on 1 May 2004: no review of his base salary was therefore required There is a strong and visible link between remuneration and during 2004.
As at 31 December 2004, the Group CEOs base salary performance.
was 700,000 pa and the Chief Financial Ofcers base salary was Incentive arrangements will be appropriately leveraged so that the 380,000 pa. highest level of reward is only paid out for exceptional performance.
The following table sets out the base salary of UK based executives The measures of performance used should appropriately reect the below Board level on a banded basis, as at 31 December 2004.
No ability of the business to deliver and grow shareholder value.
This such executive received a base salary in excess of 360,000 pa. requires a balanced approach incorporating short and long term Base salary range Number of employees business metrics which reect the strength and performance of the Over 250,001 2 business, together with a robust assessment of personal contribution.
Elements of remuneration Annual performance bonus Remuneration for executive directors in 2005 will, as in 2004, consist The executive directors and members of the Executive Team are of five principal elements, of which only base salary is pensionable: entitled to participate in an annual performance bonus plan.
If stretching business and personal targets are met, participants base salary receive a bonus of up to 50% of base salary.
For outstanding annual performance bonus performance a bonus of up to 100% of salary is achievable.
Business performance is the principal measure of performance, measured Share Matching Plan awards against combined operating ratio COR targets for each of the executive share options Groups ongoing global businesses.
Due to the particular nature of the business portfolio in the US, a special suite of metrics has been pension provision and other benets developed for this business incorporating the effectiveness of claims This structure is replicated for other members of the Executive Team.
management, expense control, COR performance for the ongoing non standard auto business, and asset and liability management.
The current balance between xed and variable elements of annual direct compensation for executive directors for on target COR was chosen as the preferred business measure because it and maximum performance is as follows: is the single indicator which most fully captures the underlying strength and performance of an insurance business, incorporating On target Maximum the effectiveness of underwriting discipline, claims management and expense control.
The balance of the annual bonus is determined with reference to performance against detailed and specic personal objectives.
These typically include financial, customer, risk management, compliance LTI 24% LTI 54% and controllership, people management and business improvement Bonus 25% Bonus 23% Base 51% Base 23% targets.
The Committee reviews and approves the executive directors objectives early in each financial year.
The performance of each executive director and each member of the Executive Team is For the purposes of the charts, the LTI element shows the present value of rigorously assessed annually.
Reviews take account of performance the projected gain arising from one years awards under the Executive Share Option Scheme and the Share Matching Plan after three years.
The valuation against personal objectives and appropriate leadership style.
In incorporates assumptions about share price movements and the Companys the case of the Group CEO, this assessment is carried out by the performance against conditions, and reects policy on the scale of initial awards.
Chairman and members of the Committee.
The Group CEO carries out the assessment for each of his direct reports, subject to review Base salary and sign off by the Committee in the case of executive directors.
The Committee believes that, for recruitment and retention purposes, base salary levels must be competitive when compared Details of the bonuses paid to executive directors in respect of financial with the external marketplace in which Royal & SunAlliance year 2004 are included in the table of directors emoluments on competes for executive talent.
Base salary for executive directors page 50.
These reect continued progress in the restructuring and and members of the Executive Team is determined at the time of financial performance of the Group.
appointment with reference to data on market practice provided The structure of the bonus plan will be reviewed during 2005. by external advisors.
The Committees policy is to relate base salary to the median level for equivalent roles in companies of similar UK based executives and senior managers below Board level size and complexity in the UK and internationally in insurance and participate in a bonus plan which is structured in the same way and related financial services.
In the UK the comparator group most measured using the same metrics as the plan for executive directors frequently used is financial services companies within the FTSE 100. and members of the Executive Team.
For this group, 25% of salary Base salary is reviewed annually and any increases determined with is payable for on target performance with maximum payments of reference to movements in median pay in the external marketplace, up to 65% if performance is outstanding.
and taking into account the performance of the executive.
Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2004 47 Remuneration Report continued Long term incentive plans talent management and retention strategy, a number of awards Share Matching Plan the Plan are also made at each grant to non management employees Shareholder approval was obtained at the 2004 AGM for the Plan identied as high potential.
which operates for two financial years only.
Awards granted in 2005 Options vest in full at the end of the third year following the will be the final awards under the Plan.
The Plan operates as follows: year of grant if the Group has achieved a net real rate of return Executive directors and other selected executives may receive on capital ROC of at least 6% pa when averaged over the period Deferred Share Awards equal to 33% of the gross annual cash excluding items of an exceptional nature, which in the view of the bonus paid to them in the year of grant.
Committee do not reect the underlying financial performance of the business.
One retest is allowed at the end of the fourth year Deferred Share Awards are held in trust for three years and are following the year of grant, but if the performance condition has normally forfeited upon leaving, but no further performance not been met over the full four year period, the options lapse.
Grants made in 2005 will be the last to incorporate a retest.
Participating executives may also receive Matching Share Awards ROC was adopted as the performance condition for grants of in respect of a maximum of three times the number of Deferred options in 1998 and has been used for all subsequent grants.
Shares awarded, subject to the achievement of demanding total ROC was chosen as an appropriate measure of the underlying shareholder return TSR targets over a single two year period.
financial strength of the Company and its capacity to deliver TSR performance is measured relative to FTSE 100 companies and grow shareholder value.
50% and relative to a financial services comparator group 50%.
The companies selected for the financial services comparator group No options are granted at an exercise price below market value are: Aegon, Legal & General Group, Allianz Group, Old Mutual, on the date of grant.
ESOS is funded through a combination of AXA, Prudential, Aviva, RAS, Generali and Zurich Financial Services.
new issue and shares purchased in the market.
If TSR performance is below median, no Matching Share Awards Equity Incentive Scheme for US Employees vest.
Shares under Deferred Share Awards are matched in the ratio In 2000 shareholders approved an alternative share option scheme 1:1 at median performance: 2:1 at upper quartile performance: for US managers based on US market practice.
Grants of options 3:1 at the maximum level of performance upper decile for the over American Depositary Receipts ADRs each equivalent to five FTSE comparator group and first place for the financial services ordinary shares in the Group are made no more than twice a year.
comparator group : and pro rata in between.
Dilution levels for all schemes are held strictly within ABI limits 10% Additionally, no Matching Share Awards vest unless the Committee over ten years for all schemes and 5% for discretionary schemes.
is satisfied that there has been a sustained improvement in the underlying performance of the Company over the performance Share ownership guidelines period.
Strengthened share ownership guidelines were introduced in Matching Share Awards vest on the third anniversary of the date 2004 for executive directors and members of the Executive Team.
of grant to the extent that the TSR performance conditions have The Group CEO is required to build and to retain a minimum been met.
shareholding of Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Group plc shares equivalent to 150% of salary.
The other executive directors have a TSR was selected as the measure of long term company performance in target of 100% of salary and other members of the Executive Team order to provide a clear alignment between the interests of executives have a target of 50% of salary.
In order to ensure that progress is and shareholders.
The Groups TSR performance is independently made towards this target, executives are required to retain shares calculated and veried by the Committee for the purposes of the Plan.
to a value of 50% of the net of tax gain under all executive schemes The Plan was designed to meet the needs of the business during until the relevant guideline is attained.
the critical recovery period of 2004 and 2005.
In recognition of the challenges faced by executives during this period, the Plan provides Pension and other benets significant rewards to executives but only if exceptional shareholder Andy Haste is a member of the SAL Pension Scheme, one of value is delivered.
three contributory dened benefit schemes operating in the UK.
In addition, he receives an age related taxable monthly allowance Awards under the Plan are funded through a combination of new to enable him to make his own provision for retirement above the issue and shares purchased in the market.
In 2005 he will be paid an allowance of 26% of base salary for this purpose.
Executive Share Option Scheme ESOS Awards of executive share options are made under the ESOS to George Culmer participates in a contributory dened contribution executive directors and other senior managers outside the US.
scheme The Royal & SunAlliance UK Pension Scheme 2002 and Awards are currently made twice a year.
receives annual contributions worth 15% of base salary, subject to an employee contribution of 5% of salary up to Inland Revenue Each individuals award is directly related to an assessment of their contribution limits.
Awards of up to one times base salary per year or more if circumstances justify are made.
In addition, the executive directors participate in a number of benets available to other senior managers including life assurance at the Awards to executives and senior managers below Executive Team rate of four times base salary, sickness and ill health early retirement level are determined with reference to a formula which relates the benets and private medical insurance.
They also have a choice award to personal performance and potential.
This performance between a company car and a monthly cash car allowance.
In common based distribution policy contrasts with the more traditional with other employees, the executive directors are eligible to participate approach whereby the size of award is determined with reference in the Royal & Sun Alliance International Sharesave SAYE Plan.
to base salary, irrespective of performance.
As part of our global 48 Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2004 Service contracts Edward Lea and John Maxwell both have letters of appointment The Committees policy on executive directors service contracts which are effective from 10 July 2003, and request one months is that they should be subject to a maximum notice period of notice should they wish to resign.
Noel Harwerth and Malcolm one year.
In the event of termination on performance grounds Le May have letters of appointment effective from 30 March 2004 the Committees policy in all cases would be to seek and apply which request one months notice should they wish to resign.
mitigation, specifically the phasing of any severance payments.
Historical total shareholder return TSR performance Andy Hastes service contract commenced on 2 April 2003 and continues The graphs below are included in the report of the Committee until terminated by the Company or by Andy Haste on 12 months as a requirement of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985. notice.
Exceptionally, when Andy Haste was appointed Group CEO, the Committee agreed that, in the event of termination other than The first graph shows the TSR of the Group by reference to the FTSE on grounds of gross misconduct, he would be entitled, within the World Europe Insurance Index and the second the TSR of the Group first three years following his appointment or within two years of by reference to the FTSE 100 Index.
The FTSE World Europe Insurance a change of control occurring before the third anniversary of his Index comprises the range of European insurance businesses which appointment, to liquidated damages equal to one years base salary, most closely match our trading competitor peer group.
the average of any annual bonuses paid during the previous two TSR reects the change in value of ordinary shares in a company over years and one years pension contributions and other taxable benets.
time, as represented by the evolution of a notional initial investment George Culmers service contract commenced on 1 May 2004 and of 100 in the shares and including any distribution of dividends.
continues until terminated by the Company or by George Culmer The graphs below show the change in value of the Groups shares on 12 months notice.
over the five years from 31 December 1999 relative to the two Julian Hances service contract commenced on 1 April 1997.
6 months notice which resulted in the termination of his contract on 4 April 2004.
Had he not done so, his contract would have been Total shareholder return for Royal & SunAlliance and FTSE World terminable by the Company on 12 months notice.
Europe Insurance Index 150 External directorships 125 Where appropriate the Group encourages directors and senior managers to accept subject to the approval of the Chairman 100 and the Group CEO an invitation to join the Board of another company in a non-executive capacity, recognising the value of such 75 wider experience.
In these circumstances, managers are permitted to retain the remuneration from the non-executive appointment.
50 Non-executive directors 25 All non-executive directors of the Company have letters of 31 12 99 31 12 00 31 12 01 31 12 02 31 12 03 31 12 04 appointment which set out the terms and conditions of their Royal & SunAlliance index FTSE World Europe Insurance index appointment.
Non-executive directors are not entitled to bonus payments or pension arrangements, nor do they participate in Total shareholder return for Royal & SunAlliance and FTSE 100 Index the Groups long term incentive plans.
150 Under the Groups Articles of Association, the remuneration paid 125 to non-executive directors is determined by the Board, within limits set by shareholders.
The Committee has delegated authority from 100 the Board to determine the Chairmans remuneration.
The basic fee for a non-executive director in 2004 was 35,000 pa, with an 75 additional fee of 10,000 pa for chairing the Audit & Compliance or Remuneration Committee, to reect the additional time commitment 50 and responsibility involved.
With the exception of the Chairman, non-executive directors fees have remained unchanged for five years.
25 It is expected that fee levels and the structure of fee payments for 31 12 99 31 12 00 31 12 01 31 12 02 31 12 03 31 12 04 non-executive directors will be reviewed by the Board during 2005.
Royal & SunAlliance index FTSE 100 index John Napiers letter of appointment was effective from 9 January 2003 and is for an initial period of three years.
It may be terminated earlier by the Chairman on three months notice to the Company.
The fee payable to John Napier in respect of his appointment as Chairman of the Company effective from 17 March 2003 is at the rate of 250,000 pa.
This gure was agreed by the Board, having taken advice from the Groups independent remuneration consultants that it was comparable to that paid for similar appointments in international and financial services companies.
Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2004 49 Directors Emoluments Remuneration auditable part Remuneration for the year ended 31 December was as follows: Total Base salary Allowances and fees and benets Bonuses 2004 2003 Notes 000 000 000 000 000 Executive directors 1 George Culmer appointed 1 May 2004 2 253 111 327 691 Andy Haste 3 700 219 672 1,591 1,379 Non-executive directors 1 Noel Harwerth appointed 30 March 2004 27 27 Edward Lea 45 45 19 Malcolm Le May appointed 30 March 2004 27 27 John Maxwell 45 45 19 John Napier 250 250 210 Directors who left during 2004 1 Bob Ayling retired 11 August 2004 21 21 65 Julian Hance resigned 2 April 2004 4 114 31 145 936 Stephen Hill retired 30 March 2004 9 9 35 Susan Hooper retired 30 March 2004 9 9 35 Directors who left during 2003 John Baker retired 30 September 2003 53 Nicholas Barber retired 30 September 2003 34 Sir Patrick Gillam retired 31 March 2003 44 Bob Gunn resigned 2 April 2003 604 Carole St. Mark retired 30 September 2003 26 Notes: 1.
Directors who were appointed or who left during the year were paid their base salary or fees pro rata.
George Culmers salary was for eight months of the year, following his appointment in May 2004.
He received an annual performance bonus of 326,800 in respect of bonus year 2004.
His allowances include 93,000 as compensation for a bonus lost on leaving his prior employment.
Additionally, he received car benets worth 17,000 and life assurance benets worth 1,000.
Andy Haste received an annual performance bonus of 672,000 in respect of bonus year 2004.
His allowances include a percentage of basic salary as a retirement allowance, paid monthly.
The percentage rate of the retirement allowance increases each year from the month in which he attains the next age.
During 2004, the rate of allowance was 25% and the amount paid was 175,000.
Additionally, he also received car benets worth 39,000, life assurance benets worth 4,000 and medical benets worth 1,000.
Julian Hance left the Group in April 2004.
His allowances included an amount in respect of accrued holiday pay of 23,000.
Additionally, he received car benets worth 7,000 and medical benets worth 600.
David Paige joined the Group on 1 February 2005 and was appointed a director of the Group on 16 February 2005.
His annual base salary on appointment was 330,000.
His service contract continues until terminated by the Group or David Paige on 12 months notice.
David Paige has elected not to participate in the Royal & SunAlliance UK Pension Scheme 2002: instead he receives 17.5% of basic salary paid monthly as a retirement allowance.
He will be entitled to participate in annual bonus and long term incentive plans.
He will also be entitled to participate in a number of benets available to other senior managers including life assurance at the rate of four times base salary, sickness and ill health early retirement benets, private medical insurance and car benefit which provides a choice between a car and a monthly car allowance.
50 Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2004 Pension benets auditable part Non-executive directors are not entitled to any pension benets.
The pension benets earned by the executive directors, as members of Group dened benefit schemes, were as follows: Transfer value of Transfer value of Difference in Total accrued total accrued total accrued transfer values pension at pension at pension at less members Change in accrued 31 December 31 December 31 December contributions pension in year 2004 2004 2003 note 1 Notes Andy Haste 3, 4, 5, 8 1,737 2,976 25,254 8,906 11,286 Directors who left during 2004 Julian Hance 3, 6, 7, 8 2,448 161,700 3,616,569 1,424,700 2,191,869 Notes: 1.
The difference in transfer values reects the difference between the two transfer values calculated using relevant information on the respective dates and is not necessarily the actuarial increase of the underlying pension.
The gures set out in the table above provide information as required by the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002.
The Listing Rules require the change in accrued pension to be shown excluding the effects of ination and the transfer value of this increase.
These gures are shown in the notes below.
The accrued pension gures shown are the annual amounts of members pension payable from normal retirement age.
Increases to pensions when in payment are applied in accordance with the relevant scheme rules.
On the death of the member leaving a surviving spouse and or children, spouses and or childrens pensions are payable in accordance with scheme rules.
The benets shown above in respect of Andy Haste relate to his membership of a dened benefit pension scheme up to the earnings cap.
For Andy Haste the increase in his accrued pension during the year, excluding the effects of ination, was 1,698 pa.
The difference in transfer value during this period, excluding the effects of ination and less his contributions was 9,347.
Julian Hance left the Company in April 2004 with an entitlement to a pension from his normal retirement age 62 of 161,700 pa which is shown in the table above.
The pension could commence earlier than normal retirement age, and if so, would normally be subject to an actuarial reduction, but as part of his severance terms, he is allowed to take the pension from age 50 without the application of any actuarial reduction.
The transfer value at 31 December 2004 shown in the table above allows for early retirement from age 50 on an unreduced basis.
Of the amount shown, 1,938,646 relates to the value of being able to take the pension at age 50 on an unreduced basis compared with the value of the pension ordinarily available from normal retirement age.
For Julian Hance, allowing for the effects of ination, there was a reduction in his accrued pension during the year of 2,489 pa because the few months of extra accrual during 2004 on an unchanged salary were less than the effects of ination on his accrued pension at 31 December 2003.
However, allowing for the early retirement feature mentioned in note 6 the transfer value of the increase excluding the effects of ination was 1,912,832 at 31 December 2004.
Andy Haste is required to contribute to the scheme but Julian Hance was not.
Both have had the option of paying Additional Voluntary Contributions AVCs.
Neither voluntary contributions nor the resulting benets are included in the table.
Transfer values have been calculated in accordance with the guidance note GN11 published by the UK Institute of Actuaries and Faculty of Actuaries.
The Company contributions paid in respect of executive directors who are members of Group dened contribution schemes, were as follows: Company contributions paid in 2004 George Culmer appointed 1 May 2004 38,000 Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2004 51 Directors Interests Shareholdings non auditable part The interests of directors in ordinary shares of 27.5p each of the Company, as declared and recorded in accordance with the Companies Act 1985, are as follows: Shares held at Shares held at 1 January 2004 31 December or on 2004 Notes appointment or on leaving Executive directors George Culmer appointed 1 May 2004 1 34,843 Andy Haste 1 50,578 258,910 Non-executive directors Noel Harwerth appointed 30 March 2004 2 34,000 Edward Lea 13,100 116,128 Malcolm Le May appointed 30 March 2004 John Maxwell 138,300 140,046 John Napier 260,000 275,174 Directors who left during 2004 Bob Ayling retired 11 August 2004 1,090 1,090 Julian Hance resigned 2 April 2004 1 60,454 60,454 Stephen Hill retired 30 March 2004 Susan Hooper retired 30 March 2004 7,414 7,414 Notes: 1.
In addition to the interests shown above, the directors indicated, in common with the employees, had a beneficial interest as at 31 December 2004 and throughout 2004 in 3,038,894 2003: 3,038,894 ordinary shares of 27.5p each held in the Royal & SunAlliance ESOP Trust No 2.
Noel Harwerths shares are held in the form of 6,800 American Depositary Receipts ADRs.
One ADR represents five ordinary shares.
On 9 March 2005, the directors interests remained unchanged.
Options auditable part Movements in option holdings during 2004 were as follows: Options held at Options Options Options Options held at 1 January 2004 granted exercised lapsed 31 December or on during during during 2004 Notes appointment the year the year the year or on leaving George Culmer 1, 3 ESOS 981,012 981,012 appointed 1 May 2004 SAYE Andy Haste 1, 2, 3 ESOS 4,351,616 1,364,089 5,715,705 SAYE 5,917 10,643 16,560 Julian Hance 1, 2, 3 ESOS 568,392 568,392 resigned 2 April 2004 SAYE 1,083 1,083 Options granted following the AGM in May 2003 are potentially exercisable if, at the end of the period of three business years starting with the business year in which the options were granted, the Group has achieved a ROC of at least 6% pa when averaged over the period.
One retest is allowed at the end of the fourth business year, but if the performance criterion has not been met over the full four year period, the options lapse.
Options granted between September 1998 and May 2003 are also subject to a performance condition that the Group must achieve a ROC of at least 6% when averaged over a consecutive three year period, but if the measure is not satisfied at the end of the third business year following the date of grant, the test can be repeated on an annual basis over the ten year life of the option.
Options granted between October 1996 and September 1998 were subject to a different performance condition linked to TSR.
For options to be eligible for exercise, the Groups TSR has to be at or above the median of companies in the FTSE 100 index over a consecutive period of three years, between the year of grant and the completion of the ten year life of the option.
The test is conducted twice per year, at the end of March and September, by independent external specialists.
Options granted prior to October 1996 were not subject to performance conditions.
None of the terms or conditions of any of the existing options over shares of the Group were varied during the year.
Full details of all directors shareholdings and options to subscribe for shares are recorded in the Groups Register of Directors Interests which is open to inspection in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985.
The ofcial closing middle market price at its highest during the year was 109.25p per share and at its lowest was 68.75p per share: on the last dealing day of the year it was 77.5p per share.
Options granted to directors on 14 June 2004 and 18 November 2004 under the ESOS scheme were granted at exercise prices of 79.0p and 76.0p respectively.
These exercise prices were not less than the average of middle market quotations for the shares of the Group on the five business days prior to the date of grant.
On 22 September 2004, SAYE options were granted at an exercise price of 59.0p.
All of the above options were granted for nil consideration.
Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2004 53 Directors Interests continued Long term incentive schemes auditable part Long term incentive scheme interests held during 2004 in respect of the ordinary shares of the Company as a result of Share Matching Plan awards are as follows: Date by which Share awards qualifying Share awards Share awards held at conditions held at granted 31 December must be Notes 1 January 2004 during 2004 2004 fullled Andy Haste 2, 3 Deferred Share Awards 197,046 197,046 14.07.07 Matching Share Awards 591,138 591,138 14.07.07 Notes: 1.
No other directors of the Company held long term incentive scheme interests during 2004.
The market price of ordinary shares on 14 June 2004, the date on which the above long term incentive scheme interests were granted, was 79.25p.
Matching Share Awards are capable of vesting in respect of a maximum of three times the number of Deferred Shares awarded, subject to the achievement of demanding total shareholder return TSR targets over a single two year period.
TSR performance is measured relative to other companies specified by the Remuneration Committee.
For awards granted in 2004, TSR will be measured partly relative to FTSE 100 companies and partly relative to the following financial services comparator group companies: Aegon, Legal & General Group, Allianz Group, Old Mutual, AXA, Prudential, Aviva, RAS, Generali and Zurich Financial Services Group.
For 50% of the Matching Share Awards, where TSR is measured against the FTSE 100, full vesting will only occur at upper decile performance, vesting will occur in the ratio of shares under Matching Share Awards to shares under Deferred Share Awards of 2:1 at upper quartile performance and vesting in the ratio 1:1 will occur at median performance.
For the other 50% of the Matching Share Awards, where TSR is measured against the financial services comparator group, full vesting will occur if TSR is highest in the comparator group, vesting in the ratio 2:1 will occur at upper quartile performance and vesting in the ratio 1:1 will occur at median performance.
Matching Share Awards will not vest at below median performance.
For awards granted in 2004, the targets will be measured over the period from 1 April 2004 to 31 March 2006.
The relevant TSR gures will be averaged over the three months before the beginning and end of this performance period.
Additionally, no Matching Shares will vest unless the Committee is satisfied that there has been a sustained improvement in the underlying performance of the Company over the performance period.
John Maxwell Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, on behalf of the Board London 9 March 2005 54 Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2004 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Group plc We have audited the financial statements which comprise the We review whether the corporate governance statement reects Consolidated profit and Loss Account, the Statement of Total the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 Recognised Gains and Losses, the Movements in Shareholders FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules Funds, the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Parent Company of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Shareholders Cash Flow We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements Statement and the related notes including the Accounting Policies, on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on Estimation Techniques, Uncertainties and Contingencies, Segmental the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures Information, the Statements of the Principal Subsidiary Companies or its risk and control procedures.
and the Principal Associated Undertakings and Other significant Shareholdings which have been prepared in accordance with the Basis of audit opinion Accounting Policies.
We have also audited the disclosures required We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 contained in issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes the directors remuneration report the auditable part.
examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the auditable part Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors of the directors remuneration report.
It also includes an assessment The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors and the financial statements in accordance with applicable in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the United Kingdom law and accounting standards are set out in accounting policies are appropriate to the companys circumstances, the statement of directors responsibilities.
The directors are also consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
responsible for preparing the directors remuneration report.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the information and explanations which we considered necessary in auditable part of the directors remuneration report in accordance order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and United assurance that the financial statements and the auditable part of the Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices directors remuneration report are free from material misstatement, Board.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming and only for the companys members as a body in accordance with our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
presentation of information in the financial statements.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report Equalisation reserves is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly Our evaluation of the presentation of information in the financial agreed by our prior consent in writing.
statements has had regard to the statutory requirement for insurance companies to maintain equalisation reserves.
The nature We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial of equalisation reserves, the amount set aside at 31 December 2004, statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial and the effect of the movement in those reserves during the year on statements and the auditable part of the directors remuneration the General Business Technical Account and the profit on ordinary report have been properly prepared in accordance with the activities before tax, are disclosed in note 10.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the directors report is not consistent with the financial statements, if Opinion the company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have In our opinion the financial statements give a true and fair view of the not received all the information and explanations we require for state of affairs of the Company and the Group at 31 December 2004 our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors and of the results and cash ows of the Group for the year then remuneration and transactions is not disclosed.
ended: the financial statements have been properly prepared in We read the other information contained in the annual report accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and those parts of the and consider the implications for our report if we become aware directors remuneration report required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Companies Act 1985 have been properly prepared in accordance the financial statements.
The other information comprises only with the Companies Act 1985. the Financial Highlights, the Chairmans Statement, the Industry Overview, the Chief Financial Ofcers Review, the Board of Directors,  LLP the Group CEOs Report, the Sensitivity Analysis and the Share and Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Shareholder Analysis, the Directors Report, the Corporate Governance Southwark Towers Statement, the unaudited part of the Remuneration Report and the London Five Year Financial Review.
9 March 2005 Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2004 55 Accounting Policies Financial statements General Business Technical Account The financial statements are prepared in accordance with applicable General business is accounted for on an annual basis.
Premiums UK accounting standards and the Statement of Recommended written are accounted for in the year in which the contract is entered Practice SORP issued by the Association of British Insurers in into and include estimates where the amounts are not determined November 2003.
As noted in the investment accounting policy the at the balance sheet date.
Premiums written exclude taxes and true and fair override has been adopted in respect of the valuation duties levied on premiums.
An allocation of the investment return of the Groups investment properties and no depreciation is provided.
has been made to the General Business Technical Account from the Non-Technical Account on the longer term rate of return basis.
Changes in accounting policy The commission and other acquisition costs incurred in writing the During the year the Group adopted Urgent Issues Task Force UITF business are deferred and amortised over the period in which the abstract 38, which changes the presentation of the Groups own related premiums are earned.
shares held within the ESOP trusts.
Previously these shares were Claims paid represent all payments made during the period whether recognised as an asset but, in accordance with this abstract, they arising from events during that or earlier periods.
are now deducted from shareholders funds.
The financial impact of this accounting policy change is described in note 1.
The balance on the General Business Technical Account is arrived at after taking account of changes in the equalisation provisions.
Group accounts The consolidated accounts of the Group include the results of all Long Term Business Technical Account subsidiaries drawn up to 31 December.
Premiums and annuity considerations are accounted for when due except premiums in respect of linked business which are accounted The Consolidated profit and Loss Account and Consolidated for when the policy liabilities are created.
Single premiums are Balance Sheet are drawn up in accordance with the provisions of those relating to products issued by the Group where there is a section 255A of, and schedule 9A to, the Companies Act 1985.
The contractual obligation for the payment of only one premium.
Parent Company Balance Sheet is drawn up in compliance with the Annual premiums are those where there is a contractual obligation provisions of section 226 of, and schedule 4 to, the Companies Act for the payment of premium on a regular basis.
As permitted by section 230 of the Companies Act 1985, the maturity are recognised when the claim becomes due for payment.
Parent Company profit and Loss Account has not been included in Death claims are accounted for on notication.
Surrenders are these financial statements.
accounted for at the earlier of the payment date or the date at Subsidiaries acquired during the year are consolidated from the which the policy ceases to be included in the long term business effective date of acquisition.
provision or the technical provisions for linked liabilities.
The Consolidated Shareholders Cash Flow Statement has been drawn Acquisition costs comprise direct and indirect costs of obtaining up in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 1 Revised which and processing new business.
These costs are deferred as an explicit requires the Cash Flow Statement to exclude the cash ows of the deferred acquisition cost asset, gross of tax relief and amortised long term policyholders funds.
over the period in which they are expected to be recovered out of margins in matching revenues from related policies.
At the end of Principal associated undertakings are accounted for by the equity each accounting period, deferred acquisition costs are reviewed for method in the consolidated financial statements.
The gures recoverability by category, against future margins from the related included for interests in principal associated undertakings are for policies in force at the balance sheet date.
the accounting periods indicated in the list of Principal Associated Undertakings and Other significant Shareholdings.
The profits on long term insurance business represent the transfer from the long term funds to shareholders following the actuarial Translation of foreign currencies valuation of liabilities, investment income arising on shareholders Assets and liabilities including dated loan capital and results of funds attributable to the long term business based on the longer both businesses and associates denominated in foreign currencies term investment return, and the movements in certain reserves are translated into sterling at rates ruling at the year end and the attributable to shareholders held within the long term funds.
profits resulting differences are taken to reserves or in the case of long are shown in the Non-Technical Account grossed up for tax at the term business are included within the Long Term Business Technical effective rate of corporation tax applicable in the period.
Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated transacted overseas, results have been included in accordance with at the prevailing rate at the date of the transaction and the resulting local generally accepted accounting principles where they are exchange differences are included within the profit and Loss Account.
New business premiums are recognised when the policy liability Derivatives is established.
New single premiums include recurrent single Interest rate and currency swaps in relation to the Groups dated premium contracts including DSS rebates and increments under loan capital are treated as hedges.
The underlying hedged dated group pension schemes.
Where products are substituted by the loan capital is carried at cost and accordingly the swaps have not policyholder or pension contracts are vested, these transactions been marked to market.
The interest payable or receivable on are reected as new business only to the extent that they give interest rate swaps is included in interest paid.
Other derivatives rise to incremental premiums.
are included within the category to which the contract relates and are valued at market value.
Reversionary bonuses are recognised when declared: terminal bonuses are recognised when payable.
56 Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2004 Shareholders accrued interest for long term business represents taken for relief for trading and other losses only to the extent that the excess of accumulated profit recognised under the modied the directors anticipate that suitable profits will absorb such losses statutory basis of reporting over the statutory transfers made in future periods.
from the long term funds to shareholders.
The amount of profit Deferred tax balances that derive from undiscounted cash ows recognised as shareholders accrued interest is credited to the profit and for which the impact of discounting is material have been and Loss Account within capital and reserves.
Investment return Goodwill Income from investments is included in the profit and Loss Account Goodwill, being the difference between the cost of an acquisition on an accruals basis.
Dividend income on ordinary shares is recognised and the fair value of the net tangible assets acquired, arising on the when the related investment goes ex dividend.
Realised and acquisition of subsidiary companies and associated undertakings, is unrealised gains and losses on investments attributable to long capitalised in the Balance Sheet and amortised to the profit and Loss term business are dealt with in the Long Term Business Technical Account on a straight line basis.
The cost of acquisition is the amount Account.
Realised and unrealised gains and losses on other of cash paid and the fair value of other purchase consideration given investments, including the Groups share of realised and unrealised together with associated expenses.
The period of amortisation, gains and losses of associated undertakings, are dealt with in the which does not exceed 20 years, is determined by an assessment Non-Technical Account.
Realised gains and losses on investment of the useful economic life of the goodwill, this being the period disposals represent the difference between net sale proceeds and over which the value of the businesses acquired are expected to cost of acquisition.
Unrealised gains and losses on investments exceed the value of their underlying assets.
Goodwill arising prior to represent the difference between the carrying value at the year 31 December 1997 has been eliminated against reserves in accordance end and the carrying value at the previous year end or, in the case with the Group accounting policy at the date of acquisition.
of investments purchased in the year, the cost of acquisition.
In the event of the disposal of a business acquired prior to this date, Group operating result and profit based on longer term investment the related goodwill is charged to the profit and Loss Account in return are presented including investment return on the longer term the year of sale.
The longer term rate of return basis reects both historical experience and the directors current expectations Goodwill is reviewed for impairment at the end of the first full year for investment returns.
The rates of longer term return are set with following an acquisition and when events or changes in circumstances the objective of ensuring that, in aggregate over time, the return indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
recognised in operating profit based on longer term investment The present value of the shareholders interest in the acquired return does not exceed or fall below the actual returns achieved.
value of in force long term business is included as part of the fair Short term investment uctuations represent the difference value of the acquired net tangible assets in the goodwill calculation between the actual investment return in the year and that and is dealt with as described below.
determined on the longer term rate of return basis.
The fair value of general business claims provisions relating to Group operating result and profit based on longer term businesses acquired is established after making allowance for future investment return investment income.
The discount, being the difference between the Group operating result based on longer term investment return fair value and the undiscounted value at which they are accounted is analysed between general business, long term business and other for on consolidation, is capitalised as goodwill in acquired claims activities as an additional disclosure.
Group operating result based provisions and amortised to the profit and Loss Account over the on longer term investment return excludes interest on dated loan expected run off period of the related claims.
capital, short term investment uctuations, the change in the equalisation provisions, amortisation and impairment of goodwill Investments and of goodwill in acquired claims provisions and other items including Investments and assets held to cover linked liabilities are shown at reorganisation costs.
Group operating profit based on longer term market value, for which purpose unlisted investments, mortgages investment return excludes short term investment uctuations.
and loans are included at directors valuation and properties at professional valuation.
For listed securities the stock exchange values Taxation are used except that xed income securities held for long term Taxation in the Non-Technical Account and Long Term Business business in certain overseas operations are included on an amortised Technical Account is based on profits and income for the year as cost basis.
Properties are valued annually at open market value.
determined in accordance with the relevant tax legislation, together The Companies Act requires properties to be depreciated over with adjustments to provisions for prior years.
UK tax in respect of their expected useful economic lives.
The directors consider that overseas subsidiaries and principal associated undertakings is based depreciation of investment properties would not give a true and on dividends received.
Taxation in the Non-Technical Account includes fair view.
In accordance with Statement of Standard Accounting the tax by which the balance on the Long Term Business Technical Practice 19 Accounting for Investment Properties, no depreciation Account has been grossed up.
is provided on these properties on the basis that depreciation is Deferred tax is provided in full and consists of the estimated taxation already reected in the annual valuations.
The amounts attributed or relief from taxation which is expected to arise from material to this factor by the valuers cannot reasonably be separately timing differences using rates based on tax rates and laws that have identied or quantied.
been substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Provision is It is the Groups practice to maintain properties occupied by the made for taxation which might arise on the distribution of profits Group in a continual state of sound repair.
Accordingly the directors retained by overseas subsidiaries or associated undertakings only to consider that the economic lives of these properties and their the extent that dividends have been accrued as receivable.
Credit is residual values, based on prices prevailing at the time of acquisition Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2004 57 Accounting Policies continued or subsequent valuation, are such that any depreciation is The provision for claims outstanding, whether reported or not, insignicant and is thus not provided.
comprises the estimated cost of claims incurred but not settled at the balance sheet date.
It includes related expenses and a Investments in subsidiaries are included in the Parent Company deduction for the expected value of salvage and other recoveries.
Balance Sheet at net asset value and unrealised gains and losses The provision is determined using the best information available of are dealt with in the revaluation reserve.
claims settlement patterns, forecast ination and settlement of claims.
Acquired value of long term business General business provisions for claims outstanding, and related Acquired value of long term business represents the value of the reinsurance recoveries, are discounted where there is a particularly shareholders investment in the long term business not already long period from incident to claims settlement and where there recognised under the modied statutory principles of profit exists a suitable claims payment pattern from which to calculate the recognition at the date of acquisition less amounts charged to discount.
In dening those claims with a long period from incident the profit and Loss Account.
to claims settlement, those categories of claims where the average period of settlement is six years or more from the balance sheet The present value of in force long term business existing at date have been used as a guide.
acquisition is amortised in the Long Term Business Technical Account on a systematic basis over the anticipated periods of the Claims provisions relating to long term permanent disability claims related contracts in the portfolios as the profit on these acquired in the US, Canada and Scandinavia are determined using recognised contracts is recognised.
Differences between the estimated cost and subsequent settlement Tangible assets and depreciation of claims are dealt with in the appropriate technical account for the Tangible assets, other than land and buildings in the Parent year in which they are settled or re estimated.
Company Balance Sheet, comprise xtures, ttings and equipment including computers and motor vehicles which are stated at cost and Provision is made, based on information available at the balance depreciated over periods not exceeding their estimated useful lives sheet date, for any estimated future underwriting losses relating to between three and ten years after taking into account residual value.
unexpired risks after taking into account future investment income on relevant technical provisions.
The unexpired risk provision is Own shares assessed in aggregate for business classes which, in the opinion The shares held by the Royal & SunAlliance ESOP Trusts are deducted of the directors, are managed together.
from shareholders funds under the heading Own shares held in The long term business provision is derived from actuarial valuation.
For with profits business, the calculation includes explicit allowance for vested bonuses including those vesting following valuation at Fund for future appropriations the balance sheet date.
No explicit provision is made for future Certain long term funds comprise either participating or both reversionary or terminal bonuses except on certain accumulating participating and non participating long term business contracts, with profits contracts.
where policyholders have a contingent interest in the excess of assets over liabilities in the fund.
Accordingly the excess of Equalisation provisions are established in accordance with the assets over liabilities within these funds is not allocated between requirements of legislation in certain countries and are in addition policyholders and shareholders and is taken to the fund for future to the provisions required to meet the anticipated ultimate cost of appropriations.
settlement of outstanding claims at the balance sheet date.
The technical provisions for linked liabilities are the repurchase Dated loan capital value of units allocated to in force policies including any liability Dated loan capital comprises subordinated bonds and loans.
in respect of deferred tax at the balance sheet date, where the Subordinated bonds and loans are stated at the fair value of policy benets are wholly or partly related to investments of any consideration received after deduction of unamortised issue costs description or to indices of the value of investments.
Issue costs together with discount allowed on issue of bonds and loans are amortised to investment expenses and charges Operating leases within the Non-Technical Account on an annual basis over the term Payments made under operating leases are charged on a straight of the bonds and loans.
line basis over the term of the lease.
Dated loan capital is presented as a component of the Groups capital base as it is in the nature of long term capital nancing.
Pension costs As such, the cost of such capital is treated as a nancing item The Group operates a number of dened benefit pension schemes and is not deducted in arriving at Group operating result based for its employees.
The cost of providing these pension benets is on longer term investment return.
accounted for over the employees working lives on a systematic basis as advised by qualied actuaries.
The effects of variations from Technical provisions regular cost are spread over the expected remaining service lives of The provision for unearned premiums in respect of general business members of the schemes.
Contributions to dened contribution represents the proportion of premiums written relating to periods pension plans are charged as they become payable.
of insurance subsequent to the balance sheet date, calculated principally on a daily pro rata basis.
58 Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2004 Estimation Techniques, Uncertainties and Contingencies Introduction Provisions are calculated gross of any reinsurance recoveries.
A separate One of the purposes of insurance is to enable policyholders to protect estimate is made of the amounts that will be recoverable from reinsurers themselves against uncertain future events.
Insurance companies accept based upon the gross provisions and having due regard to collectability.
the transfer of uncertainty from policyholders and seek to add value The general business claims provisions are subject to close scrutiny both through the aggregation and management of these risks.
within our business units and at Group Corporate Centre.
In addition, for The uncertainty inherent in insurance is inevitably reected in the major classes where the risks and uncertainties inherent in the provisions financial statements of insurance companies.
The uncertainty in the are greatest, regular and ad hoc detailed reviews are undertaken by financial statements principally arises in respect of the technical advisors who are able to draw upon their specialist expertise and a provisions of the company.
broader knowledge of current industry trends in claims development.
As an example, the Groups exposure to asbestos and environmental The technical provisions include the provision for unearned premiums pollution is examined at least triennially on this basis.
The results of and unexpired risks, the provision for outstanding claims and the long these reviews are considered when establishing the appropriate levels term business provision.
The provisions for unearned premiums and of provisions for outstanding claims and unexpired periods of risk.
unexpired risks represent the amount of income set aside by the company to cover the cost of claims that may arise during the unexpired period of It should be emphasised that the estimation techniques for the risk of insurance policies in force at the balance sheet date.
The provision determination of general insurance business liabilities involve obtaining for outstanding claims represents the companys estimate of the cost of corroborative evidence from as wide a range of sources as possible and settlement of claims that have occurred by the balance sheet date but combining these to form the overall estimate.
This technique means have not yet been nally settled.
that the estimate is inevitably deterministic rather than stochastic.
A stochastic valuation approach, whereby a range of possible outcomes In addition to the inherent uncertainty of having to make provision is estimated and probabilities assigned thereto, is only possible in a for future events, there is also considerable uncertainty as regards the limited number of situations.
eventual outcome of the claims that have occurred by the balance sheet date but remain unsettled.
This includes claims that may have occurred The pension asset and pension and post retirement liabilities calculated in but have not yet been notied to the company and those that are not accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 17 FRS 17 are disclosed yet apparent to the insured.
These assets, liabilities and profit and loss account charge, calculated in accordance with FRS 17, are sensitive to the assumptions As a consequence of this uncertainty, the insurance company needs set out in that note.
to apply sophisticated estimation techniques to determine the appropriate provisions.
The longer term investment return is determined with the objective of ensuring that, in aggregate over time, the return recognised in operating Estimation techniques profit does not exceed or fall below the actual returns achieved, as set out in the Accounting Policies.
The pre tax returns are applied to an In general business, claims and unexpired risks provisions are determined based upon previous claims experience, knowledge of events and the estimation of the value of investments after adjustment to reduce the effect of short term uctuations.
The principal assumptions are disclosed terms and conditions of the relevant policies and on interpretation of circumstances.
Particularly relevant is experience with similar cases in note 13. and historical claims payment trends.
The approach also includes the consideration of the development of loss payment trends, the levels Uncertainties and contingencies of unpaid claims, legislative changes, judicial decisions and economic The uncertainty arising under insurance contracts may be characterised conditions.
under a number of specic headings, such as: uncertainty as to whether an event has occurred which would give rise The Group employs a variety of statistical techniques and a number of to a policyholder suffering an insured loss: different bases to determine these provisions.
These include methods uncertainty as to the extent of policy coverage and limits applicable: based upon the following: uncertainty as to the amount of insured loss suffered by a policyholder the development of previously settled claims, where payments to date as a result of the event occurring: and are extrapolated for each prior year: uncertainty over the timing of a settlement to a policyholder for estimates based upon a projection of claims numbers and average cost: a loss suffered.
notied claims development, where notied claims to date for each year are extrapolated based upon observed development of earlier The degree of uncertainty will vary by policy class according to the years: and characteristics of the insured risks.
For certain classes of policy the value expected loss ratios.
of the settlement of a claim may be specified under the policy terms while for other classes eg motor insurance the cost of a claim will In addition, the Group uses other methods such as the Bornhuetterbe determined by an actual loss suffered by the policyholder.
Ferguson method, which combines features of the above methods.
The Group also uses bespoke methods for specialist classes of business.
There may be significant reporting lags between the occurrence of the insured event and the time it is actually reported to the Group.
Following Large claims impacting each relevant business class are generally assessed the identication and notication of an insured loss, there may still be separately, being measured either at the face value of the loss adjusters uncertainty as to the magnitude and timing of the settlement of the estimates or projected separately in order to allow for the future claim.
There are many factors that will determine the level of uncertainty development of large claims.
such as ination, inconsistent judicial interpretations and court Where possible the Group adopts multiple techniques to estimate the judgements that broaden policy coverage beyond the intent of the original insurance, legislative changes and claims handling procedures.
This assists in giving greater understanding of the trends inherent in the data being projected.
The projections The establishment of technical provisions is an inherently uncertain given by the various methodologies also assist in setting the range process and, as a consequence of this uncertainty, the eventual cost of possible outcomes.
The most appropriate estimation technique is of settlement of outstanding claims and unexpired risks can vary selected taking into account the characteristics of the business class substantially from the initial estimates.
The Group seeks to provide and the extent of the development of each accident year.
appropriate levels of claims provision and provision for unexpired risks Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2004 59 Estimation Techniques, Uncertainties and Contingencies continued taking the known facts and experience into account.
However, by their quantum sought, although there can be no certainty that this will always nature the quantication of the provisions must remain very uncertain.
It is clear that there is unlikely to be any rm direction in case law or legislation which would allow for these issues to be resolved satisfactorily in the near term and no likelihood of the plaintiffs bar in the Asbestos and environmental claims The estimation of the provisions for the ultimate cost of claims for asbestos US easing its aggressive stance with litigation.
Management, therefore, expect that these notications and approaches will continue to be and environmental pollution is subject to a range of uncertainties that is generally greater than those encountered for other classes of business.
received for some time to come.
One such approach received during 2004 from General Motors Corporation is now the subject of litigation.
As a result it is not possible to determine the future development of asbestos and environmental claims with the same degree of reliability as with other types of claims, particularly in periods when theories of Representations and warranties law are in ux.
Consequently, traditional techniques for estimating In the course of disposal of businesses the Group provides representations claims provisions cannot wholly be relied upon and the Group employs and warranties to counterparties in contracts in connection with various specialised techniques to determine provisions using the extensive transactions and may also provide indemnifications that protect the knowledge of both internal asbestos and environmental pollution counterparties to the contracts in the event that certain liabilities arise experts and external legal and professional advisors.
covering such matters as tax, property, environmental issues, etc.
While such representations, warranties and indemnities are essential components Factors contributing to this higher degree of uncertainty include: of many contractual relationships, they do not represent the underlying plaintiffs expanding theories of liability, compounded by inconsistent purpose for the transaction.
These clauses are customary in such contracts.
court decisions and judicial interpretations: a few large claims, accompanied by a very large number of small Financial enhancement products claims or claims made with no subsequent payment, often driven In the UK, US and Korea the Group has exposures to financial by intensive advertising by lawyers seeking claimants: enhancement products which provide surety to banks, lending institutions the tendency for speculative, inated and or unsupported claims and credit facilities that insure principal and interest repayment on debt to be made to insurers, with the aim of securing a settlement on securities.
The Group no longer writes such business: however, the advantageous terms: nature of such contracts is normally that the Group is on risk for more the long delay in reporting claims and exposures, since the onset than one year and therefore liabilities remain for an extended period.
of illness and disability arising from exposure to harmful conditions Further information on financial enhancement products in the US is may only become apparent many years later for example, cases of discussed below.
mesothelioma can have a latent period of up to 40 years : inadequate development patterns: US financial enhancement products difficult issues of allocation of responsibility among potentially Within the financial enhancement portfolio of Financial Structures responsible parties and insurers: Limited, a subsidiary of the US Group, are a variety of credit default complex technical issues that may give rise to delays in notication product exposures including collateralised debt obligations CDO, arising from unresolved legal issues on policy coverage and the credit enhancement and residual value insurance contracts for which identity of the insureds: the majority of premium has not been earned and losses are provided the tendency for social trends and factors to influence jury verdicts: and on an arising basis.
These products are no longer written.
Losses for the developments pertaining to the Groups ability to recover reinsurance remaining CDOs during 2004 amount to 17m.
The ultimate loss estimate for claims of this nature.
for these CDOs is 158m against which we have made payments of The position in the US is particularly problematic as plaintiffs have 24m and have established total provisions of 109m.
The ultimate expanded their focus to defendants beyond the traditional asbestos loss estimate over the life of these CDOs is based on a model, which manufacturers and distributors.
This has arisen as a consequence of utilises S&Ps historical average default patterns and recovery values.
the increase in the number of insureds seeking bankruptcy protection However, the ultimate losses from this business will depend upon the because of asbestos related litigation and the exhaustion of their policy performance of underlying debt obligations.
Plaintiffs, supported by lawyers remunerated on a contingent fee basis, are now seeking to draw in a wide cross section of defendants Litigation, mediation and arbitration who previously only had peripheral or secondary involvement in The Group, in common with the insurance industry in general, is asbestos litigation.
This may include companies which have distributed subject to litigation, mediation, arbitration and regulatory inquiries or incorporated asbestos containing parts in their products or operated in the normal course of its business.
The directors do not believe that premises where asbestos was present.
There are also increasing signs any current mediation, arbitration, regulatory inquiries and pending of attempts to reopen and reclassify into other insurance coverages or threatened litigation or dispute, as outlined elsewhere in this note, previously settled claims, and the ling of claims under the non will have a material adverse effect on the Groups financial position, aggregate premises or operation section of general liability policies.
although there can be no assurance that losses resulting from any There are also indications that plaintiffs may seek damages by asserting pending mediation, arbitration, regulatory inquiries and threatened that insurers had a duty to protect the public from the dangers of litigation or dispute will not materially affect the Groups financial asbestos.
Added to this, there is also the possibility, however uncertain, position or cash ows for any period.
of federal legislation that would address asbestos related problems.
Reinsurance Against this background and in common with the industry generally, The Group is exposed to disputes on, and defects in, contract wordings the Group in the US receives notications and approaches from, and and the possibility of default by its reinsurers, including from the credit on behalf of, insureds who previously had peripheral or secondary risk taken in fronting arrangements.
The Group monitors the financial involvement in asbestos litigation indicating that they may be seeking strength of its reinsurers, including those to whom risks are no longer coverage under Group policies.
Given the uncertainties outlined above ceded.
Allowance is made in the financial position for non recoverability as to the potential of loss suffered, the availability of coverage and the due to reinsurer default by requiring operations to provide, in line with often long delay in reporting these issues, it is difficult to predict the Group standards, having regard to companies on the Groups Watch outcome of these notications and approaches.
The Watch List is the list of companies whom the directors believe is with estimating whether the Group has any liability as many of these will not be able to pay amounts due to the Group in full.
are discharged at no cost to the Group or have been settled below the 60 Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2004 Rating agencies In June and July 2002, Royal Indemnity Company, a US subsidiary, led The ability of the Group to write certain types of general insurance lawsuits in Texas state court, seeking among other things rescission business is dependent on the maintenance of the appropriate credit of these policies in response to a systematic pattern of alleged fraud, ratings from the rating agencies.
The Group has the objective of misrepresentation and cover up by various parties, which among other maintaining single A ratings from Standard & Poors S&P and from things concealed default rate of the loans.
As Royal Indemnitys lawsuits AM Best.
At the present time the ratings are Afrom S&P and Afrom seek rescission of these policies, all the Groups financial accounting AM Best.
The actions announced by the Group since 2002 are intended entries associated with the transactions have been reversed.
The to improve its capital position and regain the target ratings.
Any ultimate outcome of the suit is uncertain.
worsening in the ratings would have an adverse impact on the ability The foregoing rescission actions gave rise to other related lawsuits led of the Group to write certain types of general insurance business.
in Delaware by MBIA Insurance Corporation MBIA and various banks, seeking to enforce the Royal Indemnity credit risk insurance policies.
Regulatory environment Plaintiffs in the Delaware actions were Wells Fargo Bank Minnesota, The Financial Services Authority FSA has brought into force its NA Wells Fargo, in its capacity as trustee of a number of securitisations Integrated Prudential Sourcebook PRU in relation to insurers.
This that were collateralised by student loans, MBIA which insured the contains prudential rules and guidance for insurers implementing a obligations issued through these securitisations and PNC Bank and range of capital measures, including the EU Insurance Groups Directive Wilmington Trust, both of which provided interim nancing prior to IGD as amended by the Financial Groups Directive, the Enhanced securitisation.
These actions are all pending in US district court, District Capital Requirement ECR and the Individual Capital Assessment ICA.
Plaintiffs in the Delaware actions moved for summary Whilst the introduction of PRU has removed considerable uncertainty judgement.
The court granted summary judgement to MBIA and Wells for determining the solvency requirements of UK insurance companies Fargo on 30 September 2003 and to PNC Bank and Wilmington Trust and groups, the Group is still anticipating further capital developments on 26 March 2004.
Royal Indemnity appealed each of these judgements: in 2005 through to 2007, in particular reaching agreement with the oral arguments on the appeal were heard on 19 January 2005 and the FSA on its ICA.
Inevitably, until agreement is reached, there will be parties await judgement.
uncertainty as to the implications for Group solvency and the impact could materially increase our solvency requirements.
The directors are Calculated through 31 December 2004, the total amount awarded confident that, following the actions announced, including the disposal by the foregoing summary judgements was approximately $521m of the UK and Scandinavian life companies and the restructuring of including, as of the calculation date, additional accrued claims, the Groups debt position, the Group will continue to meet all future prejudgements interest and post judgement interest.
The ultimate outcome of these lawsuits is necessarily uncertain.
In the event Royal Indemnitys lawsuits do not result in complete rescission of US regulatory capital all applicable policies, any loss on the loan portfolio will be reduced to The Group embarked on a programme of structural change in relation the extent of reinsurance available to Royal Indemnity, recoveries from to its US business.
Through the consolidation of certain US insurance the original borrowers on the defaulted loans, and reserves, if any.
companies, the US business has successfully reduced the number of Any losses may be further offset by recoveries from other third parties.
domiciliary states from 11 to 6, which reduces the complexity of the To that end, Royal Indemnity has led recovery actions against certain structure.
The number of insurance entities has also been reduced trucking school entities.
However, there can be no assurance that the from 25 to 10, lowering capital requirements by some $90m.
outcome of these lawsuits, the availability of reinsurance recoveries, the extent and amount of recoveries from the borrower under the At the year end, the level of capital was reviewed in the light of the stabilisation that had been achieved and it was determined that the respective loan programmes and or reserves, if any, among other factors, will be resolved in favour of Royal Indemnity.
sale of the non standard auto business is the right action to achieve an appropriate level of capital support in the US.
Year end US lings Based on current knowledge of the circumstances, legal advice received have been submitted showing a consolidated US regulatory capital and the range of other actions available to the Group to manage any and surplus position at 31 December 2004 of $1,018m, which is at insurance exposure, the directors believe that the resolution of the legal approximately 1.8 times the NAIC ratio.
Constructive dialogue is proceedings in respect of these credit risk insurance policies will not under way with US regulators on corrective plans.
have a material adverse effect on the Groups financial position.
World Trade Center US restructuring The estimated cost of the insurance losses associated with the terrorist Our US restructuring plans are complex and are subject to particular action of 11 September 2001 is a gross loss in excess of 1bn, reduced to risks.
Although we have reduced the number of lead regulatory states, 280m net of reinsurance.
This was an unprecedented event, which still our US subsidiaries are subject to government regulation in their has unresolved issues in respect of both the gross loss and consequent states of domicile and also in each of the jurisdictions in which they extent of the reinsurance recoveries.
The loss estimate has been prepared are licensed or authorised to do business.
In the US, the conduct of on the basis of the information currently available as to the magnitude insurance business is regulated at the state level and not by the federal of the claims, including business interruption losses.
The final cost may government.
The implementation of our restructuring plans in the US be different from the current estimate due to the uncertainty associated will be subject to the approval of a number of insurance regulators.
with the valuation and allocation process which is currently underway We are engaged in constructive dialogue on our restructuring plans in respect of the Twin Towers complex.
Nevertheless, the directors with the US regulators in a number of jurisdictions applying differing believe their estimate of the gross and net loss is appropriate based on insurance regulations.
The outcome of such proceedings and approvals the information available to them and that there will be no material may lead to conicting pronouncements and amendments to our adverse effect on the Groups financial position.
restructuring plans that may have a material impact on our financial condition and business prospects.
Student Finance Corporation In early 2002, issues arose in connection with a series of credit risk Some events or transactions comprised in the restructuring plans may give rise to risks and or liabilities which, individually or taken together, insurance policies covering loans made to students in various post secondary trade schools, primarily truck driving schools.
At 31 December are sufciently material to require the provision of additional capital.
2004, the loan portfolio had a face value of approximately $501m.
Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2004 61 Consolidated profit and Loss Account: Technical Account General Business For the year ended 31 December 2004 2004 2003 Notes m m Gross premiums written 6,732 9,929 Outward reinsurance premiums 1,526 3,299 Premiums written, net of reinsurance 5,206 6,630 Change in the gross provision for unearned premiums 866 658 Change in the provision for unearned premiums, reinsurers share 292 13 Earned premiums, net of reinsurance 11 5,780 7,301 Allocated investment return transferred from the Non-Technical Account 13 736 767 Claims paid Gross amount 5,917 6,841 Reinsurers share 1,558 1,570 4,359 5,271 Change in the provision for claims Gross amount 220 602 Reinsurers share 87 130 133 472 Unwind of discount in respect of claims outstanding 72 63 Claims incurred, net of reinsurance 4,298 5,806 Acquisition costs 1,291 1,928 Change in deferred acquisition costs 197 167 Administrative expenses 615 655 Reinsurance commissions and profit participation 214 400 Net operating expenses 4 1,889 2,350 Amortisation of goodwill in acquired claims provisions 18 14 19 Underwriting result 349 811 Longer term investment return allocated to the General Business Technical Account 736 767 Unwind of discount in respect of claims outstanding 72 63 Balance on the technical account before change in the equalisation provisions 315 107 Change in the equalisation provisions 10 37 24 Balance on the Technical Account for General Business 278 131 Current year discontinued and acquired operations do not form a material part of the gures above.
The Accounting Policies and the Notes on the Accounts form part of these financial statements.
62 Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2004 Consolidated profit and Loss Account: Technical Account Long Term Business For the year ended 31 December 2004 2004 2003 Notes m m Gross premiums written 874 1,579 Outward reinsurance premiums 35 106 Earned premiums, net of reinsurance 839 1,473 Investment income 12 1,690 1,715 Unrealised gains on investments 521 Total technical income 2,529 3,709 Claims paid Gross amount 2,201 3,244 Reinsurers share 6 48 2,195 3,196 Change in the provision for claims Gross amount 7 4 Reinsurers share 1 7 3 Claims incurred, net of reinsurance 2,188 3,199 Change in long term business provision Gross amount 311 1,975 Reinsurers share 8 705 303 1,270 Change in technical provisions for linked liabilities, net of reinsurance 32 301 Change in other technical provisions, net of reinsurance 335 969 Acquisition costs 32 87 Change in deferred acquisition costs 6 26 Administrative expenses 113 220 Net operating expenses 4 151 333 Investment expenses and charges 12 56 65 Unrealised losses on investments 346 Other technical charges amortisation and write off of acquired value of in force business 3, 20 66 Tax attributable to the long term business 15 109 193 Total technical charges 2,515 2,887 Technical income less charges 14 822 Allocated investment return transferred to the Non-Technical Account 1 13 Transfers from to the fund for future appropriations 59 432 Balance on the Technical Account for Long Term Business 6 72 377 The Technical Account Long Term Business represents discontinued operations see note 2.
Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2004 63 Consolidated profit and Loss Account: Non-Technical Account For the year ended 31 December 2004 2004 2003 Notes m m Balance on the General Business Technical Account 278 131 Balance on the Long Term Business Technical Account 72 377 Tax credit attributable to balance on the Long Term Business Technical Account 22 169 Balance on the Long Term Business Technical Account gross of tax 94 546 Investment income 12 703 1,172 Allocated investment return transferred from the Long Term Business Technical Account 1 13 Unrealised gains on investments 39 Investment expenses and charges 12 146 127 Unrealised losses on investments 395 Allocated investment return transferred to the General Business Technical Account 13 736 767 Income from other activities 13 120 Charges from other activities 4 12 151 Central expenses 4 105 94 Amortisation of goodwill 18 19 24 Group operating profit Continuing operations 2 5 427 Discontinued operations 2 101 560 Total Group operating profit 96 133 Share of results of associated undertakings 14 29 profit on ordinary activities before exceptional items and tax 110 162 Analysis of profit on ordinary activities before exceptional items and tax General business result 32 433 83 Long term business result 6 94 168 Other activities including associated undertakings 71 111 Group operating result based on longer term investment return 456 140 Interest on dated loan capital 72 53 Change in the equalisation provisions 10 37 24 Amortisation of goodwill 18 19 24 Amortisation of goodwill in acquired claims provisions 18 14 19 Exceptional gain on UK long term insurance business 6 444 Reorganisation costs and other items 3 126 268 Group operating profit based on longer term investment return 188 196 Short term investment uctuations 78 34 profit on ordinary activities before exceptional items and tax 110 162 Loss on disposal of subsidiary undertakings 25 109 308 profit loss on ordinary activities before tax 1 146 Tax charge on profit loss on ordinary activities 15 110 217 Loss on ordinary activities after tax 109 363 Attributable to equity minority interests 40 19 Loss for the financial year attributable to shareholders 149 382 Dividends 16 142 120 Transfer from retained profits 291 502 Earnings per ordinary share 17 5.5 p 19.6 p Diluted earnings per ordinary share 17 5.5 p 19.6 p Group operating earnings after tax per ordinary share based on longer term investment return 17 8.4p 2.5p The Accounting Policies and the Notes on the Accounts form part of these financial statements.
64 Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2004 Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses For the year ended 31 December 2004 2004 2003 Notes m m Loss for the financial year 149 382 Exchange: Group 73 23 Share of associates 1 11 Shareholders consolidated recognised losses arising in the year 221 394 Prior year adjustment 1 39 Shareholders consolidated recognised losses since 31 December 2003 182 Exchange includes a gain of 15m 2003: 5m on exchange relating to foreign currency borrowings.
Movements in Shareholders Funds For the year ended 31 December 2004 Share Capital profit capital Own shares redemption and loss Restated premium held reserve reserve account 2004 2003 Notes m m m m m m Shareholders funds at 1 January as reported 1,692 8 1,301 3,001 2,231 Prior year adjustment 1 54 39 15 15 Shareholders funds at 1 January as restated 1,692 54 8 1,340 2,986 2,216 Shareholders consolidated recognised losses 221 221 394 Issue of share capital 29 9 9 396 Increase in share premium 29 15 15 564 Goodwill written back on disposal 25 25 25 324 Dividends 16 142 142 120 Shareholders funds at 31 December 1,716 54 8 1,002 2,672 2,986 The Accounting Policies and the Notes on the Accounts form part of these financial statements.
Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2004 65 Consolidated Balance Sheet As at 31 December 2004 ASSETS Group Group Group Restated Excluding Life 2004 2003 2003 Notes m m m Intangible assets 18 184 216 216 Investments Land and buildings 19 735 3,118 698 Interests in associated undertakings 23 27 122 122 Other financial investments Shares and other variable yield securities and units in unit trusts 1,597 4,883 1,862 Debt securities and other xed income securities 12,092 30,752 11,021 Loans and deposits with credit institutions 971 969 801 19 14,660 36,604 13,684 Deposits with ceding undertakings 47 62 53 Total investments 15,469 39,906 14,557 Assets held to cover linked liabilities 19 3,874 Reinsurers share of technical provisions Provision for unearned premiums 266 583 583 Long term business provision 120 Claims outstanding 32 3,887 4,203 4,200 Technical provisions for linked liabilities 6 4,153 4,912 4,783 Debtors Debtors arising out of direct insurance operations 21 1,884 2,216 2,173 Debtors arising out of reinsurance operations 818 1,125 1,122 Deferred taxation 95 61 29 Other debtors 372 614 1,656 3,169 4,016 4,980 Other assets Tangible assets 22 186 139 132 Cash at bank and in hand 359 503 362 545 642 494 Prepayments and accrued income Accrued interest and rent 138 500 192 Deferred acquisition costs long term 20 Deferred acquisition costs general 492 701 701 Other prepayments and accrued income 176 147 133 806 1,368 1,026 Total assets 24,326 54,934 26,056 The Group Excluding Life Balance Sheet for 2003 represents the shareholder and general insurance business assets and liabilities and excludes business assets and liabilities relating to long term business policyholders.
Following the disposal during the year of the Groups life operations no Group Excluding Life Balance Sheet has been included for 2004.
66 Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2004 LIABILITIES Group Group Group Restated Excluding Life 2004 2003 2003 Notes m m m Capital and reserves Ordinary share capital 801 792 792 Preference share capital 125 125 125 Called up share capital 29 926 917 917 Share premium account 790 775 775 Own shares held reserve 54 54 54 Capital redemption reserve 8 88 profit and loss account 1,002 1,340 1,340 Equity shareholders 2,547 2,861 2,861 Non equity shareholders 125 125 125 Shareholders funds 2,672 2,986 2,986 Equity minority interests in subsidiary undertakings 367 346 346 Subordinated liabilities Dated loan capital 30 1,051 768 768 Total capital, reserves and dated loan capital 4,090 4,100 4,100 Fund for future appropriations 2,104 Technical provisions Provision for unearned premiums 2,921 3,888 3,888 Long term business provision 31 22,212 Claims outstanding 32 14,131 14,782 14,654 Equalisation provisions 10 356 319 319 17,408 41,201 18,861 Technical provisions for linked liabilities 3,873 Provisions for other risks and charges 33 297 402 275 Deposits received from reinsurers 291 250 250 Creditors Creditors arising out of direct insurance operations 305 378 369 Creditors arising out of reinsurance operations 477 554 545 Debenture loans 34 10 12 12 Amounts owed to credit institutions 34 339 422 422 Other creditors including taxation and social security 35 669 1,054 676 Proposed dividend 16 86 83 83 1,886 2,503 2,107 Accruals and deferred income 354 501 463 Total liabilities 24,326 54,934 26,056 Except for certain debenture loans and amounts owed to credit institutions shown in note 34, all creditors are payable within a period of five years.
Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2004 67 Parent Company Balance Sheet As at 31 December 2004 Restated 2004 2003 Notes m m Fixed assets Tangible assets 22 1 12 Investments 26 3,244 3,438 3,245 3,450 Current assets Amounts owed by Group undertakings 1,366 723 Other debtors 69 97 Cash at bank and in hand 1 8 1,436 828 Creditors amounts falling due within one year Amounts owed to Group undertakings 808 400 Other creditors including taxation and social security 64 41 Proposed dividend 16 86 83 958 524 Net current assets 478 304 Total assets less current liabilities 3,723 3,754 Creditors amounts falling due after more than one year Dated loan capital 30 1,051 768 Capital and reserves Ordinary share capital 801 792 Preference share capital 125 125 Called up share capital 28, 29 926 917 Share premium account 28 790 775 Revaluation reserve 28 651 1,224 Capital redemption reserve 28 8 8 profit and loss account 28 297 62 Equity shareholders 2,547 2,861 Non equity shareholders 125 125 Shareholders funds 2,672 2,986 Total capital, reserves and dated loan capital 3,723 3,754 The Accounting Policies and the Notes on the Accounts form part of these financial statements.
The financial statements were approved on 9 March 2005 by the Board of Directors and are signed on its behalf by: George Culmer Chief Financial officer 68 Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2004 Consolidated Shareholders Cash Flow Statement For the year ended 31 December 2004 2004 2003 Notes m m Operating activities Net cash inow from general business 287 143 Shareholders net cash inow from long term business 89 160 Contingent loan finance from to long term business funds 320 160 Other operating cash ows attributable to shareholders 1 13 Net cash inow from operating activities 39 697 130 Dividends from associates 5 8 Servicing of finance Dividends paid on non equity shares 9 9 Dividends paid to minorities 12 12 Interest paid on dated loan capital 72 56 93 77 Taxation paid 52 6 Capital expenditure Purchases less sales of tangible assets 103 39 Acquisitions and disposals Disposal of interests in associated undertakings 107 44 Acquisition of businesses and subsidiary undertakings 24, 43 7 1 Acquisition of minority interests in subsidiary undertakings 5 9 Disposal of subsidiary undertakings 44 1,015 831 1,110 865 Dividends paid on equity shares 107 57 Financing Issue of ordinary share capital 29, 42 960 Net issue of dated loan capital 42 295 Cash available for investment 1,752 1,784 Cash ows were invested as follows: Movement in cash holdings 40, 42 1 184 Net portfolio investments 40, 41, 42 Land and buildings 17 228 Shares and other variable yield securities 176 266 Loans, debt securities and other xed income securities 1,529 1,618 Deposits with credit institutions 296 131 Borrowings 85 257 1,751 1,968 Net investment of cash ows 1,752 1,784 The Cash Flow Statement does not include any amounts relating to the long term business except cash transactions between the long term business and shareholders.
Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2004 69 Notes on the Accounts 1.
IMPACT OF CHANGES ARISING FROM ACCOUNTING POLICY CHANGES The Group adopted Urgent Issues Task Force UITF abstract 38 during 2004, which changes the presentation of the Groups own shares held within the ESOP trusts.
Previously these shares were recognised as an asset but, in accordance with this abstract, they are now deducted from shareholders funds.
The financial impact of this accounting policy change is to reduce shareholders funds by 15m 2003: 15m and the comparatives have been restated.
The Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses also reects the derecognition of 39m of provision for diminution in value charged in earlier years.
ANALYSIS OF PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT ITEMS Discontinued operations relate to the life business which, following a number of disposals, the Group no longer writes.
UK life operations were disposed of on 30 September 2004 and Scandinavian life operations on 1 October 2004, which follows the disposal of the Australia and New Zealand life operations and Chilean life operations during 2003.
2004 2003 Continuing Discontinued Total Continuing Discontinued Total m m m m m m Balance on the General Business Technical Account 278 278 131 131 Balance on the Long Term Business Technical Account 7272 377 377 Tax credit attributable to balance on the Long Term Business Technical Account 2222 169 169 Balance on the Long Term Business Technical Account gross of tax 9494 546 546 Investment income 692 11 703 1,133 39 1,172 Allocated investment return transferred from the Long Term Business Technical Account 11 1313 Investment expenses and charges 146 146 120 7 127 Unrealised gains losses on investments 46 7 39 369 26 395 Allocated investment return transferred to the General Business Technical Account 736 736 767 767 Income from other activities 11 2 13 115 5 120 Charges from other activities 12 12 145 6 151 Central expenses 105 105 93 1 94 Amortisation of goodwill 19 19 21 3 24 profit loss on ordinary activities before exceptional items and tax 9 101 110 398 560 162 Deduct share of results of associated undertakings 14 14 29 29 Total Group operating profit loss 5 101 96 427 560 133 3.
REORGANISATION COSTS AND OTHER ITEMS Reorganisation and other items within the Non-Technical Account include: General business Long term business Other activities 2004 2003 2004 2003 2004 2003 m m m m m m Reorganisation costs 104 171 22 31 Amortisation and write off of the present value of acquired in force business 66 Reorganisation costs comprise employee redundancy costs, vacant lease accruals and other restructuring expenses, mainly in the UK and US.
NET OPERATING EXPENSES AND OTHER CHARGES General business Long term business 2004 2003 2004 2003 m m m m a.
Net operating expenses in the technical accounts include: Depreciation 39 49 1 21 Operating lease rentals premises 72 87 3 2 Operating lease rentals other assets 11 14 b.
Charges from other activities in the Non-Technical Account include depreciation of nil 2003: 5m and operating lease rentals premises of nil 2003: 9m.
c. Central expenses in the Non-Technical Account include depreciation of 4m 2003: 4m and operating lease rentals premises of 3m 2003: 5m.
70 Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2004 5.
EXCHANGE RATES In respect of the major overseas currencies the rates of exchange used in these financial statements are US Dollar 1.92 2003: 1.79, Canadian Dollar 2.30 2003: 2.31 and Danish Kroner 10.51 2003: 10.57.
LONG TERM INSURANCE BUSINESS 2004 2003 m m Net new business premiums written during the year were as follows: Annual premiums 54 100 Single premiums 265 519 319 619 Gross new business premiums are not materially different to the above.
Total reversionary and terminal bonuses included within the Long Term Business Technical Account are 243m 2003: 356m.
During 2003, the attribution of accumulated surpluses in the non participating element of one of the Groups UK insurance companies, Phoenix Assurance plc, was determined.
As a result the surplus attributable to shareholders was transferred to shareholders funds in accordance with the Groups Accounting Policies.
This resulted in the recognition of an exceptional profit before taxation on UK long term insurance business during 2003 of 444m.
This profit is recognised in the Balance on the Long Term Business Technical Account gross of tax within the Consolidated profit and Loss Account Non-Technical Account.
After the deduction of the attributable taxation on this profit, the increase in shareholders funds arising from this exceptional profit amounted to 310m.
No exceptional profit arose in 2004.
EMPLOYEE INFORMATION 2004 2003 m m Staff costs for all employees comprise: Wages and salaries 669 889 Social security costs 52 61 Pension costs 88 108 809 1,058 2004 2003 Number Number The average number of employees of the Group during the year was as follows: UK 11,870 17,017 Scandinavia 7,298 7,857 US 2,822 5,226 International 6,365 7,018 Australia and New Zealand 2,039 28,355 39,157 Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2004 71 Notes on the Accounts continued 8.
Pension costs The Group operates both funded dened benefit and funded dened contribution pension schemes.
The funded dened contribution schemes are in the UK, Denmark and Sweden.
Overseas schemes are administered in accordance with local law and practice.
The major pension schemes in the UK, US, Denmark and Sweden together cover the majority of scheme members throughout the Group and the assets of these schemes are mainly held in separate trustee administered funds.
Each of the major dened benefit schemes is subject to regular valuation using the projected unit or other appropriate method which is the basis of the pension cost in the Consolidated profit and Loss Account, the cost being spread over employees working lives.
In April 2002, the UK schemes were effectively closed to new entrants following the introduction of a new dened contribution scheme.
In 2004 members of the UK dened benefit schemes had the option to pay contributions, initially at the rate of 2.5% and increasing to 5% from April 2005 of pensionable salaries, to maintain future benefit accrual on the current basis, or to pay no contributions and have a reduced rate of future benefit accrual.
The total cost of pensions to the Group, excluding past service costs, was 105m 2003: 131m of which the SSAP 24 charge was 88m 2003: 108m.
Of this 88m, 37m 2003: 48m related to dened benefit schemes in the UK and 7m 2003: 12m related to schemes in the US.
Contributions of 4m 2003: 3m were made to the dened contribution schemes in the UK and 27m 2003: 28m were made to the dened contribution scheme in Denmark and Sweden.
Independent qualied actuaries carry out valuations of the major schemes.
At the most recent formal actuarial valuations of the major dened benefit schemes the two main UK schemes 31 March 2002 and 30 June 2002 respectively, and the US scheme 1 January 2004, for the purpose of assessing pension costs, the market value of the assets of these schemes was 3,795m 2003: 3,793m.
Of this amount, 3,568m related to the two UK schemes and on their valuation dates were sufficient to cover 110% and 101% respectively of the benets accrued to members of each of those schemes, after allowing for projected increases in earnings and pensions.
The valuations for the two major UK schemes were based on assumptions that salaries increase by 4.3% and 4.0% plus allowances for promotional salary increases, pensions increase by 2.9% and 2.5% and investment returns are 7.1% pre retirement and 5.6% post retirement for one scheme and 6.5% for the other.
For the two main UK schemes, the level of contributions in 2004 were 23% and 20% of salaries respectively.
Additionally, contributions totalling 43m were made in respect of the UK schemes in accordance with the plan to correct the FRS 17 deficits.
Valuations of the two main UK schemes have been undertaken during 2004.
The trustees of the schemes and the sponsoring companies are currently in the course of discussion of the results in order to agree the future levels of contributions into each scheme.
The amounts charged to the profit and Loss Account were the equivalent of 13.9% and 20% respectively of relevant UK earnings.
This charge reected a regular cost of 43m 2003: 57m and a credit of 8m 2003: 11m.
The credit arises from the amortisation of the actuarial surpluses in the funds after taking account of interest on balances between the Group and the funds.
For one scheme an actuarial surplus from the valuation is being applied to reduce pension costs by a level percentage of payroll over the estimated working lives of members of the respective schemes.
Included in prepayments is an amount of 65m 2003: 10m in the UK, 9m 2003: provision of 6m in the US and 16m 2003: nil in overseas schemes, resulting from the difference between the amounts charged to revenue and the amounts contributed to schemes and in provisions an amount of 2m 2003: 2m in respect of overseas schemes.
Other post retirement benets The Group provides post retirement healthcare benets to certain current and retired US and Canadian employees.
The estimated discounted present values of the unprovided accumulated obligations are calculated in accordance with the advice of independent qualied actuaries.
At 31 December 2004 the unprovided accumulated obligation in the US is estimated at nil 2003: 4m.
The assumptions used for the charge to the profit and Loss Account assume a pre 65 premium ination for medical care initially of 9% reducing over eight years to 5% 2003: 10% reducing over eight years to 5% and a post 65 premium ination of 11% reducing over ten years to 5% 2003: 12% reducing over ten years to 5% and a discount rate of 5.8% 2003: 6%.
The unprovided accumulated obligation in Canada is estimated at 7m 2003: 5m assuming a premium ination for drugs of 8% 2003: 8% reducing over ten years to 5% 2003: 5%, 4% for hospital and 3% for medical care for one scheme, and 10% 2003: 10% decreasing by 0.5% per year to 5% 2003: 0.5% per year to 5% for the other scheme.
For dental care, premium ination of 4% and 5% is assumed for the respective schemes 2003: 4% and 5% and a discount rate of 6.5% for both schemes 2003: 6.5% for both schemes.
The benets are accounted for on a systematic basis over the remaining service lives of current employees, the cost in the year being 5m 2003: 9m.
In Canada the costs of meeting the liability for these benets are expected to attract taxation relief when paid.
The total provision included is 44m 2003: 43m.
72 Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2004 8.
RETIREMENT BENEFITS continued c. Alternative accounting treatment Financial Reporting Standard 17 The Accounting Standards Board issued Financial Reporting Standard 17 FRS 17 Retirement Benets in November 2000.
The components of the dened benefit pension cost that would be included within operating profit if FRS 17 had been fully adopted in the financial statements is as follows: UK US Other Total Total Schemes Schemes Schemes 2004 2003 m m m m m Current service cost 67 6 6 79 102 Past service cost 19 2 1 22 54 Curtailment gains 8 1 9 40 Settlement gains 6 Total charge to be included in Group operating result 86 6 92 110 Expected return on assets 214 16 11 241 211 Interest cost 214 22 12 248 234 Total nancing charge to be included in Group operating result 61 7 23 Amounts to be recognised within Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses: UK US Other Total Total Total Schemes Schemes Schemes 2004 2003 2002 m m m m m m Actual return on assets in excess of expected 138 5 5 148 256 712 Experience gains losses on liabilities 90 9 81 52 113 Change in actuarial assumptions 279 8 13 300 250 62 Movement in irrecoverable surplus 2 Actuarial loss 51 3 17 71 46 535 The UK schemes are effectively closed to new entrants.
The current service cost, under the projected unit method, measured as a percentage of active members salaries, is likely to rise as the members age prole increases.
UK US Other Total Total Total Schemes Schemes Schemes 2004 2003 2002 %%% % %% Difference between expected and actual return as a percentage of scheme assets 3.6 2.2 3.1 3.5 6.5 19.6 Experience gains losses as a percentage of scheme liabilities 2.1 0.1 4.6 1.7 1.1 2.6 Other as a percentage of scheme liabilities 6.5 2.1 6.8 6.1 5.4 1.4 Total actuarial loss to be recognised in Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses as a percentage of scheme liabilities 1.2 0.7 8.8 1.4 1.0 12.3 2004 2003 m m Movement in net deficit during the year deficit at 1 January 675 724 Exchange 12 18 Total operating charge 92 110 Employer contribution 150 201 Total nancing charge 7 23 Actuarial loss 71 46 Disposal of subsidiaries 9 deficit at 31 December 683 675 Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2004 73 Notes on the Accounts continued 8.
RETIREMENT BENEFITS continued The value of the dened benefit liability that would be included at 31 December if FRS 17 had been fully adopted in the financial statements is as follows: UK US Other Total Total Total schemes schemes schemes 2004 2003 2002 m m m m m m Equities 1,840 137 100 2,077 1,958 1,707 Bonds 1,681 95 58 1,834 1,676 1,594 Other 302 10 7 319 286 334 Fair value of assets held by pension schemes 3,823 242 165 4,230 3,920 3,635 Present value of pension and post retirement schemes liabilities 4,322 393 198 4,913 4,595 4,359 Net deficit 499 151 33 683 675 724 Unrecognised past service costs 1 1 1 Related deferred tax asset 150 12 162 149 230 Net pension and post retirement liability 349 151 22 522 525 494 Analysed Pension asset 3 Pension and post retirement liability 349 151 22 522 525 497 Net pension and post retirement liability 349 151 22 522 525 494 The last full valuation dates for the main UK schemes were 31 March 2002 and 30 June 2002 respectively and the US schemes were 1 January 2004.
Full valuations for the main UK schemes at 31 March 2004 are being nalised.
The FRS 17 liabilities have been derived from the 2004 valuations adjusted for changes in financial conditions and membership changes at 31 December 2004.
Valuations have been updated at 31 December 2004 to take account of changes in the fair value of assets and financial assumptions.
The valuation of liabilities in Canada assumes 10% decreasing to 5% in ten years for drugs 2003: 8% decreasing to 5% in nine years and 4% 2003: 4% for hospital and 3% 2003: 3% for other.
The valuation of liabilities for post retirement benets at 31 December 2002 assumed a premium ination rate for medical care of 11% decreasing to 5% by 2008.
Reconciliation of pro forma profit and loss account reserve on a FRS 17 basis: profit and loss account reserve 2004 2003 m m profit and loss account reserve as reported at 31 December 1,002 1,301 Less pension and post retirement FRS 17 liabilities net of tax 522 525 480 776 Add pension and post retirement assets liabilities that would be reversed on the implementation of FRS 17 net of tax 37 37 profit and loss account reserve on FRS 17 basis at 31 December 443 813 Included in the pro forma profit and loss account reserve is a pension and post retirement reserve on a FRS 17 basis at 31 December 2004 of 448 m 2003: 397 m. 74 Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2004 9.
DIRECTORS EMOLUMENTS 2004 2003 000 000 The aggregate emoluments of the directors, including amounts received from subsidiaries, were as follows: Emoluments of executive directors 2,427 2,919 Fees and other payments to non-executive directors 433 540 2,860 3,459 Details of directors remuneration and pension benets, including that of the highest paid director Andy Haste, are included in the Directors Emoluments.
Details of directors interests in the Parent Company are shown in the Directors Interests.
A pension payment of 22,650 2003: 22,080 was paid by a subsidiary to a former director in respect of services other than as a director.
EQUALISATION PROVISIONS Equalisation provisions are established in accordance with the Financial Services Authoritys rules for insurers in the UK and with similar legislation in overseas countries.
These provisions, notwithstanding that they do not represent liabilities at the balance sheet date as they are over and above the anticipated ultimate cost of outstanding claims, are required by Schedule 9A to the Companies Act 1985 to be included within technical provisions in the balance sheet and any change in the provisions during the year is required to be shown in the General Business Technical Account.
The effect of including the provisions is as follows: 2004 2003 m m Provisions at 1 January 319 293 Exchange movement on non UK provisions 2 Charged to the General Business Technical Account and in the profit on ordinary activities before tax 37 24 Provisions at 31 December 356 319 The cumulative impact of equalisation provisions on shareholders funds at 31 December 2004 is 347m 2003: 308m.
QUOTA SHARE REINSURANCE TREATY During 2004, the Group entered into a 8% 2003: 15% quota share reinsurance programme which covers the majority of the Groups general business written in the UK, Denmark, Ireland and Canada.
The total amount of premiums ceded in 2004 was 328m 2003: 678m.
Earned premiums reect 159m 2003: 343m in respect of an opening portfolio adjustment which has been paid, and 154m 2003: 291m of closing portfolio adjustment receivable at 31 December 2004, which is included in debtors arising out of reinsurance operations.
As from 1 January 2005 the Group did not renew the quota share reinsurance programme.
INVESTMENT INCOME, EXPENSES AND CHARGES Technical Account Long Term Business Non-Technical Account 2004 2003 2004 2003 m m m m Investment income Income from associated undertakings profit before gains on the realisation of investments 10 25 Gains on the realisation of investments 1 2 11 27 Other investment income Income from land and buildings 112 190 33 23 Income from other investments 967 1,311 628 640 Gains on the realisation of investments 611 214 31 482 1,690 1,715 692 1,145 1,690 1,715 703 1,172 Investment expenses and charges Interest on bank loans and overdrafts 26 29 Interest on dated loan capital 72 53 Interest on other loans 16 25 17 19 Investment management expenses 40 40 31 26 56 65 146 127 Net investment income 1,634 1,650 557 1,045 Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2004 75 Notes on the Accounts continued 13.
METHODOLOGY FOR CALCULATIONS OF LONGER TERM RATE OF RETURN AND COMPARISON OVER A LONGER TERM The rates of investment return used for the longer term rate of return basis are reviewed annually and are set out below: 2004 2003 % % Pre tax returns assumed Fixed interest returns nominal 5.00 5.00 Equity returns nominal 7.50 7.50 Ination 2.50 2.50 These returns are applied to the average, over the year, of the investments directly attributable to shareholders and the general insurance technical provisions.
In each case, the element of shareholders funds has been determined by reference to the risk based capital that the directors judge is necessary to support the business.
The values of the investments are adjusted to reduce the effect of short term uctuations, while recognising such changes over the longer term.
A 1% increase decrease to the longer term rate of investment return would have resulted in a 137m 2003: 129m increase decrease in the longer term investment return.
The aggregate amount of investment return recognised under the longer term basis since 1 January 1994 amounts to 11.5bn.
The total investment return that arose in this period was 11.8bn.
AUDITORS REMUNERATION 2004 2003 000 000 Audit of Group accounts  LLP 2,515 2,731 Other 308 348 2,823 3,079 Other statutory audit  LLP 1,035 1,222 Other 47 37 1,082 1,259 3,905 4,338 Remuneration for audit includes 16,000 2003: 16,000 in respect of the Parent Company.
Non audit fees of 2,803,000 2003: 6,222,000 in the UK during the year were payable to  LLP.
Of these 1,267,000 2003: 4,256,000 were for assurance services of which in 2003 2,692,000 was in respect of the rights issue, 482,000 2003: 1,084,000 were for tax advisory services and 1,054,000 2003: 882,000 were for other non audit services.
TAXATION The tax on profit loss on ordinary activities charged in the profit and Loss Account is as follows: Technical Account Long Term Business Non-Technical Account 2004 2003 2004 2003 m m m m Current tax UK corporation tax 48 62 24 17 Double taxation relief 1 1 21 13 Overseas taxation 50 12 83 29 Taxation surplus release 20 20 Prior year items 3 54 34 97 70 120 55 Tax attributable to long term business 21 169 Current tax for the year 97 70 141 114 Deferred tax Timing differences origination and reversal 11 144 32 102 Movement in discount 1 21 1 1 Tax charge 109 193 110 217 Analysed Parent and subsidiaries 109 193 106 202 Associated undertakings 4 15 76 Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2004 15.
TAXATION continued UK corporation tax for the current year in the Non-Technical Account is based on a rate of 30% 2003: 30%.
Further details of current and deferred tax are given in notes 33, 35 and 36.
The tax charge for UK corporation tax in the Technical Account Long Term Business is provided at rates between 20% and 30% 2003: between 20% and 30% computed in accordance with the rules applicable to life assurance companies.
Factors affecting the current tax charge Non-Technical Account The current tax charge for the years 2004 and 2003 is more than 30% due to the items set out in the reconciliation below: 2004 2003 m m profit loss on ordinary activities before tax 1 146 Tax credit at 30% 44 Factors affecting charge Disallowed expenditure 21 92 Goodwill 9 108 Tax exempt income and investment gains 12 90 Tax losses not recognised 130 135 Non deductible movement in US claims discounting 105 Adjustment for non UK tax rates 14 31 Adjustment to prior year provisions 34 54 Other timing differences other than on long term business 27 107 Current tax charge for the year 141 114 16.
DIVIDENDS 2004 2003 2004 2003 p p m m Ordinary Interim paid 1.65 1.62 47 28 Final proposed 2.96 2.90 86 83 4.61 4.52 133 111 Preference 9 9 142 120 Full provision has been made for the proposed final dividend.
EARNINGS PER ORDINARY SHARE The earnings per ordinary share shown in the Consolidated profit and Loss Account is calculated by reference to the loss attributable to the equity shareholders of 158m 2003: 391m and the weighted average of 2,872,090,434 2003: 1,994,092,282 shares in issue during the year.
2004 2003 m m Loss for the financial year attributable to shareholders 149 382 Preference dividends 9 9 Loss for the financial year attributable to equity shareholders 158 391 When calculating the diluted earnings per ordinary share there is no adjustment to the loss attributable to equity shareholders and there are no dilutive potential ordinary shares.
Group operating earnings after tax per ordinary share based on longer term investment return attributable to shareholders includes tax on the allocated longer term investment return at a notional rate of 31% 2003: 31%.
It is the opinion of the directors that this is an appropriate measure given the requirements of UK GAAP to present the performance of the operations.
Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2004 77 Notes on the Accounts continued 17.
EARNINGS PER ORDINARY SHARE continued The reconciliation of Group operating earnings after tax based on longer term investment return per ordinary share to earnings per ordinary share is as follows: 2004 2003 p p Earnings per ordinary share 5.5 19.6 Short term investment uctuations 2.7 1.7 Change in the equalisation provisions 1.3 1.2 Amortisation of goodwill 0.7 1.2 Amortisation of goodwill in acquired claims provisions 0.5 1.0 Loss on disposal of subsidiary undertakings 3.8 15.4 Other items 5.0 1.8 Tax 0.1 3.4 Group operating earnings after tax based on longer term investment return per ordinary share 8.4 2.5 18.
INTANGIBLE ASSETS Goodwill in acquired Goodwill claims arising on provisions acquisition Total m m m Cost At 1 January 2004 213 800 1,013 Exchange 8 38 46 Additions 7 7 Disposal of subsidiary undertakings 9 9 At 31 December 2004 205 760 965 Amortisation At 1 January 2004 139 658 797 Exchange 639 45 Charge for the year 14 19 33 Disposal of subsidiary undertakings 4 4 At 31 December 2004 147 634 781 Net book value At 31 December 2004 58 126 184 At 31 December 2003 74 142 216 78 Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2004 19.
INVESTMENTS Group Group Group Excluding Life 2004 2003 2003 m m m Land and buildings Freehold 681 2,903 668 Long leasehold 46 198 13 Short leasehold 8 17 17 Total land and buildings 735 3,118 698 Of which Group occupied 309 444 342 Other financial investments Shares and other variable yield securities and units in unit trusts 1,597 4,883 1,862 Debt securities and other xed income securities: British government securities 1,927 7,692 1,771 Other government securities 4,241 8,541 4,992 Local authority securities 208 224 217 Corporate bonds 5,414 14,046 3,792 Preference shares 302 249 249 Loans secured by mortgages 45 82 62 Other loans 48 73 63 Deposits with credit institutions 878 814 676 Total other financial investments 14,660 36,604 13,684 Listed investments Included in total investments are the following: Interests in associated undertakings 3 94 94 Shares and other variable yield securities and units in unit trusts 1,240 4,316 1,472 Debt securities and other xed income securities 6,542 24,796 5,332 Total listed investments 7,785 29,206 6,898 In addition, debt securities held in North America amounting to 3,602m 2003: 4,161m at market value are freely traded in an approved securities market but are not listed within the meaning of the Companies Act.
Other financial investments include securities valued on an amortised cost basis of nil 2003: 1m with an historical cost of nil 2003: 1m, a market value of nil 2003: 1m and a redemption value of nil 2003: 1m.
Other loans shown above include amounts of nil 2003: 10m relating to policyholder loans.
The historical cost of total investments is 15,008m 2003: 37,674m.
The historical cost of assets held to cover linked liabilities is nil 2003: 3,531m.
The property valuations have been prepared on the basis of open market value at the balance sheet date in accordance with The Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors Appraisal and Valuation Manual, by external qualied valuation surveyors.
ACQUIRED VALUE OF LONG TERM BUSINESS Amortisation charged to the Long Term Business Technical Account amounted to nil 2003: 5m.
DEBTORS Debtors arising out of direct insurance operations are analysed as follows: Group Group Group Excluding Life 2004 2003 2003 m m m Due from policyholders 854 1,061 1,018 Due from intermediaries 1,030 1,155 1,155 1,884 2,216 2,173 Other debtors in the Group Excluding Life Balance Sheet for 2003 included 1,179m relating to intercompany balances with the life funds.
This included shareholders accrued interest, shareholders net assets of certain overseas long term business operations and a loan to the UK life fund.
Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2004 79 Notes on the Accounts continued 22.
TANGIBLE ASSETS Parent Company Group m m Cost At 1 January 2004 26 548 Exchange 3 Additions 112 Disposals 24 62 Disposals of subsidiary undertakings 47 At 31 December 2004 2 548 Depreciation At 1 January 2004 14 409 Charge for the year 4 44 Disposals 17 53 Disposals of subsidiary undertakings 38 At 31 December 2004 1 362 Net book value At 31 December 2004 1 186 At 31 December 2003 12 139 23.
INTERESTS IN ASSOCIATED UNDERTAKINGS The companies shown in the list of Principal Associated Undertakings and Other significant Shareholdings are those, not being subsidiaries, in which Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Group plc and its subsidiaries held at 31 December 2004 a participating interest and which are associated undertakings as dened in the Companies Act 1985.
All holdings are of equity shares.
Interests in associated undertakings comprise: 2004 2003 m m Shares at cost At 1 January 177 253 Exchange 4 Disposals transfers 149 80 At 31 December 28 177 Adjustment to valuation 1 55 Net book value 27 122 Balances due from associated undertakings at 31 December 2004 amounted to 4m 2003: 5m.
During 2004 the Group disposed of its 37.5% interest in Mutual & Federal Insurance Company Limited, a South African undertaking, and its 14.5% interest in Rimac-Internacional Compaia fide Seguros y Reaseguros, a Peruvian undertaking.
ACQUISITIONS OF BUSINESSES AND SUBSIDIARY UNDERTAKINGS During the year, acquisitions of businesses and subsidiary undertakings, principally comprising books of business, which had a book value of nil on acquisition were made for a total cash consideration of 4m.
Goodwill of 4m arising on those acquisitions has been capitalised and is being amortised.
In addition purchase price adjustments arising on past acquisitions resulted in goodwill of 3m which is being amortised.
The amortisation period for Group acquisitions is ten years, being the period over which the value of the businesses acquired are expected to exceed the value of their underlying assets.
During the year, the Group acquired for 5m further minority interests in existing subsidiaries.
The Group has used the acquisition method to account for all acquisitions.
80 Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2004 25.
DISPOSAL OF SUBSIDIARY UNDERTAKINGS During the year, disposals of subsidiary undertakings were made for a total consideration of 1,066m.
The disposals of subsidiaries and books of business gave rise to an exceptional pre tax loss of 84m prior to write off of goodwill of 25m.
Group disposals during the year comprise: 1.
The Group disposed of its interest in its UK life operations on 30 September 2004.
The transaction generated proceeds, net of costs, of 811m and generated an exceptional pre tax loss before goodwill writeback of 59m.
The Group has agreed to share the cost of increases in misselling liabilities in the UK life operations if the costs of those liabilities exceed an agreed level.
This may result in the Group making cash payments, capped at 76m.
The Group disposed of its interest in its Scandinavian life operations on 1 October 2004.
The transaction generated proceeds, net of costs, of 254m and generated an exceptional pre tax loss of 4m.
A number of other disposals were made during the year for net sales proceeds of 1m which generated in aggregate an exceptional pre tax loss of 21m.
Goodwill of 25m relating to disposals that had previously been written off directly to reserves has been written back through the profit and loss account.
Whilst all of the above disposals had completed at 31 December 2004, the directors estimates of actual profits losses on disposal are subject to subsequent adjustment in relation to the specic terms, conditions and warranties contained within the related disposal agreements.
The amount of profit or loss recognised during the year relating to businesses disposed of during the year is disclosed in the segmental information.
INVESTMENTS PARENT COMPANY BALANCE SHEET Shares in Loans to subsidiary subsidiary Preference undertakings undertakings shares Deposits Total m m m m m At 1 January 2004 restated 3,404 29 5 3,438 Additions disposals 5 294 100 5 394 Revaluations 573 15 588 At 31 December 2004 2,836 323 85 3,244 The historical cost of the shares in subsidiary undertakings is 2,185m 2003: 2,180m.
The Groups principal subsidiaries at 31 December 2004 are set out in the list of Principal Subsidiary Undertakings.
The companies are all principally engaged in the transaction of insurance or related business.
The countries shown are those of incorporation and principal operation.
CAPITAL COMMITMENTS The estimated amount of capital commitments contracted but not provided for in these financial statements is 4m 2003: 48m.
The Parent Company has no unprovided capital commitments.
SHAREHOLDERS FUNDS Group The movements in the Groups capital and reserves are detailed in the Statement of Movements in Shareholders Funds.
The amount of goodwill written off directly to the profit and loss account prior to 1 January 1998 and remaining written off is 158m 2003: 183m.
Parent Movements in the Parent Company capital and reserves were as follows: Share Capital profit capital Revaluation redemption and loss Restated premium reserve reserve account 2004 2003 m m m m m m Shareholders funds at 1 January as reported 1,692 1,239 8 62 3,001 2,231 Prior year adjustment 15 15 15 Shareholders funds at 1 January as restated 1,692 1,224 8 62 2,986 2,216 Shareholders recognised losses gains 573 377 196 70 Issue of share capital 9 9 396 Increase in share premium 15 15 564 Dividends 142 142 120 Shareholders funds at 31 December 1,716 651 8 297 2,672 2,986 Refer to note 1 for explanation of restatement.
Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2004 81 Notes on the Accounts continued 29.
The Company also issued 31,669,408 ordinary shares during the year under the scrip scheme approved by the shareholders at the 2004 Annual General Meeting.
The total nominal value of the ordinary shares issued during the year was 9m.
The preference shares carry a right to a xed cumulative preferential dividend of 7.375% pa, payable in half yearly instalments, and are irredeemable.
On a return of capital on a winding up, the holders are entitled, in priority to holders of all other shares of the Company, to receive out of the surplus assets of the Company any arrears and accruals of the dividend together with the greater of the price at which the gross yield on each preference share is equal to the mean gross yield on 3.5% War Loan or such Government Stock as may be agreed but not exceeding twice the nominal amount of the preference share and the nominal amount of the share together with any premium paid on issue.
The holders of preference shares have the right to vote at a general meeting of the Company only if at the date of the notice of the meeting the dividend payable on the shares is in arrears or otherwise on a resolution to vary the rights attaching to the preference shares.
The Royal & SunAlliance ESOP Trust holds ordinary shares in the Company which may subsequently be transferred to employees other than the executive directors.
At 31 December 2004 the Trust held 12,369,290 ordinary shares 2003: 12,371,801 in the Company with a nominal value of 3m 2003: 3m and a market value, based on the mid market value of the Companys shares at the close of business on 31 December 2004 as shown in the Ofcial List of the London Stock Exchange, of 10m 2003: 11m.
The Royal & SunAlliance ESOP Trust No 2 holds ordinary shares in the Company which may subsequently be transferred to employees including executive directors.
At 31 December 2004 the Trust held 3,038,894 ordinary shares 2003: 3,038,894 in the Company with a nominal value of 1m 2003: 1m and a market value, based on the mid market value of the Companys shares at the close of business on 31 December 2004 as shown in the Ofcial List of the London Stock Exchange, of 2m 2003: 3m.
The Trustee of each Trust has waived its rights to dividends in excess of 0.01p on shares held by the Trusts.
When computing the earnings per share, the shares held by the Trusts have been ignored in the calculation as, under FRS 14 Earnings per Share, they are treated as if they were cancelled.
Employee savings related share option schemes At 31 December 2004, under employee savings related share option schemes, employees held options over 52,761,469 ordinary shares at option prices ranging from 59.0p 354.5p per share.
Under the schemes, options are granted with an option price set at a discount of 12% to 20% of the market value of the ordinary shares in the period immediately preceding the date of grant.
The options are normally exercisable within six months of the respective exercise date, which is set at three to seven years after the date of grant.
The Group makes use of the exemption in UITF abstract 17 revised 2003 and accordingly recognises no cost for the options.
SHARE CAPITAL continued Executive share option schemes At 31 December 2004, under executive share option schemes, options over 72,044,516 ordinary shares were held at option prices ranging from 59.0p 444.9p.
The options are potentially exercisable between three and ten years after grant, with the exception of the US scheme in which the exercise of options can be accelerated by the performance of the US subsidiary.
These options are potentially exercisable between one and three years.
The options are potentially exercisable three years after grant at an option price per share of nil at which time the matching award will be calculated depending on Company performance.
Options outstanding are as follows: Maximum matching Number of shares Deferred at ratio of 3:1 Year of exercise 6,236,224 1,559,056 4,677,168 2007 30.
DATED LOAN CAPITAL Parent Company Group 2004 2003 2004 2003 m m m m Subordinated guaranteed US$ bonds 255 272 255 272 Subordinated guaranteed Euro bonds 352 350 352 350 Subordinated guaranteed loan 146 146 Subordinated guaranteed perpetual notes 444 444 1,051 768 1,051 768 The subordinated guaranteed US$ $500m bonds have a redemption date of 15 October 2029.
The rate of interest payable on the US$ bonds is 8.95% although in the past the Company has managed the overall interest cost through the use of derivative contracts.
During 2004 all outstanding derivative contracts were cancelled or closed out.
The subordinated guaranteed Euro 500m bonds have a redemption date of 15 October 2019.
200m of the Euro bonds bear interest at a xed rate of 6.875% until 15 October 2009 and a oating rate thereafter.
300m of the Euro bonds bear interest at a oating rate from the date of issue.
The Company has the option to repay the Euro bonds on specic dates from 15 October 2009.
The Company issued 450m 444m net of discount and fees of subordinated guaranteed perpetual notes on 23 July 2004.
The notes pay an annual coupon of 8.50% with an option to call the notes, or if not called for the coupon rate to be reset, on 8 December 2014 and every five years thereafter.
Part of the proceeds was used to repay the subordinated guaranteed loan which was repaid on 16 July 2004 and resulted in a loss of 4m.
The bonds and the notes are contractually subordinated to all other creditors of the Company such that in the event of a winding up or of bankruptcy, they are to be repaid only after the claims of all other creditors have been met.
Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2004 83 Notes on the Accounts continued 31.
LONG TERM BUSINESS PROVISION The UK life operations were disposed of in September 2004.
In 2003, the principal assumptions used to calculate the UK long term business provision for the main classes of business were: Interest rates Life with profit 2.75% to 3.60% Pensions with profit 4.15% to 5.00% Annuities in payment 5.00% to 5.50% Mortality rates Life with profit AM80, AF80 with adjustments Pensions with profit AM80, AF80 with adjustments Annuities in payment PMA92 PFA92 c 2020 with adjustments The valuation was carried out principally using a gross premium method.
Generally accepted actuarial tables are used as appropriate in overseas long term business operations.
CLAIMS PROVISIONS Claims outstanding include claims less reinsurance recoveries on certain classes of business which have been discounted.
The total value of outstanding claims provisions less related reinsurance recoveries before discounting amounted to 10,966m 2003: 11,241m.
Claims are discounted as follows: Category Discount rate Average period to settlement 2004 2003 2004 2003 % % UK Asbestos and Environmental 5.00 5.00 14 years 7 years Scandinavia Disability 3.14 2.92 11 years 12 years US Asbestos and Environmental 5.00 5.00 9 years 11 years Disability 5.00 5.00 15 years 15 years Canada Asbestos and Environmental 5.00 5.00 6 years 6 years In determining the average period to ultimate claims settlement, estimates have been made based on the underlying claims settlement patterns.
Claims incurred in the General Business Technical Account include amounts in respect of accident years prior to 2004 of 163m 2003: 653m.
This amount comprises changes to reported claims from prior accident years as well as increases in provisions for claims incurred in prior accident years but not reported at the balance sheet date.
The majority was incurred in respect of workers compensation claims and other liability business in the US.
PROVISIONS FOR OTHER RISKS AND CHARGES Pensions and post Reorganisation Deferred retirement Other provisions taxation benets provisions Total m m m m m At 1 January 2004 130 115 51 106 402 Exchange adjustments 4 2 1 7 Charged credited 126 19 12 106 225 Utilised 152 15 80 247 Transferred to other debtors 34 34 Disposal of subsidiary undertakings 26 77 7 110 At 31 December 2004 74 53 46 124 297 Reorganisation provisions comprise costs relating to reorganisations mainly within the US and UK general businesses.
This provision primarily comprises severance and property costs and is part of a programme to achieve business improvement and expense savings to be substantially achieved by year end 2006.
Other provisions include various litigation provisions of 4m, the payment of which is dependent upon legal processes.
In addition, there are provisions of 66m held relating to vacant property leases, dilapidations and refurbishments, the costs relating to which will be borne across the period over which the leases expire, which is up to 20 years.
84 Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2004 34.
BORROWINGS 2004 2003 m m Secured debenture loans note 3 below 10 12 Amounts owed to credit institutions unsecured 339 422 Total borrowings 349 434 Repayable as follows: One year or less 104 102 Between one and two years 236 85 Between two and five years 4 234 After five years 5 13 349 434 Notes: 1.
Interest payable on amounts repayable within five years was 25m 2003: 28m and after five years 1m 2003: 1m.
Loans from credit institutions of 317m 2003: 400m under committed credit facilities have been classied by reference to the earliest date on which repayment may be demanded by the lender.
At 31 December 2004 total committed credit facilities available to the Group were 317m 2003: 400m, of which 83m 2003: 83m expire within one year, 234m 2003: 83m expire within one to two years, and nil 2003: 234m expire within two to five years.
Additional borrowings are subject to covenants in respect of the Groups shareholders funds.
The secured debenture loans, being 5% 2003: 5% mortgage loans, are secured on certain properties of the Group.
OTHER CREDITORS Other creditors including taxation and social security includes a liability of 78m 2003: 85m in respect of corporation tax payable.
DEFERRED TAXATION 2004 2003 m m Unrealised investment gains 99 164 Other timing differences 143 71 44 93 Discount 5 26 49 67 Pension costs 7 13 Deferred taxation asset 95 61 Deferred taxation provision 53 115 Net deferred taxation 42 54 Deferred tax assets that cannot be recovered against deferred tax liabilities have been recognised only to the extent that the directors believe that there will be suitable taxable profits to absorb them in the foreseeable future.
Net deferred tax assets are principally attributable to discounting of claims reserves and unclaimed capital allowances in the UK.
No credit has been taken in the deferred tax provision for UK tax losses with an estimated tax value of 135m.
This amount comprises capital losses that arose prior to the merger of the Royal Insurance and Sun Alliance groups, the use of which is severely restricted by UK tax law.
The recoverability of any associated deferred tax asset is therefore considered remote.
A deferred tax asset has not been recognised in respect of UK capital losses with an estimated value of 45m, or for non UK tax losses and other tax assets with a value of 347m, 344m in respect of the US, as it is not considered likely that suitable profits will arise to absorb these losses in the near future.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are discounted at rates reecting post tax yields to maturity that can be obtained at the balance sheet date on government bonds with maturity dates and in currencies similar to those of the deferred tax assets and liabilities.
The discount rates used are within the range of 1% to 5%.
Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2004 85 Notes on the Accounts continued 37.
OPERATING LEASES Land and buildings Other 2004 2003 2004 2003 m m m m Annual commitments under non cancellable operating leases which expire: One year or less 7 7 1 2 Between two and five years 20 24 3 6 After five years 35 50 62 81 4 8 All material leases of land and buildings are subject to rent review periods of between three and five years.
MANAGED FUNDS The Group administered the funds of a number of group pension funds in its own name but on behalf of others.
The assets, as shown below, and corresponding liabilities of these funds were included in the Group Balance Sheet.
2004 2003 m m Land and buildings 66 Shares and other variable yield securities and units in unit trusts 260 Debt securities and other xed income securities 107 Cash at bank and in hand 9 442 Debtors 2 Creditors 1 Net assets 443 39.
RECONCILIATION OF TOTAL GROUP OPERATING PROFIT BEFORE TAX TO NET CASH INFLOW 2004 2003 m m Total Group operating profit 96 133 Unrealised and realised gains 70 87 Change in technical provisions and equalisation provisions 323 112 profits relating to long term business 94 546 Cash received from long term business 89 160 Contingent loan finance from to long term business funds 320 160 Depreciation 53 58 Amortisation of goodwill and goodwill in acquired claims provisions 33 43 Interest on dated loan capital 72 53 Change in debtors less creditors 521 588 Net cash inow from operating activities 697 130 40.
MOVEMENTS IN OPENING AND CLOSING PORTFOLIO INVESTMENTS NET OF FINANCING 2004 m Net cash inow for the period 1 Increase in net portfolio investments 1,666 Decrease in borrowings 85 Dated loan capital 295 Movement arising from cash ows 1,457 Movement in long term business 25,368 Acquisitions and disposals of subsidiary undertakings 531 Changes in market values and exchange rates 222 Other 29 Total movement in portfolio investments net of nancing 24,693 Portfolio investments net of nancing At 1 January 2004 37,331 At 31 December 2004 12,638 86 Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2004 41.
PORTFOLIO INVESTMENTS 2004 2003 m m Purchase of portfolio investments Land and buildings 88 270 Shares and other variable yield securities 3,631 5,583 Loans, debt securities and xed income securities 16,109 19,345 19,828 25,198 Sale of portfolio investments Land and buildings 71 42 Shares and other variable yield securities 3,807 5,849 Loans, debt securities and xed income securities 14,580 17,727 18,458 23,618 Net increase in deposits with credit institutions 296 131 Net portfolio investments 1,666 1,711 42.
MOVEMENTS IN CASH, PORTFOLIO INVESTMENTS AND FINANCING Acquisitions and disposals At of subsidiary Market At 1 January Long term undertakings value and Transfers 31 December 2004 Cash ow business excl cash currency other 2004 m m m m m m m Land and buildings 3,118 17 2,418 5 20 7 735 Shares and other variable yield securities 4,883 176 3,017 133 23 17 1,597 Loans, debt securities and xed income securities 30,907 1,529 19,647 318 258 28 12,185 Deposits with credit institutions 814 296 146 85 14 13 878 Net cash at bank and in hand 503 1 140 5 359 Share capital premium 1,692 24 1,716 Borrowings 434 85 349 Dated loan capital 768 295 12 1,051 Total 37,331 1,457 25,368 531 222 29 12,638 The movements in long term business includes the disposal of assets resulting from the sale of the life operations.
ANALYSIS OF THE NET OUTFLOW OF CASH IN RESPECT OF ACQUISITIONS OF SUBSIDIARY UNDERTAKINGS 2004 2003 m m Cash consideration 7 1 Net outow of cash in respect of acquisitions of subsidiary undertakings 7 1 44.
DISPOSAL OF SUBSIDIARY UNDERTAKINGS 2004 m Net assets disposed of Intangible assets 6 Investments 531 Cash at bank 8 Other assets 891 Other liabilities 142 Technical provisions for general business 144 Loss on disposal before write off of goodwill 84 Total disposal consideration 1,066 Non cash consideration 100 Consideration in respect of prior year disposals 12 Disposal cost provisions 45 Total cash consideration 1,023 Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2004 87 Notes on the Accounts continued 45.
TRANSACTIONS WITH RELATED PARTIES A number of the directors, other key managers, their close families and entities under their control have general and or long term insurance policies with former subsidiary companies of the Group.
Such policies are on normal commercial terms except that executive directors and key managers are entitled to special rates which are also available to other members of staff.
The financial effect of such insurance policies and other transactions with Group companies are not material to the Group or the individuals concerned and, if disclosed, would not influence decisions made by users of these financial statements.
There are no transactions with other directors or key managers that are material to their own financial affairs.
SHAREHOLDERS INTEREST IN LONG TERM BUSINESS The total shareholders interest in long term business represented those assets which the directors assessed to be the amount maintained in support of the long term business and comprised: 2004 2003 m m Shareholders accrued interest 321 Shareholders funds 713 1,034 Less attributed to general business 300 734 88 Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2004 This page intentionally left blank Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2004 89 Segmental Information Total General business Personal Commercial Long term business 2004 2003 2004 2003 2004 2003 2004 2003 2004 2003 Notes m m m m m m m m m m Net premiums written 2 UK 8, 10 3,159 3,730 2,597 2,822 783 1,152 1,814 1,670 562 908 Scandinavia 11 1,516 1,513 1,287 1,167 688 618 599 549 229 346 US 13 105 1,090 105 1,090 210 460 105 630 International 1, 5 1,265 1,415 1,217 1,268 738 744 479 524 48 147 Australia & New Zealand 355 283 197 86 72 6,045 8,103 5,206 6,630 2,419 3,171 2,787 3,459 839 1,473 Underwriting result balance on the technical account long term business 3 UK 9 130 479 59 76 8 69 51 7 71 555 Scandinavia 12 66 25 44 11 23 38 67 27 22 36 US 14 490 748 490 748 9 21 499 769 International 1, 6 39 23 38 12 30 15 8 3 1 35 Australia & New Zealand 2 12 6 6 10 255 265 349 811 24 65 373 746 94 546 Group operating result based on longer term investment return 4 UK 9 439 389 368 278 98 52 270 226 71 111 Scandinavia 12 185 134 163 96 41 23 122 73 22 38 US 15 274 469 274 469 39 51 313 520 International 1, 7 177 150 176 143 100 79 76 64 1 7 Australia & New Zealand 47 35 21 14 12 527 251 433 83 278 226 155 143 94 168 Other activities 16 71 111 Group operating result based on longer term investment return 456 140 Interest on dated loan capital 72 53 Change in the equalisation provisions 37 24 Amortisation and impairment of goodwill 19 24 Amortisation of goodwill in acquired claims provisions 14 19 Exceptional gain on UK long term insurance business 444 Reorganisation costs and other items 126 268 Group operating profit based on longer term investment return 188 196 Notes: 1.
The International reporting segment has been changed from the prior year to include the Groups operations in Canada.
This reects the new geographic and managerial focus of the International region.
Results for Canada were previously disclosed separately.
The comparatives for 2003 shown above have been reanalysed to reect the inclusion of Canada within the International segment.
The change had no effect on the net premiums written, the underwriting result or the Group operating result based on longer term investment return.
Net premiums written by destination do not differ materially from net premiums written by source.
The balance on the Long Term Business Technical Account is gross of tax.
Group operating result based on longer term investment return is a measure used for internal purposes in the management of the Groups business segments.
Included within International in general business is net premiums written of nil 2003: 11m relating to the disposed Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Company of Puerto Rico business.
Included in long term business is net premiums written of nil 2003: 95m relating to the disposed Compaia fide Seguros fide Vida La Construccin and Royal & Sun Alliance Eurolife Ltd businesses.
90 Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2004 6.
Included within International in general business is an underwriting loss of nil 2003: 2m relating to the disposed Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Company of Puerto Rico business.
Included in long term business is a loss of nil 2003: 33m relating to the disposed Compaia fide Seguros fide Vida La Construccin and Royal & Sun Alliance Eurolife Ltd businesses.
Included within International in general business is an operating result of nil 2003: nil relating to the disposed Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Company of Puerto Rico business.
Included in long term business is an operating profit of nil 2003: 8m relating to the disposed Compaia fide Seguros fide Vida La Construccin and Royal & Sun Alliance Eurolife Ltd businesses.
Included within UK in long term business is net premiums written of 562m 2003: 908m relating to the disposed UK life operations.
Included within UK in long term business is a profit of 71m 2003: 555m and an operating profit of 71m 2003: 111m relating to the disposed UK life operations.
Included within UK in general business is net premiums written of nil 2003: 102 m after the transfer of unearned premium reserves through a reinsurance agreement, an underwriting profit of nil 2003: 5m and an operating result of nil 2003: 7m, all relating to the disposal of UK Healthcare & Assistance in 2003.
Included within Scandinavia in long term business is net premiums written of 229m 2003: 346m relating to the disposed Scandinavian life operations.
Included within Scandinavia in long term business is a profit, and operating profit, of 22m 2003: 36m and 38m respectively relating to the disposed Scandinavian life operations.
Included within US in general business is net premiums written of nil 2003: 52m, after the transfer of unearned premium reserves through a reinsurance agreement relating to the Royal Specialty Underwriting Inc and Landmark American Insurance Company businesses disposed of during 2003.
Included within US in general business is an underwriting profit of nil 2003: 52m relating to the Royal Specialty Underwriting Inc and Landmark American Insurance Company businesses disposed of during 2003.
Included within US in general business is an operating result of nil 2003: 72m relating to the Royal Specialty Underwriting Inc and Landmark American Insurance Company businesses disposed of during 2003.
Included within other activities is a loss of nil 2003: 13m in relation to non insurance activities.
The capital, reserves and dated loan capital attributed to other businesses include those of non insurance businesses and Group borrowings.
Dated loan capital consists of 255m 2003: 272m in US dollars, 352m 2003: 350m in euros and 444m 2003: 146m in sterling.
The directors consider that in relation to reporting of profit and loss account information the reportable segments of the general business are personal and commercial.
Such a segmentation is not considered appropriate in relation to the Groups total capital where risk based capital modelling is used to allocate capital to regions and operations.
There are differences between actual regional total capital and that considered to be required on a risk based capital basis due to regulatory requirements at the individual operation level.
Refer to note 1 of the Notes on the Accounts for an explanation of the restatement.
Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2004 91 Principal Subsidiary Companies As at 31 December 2004 Principal activity United Kingdom Royal Insurance Holdings plc note 2 Holding company Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance plc General insurance British Aviation Insurance Company Limited 57.1% General insurance The Globe Insurance Company Limited General insurance The London Assurance General insurance The Marine Insurance Company Limited General insurance Royal International Insurance Holdings Limited General insurance Royal & Sun Alliance Reinsurance Limited General insurance Sun Alliance and London Insurance plc General insurance Sun Insurance Ofce Limited General insurance Argentina Royal & Sun Alliance Seguros Argentina SA General insurance Brazil Royal & Sun Alliance Seguros Brasil SA General insurance Canada Roins Financial Services Limited Holding company Compagnie dAssurance du Quebec 99.8% General insurance The Johnson Corporation General insurance Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Company of Canada General insurance Western Assurance Company General insurance Chile Royal & Sun Alliance Seguros Chile SA 97.5% General insurance Colombia Royal & Sun Alliance Seguros Colombia SA 86.3% General insurance Denmark Codan A S 71.7% Holding company Codan Forsikring A S 71.7% General insurance Guernsey Insurance Corporation of the Channel Islands Limited General insurance Hong Kong Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Hong Kong Limited General insurance Isle of Man Tower Insurance Company Limited General insurance Mexico Royal & SunAlliance Seguros Mexico SA General insurance Netherlands Antilles Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Antilles NV 51.0% General insurance Saudi Arabia Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Middle East Limited E. C. 50.01% General insurance Singapore Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Singapore Limited General insurance Sweden Trygg-Hansa Frskrings AB, Publikt 71.7% General insurance United States of America Royal & Sun Alliance USA, Inc Holding company Royal Indemnity Company General insurance Guaranty National Insurance Company General insurance Viking Insurance Company of Wisconsin General insurance Uruguay Royal & Sun Alliance Seguros Uruguay SA General insurance Venezuela Royal & Sun Alliance Seguros Venezuela SA 99.0% General insurance Notes: 1.
All UK companies are incorporated in Great Britain and are registered in England.
100% direct subsidiary of Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Group plc.
Except where indicated all holdings are of equity shares and represent 100% of the nominal issued capital.
Some subsidiaries have been omitted from this statement to avoid providing particulars of excessive length but none materially affects the results or assets of the Group.
92 Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2004 Principal Associated Undertakings and Other significant Shareholdings As at 31 December 2004 Country Holding Principal associated undertakings see notes below Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Malaysia Bhd Malaysia 45.0% Royal Sundaram Alliance Insurance Company Ltd India 26.0% Syn Mun Kong Public Company Ltd 30 September 2004 Thailand 20.0% Other significant shareholdings see notes below Rothschilds Continuation Holdings AG merchant banking group Switzerland 21.5% Notes: 1.
Associated undertakings: where the gures included in the accounts are not for the year ended 31 December 2004, the relevant accounting date is shown in brackets.
Unless otherwise stated, all companies are engaged in the transaction of insurance or related business.
All are owned by subsidiaries of the Group.
The Groups participating interest in Rothschilds Continuation Holdings AG is accounted for as an investment in view of the disposition of the other shareholdings.
The aggregate amount of the capital and reserves at 31 March 2004, the companys year end, was 521m.
The loss for the year ended 31 March 2004 was 21m.
Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2004 93 Five Year Financial Review CONSOLIDATED PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT Convenience translation Restated note 1 note 2 2004 2004 2003 2002 2001 2000 $m m m m m m Net premiums written General business 9,995 5,206 6,630 8,635 8,813 8,372 Long term business 1,611 839 1,473 1,882 2,899 3,439 Total 11,606 6,045 8,103 10,517 11,712 11,811 Balance on the technical accounts General business 534 278 131 6 181 101 Long term business gross of taxation 180 94 546 209 173 239 Investment income net of investment expenses and charges 1,071 558 1,058 978 1,137 1,212 Unrealised gains losses on investments 75 39 395 599 1,013 161 Allocated investment return transferred to the general business technical account 1,413 736 767 962 1,142 1,119 Charges from other activities central expenses 200 104 125 74 54 47 Amortisation and impairment of goodwill 36 19 24 713 58 56 General business result 831 433 83 89 11 290 Long term business result 181 94 168 227 186 252 Other activities including associated undertakings 136 71 111 90 159 80 Group operating result based on longer term investment return 876 456 140 226 16 462 Change in the equalisation provisions 71 37 24 1 46 24 Exceptional gain on UK long term insurance business 444 Reorganisation costs and other items 444 231 364 882 263 289 Group operating profit loss based on longer term investment return 361 188 196 655 293 149 Short term investment uctuations 150 78 34 512 845 20 profit loss on ordinary activities before exceptional items and tax 211 110 162 1,167 1,138 169 Loss profit on disposal of subsidiaries less provisions for losses on subsidiaries to be sold 209 109 308 253 72 128 profit loss on ordinary activities before tax 21 146 914 1,210 41 Tax on profit loss on ordinary activities 211 110 217 91 353 128 Loss on ordinary activities after tax 209 109 363 823 857 87 Attributable to equity minority interests 77 40 19 9 5 1 Loss for the financial year attributable to shareholders 286 149 382 832 852 86 Earnings per ordinary share 10.6 c 5.5 p 19.6 p 47.6 p 48.8 p 5.4 p Group operating earnings after tax per ordinary share 16.1c 8.4p 2.5p 4.6p 3.3 p 14.1p Notes: 1.
Included is a translation of the data for the year ended 31 December 2004, from sterling into US dollars, for the convenience of our US shareholders.
The translation rate is US$1.92, the closing rate at 31 December 2004.
Prior years have been restated.
94 Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2004 STATEMENT OF TOTAL RECOGNISED GAINS AND LOSSES Convenience translation Restated note 1 note 3 2004 2004 2003 2002 2001 2000 $m m m m m m Loss for the financial year attributable to shareholders 286 149 382 832 852 86 Exchange 138 72 12 265 68 160 Shareholders consolidated recognised losses gains 424 221 394 1,097 920 74 MOVEMENTS IN SHAREHOLDERS FUNDS Convenience translation note 1 Restated Restated Restated Restated 2004 2004 2003 2002 2001 2000 Notes $m m m m m m Shareholders funds at 1 January 3 5,733 2,986 2,216 3,408 4,382 4,637 Shareholders consolidated recognised losses gains 424 221 394 1,097 920 74 Issue of share capital increase in share premium 46 24 960 2 14 19 Dividends 273 142 120 95 236 381 Other reserve movements including write back of goodwill not capitalised up to 1997 48 25 324 2 168 33 Shareholders funds at 31 December 5,130 2,672 2,986 2,216 3,408 4,382 Total return to shareholders 3 15.4 c 8.0 p 20.2 p 62.6 p 52.7 p 3.7p Dividend per ordinary share 3 8.85c 4.61p 4.52p 4.8p 12.9p 21.0p Notes: 1.
Net assets per share is calculated on equity shareholders funds and the number of ordinary shares in issue at the end of the year.
