RBS Ann Review 42-43 7 3 05 10:39 am Page 42 Ulster Bank Profit contribution 468 million 2003 354 million Total income up 28% Profit up 32% 42 New Branch.
Our 887 million acquisition of First Active was completed in January 2004, consolidating our position as one of the top 3 providers of financial services across Ireland.
First Active plc is a niche provider of mortgage and investment products offering specialist advice to consumers.
We continued the extensive investment programme in First Actives distribution network with the opening of an additional four mortgage and investment stores in the Republic of Ireland.
Make it happen Ulster Bank RBS Ann Review 42-43 7 3 05 10:39 am Page 43 43 included the first Public Private Partnership for the Ulster Bank is the third largest bank regeneration of a central Dublin public housing in Ireland.
During 2004 Ulster Bank complex, and the financing of Tynagh Power, one of the largest deals of its type in Ireland in 2004. completed the acquisition of 2004 was a very successful growth year First Active, which strengthened its for Business Centres in the Republic of Ireland, position in the Republic of Ireland demonstrating the strength of the operating model.
Its loan book increased by 43% driven by and enhanced its capabilities in drawdowns which were up 65% on 2003. mortgages.
As a result of organic Various innovative products were introduced growth and the acquisition of during 2004.
Ulster Bank launched U First Gold, a premium current account with a range of financial First Active, Ulster Banks total and lifestyle benefits, and an award-winning switcher income increased by 28% to mortgage service.
First Active launched tracker mortgages and 100% mortgages for professionals.
Ulster Bank has worked closely with Ulster Bank achieved strong growth in both Manufacturing to plan and implement the integration personal and business customers.
It now has of First Active.
In connection with this, the IT 1.5 million personal and business customers.
platforms supporting both Ulster Bank and First Active will be converted to RBSs main IT platform Average loans to customers grew by 72%, which already supports both the Royal Bank of while average customer deposits grew by 35%.
Excluding First Active, average loans to customers grew by 27%, and average customer deposits by 8%.
Awards The Ulster Bank Switcher Mortgage A principal reason for the growth in lending Top Home Loan was rapid expansion of the combined mortgage The Sunday Tribune book.
In the Republic of Ireland, mortgage sales across the Ulster Bank and First Active brands The Ulster Bank Zinc Card increased by 60%.
In Northern Ireland, Ulster Bank Top Credit Card increased its mortgage sales by over 30%.
The Sunday Tribune Ulster Bank continued to expand its credit card business.
Ulster Bank is now the leading Ulster Banks Aimhigher campaign was provider of credit cards in Northern Ireland and recognised with a special citation for Corporate is growing rapidly in the Republic of Ireland.
Social Responsibility Ireland Presidents Awards Ulster Bank achieved strong growth in commercial lending in both the Republic of Ireland and in Northern Ireland.
Notable transactions Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2004 Divisional review
