RBS Ann Review 26-31 7 3 05 10:33 am Page 26 Retail Direct Profit contribution 1,040 million 2003 881 million Total income up 16% Profit up 18% 26 Lynk.
Lynk Systems of Atlanta was acquired by RBS during 2004.
Lynk provides electronic payment, cash dispensing and e-commerce services across the US to over 75,000 merchants.
Already a top 4 global player through Streamline, RBS now has access to the worlds largest credit card market and the opportunity to offer state of the art technology to its business customers in Citizens, Charter One and RBS Corporate Banking.
The City of Boston is both a Citizens and Lynk customer.
Make it happen Retail Direct Retail Direct RBS Ann Review 26-31 7 3 05 10:33 am Page 27 27 During 2004 Retail Direct continued to grow Retail Direct has leading positions the number of UK credit card accounts through in the UK in credit card issuing, The Royal Bank of Scotland, NatWest and newlyestablished MINT brands.
merchant acquiring, consumer finance and supermarket banking.
The MINT credit card was successfully rolled out in 2004.
With its curved-shape card, During 2004 Retail Direct built MINT brought about the first development in the shape of the credit card in the UK since their on its position, through its range introduction 38 years ago, and is recognised by of strong brands and direct customers as an innovative and forward-thinking brand.
The new MINT brand makes full use of the channels, and expanded its internet channel, with over 45% of credit card activities outside the UK.
Retail applications being made online.
By the end of 2004, 711,000 cards had been issued with Direct increased its total income balances amounting to 1 billion.
MINTs development continued with the launch of MINT by 16% to 2,129 million.
During 2004 Retail Direct increased its total Retail Direct continued to achieve strong customer accounts by 14% to 18.9 million.
Retail growth in its commercial card business.
The Direct achieved organic growth in its credit card, innovative commercial One Card product, which personal loan and mortgage customers, and in its offers an expense and payment management merchant acquiring relationships.
Retail Direct also solution for businesses, continued to grow and increased its customer base through acquisitions strengthen our relationships with SMEs, corporate in the Netherlands and the US.
Average loans to customers grew by 19%.
In merchant acquiring 2004 was another Average card balances grew by 24%, reflecting the record year for Streamline, which processed over launch of the MINT card and the acquisition of the 2.7 billion transactions.
credit card business of Peoples Bank.
Personal loan balances grew by 17% and mortgage lending WorldPay, our internet payment specialist, by 16%.
also had a record year, reflecting strong growth in the volume of shopping on the internet.
During Cards business 2004, WorldPay further strengthened its position Our credit card issuing businesses combine following the acquisition of Bibit, an internet to make one of the largest in the UK.
In merchant payment specialist based in the Netherlands.
acquiring, RBS is number one in the UK, and ranks WorldPay is now the leading internet payment fourth globally.
specialist in the EU, and provides services to internet retailers in over 40 countries.
Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2004 Divisional review RBS Ann Review 26-31 7 3 05 10:33 am Page 28 Retail Direct continued We respond to our customers evolving needs by making diverse and innovative products accessible through a variety of convenient channels.
Tesco Personal Finance is the most successful supermarket bank in the UK with close to 5 million customers.
Our award-winning Life Insurance product provides the security and peace of mind that family and loved ones are protected.
Mak Make e it ha it happen ppen Retail Direct RBS Ann Review 26-31 7 3 05 10:33 am Page 29 29 Tesco Personal Finance Retail Direct opened a new state-of-the-art Tesco Personal Finance extended its position Credit Card Centre in Southend.
This purpose-built as the most successful supermarket bank in the UK.
centre creates an excellent working environment for It achieved a further increase of more than 10% our employees, helping them to deliver improved in its customer accounts, to 4.8 million, including service for our customers.
2.4 million motor and other insurance policies and 1.7 million credit cards.
Retail Direct is an industry leader in the Chip and PIN programme which provides customers with Tesco Personal Finance launched an enhanced security against fraud.
Almost all our innovative new Instant Life Insurance package, terminals in retailers are now equipped with the to augment the range of instant products already new technology, and by the end of 2004 80% of available in store including breakdown cover and our customers credit cards and debit cards had travel insurance.
been replaced with chip-enabled cards.
Tesco Personal Finance extended its In June 2004, First Active mortgages were activities in Tesco stores in Hungary and Ireland.
launched in the UK, building on the Groups acquisition of First Active in Ireland in January 2004.
First Active mortgages were offered initially International through intermediaries, and subsequently by In Continental Europe, Retail Direct continued telephone and the internet.
By the end of 2004, significant organic growth in volumes, both in its mortgage applications amounted to 1 billion.
traditional business and increasingly in direct loans.
Retail Direct also established a presence in the US.
Lombard Direct and Direct Line Financial Services increased their personal loan balances.
In Continental Europe, Retail Direct acquired Bibit, an internet payment specialist based in the Primeline, our direct banking business, Netherlands.
increased its customers by 8% through new affiliate relationships with partners such as BA Executive Club.
Retail Direct reached agreement with Tchibo to distribute consumer loan products to its customers.
Tchibo is a leading retailer in Germany, where it has around 1,000 stores.
Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2004 Divisional review RBS Ann Review 26-31 7 3 05 10:33 am Page 30 Retail Direct continued We have continued to seek new opportunities to build Retail Directs business through organic growth, strategic acquisitions and new partnerships in the UK, US and Europe.
30 Tchibo We have expanded our distribution capability in Europe through our partnership with Tchibo, which has around 1,000 stores in Germany alone.
The brand reaches over two thirds of Germany's households.
Streamline The Kroger Co. International We have expanded our Winner of the Queens distribution capability Award for Enterprise in the US through our within the International partnership with The Trade Category.
Kroger Co. which is the second largest supermarket in the US, with 3,774 stores.
Make it happen Retail Direct RBS Ann Review 26-31 7 3 05 10:33 am Page 31 31 In the US, Retail Direct led the acquisition of The One account the credit card business of Peoples Bank.
Migration Bank Lender of the Year 2004 of this business to the newly-established RBS Offset Mortgage Lender of the Year National Bank is on track.
Retail Direct also Financial Adviser Awards acquired Lynk Systems, the 9th largest merchant acquirer in the United States.
Credit cards and The One account Best Lifestyle Lender merchant acquiring services will be offered to the Mortgage Strategy Awards business customers of Citizens, Charter One, and RBS Corporate Banking.
Tesco Personal Finance Best Direct Life Insurance Provider Retail Direct established a partnership with Best Online Motor Insurance Provider The Kroger Co. to distribute credit cards to its Best Direct Motor Insurance Provider customers.
The Kroger Co. is the second largest Best Online Personal Loan Provider supermarket in the United States, with 3,774 stores.
Your Money Awards During the second half of 2004, a Kroger credit card with a Kroger rewards feature was launched in Ohio, Tesco Personal Finance Most Competitive and will be expanded to other states during 2005.
Term Assurance Provider Money Facts Awards Streamline International The Queens Tesco Personal Finance Best Personal Award for Enterprise within the International Trade Loan Provider category Personal Finance Magazine MINT The Innovation Award Lombard Direct Best Personal Loan Institute of Financial Services for its advertising campaign Provider Moneyfacts The One account Best Current Account Mortgage Lender Lombard Direct International Best Your Mortgage Awards Personal Loan Website MAPA The One account 5 star award Financial Adviser Service Awards Primeline Marketing Employer of the Year Award Marketing Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2004 Divisional review
