RBS Ann Review 20-25 7 3 05 10:30 am Page 20 Retail Banking Profit contribution 3,279 million 2003 3,170 million Total income up 6% Profit up 3% 20 Student Banking.
Access to cheap train travel is high on the priority list for many students across the UK.
So offering a free Young Persons Railcard giving 30% off most rail fares for 5 years has proved a popular addition to NatWests student banking service.
NatWest was once again the No.
1 bank for students in 2004, increasing its market share of first year students in England and Wales from 25% to 42%.
Make it happen Retail Banking RBS Ann Review 20-25 7 3 05 10:30 am Page 21 21 Royal Bank of Scotland is rated number one Retail Banking has the largest for overall customer satisfaction in Scotland.
network of bank branches and NatWest is the number one bank for students.
ATMs in the UK, and is the Of first year students in England and Wales, 42% leading bank for small business chose to open an account with us, compared with 25% last year.
During 2004 Retail Banking expanded its customer Our internet banking service continues to see strong growth.
Active customer numbers are base, grew its loan portfolio, up 39% on 2003, and the number of customers particularly in mortgages, and applying to use the service rose by 41%.
The average daily volume of internet payments rose increased its deposits.
Banking increased its total income Royal Bank of Scotland launched its by 6% to 4,742 million.
thirteenth mobile banking service in August, serving 20 villages near Helensburgh.
Our mobile Retail Banking increased its personal banks now serve more than 300 rural communities customers by 268,000 2% and its personal in Scotland.
Retail Banking was particularly successful in recruiting We have stepped up our efforts to protect youth and student accounts.
Retail Banking also our customers from increasingly sophisticated maintained its leading market share of small attempted frauds.
We have introduced new business customers.
processes to make it easier for customers to report suspected fraudulent activity on their Average loans and advances to customers accounts, and improved protection against grew by 17%.
Average mortgage balances increased wrongful transfer of funds.
by 21%, personal loans by 14% and small business loans by 13%.
Average customer deposits grew Our new mortgage processing system has by 8%.
improved the efficiency and quality of our service.
This is reflected in the numerous awards we have Customer service won for our mortgage services.
We continue to provide our customers with a choice of ways to contact us, including telephoning the branches direct.
Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2004 Divisional review RBS Ann Review 20-25 7 3 05 10:30 am Page 22 Retail Banking continued Retail Banking provides a wide range of financial products and services to both the personal and small business markets through a combination of its branches, telephone banking, the internet and its network of ATMs.
James Walker, a sprightly 76 year old enjoys, amongst other hobbies, hand painting table cloths.
He has taken advantage of a range of our retail banking products available in his local branch in Edinburgh, including an interest bearing current account and a deposit and interest savings tracker account.
Make it happen Retail Banking RBS Ann Review 20-25 7 3 05 10:30 am Page 23 23 Business customers A new system of screen prompts enables We helped our business customers to our branch and telephone banking staff to identify grow with total lending up 11% in 2004.
Customer products or services that are directly relevant to balances in our competitive range of deposit our customers financial needs.
These prompts help products grew by 7%.
us to spot ways of saving our customers money one customer in four has expressed interest in The Flexible Business Loan, launched in pursuing the conversation.
August, is a market-leading product which allows customers to customise their loan.
They can pick the Products options that suit them best at the start of the loan, Our new Offset Banking Service allows both and then change them if their circumstances alter.
NatWest and Royal Bank of Scotland customers to set their current and savings account balances NatWest and Royal Bank of Scotland lent against a mortgage.
This saves interest and shortens 546 million last year to small businesses based the life of the mortgage.
Unlike other banks, we in the most deprived areas of the UK.
offer the Offset Service to small businesses as well as personal customers.
Mentor, our small business advice service, saw a 49% increase in net income.
Significant Over 70,000 customers have signed up for improvements in our service offering and stronger the Royalties Premier Account, which combines all relationships with our Business Relationship Manager the features of a current account with a range of networks helped to increase our customer base services to save them time and money.
include a personal travel adviser, home emergency service, worldwide family travel insurance and Royal Bank of Scotlands Agricultural Services discounts on a wide range of books, DVDs, team have offered their general farm insurance restaurants and financial services.
product in conjunction with Farmweb insurance brokers for their first full year during 2004.
This Customers can now top up their mobile product can be tailored to meet the individual needs phones through our 4,600 NatWest and Royal Bank of farm businesses under one policy, including an of Scotland ATMs.
Customers simply insert their increasing range of diversification activities.
cash card and select the mobile phone top-up option to credit their prepay phones.
1.2 million transactions have taken place since the service was launched in April 2004.
Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2004 Divisional review RBS Ann Review 20-25 7 3 05 10:30 am Page 24 Retail Banking continued Retail Banking places customer service at the heart of its strategy, measuring and improving its delivery on a continuous basis.
24 Branch Network Alan Bembridge with his dog Henry is a regular visitor to Derbys St Peter Street branch, one of over 2,200 branches in the Group.
We are able to supply him with letters, brochures and statements in both large print and braille.
Offset Mortgage Business Customer An offset mortgage from SJ Solicitors in Ilford is a his local branch of The NatWest business banking Royal Bank of Scotland customer.
Our flexible has provided James Sheriff business loan offers them with the financial flexibility a range of payment he needed to realise his options and the ability to dream of flying.
match their outgoings with available cash flow.
Make it happen Retail Banking RBS Ann Review 20-25 7 3 05 10:30 am Page 25 25 Awards Royal Bank of Scotland Best Current NatWest Account Provider voted by readers for the second Best Bank for a record eleventh time year running Best Offset Lender Personal Finance Magazine Your Mortgage Magazine Awards Royal Bank of Scotland voted Remortgage Royal Bank of Scotland Lender of the Year.
Best 100% mortgage lender Financial Adviser Mortgage Awards Your Mortgage Magazine Awards Royal Bank of Scotland named Mortgage NatWest Lender of the Year.
Five Star Service award in the Mortgage Lenders and Packagers category Mortgage Strategy Most Improved Mortgage in the Mortgage Lenders and Packagers category Royal Bank of Scotland voted Best Provider of Commercial Mortgages for Small Businesses.
Financial Adviser Service Awards Mortgage Introducer Magazine NatWest Best Direct Mortgage Provider for the fifth time Best Direct Business Banking Provider Royal Bank of Scotland Best Direct Banking Provider our fourth consecutive win Best Online Business Banking Provider Your Money Direct Awards Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2004 Divisional review
