RBS Ann Review 08-13 7 3 05 10:24 am Page 10 Divisional profile 10 Corporate Banking & Financial Markets Retail Banking Chief Executive Geography Chief Executive Geography Johnny Cameron UK, US, Europe and Asia Pacific Benny Higgins UK Corporate Banking & Financial Markets CBFM is the leading Through two of the UKs best-known banking brands, The Royal corporate bank in the UK, providing banking services and Bank of Scotland and NatWest, Retail Banking has the largest integrated financial solutions to medium-sized and large businesses.
network of bank branches and ATMs in the UK.
It offers a wide range of banking, financial, insurance, life assurance and pension CBFM is also a major provider of financing and risk management products through branches, direct banking and the internet.
It is solutions to international corporate and institutional clients through the leading bank for students and for small business customers.
operations across Europe, the US and Asia Pacific.
During 2004 Retail Banking continued to expand its customer base and grow its loan portfolio, particularly in mortgages and deposits.
With all clients, CBFM focuses on building long-term relationships and meeting their specific needs.
Market data In 2004 CBFM continued to grow in the UK whilst expanding its Largest retail network in the UK operations in other markets.
2,273 branches Over 4,600 Natwest and Royal Bank of Scotland ATMs Market data Over 14 million personal customers Serves over 95% of the FTSE 100 Banking relationships with over 90% of the Dow Jones Eurostoxx 50 Largest provider of banking services to small and Serves over 75% of the FTSE 250 medium sized enterprises SMEs in the UK No.
1 Bookrunner of European Serves 60% of Fortune 100 leveraged loans Over 1.1 million business customers companies in the US No.
1 Global Agent for traditional US dollar cross-border private placements No.
1 provider of sterling FX and interest rate derivatives No.
1 for US government bond sales, RBS Greenwich Capital Top 3 for global currency options No.
4 Bookrunner for Syndicated Loans in Europe, Middle East & Africa, up from No.
7 in 2003 Top 5 globally for FX Divisional profile RBS Ann Review 08-13 7 3 05 10:24 am Page 11 11 Retail Direct Manufacturing Chief Executive Geography Chief Executive Geography Chris Sullivan UK, US and Europe Mark Fisher UK and Europe Retail Direct has leading positions in the UK in credit card issuing, Manufacturings diverse range of services supports the customer merchant acquiring, consumer finance and supermarket banking.
facing operations of the Groups multiple brands.
It provides It offers a comprehensive range of credit and charge cards through customer support via telephony, account management, lending, The Royal Bank of Scotland, NatWest and other brands, including mortgage processing and money transmission.
Other products and services are offered to consumers Group Technology continually develops and maintains the through Tesco Personal Finance, The One account, First Active, infrastructure and technology that supports the branches, ATMs Direct Line Financial Services, Lombard Direct and other brands.
and internet banking for customers of CBFM, Retail Banking, Through Streamline it is the leading merchant acquirer in the UK Retail Direct, Wealth Management and RBS Insurance.
and Europe, and ranks 4th globally.
Retail Direct also offers credit card issuing and acquiring services in the US and Europe, and a Purchasing is responsible for the vast majority of purchasing range of consumer finance products in Continental Europe.
undertaken by the Group, leveraging its scale to maximise cost efficiencies.
Market data The Groups property portfolio is managed, maintained and Almost 19 million customer accounts refurbished by Manufacturing which also oversees the property Nearly 15 million credit card and storecard accounts investment programme.
Over 2 million customer accounts in Europe Market data No.
1 in UK for cheque payments No.
1 in UK for Clearing House Automated Payment System No.
1 in UK for Bank Automated CHAPS transactions Clearing System BACS transactions Runs the UKs largest ATM network Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2004 Group review RBS Ann Review 08-13 7 3 05 10:24 am Page 12 Divisional profile continued 12 Wealth Management RBS Insurance Chief Executive Geography Chief Executive Geography Gordon Pell UK, Europe, Asia Pacific and offshore locations Annette Court UK and Europe Wealth Management provides services to clients through premier RBS Insurance is the second largest general insurer in the UK.
brands in UK private banking and UK offshore banking, and It sells and underwrites general insurance via the telephone, through a network of more than 50 offices globally.
Coutts, the internet, partnerships and a network of brokers.
Its brands, Adam & Company and Coutts Bank von Ernst in Switzerland including Direct Line, Churchill, Privilege, Green Flag and NIG, offer private, corporate and expatriate client services including are some of the best known in the UK.
banking, wealth management, investment management, financial planning and trust and fiduciary services.
The offshore banking Market data business offers retail banking services to local and expatriate Second largest general insurer in the UK customers and corporate banking and treasury services to No.
1 for UK motor insurance corporate, intermediary and institutional clients.
2 for UK home insurance Over 22 million in-force policies Market data Over 8 million UK motor policies Premier UK private banking brand Over 5 million UK home policies Over 100,000 private banking customers Largest tele-direct motor insurer in Spain Third largest foreign-owned bank in Switzerland Over 1.6 million international motor policies A leading player in offshore banking in the UK 170,000 offshore customers Divisional profile RBS Ann Review 08-13 7 3 05 10:24 am Page 13 13 Ulster Bank Citizens Chief Executive Geography Chairman, President and Geography Cormac McCarthy Ireland Chief Executive Officer New England, Mid-Atlantic and Larry Fish Midwest regions of US Ulster Bank is the third largest bank in Ireland.
During 2004 Citizens is now the eighth largest banking organisation in the US Ulster Bank completed the acquisition of First Active, which by deposits.
The acquisition of Charter One in 2004 enabled it to strengthened its position in the Republic of Ireland and enhanced expand into six adjacent states in the northeastern and midwestern its capabilities in mortgages.
Ulster Bank provides a full range US.
Citizens offers personal banking, residential mortgages and of banking and financial products and services, for personal home equity loans, and a wide variety of commercial banking customers and corporates, via branches, telephone and the internet.
services, through its growing network of city centre, local and supermarket branches.
Market data Market data Third largest bank in the Republic of Ireland Eighth largest commercial banking organisation in the US ranked by deposits Largest bank in Northern Ireland Third largest supermarket bank in the US 1.5 million personal and business customers No.
2 US Small Business Administration lender 300 branches and business outlets 4.8 million personal and business customers No.
2 for mortgages in the Republic of Ireland Retail presence in 13 states and products and services available in over 30 states Over 1,100 traditional bank branches Nearly 500 in-store branches Over 2,800 ATMs Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2004 Group review
