RBS Ann Review 38-41 7 3 05 10:38 am Page 38 RBS Insurance Profit contribution 862 million 2003 609 million Total income up 52% Profit up 42% 38 RBS Insurance Field Team.
RBS Insurance has field teams based all over the country, visiting homes to assess damage and authorise claims to proceed, so our customers can return their lives to normal just as quickly as possible.
Make it happen RBS Insurance RBS Ann Review 38-41 7 3 05 10:38 am Page 39 39 RBS Insurance increased its travel insurance RBS Insurance is the second policies to 1.65 million to become the No.
2 travel largest general insurer in the insurer, and its pet insurance policies to almost 500,000.
Its brands include Direct Line, Churchill, Privilege, The Direct Line red phone continues to have the highest awareness of any general insurance Green Flag and NIG.
Direct Lines sponsorship of Channel 4s set of top rating property programmes has proved of organic growth and the full year extremely successful.
impact of Churchill, which was Churchill embarked on a new marketing acquired in September 2003, campaign in June, featuring the popular nodding RBS Insurance increased its total dog brand and his famous Oh Yes!
The campaign focused on the benefits of the income by 52% to 4,934 million.
service and reinforced the potential savings that could be made by switching to Churchill.
The campaign was a major success, delivering record Across its range of brands and products, levels of brand awareness and sales.
RBS Insurance increased its total policies in-force by 2 million to over 22 million.
Within this total motor The Privilege brand was re-launched in policies increased by 5% to almost 10 million.
August with a new TV campaign, featuring Joanna Lumley.
The marketing campaign is targeted at In the United Kingdom, RBS Insurance is customers with 4 or more years no claims discount.
1 motor insurer, with over 8 million policies, and the No.
2 home insurer, with over 5 million In October, a new intermediary business policies.
The new company, RBS Insurance Brokers, provides commercial insurance for small In Continental Europe, RBS Insurance business customers of Retail Banking.
increased its motor insurance policies by 15% to 1.6 million.
NIG is the broker channel specialist within RBS Insurance, offering personal and commercial RBS Insurance now has almost 5 million insurance through a large number of UK insurance motor rescue policies sold through Direct Line, brokers.
Churchill and Privilege and through many partners under their brands.
Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2004 Divisional review RBS Ann Review 38-41 7 3 05 10:38 am Page 40 RBS Insurance continued RBS is the strength behind some of the UKs biggest and best known brands offering customers more choice and better products.
40 Churchill Pet Insurance Churchill gives pet owners the peace of mind that they can meet the cost of treatment for their pets, should they need it.
Motor Rescue Motor Repair Centres Green Flag is called out Our network of motor repair to help motorists over centres, with teams of 100 times an hour.
specialists to assess damage and complete repairs, ensure that our customers are back on the road as quickly as possible.
Make it happen RBS Insurance RBS Ann Review 38-41 7 3 05 10:38 am Page 41 41 Awards In addition to selling insurance under its Direct Line Best Car Insurer own brands and through the broker channel, RBS Insurance sells a range of insurance products Personal Finance Magazine through partners under their brands, through UKI Partnerships, its dedicated partnerships division.
Devitt Product of the Year Services UKI Partnerships continued to build on its position Motorcycle News Dealer Awards as a leading wholesale provider by adding to its impressive list of clients, and underlined its ability Direct Line voted Best Insurance Call to work alongside high-profile brands.
Centre by readers The Mail on Sunday The integration of Churchill is on track, with the major stages in IT conversion completed.
Direct Line Best Household Insurance Provider In response to emergency situations such Mortgage Magazine as the floods at Boscastle, our Assistance business put dedicated teams on the ground to deal with Green Flag Motoring Assistance claims promptly and efficiently.
Best Direct Breakdown Cover Provider 2004 Your Money Direct Awards Direct Line and Green Flag Motoring Assistance continue to be headline sponsors of Green Flag Motoring Assistance Road Safety Week.
This is an annual event, in Best Online Breakdown Cover Provider November, to address road safety issues, organised by the national road safety charity Brake.
In 2004 2004 Your Money Direct Awards Green Flag Motoring Assistance supported Beep Beep day an event aimed at providing road Churchill Best Online Pet Insurance safety education for pre-school children.
Provider 2004 Your Money Direct Awards Direct Line Pet Insurance has been working with the Scottish Society for the Prevention of Cruelty Churchill Best Online Home Contents to Animals SSPCA since 1998.
So far this has Insurance Provider raised over 70,000 for the charity.
2004 Your Money Direct Awards Direct Line Insurer Underwriter of the Year International Travel Insurance Journal Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2004 Divisional review
