RBS Ann Review 50-53 7 3 05 10:42 am Page 51 51 Supporting international principles In 2004 we published our first The Equator Principles and UN Global Compact Corporate Responsibility Report.
In 2003 we adopted the Equator Principles of socially responsible investment and became a While the Annual Report quantifies signatory to the Ten Principles of the UN Global our financial success, the Compact.
Our work in 2004 has focused on implementing the Equator Principles within our Corporate Responsibility Report business and incorporating the UN Global Compact Principles into our policies and procedures.
provides a qualitative insight behind the figures into the policies Benchmarking The Group participates in a number of corporate and practices which ensure responsibility indexes and surveys: that our financial returns are FTSE4Good sustainable in the long term.
The Group continues to meet the socially responsible investment criteria required for The growth of the RBS Group depends as inclusion in the FTSE4Good Index.
much on our understanding and fulfilment of our responsibilities as on our financial skills.
Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes The Group has been selected as a component for The first responsibility of any company to society is both the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index to be successful.
Success requires us to balance DJSI World and Dow Jones STOXX Sustainability the differing interests of our stakeholders.
provide the high quality products and services our customers want, at a price they can afford.
Our The Group ranked 2nd equal in the Dow Jones shareholders demand and deserve a healthy return Sustainability World Index for the banking sector, on the capital they entrust to us, which we achieve bringing our overall score to 64%, an increase of through growth and profit.
Our score was 22% above the global average stable, safe and fair employment.
We must work for the sector.
productively with government and regulators.
We attach importance to managing our environmental Business in the Community impact and making a genuine contribution to the We participated in the Business in the Community communities in which we operate.
CR Index for the first time, achieving 91.5% and ranking 27th within the top 100.
Successful companies must not only conduct their business in a manner that goes beyond legal Business in the Environment compliance.
They must satisfy the increasing demand The most recent annual Business in the to define, implement and report the non-financial Environment BiE FTSE 350 Index of Corporate elements of their business practice.
We respect Environmental Engagement survey showed a the need to assure our key stakeholders that an further 1% improvement on the previous year.
organisation of the scale and complexity of the RBS Group is managed with integrity and consistency.
Our first Corporate Responsibility Report is available from http: www.
com crreports Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2004 Corporate Responsibility RBS Ann Review 50-53 7 3 05 10:42 am Page 52 Corporate Responsibility continued The growth of the RBS Group depends as much on our understanding and fulfilment of our responsibilities as on our financial skills.
52 1m Donation The RBS Group donated 1 million at Christmas to the top ten charities selected by our employees.
Community Cashback Awards This scheme supports employees who give their time and skills to help local community projects.
In 2004, 5,518 employees participated, generating contributions of 1.9 million across the UK.
Stocksbridge Double Matching Training & Enterprise Give As You Earn Partnership STEP 2,800 charities received in South Yorkshire, 6.4 million through our supported by the RBS unique, award winning Group, assists people double matching Give As in finding new forms of You Earn scheme.
employment outside the declining steel industry.
Make it happen Corporate Responsibility
