RBS Ann Review 14-19 7 3 05 10:26 am Page 14 Corporate Banking & Financial Markets Profit contribution 4,265 million 2003 3,620 million Total income up 12% Profit up 18% 14 BellSouth.
Enabling new leadership in the US wireless industry: in 2004 RBS Greenwich Capital provided BellSouth, a Fortune 100 communications services company, with financing advice for Cingulars acquisition of AT&T Wireless creating the biggest wireless carrier in the United States.
Acting as joint bookrunner, RBS Greenwich Capital placed US$1.5 billion of securities across the US, European and Asian markets.
Make it happen Corporate Banking & Financial Markets RBS Ann Review 14-19 7 3 05 10:26 am Page 15 15 CBFM is also the market leader in large Corporate Banking & Financial corporate banking in the UK, with relationships Markets CBFM provides banking with over 95% of the FTSE 100, and over 75% of the FTSE 250.
It has well established and rapidly services and integrated financial expanding corporate and institutional client solutions to corporate and franchises in Continental Europe, North America and in selected markets in Asia Pacific.
institutional customers in the UK As the UK market leader in the provision and around the world through its of corporate banking services, CBFM provides a presence in the major financial full range of traditional banking services through 1,500 relationship managers in 150 offices across centres across the globe.
the country and offers additional products and We are committed to developing long-term services through a number of business areas that relationships with our clients and providing solutions are tailored to different client needs.
that are targeted at meeting their specific needs.
In a highly competitive market, CBFM CBFMs extensive product range includes achieved strong growth in its core UK mid-market cash and liquidity management and comprehensive business.
We have broadened and deepened our debt, risk management and treasury services.
product range to be as relevant as possible to our Debt services include overdraft, bilateral and customers.
We have enhanced our service model syndicated lending and primary bond issuance, to ensure our relationship managers spend more trade finance and asset finance, and through our time with them, understanding their businesses and Structured Finance business, structured, property addressing their domestic and international needs, and acquisition finance, project and infrastructure and less time undertaking administrative tasks.
Risk management and treasury services include global interest rate Amongst our specialist businesses, derivatives trading, corporate, institutional and Lombard is the leading provider of asset finance sovereign debt trading, futures brokerage, foreign to UK businesses, catering for a wide range of exchange, money markets, currency derivative and financing options ranging from traditional hire rate risk management services.
purchase, leasing and contract hire through to complex, bespoke solutions.
Operating through three principal businesses Core Corporate Bank, Structured Finance and RBS Commercial Services RBSCS is the Financial Markets CBFM focuses on addressing largest invoice discounting business in the UK.
client needs in two broad groupings: banking RBSCS provides financing of debtors and stock, services for UK businesses, and banking services credit control services and bad debt protection for global corporates and institutions.
for customers to cover against debtor default.
Banking services for UK businesses CBFMs integrated approach ensures In the mid-market, in the UK, CBFM serves that customers also benefit from the full range the full spectrum of corporate and commercial of capabilities in the Structured Finance and customers and is the UKs No.
relationship bank, with 33% market share.
Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2004 Divisional review RBS Ann Review 14-19 7 3 05 10:26 am Page 16 Corporate Banking & Financial Markets continued RBS is the fastest growing corporate relationship bank in Europe.
CBFM has relationships with 80% of the CAC 40, the largest companies in France.
In Germany we have relationships with more than 75% of the DAX 30 companies.
Transmanche Ferries operates cross-channel ferries between the Seine Maritime region of France and the south coast of England, carrying both trade and tourists.
Our Corporate Banking team in Paris joined forces with a series of specialist teams from across Europe to arrange the 100 million credit facility to allow Transmanche to purchase two new state-of-the-art ferries.
Make it happen Corporate Banking & Financial Markets RBS Ann Review 14-19 7 3 05 10:27 am Page 17 17 Examples of our delivery to clients to Scandinavian clients.
In each of these countries in 2004 include: we aim to be the top non-domestic corporate bank.
With a groundbreaking finance structure, we were able to act as Sole Bookrunner and Mandated In the US, CBFM is successfully deploying Lead Arranger for the 530 million debt package the same relationship-led approach that is used in supporting the secondary buyout of Baxi, one of the UK and Continental Europe to progressively build the leading providers of heating products and the business.
During 2004 we launched a new services in Europe.
corporate bonds business that builds on our industryleading US government bonds and asset-backed We provided Songbird Estates plc, a special securities operations at RBS Greenwich Capital.
purpose acquisition vehicle, with 901 million of acquisition financing for their purchase of Canary CBFM has been building its presence in Wharf Group plc.
selected markets in Asia Pacific as well as growing the business in Australia where we now offer a wide We acted as Lead Arranger for award range of products to both corporate and institutional winning care and services provider Barchester customers.
In 2004 we opened branches in Australia Healthcare in their 525 million acquisition of and Shanghai and gained approval for new offices nursing home group, Westminster Healthcare.
in Korea and Labuan, Malaysia.
We provided an export loan facility for Structured Finance has expertise in Hammersmith-based XPAP Recycling Ltd, an specialised financing around the globe.
In Europe exporter of pulp from the UK and Europe to SE Asia.
we are the market leader as an arranger of project finance, property finance, and acquisition finance, In the voluntary sector CBFM has provided working particularly closely with the growing number ongoing assistance to Acevo the professional of private equity sponsors.
We are now seeing very organisation for voluntary sector chief executives good growth in these businesses in the US as well.
that seeks to influence national policy concerning We are also a leading European asset finance the charities sector.
provider, particularly in trains and aircraft, through Angel Trains and RBS Aviation Capital.
Banking services for GlobaI Corporates Financial Markets has continued to grow and Institutions in sterling, US dollar and euro bond markets and A key feature of CBFM in the global over the last two years RBS has been the fastest debt financing markets is our focus on long-term growing player in the euro bond market, providing relationships, backed by our strong balance sheet further evidence of RBSs position as a global and suite of value-added product capabilities.
force in the bond markets.
Our foreign exchange business, where we are now one of the market CBFM currently has relationships with over leaders, is ranked 5th in the world.
90% of the Dow Jones Eurostoxx 50 index of leading European companies and we have made excellent progress developing relationships across Europe.
In Deals undertaken in 2004 include: addition to growing operations in France, Germany, RBS was Joint Bookrunner and Liquidity Spain and Italy, we are the leading property leasing Provider for Avivas 418.5 million UK equity release company in the Nordic region.
Our new branch in mortgage securitisation, a new fast-growing sector Stockholm offers a broad range of CBFM products in the UK mortgage market.
Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2004 Divisional review RBS Ann Review 14-19 7 3 05 10:27 am Page 18 Corporate Banking & Financial Markets continued For the last five years RBS has been the leading provider of banking services to UK businesses with a current market share of 33%.
18 Shire Foods Shire Foods, creators of Footballs Famous Chicken Balti Pies, now supply over 60 football clubs.
Commercial Banking provided 3.7 million of property and leasing finance for a new production facility in Leamington Spa.
Pendragon Mel Secure Systems Pendragon is the UKs Mel Secure Systems is one leading motor vehicle of the UK's leading retailer.
Selling a wide range providers of wireless CCTV of marques from Porsche technology.
Commercial to Ford, it turned to our Banking and RBS Midlands Corporate Banking Commercial Services team as Joint Mandated helped finance a move to Lead Arranger for a 450 new premises and provided million Syndicated Facility.
Make it happen Corporate Banking & Financial Markets RBS Ann Review 14-19 7 3 05 10:27 am Page 19 19 We were the only bank to be appointed on We were Financial Adviser and Bookrunner every sterling bond transaction that Network Rail for the record-breaking US$7.63 billion Qatargas II executed in 2004.
These included a 2.25 billion project financing, which provided funds for the deal, the largest ever single tranche sterling bond development of offshore and liquefaction facilities issue outside the gilt market.
in Qatar as well as an LNG import terminal in South Wales.
Qatargas II was voted EMEA gas deal of the With the role of Joint Bookrunner and Joint year by PFI Magazine.
Lead Manager, we provided Lloyds of London with a debut subordinated issue, the first time Lloyds In the United States we held the role of have raised funds in the bond market in their 300 Joint Lead Arranger in the leveraged buyout of year history.
Mandalay Resort Group by MGM MIRAGE.
At US$7 billion, the friendly acquisition was the The strength of our UK German links was largest leveraged deal of 2004. demonstrated when RBS was awarded the biggest banking tender in the UK corporate marketplace in Selected Awards 2004 when gaining the sole UK transmission banking Best Mid-Market Debt Provider contract for RWE Group AG, one of Europes largest in Europe 2004 utility groups.
European Venture Capital Journal In Italy, we acted as Joint Bookrunner for the Worlds Best Project Finance House 1.3 billion senior notes offering for Lighthouse S. A. Euromoney guaranteed by Seat Pagine Gialle.
The transaction was the largest ever single tranche high yield bond Best Global Bank issued in the European market and was named Project Finance International High Yield Deal of the Year by Credit Magazine.
Best Senior Debt Provider in Europe We acted as Bookrunner and Mandated for the 4th year running Lead Arranger in the 4.5 billion financing of Auna Private Equity International Group, the second largest telecommunications group in Spain.
The deal was the largest structured Best cross border securitisation, syndicated transaction in Spain in 2004. for Korea First Bank We acted as a Joint Bookrunner for Finance Asia Wal-Mart, the largest retailer in the world, in a 1 billion sterling bond issue, equal to the Bank of the Year: RBS Greenwich Capital largest ever long-dated corporate bond issue.
Real Estate Finance Investment's CMBS Awards We completed our first  Ranked No.
1 for sterling swaps for transaction in South Korea a US$100 million 12 consecutive years warehouse loan for Samsung Card Co. Risk Magazine Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2004 Divisional review
