RBS Ann Review 36-37 7 3 05 10:37 am Page 36 Wealth Management Profit contribution 468 million 2003 402 million Total income up 17% Profit up 16% 36 Ozwald Boateng.
The name Ozwald Boateng is synonymous with the finest of Saville Row tailoring.
During 2004, Coutts launched a new super premium charge card, designed by Ozwald Boateng.
Cardholders benefit from a concierge service and hospitality packages at events such as Wimbledon, the Monaco Grand Prix and the Cannes Film Festival.
Make it happen Wealth Management RBS Ann Review 36-37 7 3 05 10:37 am Page 37 37 Adam & Company continued its ten year Wealth Management provides record of profit growth, benefiting from continued private banking and investment investment in additional private bankers.
services to its global clients Investment programmes within Wealth through a number of leading UK Management have grown by 25% to US$17 billion and continue to perform competitively against and overseas private banking industry benchmarks.
Coutts is a significant investor in multi-manager hedge funds with more subsidiaries and offshore banking than US$6 billion invested.
It has a network of Outside the UK, Coutts completed the more than 50 offices globally.
integration of Bank von Ernst, which was acquired During 2004 Wealth Management in 2003, to create Coutts Bank von Ernst, which is now the third largest foreign-owned bank in expanded its business in the UK Switzerland.
and internationally and completed Coutts Asia celebrated ten years in Hong the integration of Bank von Ernst.
Coutts continues to expand its team of private bankers in Hong Kong, to take advantage Its total income increased by of rapid economic growth in the region.
Awards Coutts Wealth Management expanded its client Best UK bank for wealthy entertainers base particularly in the UK, where client numbers Best UK bank for wealthy sports players grew by 8%.
Best for super affluent Euromoney Average loans to clients grew by 9%, while average client deposits grew by 4%.
Best use of long-only multi manager structures Investment assets under management increased by 7%, allowing for exchange rate Private Asset Managers movements, and excluding acquisitions and disposals.
Awarded Cool Brand Leaders status The Superbrands organisation Coutts continued to enhance its position as the leading private bank in the UK.
Coutts Customer Contact Centre of the Year Finalist increased the number of private bankers across National Customer Service Awards its regional network by 38%.
Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2004 Divisional review
