Strategy and development Listening Nathalie Schwarz Strategy & Development Director Favourite artist: Bob Marley First single: Careless Whisper, George Michael Best gig: Live Aid at Wembley Capital Radio plc | www.
com 18 Market overview The radio broadcasting industry has become increasingly competitive in recent years.
In addition, radio faces strong challenges for consumers time and attention from a wide range of multimedia content available through various technological platforms both inside and outside the home.
Radio is now accessible to listeners through a variety of platforms, including Digital Audio Broadcasting DAB, digital television satellite, cable and Freeview, the Internet particularly via broadband and mobile phones.
A key driver of this evolution in the industry is the advent of digital radio, which has led to a sharp increase in the number of services available to the listener, and brought new opportunities and challenges for broadcasters.
Consumers can choose from a variety of radio distribution platforms and new technologys share is expanding all the time.
Currently, 28.5% of adults listen to radio via their digital television set, 16.1% listen online, and 5.2% listen via their mobile phone.
The younger the listener, the more likely this is: indeed, amongst 15 to 24 year olds, 39% have listened to radio via their television set, 26% have listened over the internet and 15% have listened to radio via their mobile phone.
In order to grow and build for the future, we must understand this changing media landscape and how consumer behaviour, needs, lifestyles and tastes will influence and shape our business.
As we meet the challenges and opportunities of this dynamic environment, our strategy is focused on achieving the greatest share of our listeners time, loyalty and value through a portfolio of strong brands which connect with them and enhance their lives.
Evolving consumer behaviour The speed at which new technology, lifestyle and demographic changes and trends are developing today is faster than at any point in our past.
Technology is enabling people to become more creative and, with barriers to entry for broadcasting being removed, we are now witnessing trends emerging in listener behaviour and consumption of radio and music.
Control of content is increasingly in the hands of the consumer, so our listeners become active editors, producers and schedulers, listening to what they want, when they want and on whatever platform they want.
Technology allows consumers to create their own private playlists or publish them for the rest of the world to see, make movies with soundtracks and be involved in the creation of new products and services.
For example, Home Choice allows for the customisation of a music television channel, there are 7.7 million audio downloads per month from the BBC on demand audio player, and Sky and PVRs provide the opportunity to pause or record television programmes with ease.
This use of technology is to continue to grow: within the next ten years, broadband connections in the UK are estimated to rise from the current 6 million to 20 million.
com 19 Strategy and development In addition, the phenomenon of the desire to achieve We are committed to the development of digital radio fame, even if it is just for ten seconds, which was and believe that it presents new opportunities for growth precipitated by fly on the wall documentaries and Big by increasing our audiences, delivering new revenue Brother at the start of this decade, seems to be greater streams through data services and allowing us to have than ever.
Again, new technology is allowing anybody to direct and interactive dialogue with our listeners.
Last be famous to appear on radio or television, or to year we invested 5.4 million and will be increasing our publish their own blog online.
The success of DAB has given listeners crystal quality, new station choices If we pull these emerging trends together then we begin and supplementary text information, and we are already to get a picture of the expanding role of media in the seeing the impact of these changes in our listening future.
Brands such as Xfm and Capital Gold were once limited to broadcasting in their analogue areas but Understanding our listeners digital technology makes them national brands for the first time.
Our combined analogue and digital coverage We need to plug into tomorrows listener and understand allows us to broadcast to 85% of the UK population, their needs, tastes and lifestyles.
Our listeners are which represents a potential audience of nearly bombarded by over 3,000 messages a day and Beneath 42 million adults.
the radar methods of marketing such as viral or guerrilla marketing and emotional selling are so ubiquitous now In addition, digital convergence at home is pushing that they are becoming wise to them.
We need to win millions to tune in through their televisions and we are our listeners approval by allowing them to suggest and also taking advantage of opportunities in this area.
We create the next generation of programming themselves.
broadcast Xfm, Capital Gold, 95.8 Capital FM, Century Network and Capital Disney on the Sky, Telewest and ntl As a Group, we put the listener at the heart of what we platforms, reaching 10.7 million potential listeners.
do by creating radio that people want to listen to because they have been part of the creation process.
Our Interactive business has developed significantly and now encompasses mobile marketing, mobile Harnessing new technologies content, cross-media services like dating, premium rate phone activity and managed call-handling for many A key driver of the evolution of the radio industry is the stations, in addition to a total of 16 consumer-facing advent of digital radio, which has led to a sharp increase websites.
We have delivered major new infrastructural in the number of services available to the listener and technology projects and partnerships across all platforms brought new opportunities and challenges for over the last 18 months to ensure that our brands have broadcasters and advertisers.
everything they need to deepen the relationship with The sale of DAB radios has risen dramatically over the their listeners: new shortcode numbers and texting last year, with 1.2 million sets forecast to be sold by facilities that can capture data and deliver content Christmas 2004 and 13 million by 2008.
In addition, there services, and new websites that can now develop listener has been an increase in the number of participating loyalty through VIP clubs.
manufacturers, which includes UK players such as One of the most dynamic areas of Interactive is the Roberts and international manufacturers such as Sony, mobile ringtones market.
This has taken much of the Panasonic and Hutchison.
There are now more than 140 music industry by surprise, having developed rapidly to different radio brands broadcasting in the UK many of become bigger than the UK singles market.
For stations whom are new to radio.
like Choice FM, this has been very successful and we now sell 12,000 ringtones a month through subscription services to Choice FM listeners alone.
com 20 We are focused on making these platforms an integral We are increasingly distributing audio content to third part of the consumer experience.
A growing consumer demand for music DVDs and a key partnership as the first commercial radio partner exclusive CDs is leading artists and record labels to use with Nokia & HP to explore listener interaction through live recordings created by ourselves either in the studio Visual Radio.
We are also working with manufacturers or at events.
In addition, we expect that the rise of to develop new DAB sets that complement our brands digital music downloads will mean that our content has and our digital services.
For instance, our deal with richer appeal beyond a single broadcast.
Tech Dynamic Ltd, part of the Hutchison Whampoa The digital music market is exciting and has captured Group, has created a branded Xfm player with a national the consumers imagination and is moving mainstream.
We have actively been exploring the digital music space Our Interactive objectives are to create real lines of for the last 12 months to identify opportunities for the income for Digital by monetising our digital listeners and business through the coming of age of digital music work with manufacturers to create DAB sets that have technology.
We believe that in the near future there back channels and return paths that can offer true is a real opportunity to combine both the promotion interactivity for listeners.
and digital distribution of music to consumers through our brands.
New revenue opportunities Our strategic aim is to be the UKs leading provider of In order to build valuable interaction with our listeners, music-based entertainment and architects of creative we are rolling out a strategy to extend the reach of our advertising solutions.
Our innovative thinking will brands as well as broaden our revenue opportunities enable us to gain new insight into our audiences, build beyond traditional advertising.
The initial target areas stronger brands to drive new listening and create new for brand extensions centre on our key position and revenue streams.
strengths within music-based entertainment and involve CD compilations, live music events, and the distribution of audio content.
A continuing success story for the Group is the sale of our branded CD compilations, which were around 1.2 million over the last 12 months.
They represent excellent opportunities to engage with listeners and extend our brands off air and showcase the music we play as well as create valuable and profitable revenue transactions with listeners.
We currently estimate that sales of our branded compilations account for 3% of the compilations market up from 2.5% 12 months ago.
We have grown our stable of albums through new and successful partnerships with Universal Music and Warner Music and Capital Gold Motown Classics and Century Hairbrush Divas had notable success this year, surpassing the 200,000 mark.
com 21 Our people and communities Engaging We live our music at Choice.
We might be broadcasters but we still gig, we still visit record shops, we still get excited about a hot new tune or new clothing items that come on the market.
Not many other stations have Dave VJ Choice DJ DJs that live the same life as their listeners.
Favourite artist: Ludacris First album: Greatest Hits, Michael Jackson Best gig: Diggin in the Crates crew at Subterranea Capital Radio plc | www.
com 22 People first People are at the core of everything we do at Capital Radio and this is reflected in our Corporate Social Responsibility CSR policy.
CSR is about aligning our business goals with our social values, taking into account the interests of all our stakeholders: employees, listeners, advertisers, suppliers and shareholders.
In this section, we focus on the internal, social and environmental success of our company as we aim to impact society in a positive way.
Capital Radio continues to encourage a fresh and original approach to radio broadcasting with a dedicated commitment to the communities we serve.
We want our stations to be a focus for local activity, so we look for employees who will be a positive voice for the communities they represent.
We promote a dynamic environment that stimulates innovative thinking to enhance the Capital brands and create new growth opportunities.
People want to join the Capital Radio team and we continue to attract and retain the best talent throughout the Group.
A great place to work The welfare and interests of our employees are a high priority for us and group-wide health and safety principles are in place to ensure a safe working environment.
We recognise the importance of a balance between work and family life and have established comprehensive family policies, which include adoptive, maternity and paternity leave, as well as flexible working hours.
We are an equal opportunities employer and do not discriminate on the grounds of sex, colour, race, religion, ethnic or national background, sexual orientation, marital status, age, disability, political or religious beliefs.
We embrace a culture where employees can voice their opinions and are heard.
We welcome their comments and operate a number of initiatives that encourage teamwork and collaboration across divisions.
Capital Radio will continue to provide a stimulating and rewarding work environment with our values of creativity, leadership, integrity, teamwork and community responsibility firmly entrenched in our corporate culture.
Closer to our listeners If it wasnt for Capital Radio Group, Xfm Radio is an influential medium in every local community.
We harness this wouldnt be on the air.
influence to provide valuable support to causes that our listeners care about.
Being part of the Group Capital Radio is the partner of choice for many social action campaigns and has allowed us to grow the Group has a dedicated Community Relations Director with a team of in a natural and co-ordinators based at each station to build relationships with our local sustainable way without compromising our communities.
Nigel Harding Head of Music, Xfm Favourite artist: Stevie Wonder First single: Blue Peter, Mike Oldfield Best gig: Flaming Lips at the Hammersmith Apollo Capital Radio plc | www.
com 23 Our people and communities Charity begins at home Communities Charity work is a very important part of our relationship Listen and learn with our local communities.
We provide fundraising and Capital Radio works with hundreds of schools across the grants to a broad range of organisations, as well as UK supporting various education projects that promote promoting other issues and charities.
Our primary focus learning and social skills.
These include the BT Schools is promoting the welfare of children and young people.
Awards, which shared 500,000 among 240 schools Capital Charities is the registered charity for the Group, funds: Media Placement Open Days, which saw over under which a number of local charities are operated 1,000 graduates visit our stations: and DAB Schools, including Help a London Child, Help a South Wales Child, which encourages schools to set up their own DAB radio Help a Local Child and 21st Century Kids.
Other initiatives include support for the DfES Music Manifesto, mentoring with the Education Business Our stations work closely with our dedicated charity team Partnerships and BITCs Partners in Leadership.
to instigate fundraising events that include Feetbeat, Local Heroes, movie premieres, restaurant nights and treks Safe and sound to name a few.
This unique partnership has raised over 2.7 million in the last financial year for Capital Charities.
Personal safety and security remains high on our 2 million of this has been raised in London, a great way listeners list of concerns so in addition to our news to celebrate 30 years of Help A London Child in 2005. output, support for schemes that can address crime reduction is an important part of our CSR policy.
Our In 2004, the Group and its charities awarded grants to relationship with Crimestoppers continues to grow with over 600 groups in Greater London, South Wales, the our broadcast of features in Crimestoppers Week and our West Midlands, Tyneside and the South of England.
Over ongoing support to tackle the issue of gun crime is a 200,000 children will have benefited from these grants feature of the Peace On The Streets programme on creating a real difference to their lives.
The projects we Choice FM.
Youth Talk, also with Choice FM, is a series of undertake range from funding music, arts, drama, sports visits to 22 schools to show young people that guns and and youth groups in some of the countrys most deprived drugs are not inevitable.
In addition, the Child Rescue areas, to providing specialist equipment and support Alert scheme, which started in Sussex with the support services for groups working with children or young of Capital Radio and assists the Police when a child is people with a disability, special need or serious illness.
abducted, is now set to roll out across the UK.
We also support supplementary schools and cultural activities for children from diverse communities, as well Entertaining and informing as refuges for families fleeing domestic violence and homelessness organisations.
Listeners rely on their local radio station not only to entertain, but also to be the source of information for In 1998, we created Party in the Park, which raises the community.
Capitals Social Action team continues to money for disadvantaged young people.
Since its weave into programming a wide range of subject matter inception, we have hosted this popular event annually and services reflecting our listeners interests.
in London, with all proceeds going to the Princes Trust.
This year the event raised 1.7 million, with profits going News on our websites is tailored to our listeners to help disadvantaged young people to fulfil their concerns and lifestyles with issues including bullying, potential, giving them the financial assistance they need child safety, truancy, eating disorders and cancer to achieve their goals.
We remain in close contact with our listeners with a series of helplines covering social and community Measuring the impact of our community activities is led action topics from Revision Line to Bonfire Line.
by our involvement with CommunityMark.
This BITC benchmarking scheme assesses the structure and processes in place to deliver CSR.
All our stations will be accredited with the standard by early 2005.
com 24 We endeavour to maintain a high standard of Responsibilities transparency of financial reporting and encourage Forging strong links with our suppliers the freeflow of information to the investment We recognise the importance of strong, long-term community.
We have regular contact with analysts and fund managers to ensure that they are updated relationships with our suppliers to the stability of our business and are committed to fostering and maintaining on any company and industry developments, from more information on our brands to a seminar on these relationships.
Our Group Procurement and Facilities Manager continues to strengthen our How to buy Radio.
relationships with our suppliers, manage costs and where Our private investors are also a valuable part of our possible, source some of our supplies from eco-friendly shareholder base and we communicate with them sources.
We are continually reviewing and benchmarking through the mediums of our company website, Annual existing suppliers of goods and services, ensuring the Report and AGM.
We also provide IR information packs to best and most efficient packages for the Group.
brokerage firms specialising in private client investment to ensure retail investors needs are met.
Engaging in active dialogue with our shareholders We recognise the importance of high standards of We are committed to communicating Group strategy and corporate governance and follow the principles as set activities clearly to our shareholders and have in place out in the Combined Code.
The Board is an ongoing investor relations programme.
accountable for the Groups operations Andrew Lanceeld Capital Gold listener Favourite artist: Ian Dury & the Blockheads First single: Hong Kong Garden, Siouxsie & the Banshees Best gig: Ian Dury at the London Palladium Capital Radio plc | www.
com 25 Our people and communities and has ongoing procedures for identifying, evaluating We aim to reduce this impact, and in order to control and managing risks faced by the Group according to waste, energy-saving initiatives are encouraged and Turnbull Guidance.
Further details can be found in the recycling is actively promoted across the Group.
Report of the Directors on page 39.
Examples of energy savings include use of low energy bulbs and the turning off of computers, stereos and photocopiers at the end of each day.
Throughout the Controlling our effect on the environment Group, where possible, air-conditioning and refrigeration Although the radio industry has little direct impact on systems run on CFC free gases.
Our Annual Report and the environment, we recognise that as a company, we Accounts is printed on Storafine paper Nordic do have some limited effects.
We are focusing on those Environmental Product Label Licence No.
344043 and activities with the most significant impacts.
Our main group-wide recycling schemes target paper and toner concerns are waste disposal computer equipment, cartridges.
In addition, there are a number of local toners and paper and management of our energy initiatives currently operating within the Company, consumption, notably electricity.
Capital Radio adheres including recycling computers and mobile phones to to current guidelines and supports the relevant schools and charities.
government and industry regulatory bodies complying fully with their requirements.
Our plans for the future All of our waste is disposed of in accordance with the Environmental Protection Act 1990.
We publish both environmental and CSR policies that have extended our local level initiatives and created specific Group-wide targets to reduce our environmental impact further and ensure that social responsibility remains at the core of our business activities.
We have set out our objectives to ensure improvement and continue to monitor our progress.
As environmental standards are constantly being improved, we will keep in touch with the latest developments in management and reporting of CSR issues.
These shifts will be reflected in our future policies.
com 26 Communicating our CSR aims clearly We endeavour to be a socially responsible company of the highest standard and our achievements have been recognised by our continued inclusion in the FTSE4Good index.
In addition, we are members of the 2004 BITC Per Cent Club.
The extent of the Boards commitment to these important issues is demonstrated by the nomination of Peter Harris, Group Finance Director, as the Board CSR representative, who is supported by the central managers of Procurement, Health and Safety and Community Relations.
We remain committed to communicating our progress openly and will report our findings publicly in both the Annual Report and on our website.
We will also continue to encourage greater awareness and involvement from our employees with wider internal communication of CSR issues and strategy.
Currently, we actively consult key shareholders and Socially Responsible Investment SRI teams to ensure their concerns and ideas are taken into account in our decision-making process.
Your feedback is encouraged and comments on our environmental practices and suggestions for the future are welcomed at csr@capitalradiogroup.
The Percent Standard, awarded by Business in the Community, recognises and celebrates corporate giving and is a symbol of a companys commitment to its local community.
It is the UKs best known benchmark for measuring a companys contributions to their local community through cash donations, staff time, gifts in kind and management time, shown as a percentage of pre-tax profits.
Adam Lanceeld Capital Disney listener Favourite artist: Maroon 5 First album: Now Thats What I Call Music 1997 Best gig: Summer xcess at Milton Keynes Bowl Capital Radio plc | www.
