Commercial review Delivering Linda Smith Commercial Director Favourite artist: Van Morrison First single: Seasons in the Sun, Terry Jacks Best gig: Bruce Springsteen at Wembley Capital Radio plc | www.
com 12 Overview The last 12 months have presented their usual number of challenges and opportunities for the commercial team.
The single biggest event was the arrival of Johnny Vaughan as the new Breakfast Show host for 95.8 Capital FM.
This news was received enthusiastically by both our clients and our commercial team, who were also delighted with both the consumer and trade marketing support that the new Breakfast Show received.
The arrival of Choice FM and continued growth from Xfm and the Century Network has created additional talkability opportunities for the team, especially important given some of the more difficult market and competitive issues that we have had to address.
Our careful management of price, yield and inventory across the Group has enabled our local and national teams to concentrate on our creative and solution-led sales focus.
We have improved our relative position against the radio commercial market and overall the team is confident, well positioned and hungry for further success in 2004 05.
Brand-led focus In the Commercial division, our aim is to create and deliver advertising and promotional solutions for clients across all of our radio brands.
Over the last year, our ongoing focus on a brand-led sell has been strengthened by our growing portfolio.
This year we started trading on two new platforms, Choice FM and Capital Disney, while expanding Xfms traditional London base into a national advertising opportunity.
Xfms national measurement means that advertisers now buy Xfms total UK audience, through digital, online and multi-channel TV listening.
By understanding our listeners, we have been able to engage advertisers better with our brands.
This year, the number of national advertisers buying across all of our brands increased by 26% and national advertising now represents 78% of advertising sales across the Group.
Century FM Network and Xfm have both increased their total brand count and, whilst there has been some readjustment to the Choice FM local market, the national brand count has grown substantially by 37%.
Across all three of these networks, Century FM, Choice FM and Xfm, the average spend per advertiser has increased year on year.
Weve got London covered The combination of our four analogue stations that cover London Capital FM, Xfm, Capital Gold and Choice FM delivers 3.1 million listeners across the capital.
The Group has maintained commercial audience and retains a strong trading position as a direct result.
The portfolio is further complemented by our digital offering including Century FM, Capital Disney and Life.
Increase in Year on Year Year on Year Growth Brand Count in Average Spend Source: NMR, November 2004 Source: Internal company figures Century 15% Century 33% XFM 8% XFM 33% Choice 7% Capital Radio plc | www.
com 13 Commercial review Our Get London Covered package allows advertisers to Our online presence provides a great opportunity for buy into an audience portfolio that reflects Londons driving non-airtime revenue for the Group and this year diversity in terms of demographics, lifestyle, and music.
alone we have developed five new online advertising With less reliance on 95.8 Capital FM alone, advertisers formats.
One example is Ads on air, which allows any can build campaigns across our portfolio to reach more airtime advertiser to host their advert on our websites listeners in this highly demanded market.
The uniqueness with a link through to their own url.
Text messaging has of our portfolio means that one in six clients advertising also generated additional revenue for Capital Radio, in London only use our stations and not those of our such as the Nivea for Men campaign, which used our competitors.
station text shortcode for a sampling trial.
Similarly, this years regional Party in the Parks were ticketed by mobile in partnership with O.
Category performance 2 We have seen the following performance of revenues Our cross platform capabilities have been enhanced from our top 15 advertising categories: through the RSVP Real Sound, Vision & Print partnership with IPC Ignite!
This Year on year % of airtime collaboration with other media partners has allowed Category revenue revenue advertisers, such as Pringles and TDK, to buy our brands Retail -2% 16.5% as part of a multimedia solution.
Motors 15% 13.9% Business & Industrial 26% 11.9% Creativity at the core Entertainment & the Media -19% 10.5% Gov Social Political 13% 10.1% More and more advertisers are recognising the Travel & Transport 0% 6.8% advantages of the radio medium: low-entry price: Food 74% 6.1% low production costs: and access to the commercially Household Equipment -7% 5.5% desirable 15-44 year old audience.
Furthermore, Entertainment -19% 5.1% radios share of the display advertising market has Computers 16% 3.8% been steadily growing, reaching 6.8% in todays market.
Finance 3% 2.7% Key to achieving this has been our reinforcing of the Household Supplies -33% 1.4% importance of effective creative executions.
Drink 7% 1.2% Cosmetics & Toiletries -27% 1.2% Capital Radio has continued to invest in improving radio creativity through its Ideas and Sonics departments.
Capital Pharmaceutical -51% 0.7% Ideas, our commercial production team, has increased Source: AIMS net figures revenue by 10.2% year on year.
Highlights of 2004 include winning a London International Advertising Award for our Cross-platform success British Airways campaign, as well as increasing industry The success of our Sponsorship and Promotions teams accountability through a research and copy-testing trial highlights the continued development of advertiserwith The Sunday Times.
Capital Sonics continues to supported programming across the Group.
Key partners champion the power of sound in brand communication include Kelloggs Corn Flakes, O and British Airways, who to traditionally radio resistant clients.
UKTV, GSK, Shell, 2 extended their presence across three of our networks.
Wella and Birds Eye are examples of clients who attended sonic workshops having not spent on radio in the previous The arrival of Johnny Vaughan to the 95.8 Capital FM year.
In the 12 months following the workshop, they spent Breakfast Show has created a fresh interest in promotional a combined 1.2 million on Capital Radio stations alone.
activity on the station beginning with the outside broadcast for Fullers London Pride on St. Georges Day, which was We aim to continue to challenge and expand advertisers shortlisted for the MediaWeek Awards.
Our increased views on radio as an advertising medium, provide our flexibility and collaboration with programming teams has clients with innovative solutions to suit their needs and allowed for the quick turn-around of tactical promotional offer a level of customer service unmatched anywhere activity, such as Property Week with HSBC Bank Mortgages.
com 14 Two compelling compilations were made, one focusing Case study: Choice Cuts on listeners and their lifestyles, and the other on their Our business challenge views of music, radio and Choice FM itself.
We also In March 2004, Choice FM became fully owned by constructed profiles of listener types, which gave major Capital Radio plc.
The national advertising and audience segments real tangibility.
Extensive questioning sponsorship sales team at Capital Radio had been selling on particular markets allowed us to compile brand the brand nationally since November 2002 but revenue heaven and hell lists for various markets including and brand count remained disappointing.
Our research fashion, technology, alcohol and cosmetics.
These amply team gathered brand perceptions held by advertisers demonstrated the audiences cutting-edge nature and and agencies in order to understand their resistance to its desire for brands and shopping and formed the basis planning and buying the station.
Their perception was that of our strong sales presentation.
the audience had limited spending habits and was too much of a niche demographic and the station content Our resulting success was not seen as providing a suitable environment for The study was well conceived and focused on sales mainstream national radio advertisers.
return and the new presentation for advertisers was made to major agencies across the UK.
The response We tackled all three issues using a creative presentation was unprecedented with many radio planners and which illustrated the stations output alongside research buyers citing it as one of the best they had seen.
that showed the Choice FM audiences desirability: its Howard Barclay, head of Radio at WPPs Mindshare said: 70% ABC1 Female profile.
Using Choice FMs goodwill The Choice presentation gave a clear insight into the with its listeners was crucial in gaining the co-operation value of the brand and its audience.
Key to this was the of the stations young, urban and ethnically diverse clearly identifiable listener types.
market a group usually difficult to engage.
Within two months of showcasing the new research-led presentation, Choice FM signed up several major national Our objectives advertisers that had never used the station before.
These We aimed to increase sales revenue generated for the included British Airways, Now Magazine, Orange, Renault brand significantly by: Clio, McDonalds, Grolsch and Gillette UK Ltd. providing the national sales team with a convincing, engaging and focused sales story: Sales results for Choice National Sales team bringing the brands attributes to life by enabling As a result of the work weve done, year on year sales for customers to understand the value and structure of the period January to September 2004 are up 54% on the Londons urban culture and music scene: same period last year and the station achieved an increased increasing the confidence and passion of the sales reach of 383,000 listeners in the W3 04 Rajar results.
teams in the brand: and developing the programming and marketing teams 350 understanding of Choice FMs listeners as a base for driving more listening.
300 250 Our methodology We decided to bring the brand to life through its listeners 200 and opted for a qualitative methodology that would catch 150 listeners in their own environment.
The research agency Murmur was appointed and began by attending a leading 100 RnB club night at 10 Rooms in Londons West End.
Interviews were filmed with clubbers who were also 50 Choice FM listeners, which were supplemented with focus groups of core listeners, held in suitably relaxed venues such as private rooms in bars and pubs and also filmed.
