DIRECTORS REPORT Directors Report The Directors have pleasure in submitting their Review of Activities Corporate Governance Annual Report together with the results of the During the year under review the Company In July 2003 the Financial Reporting Council Company for the year to 31 March 2004. has followed the normal activities of an issued a revised Combined Code on investment trust company.
A review of the Corporate Governance the revised Code main features of the year is contained in the which is mandatory for accounting periods Status Chairmans Statement and in the Managers beginning on or after 1 November 2003, The Company is an investment company Portfolio Review on the preceding pages.
effective for the Companys year end within the meaning of section 266 of the 31 March 2005.
In addition, the AITC Companies Act 1985. issued a Code of Corporate Governance Dividends the AITC Code in August 2003.
The Company carries on business as an The Board recommends a final dividend of investment trust.
It was approved by the Following the publication of the revised 0.40p per ordinary share which, together Inland Revenue as an investment trust under Code and the AITC Code, the Board held with the interim of 2.20p and the second section 842 of the Income and Corporation a special meeting to review fully its corporate interim of 4.40p already paid, makes a Taxes Act 1988 for the year ended governance procedures.
Procedures have total of 7.00p for the year compared with 31 March 2003, subject to any matters been amended, where appropriate, to ensure 6.60p for the previous year.
that may arise from any subsequent enquiry that the Company should be compliant with by the Inland Revenue into the Companys If approved, the recommended final dividend the revised Code for its accounting period tax return.
In the opinion of the Directors on the ordinary shares will be paid on 7 July to 31 March 2005. the Company has subsequently conducted 2004 to shareholders on the register at the its affairs so as to enable it to continue to close of business on 11 June 2004.
Compliance obtain such approval and it will continue After payment of the dividend the The Board has considered the principles to seek approval under section 842 of the accumulated revenue balance is increased set out in the 1998 Combined Code the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 by 3,152,000 to 54,041,000.
Code and believes that the Companys each year.
current practice, given the special 26 ANNUAL REPORT 2004 DIRECTORS REPORT circumstances of an investment trust company, served on the Board for more than 9 years.
Board, appraising the Chairman and the is, in all material respects, consistent with the The Board takes the view that Mr Balls Board, succession planning and training.
The Company has independence has not been compromised The Committee will consider the use of an complied throughout the year under review by his length of service and that he is external search consultant depending on with the provisions set out in Section 1 of independent in character and judgement and circumstances at the appropriate time.
the Code which are relevant to it.
there are no relationships or circumstances that are likely to affect his judgement.
Mr GA Under the provisions of the Companys The Board Ball is the senior independent director.
Articles, a Director appointed during the The Board has overall responsibility for the year is required to retire and seek election During the course of the year the Board Companys affairs.
It has a number of matters by shareholders at the next Annual General reviewed its composition having regard to the reserved for its approval including strategy, Meeting.
The Articles also require that one present and future needs of the Company and investment policy, borrowings, treasury third of the Directors retire by rotation and the need for a balanced Board.
Sir Donald matters and dividend policy.
The Board also submit themselves for re-election.
The MacKay was appointed Chairman on 3 July reviews the financial statements, investment Board has resolved further that no Director 2003 following the retiral of Lord Sanderson transactions, revenue budgets and shall serve for a period of greater than of Bowden.
Lord Strathclyde and Mr MM performance.
3 consecutive years without submitting Gray, who are very experienced in the himself for re-election and that any Director The number of meetings of the Board and worlds of politics and industry respectively, who has served on the Board for more than the Audit Committee during the year and the were appointed to the Board on 26 February 9 years will submit himself for re-election attendance of the individual directors at those 2004.
Lord Portarlington will retire from the annually.
meetings is shown in the following table.
Board at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting on 1 July 2004.
New Directors appointed to the Board Audit have a formal induction meeting with the Board Committee The Directors all have appropriate business Managers.
Directors will receive other Number of meetings 82 and financial experience to enable the Board relevant training as necessary.
Lord Sanderson of Bowden 31 to provide effective strategic leadership and Sir Donald MacKay 82 proper governance of the Company.
There is an agreed procedure for Directors GA Ball 62 Information about the Directors can be found to seek independent professional advice if MM Gray 2 on pages 8 and 9. necessary at the Companys expense.
WG McQueen 72 The Earl of Portarlington 62 The executive responsibilities for investment JPHS Scott 72 management have been delegated to the Remuneration Lord Strathclyde 2 Companys Managers and Secretaries, Since all the Directors are non-executive, a Baillie Gifford & Co, and in the context of remuneration committee is considered a Board comprised entirely of non-executive unnecessary.
The Companys policy on Lord Sanderson of Bowden attended all the Directors, there is no chief executive officer.
remuneration is set out in the Directors meetings held up to the date of his retiral and Remuneration Report on pages 31 and 32.
Mr Gray and Lord Strathclyde attended all A Nomination Committee was established in the meetings held since their appointment.
March 2004 consisting of the whole Board.
The Board currently comprises 7 Directors, The Chairman of the Committee is the Internal Controls and Risk Management all of whom are non-executive and are Chairman of the Board.
The terms of reference The practical measures to ensure compliance considered to be independent.
Mr GA Ball include reviewing the Board, identifying and with regulation and company law, and to offers himself for re-election this year, having nominating candidates for appointment to the provide effective and efficient operations and SCOTTISH MORTGAGE INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 27 DIRECTORS REPORT investment management, have been and can only provide reasonable but not the risks facing the Company and that they delegated to the Managers and Secretaries, absolute assurance against material are being actively monitored.
Where Baillie Gifford & Co, under the terms of misstatement or loss.
The Directors confirm changes in risk have been identified during the Management Agreement.
The Board that they have reviewed the effectiveness of the year they also provide a mechanism acknowledges its responsibilities to supervise the system and they have procedures in place to assess whether further action is required and control the discharge by the Managers to review its effectiveness on a regular basis.
to manage the risks identified.
The Board and Secretaries of their obligations.
confirms that these procedures have been The Board has undertaken a full review of all in place throughout the Companys financial Baillie Gifford & Co is responsible for the aspects of the published guidance Internal year, are operating effectively and continue design, implementation and maintenance of Control: Guidance for Directors on the to be in place up to the date of approval control policies and procedures to safeguard Combined Code the Turnbull guidance of this Report.
the assets of the Company and to manage and has established an ongoing process for its affairs properly.
This responsibility also identifying, evaluating and managing the Accountability and Audit extends to maintaining effective operational significant risks faced by the Company, in The respective responsibilities of the Directors and compliance controls and risk accordance with the Turnbull and the auditors in connection with the management.
To ensure that risk Financial Statements are set out on pages 33 management and internal controls are to 35.
The Companys investments are segregated considered on a regular basis and that a from those of Baillie Gifford & Co and its full risk and control assessment is undertaken The accounts have been prepared on the other clients through the appointment of on an annual basis, the following processes going concern basis as it is the Directors independent custodian banks.
have been established in compliance with opinion that the Company will continue in the guidance: operational existence for the foreseeable Baillie Gifford & Co has an established future.
compliance function in accordance with the internal controls strategy has been Financial Services Authority regulations.
The formalised following the production of a An audit committee has been established compliance function provides the Board with detailed risk map whereby significant risks in compliance with the Combined Code a report on monitoring procedures at least are identified and the key controls to consisting of the whole Board.
Baillie Gifford & Co conducts manage these risks are confirmed as in and duties are clearly defined within its an annual review of its system of internal place and operating effectively: written terms of reference.
Mr WG McQueen controls which is documented within an replaced the Chairman of the Board as reporting procedures for the internal audit internal controls report.
This report is Chairman of the Audit Committee on department, in respect of its risk framework independently reviewed by Baillie Gifford & 18 March 2004. monitoring and audit programme, and the Cos auditors.
A copy of the internal controls compliance department, in respect of its The Committee meets at least twice a year to report is submitted to the Board.
The regulatory monitoring programme, are review the Companys interim and annual Baillie Gifford & Co heads of internal audit defined and formalised within a service financial statements.
The Committee keeps and compliance provide the Board with level agreement: and under review the scope and effectiveness of regular reports on their monitoring programmes.
the external audit and considers on a regular regular reports on internal controls are The Directors acknowledge their overall basis the independence and objectivity of the prepared by the Managers and submitted responsibility for the Companys system of external auditors.
It meets at least annually for Board review.
internal controls and for reviewing its with the external auditors and recommends to effectiveness.
The system of internal controls is These procedures ensure that consideration the Board the level of fees for audit and designed to manage rather than eliminate risk is given regularly to the nature and extent of non-audit services.
It also reviews regularly 28 ANNUAL REPORT 2004 DIRECTORS REPORT Directors interests Ordinary 25p shares held at Nature 31 March 2003 Name of interest 31 March 2004 or date of appointment Sir Donald MacKay Beneficial 2,469 2,469 GA Ball Beneficial 10,000 10,000 MM Gray Beneficial 272,900 271,900 Non-beneficial 12,500 12,500 WG McQueen Beneficial 1,500 1,500 Non-beneficial 3,000 3,000 The Earl of Portarlington Beneficial 936,000 936,000 JPHS Scott Beneficial 15,464 2,129 Lord Strathclyde Beneficial 3,142 The Directors at the year end, and their interests in the Company, were as shown above.
the terms of the Investment Management The Company has given discretionary of up to 44,566,036 ordinary shares Agreement.
voting powers to the investment managers, equivalent to 14.99% of its then issued Baillie Gifford & Co.
The Managers vote share capital, such authority to expire at the against resolutions they consider may conclusion of the Annual General Meeting Investment Manager damage shareholders rights or economic of the Company to be held in respect of the An Investment Management Agreement interests.
Baillie Gifford & Co give due year ending 2004 or 2 January 2005, between the Company and Baillie Gifford & weight to what they consider to be socially whichever is earlier, unless previously varied, Co sets out the matters over which the responsible investment when making revoked or renewed.
Managers have authority in accordance with investment decisions, but their overriding the policies and directions of, and subject During the year to 31 March 2004 the objective is to produce good investment to restrictions imposed by, the Board.
The Company bought back 700,000 ordinary returns for shareholders.
Management Agreement is terminable on not shares nominal value 175,000, on the less than 12 months notice.
Details of the fee London Stock Exchange for cancellation.
Directors arrangements with Baillie Gifford & Co are The total consideration for these shares shown on page 41.
It is the opinion of the Mr MM Gray and Lord Strathclyde were was 1,779,000.
Between 1 April 2004 Directors that the continuing appointment of appointed to the Board on 26 February and the date of this report no further shares Baillie Gifford & Co on the terms agreed is 2004.
Their appointments fall to be have been bought back.
in the interest of shareholders as a whole as confirmed at the Annual General Meeting.
the Managers experienced and well The principal reasons for such share Mr WG McQueen retires by rotation and, resourced investment team has managed the buy-backs are: being eligible, is recommended by the Board Companys assets in accordance with its for re-election.
i to enhance net asset value for continuing stated policy and objective.
Additionally, the shareholders by purchasing shares at a secretarial and administrative functions have Mr GA Ball, having served for more than discount to the prevailing net asset value: been well conducted.
9 years, offers himself and is recommended by the Board for re-election.
ii to address any imbalance between the The Earl of Portarlington will retire from the Relations with Shareholders supply of and the demand for Scottish Board at the conclusion of the Annual The Companys Managers meet regularly Mortgages shares that results in a General Meeting.
with shareholders and their representatives discount of the quoted market price to and report to the Board.
The Chairman is the published net asset value per share.
Lord Sanderson of Bowden retired from the available to meet shareholders as Board on 3 July 2003. appropriate.
Shareholders wishing to The shares in question were purchased at a There have been no changes intimated in communicate with the Chairman, the senior price after allowing for costs below the net the Directors interests up to 7 May 2004. independent director or any other member asset value and subsequently cancelled, of the Board may do so by writing to the thereby reducing the issued share capital see Directors and officers liability insurance Company, for the attention of the secretaries note 15 on page 47.
As a result of such cover is held by the Company in respect at the address on the back cover.
The purchases the net asset value of the Company of the Directors.
Companys Annual General Meeting has increased by approximately 0.05%.
provides a forum for all communication with Repurchase of Shares shareholders and the Board announces the The Directors are seeking shareholders level of proxies lodged.
The notice period At the Annual General Meeting held on 3 July approval at the Annual General Meeting to for the Annual General Meeting is at least 2003 the Company renewed its authority renew the authority to purchase up to 20 working days.
to purchase shares in the market, in respect 14.99% of the Companys ordinary shares in SCOTTISH MORTGAGE INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 29 DIRECTORS REPORT Substantial Holdings No.
of ordinary Name 25p shares held % of issue DC Thomson & Co Ltd 15,000,000 5.0 Prudential plc 10,938,100 3.7 Legal & General Investment Management 9,092,501 3.1 The above information has been intimated to the Company as at 7 May 2004 in compliance with section 198 of the Companies Act 1985. issue at the date of the passing of the Auditors resolution, such authority to expire at the The auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, are willing to Annual General Meeting of the Company to continue in office and in accordance with be held in respect of the year ending 2005 section 385 and section 390A of the or 31 December 2005, whichever is earlier.
Companies Act 1985 resolutions concerning Under the Listing Rules of the UK Listing their reappointment and remuneration will be Authority of the Financial Services Authority, submitted to the Annual General Meeting.
the maximum price that may be paid on the exercise of the authority must not exceed By order of the Board 105% of the average of the middle market BAILLIE GIFFORD & Co quotations for the shares over the 5 business Managers and Secretaries days immediately preceding the date of purchase.
The minimum price that may be 10 May 2004 paid will be 25p per share.
Purchases of shares will be made within guidelines established, from time to time, by the Board.
Your attention is drawn to Special Resolution No.
10, in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
Creditor Payment Policy It is the Companys payment policy for the forthcoming financial year to obtain the best terms for all business.
In general, the Company agrees with its suppliers the terms on which business will take place and it is its policy to abide by these terms.
The Company had no trade creditors at 31 March 2004.
