MANAGERS OVERVIEW Returns From Markets for the year ended 31 March 2004 Geographical performance against benchmark in local currency Managers Overview It is pleasant to be able to report on a historic shift in the global economy that will to our returns by moving our oil exposure much improved year.
This comes as a relief dominate the investment scene of the next away from the UK towards Emerging after the prolonged bear market but we are 20 years.
There will, of course, be Markets.
particularly pleased that we have been interruptions to this process as politics, Our current view is that world economic able to exceed the benchmark returns by valuations and above all economic a considerable margin.
cycles play out and we will try to take growth will be strong in the year ahead and that corporate earnings are likely to account of these whilst keeping the Part of our success stemmed from strategic picture firmly in mind.
We see some signs of renewed dividend growth which is maintaining our gearing.
It need scarcely be said that the experience of recent years For the third year in a row overall stock refreshing.
Whilst the global political scene has made us very conscious of both the selection has been positive.
UK remains of serious concern we think that performance continued its consistent record the decisive issues in the year ahead will dangers and opportunities inherent in long term borrowings.
We have made whilst the contributions from Asia and prove to be the sustainability of strong Emerging Markets selection were growth with low inflation.
Britain is no significant improvements in our bond capabilities in recent years and this should noteworthy and that from Europe a relief exception to this issue but developments after a period of poor performance.
There in America and China will be critical.
allow us to handle our borrowing levels more effectively and consistently in the were no major areas of concern with both We are cautiously optimistic.
America and Japan performing in line with years ahead with the guidance of the Board.
We regard all these figures with a degree of interest but it is far At a geographical asset allocation level more important to consider the overall stock we have continued to benefit from our selection picture as we view the Trusts portfolio on an integrated global basis.
rising exposure towards Asia and Emerging Markets.
We think that this reflects an We have, for example, added significantly 10 ANNUAL REPORT 2004 MANAGERS OVERVIEW Performance Attribution for the year to 31 March 2004 Computed relative to the benchmark 50% FTSE All-Share Index and 50% FTSE World Ex UK Index in sterling terms with net income reinvested.
Performance Attribution in sterling terms Contribution Contribution attributable to: Benchmark Scottish Mortgage Performance to relative Stock Asset 01.04.03 31.03.04 01.04.03 31.03.04 SM Benchmark return selection allocation Portfolio breakdown %%%%%%%%% UK 50.0 50.0 54.9 50.5 32.4 31.0 0.7 0.6 0.1 Europe ex.
Source: HSBC Baillie Gifford & Co The above returns are calculated on a total return basis with net income reinvested.
Scottish Mortgages figures represent the returns on the Companys portfolio and the benchmark figures for each geographical area represent the return on the appropriate FTSE index.
Contributions cannot be added together as they are geometric: for example to calculate how a return of 36.8%, against a benchmark return of 28.1% translates into a relative return of 7.0%, divide the portfolio return of 136.8 by the benchmark return of 128.1 and subtract one.
Asset allocation includes the contribution attributable to currency movements.
Equities include convertibles, warrants, limited partnerships and OEICs.
SCOTTISH MORTGAGE INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 11
