COMPANY SUMMARY Company data at 31 March 2004 Total assets Shareholders funds Market capitalisation 1,355m 1,128m 907m before deduction of debentures and short term borrowings.
Company Summary Scottish Mortgage is one of the largest investment trust companies in the UK.
Its objective is to maximise total return whilst also generating real dividend growth.
Policy and Objective Management Details ISA PEP Scottish Mortgages objective is to Baillie Gifford & Co is appointed as ISA and PEP transfer facilities are maximise total return whilst also investment managers and secretaries to the available see inside back cover.
The management contract can AITC We invest internationally but with a core be terminated at 12 months notice.
of exposure to the UK market.
Our equity The Company is a member of the Capital Structure Association of Investment Trust Companies, portfolio is relatively concentrated.
We At the year end the Companys share of which it was one of the founder look to buy and hold strong businesses with good prospects for growth.
We do capital consisted of 297,305,115 members in 1932. ordinary shares of 25p each which were not replicate regional indices but instead manage the portfolio and gearing levels issued and fully paid.
During the year the Company bought back 700,000 shares Notes actively: our focus is on identifying None of the views expressed in this outstanding global investments.
Long term gearing has been secured by the issue of 146 million document should be construed as advice to buy or sell a particular investment.
Benchmark nominal value of debenture stocks.
The portfolio benchmark against which Management Fee Investment trusts are UK public listed performance is measured is 50% FTSE All-Share Index and 50% FTSE World Baillie Gifford & Cos annual remuneration companies and as such are not authorised Ex UK Index in sterling terms.
is 0.32% of total assets less current or regulated by the Financial Services liabilities excluding short term borrowings Authority.
for investment purposes, calculated and payable on a quarterly basis.
SCOTTISH MORTGAGE INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 1
