MANAGERS PORTFOLIO REVIEW 1 Vodafone 2 Wolseley The huge popularity of picture Wolseley has seen strong demand messaging is helping grow in the US for its timber products revenues and profits at Vodafone.
which are widely used in residential Picture courtesy of Vodafone.
1 2 United Kingdom In common with other stockmarkets around Inevitably there were parts of the portfolio The clearest example of this effort is the the world, UK share prices staged a very that shone less brightly.
Where this was felt transactions in the UK oil majors, BP and welcome recovery in the year to 31 March.
to reflect a fundamental disappointment in Shell.
Having begun the period under We believe this rise in share prices is wellthe business, the holding has been sold.
review with some 34m invested in founded.
Though an important element of However, we have been reluctant to these stocks, Scottish Mortgage no longer the recovery is the increased willingness of dispose of long-standing investments which has any money invested in either of the have performed well operationally simply two companies.
We are not persuaded investors to own sometimes volatile assets, there has also been an improvement in because their share price has lagged the that either company can provide the market during the last 12 months.
investor with a total return in excess of profitability at many companies.
We are also encouraged by the fact that, after a Vodafone, for example, delivered a total that offered by the wider UK market.
long period of rather paltry distributions, return half that of the market but we believe Instead, any enthusiasm for oil exposure the average rate of dividend increase from the likely progress in its earnings will has been channelled into other companies, UK companies has begun to accelerate.
reward handsomely the patient investor and often domiciled in developing countries, we have therefore increased the holding.
whose production prospects appear  Similarly, the number of shares held in stronger and whose valuations are usually  Royal Bank of Scotland is higher now than lower.
The investments in tobacco companies which, in aggregate, lagged The other aspect to the reduction in UKmarket  returned32.4% the market return have also been increased.
UK exposure, though less important an influence than stock specific views, is that %.
Many  The net effect of transactions though has the duration and extent of the earnings prices,  been to reduce the Companys exposure recovery in the UK may prove less than ManGroup,  to the UK market.
Primarily, this has been that in other markets.
The British economy  a function of views on individual stocks has been relatively robust in recent years Carnival.
 and the fact that, whenever our and this means there is less scope for a  enthusiasm for a particular UK-domiciled cyclical rebound in earnings.
The economy  company waned, we did not has also been supported by enthusiastic  automatically seek to reinvest the proceeds borrowing on the part of consumers.
of any sale into other UK companies but The gradual tightening of monetary policy expectations.
  instead looked to where that money can that the Bank of England appears to have be most profitably invested regardless of embarked on is likely to restrain this hitherto  .
14 ANNNUAL REPORT 2004 MANAGERS PORTFOLIO REVIEW 1 MAN 2 ABB This MAN B&W Diesel two-stroke The revolutionary AZIPOD drive engine with a piston diameter of system is fitted to the outside of the 98 cm ranks among the largest hull of a ship, and can be rotated diesel engines in the world, being through 360 degrees.
It allows constructed mainly by Asian large ships to manoeuvre in small licensees.
1 2 Continental Europe European stocks rose sharply in the year we have also profited from the marked Copco, MAN and a revived ABB appear under review.
The European economy recovery in troubled shares such as to us to offer good earnings growth rates deserves very little credit for this as the Ericsson.
In combination this has enabled and low valuations.
SAP has thus far global recovery was barely perceptible in us to outperform the regional benchmark demonstrated the market leadership and continental data.
Some of the responsibility and to contribute to the overall growth potential to show that there are for this depressing state of affairs lies with performance of the Trust.
some areas of technology where Europe the appreciation of the Euro but it has been can compete but the faltering efforts of disappointing that previously relatively Looking forward to the year ahead we see Nokia have disappointed us.
buoyant economies such as France have little evidence that European growth is likely succumbed to the widespread stagnation to accelerate.
We therefore intend to retain Given the unpromising economic and and that even Ireland has shown only our focus on companies that have the political prospects we see little reason to moderate growth.
The strength of European geographical range and competitive expand our European holdings.
We much markets was instead a reflection of the strengths to enable them to flourish prefer to focus on the small selection of intense sensitivity of many continental globally.
Long-standing examples of this companies that appear to us to be both companies to the progress of the global approach include the French hair care globally competitive and attractively rated rather than regional economy.
For many giant LOreal and the luxury goods than to build an entire portfolio of stocks of the more successful companies this has company Hermes.
Perhaps less predictably that gives broad exposure to continental allowed sales and profitability to benefit we would make similar claims for several equities and economies.
We hope that this from the boom in Asia whilst for others European industrials.
For instance, BMW approach will again be successful in the falling global interest rates and risk and Porsche both seem to us to exemplify year ahead.
premiums have allowed balance sheet brand strengths that comfortably transcend restructuring and an end to threatened the limitations of the German domestic insolvency.
We have concentrated on the market.
Equally the manufacturing skills and higher quality set of these companies but broad international operations of Atlas SCOTTISH MORTGAGE INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 15 MANAGERS PORTFOLIO REVIEW 1 Wendys 2 Iron Mountain The Tim Hortons Coffee Shop chain An Iron Mountain driver is owned by Wendys International.
Picture Picture courtesy of Wendys.
1 2 North America The US economy grew rather faster than the US and UK.
After a decade of heavy technology demand continues to recover, expected last year as tax cuts and investment the businesss strong and we remain concerned about valuations: mortgage refinancing boosted consumer growing cashflows should increasingly the technology sector is trading on a large spending.
The scope for further such be returned to shareholders.
T Rowe Price premium to the rest of the market, stimulus appears limited the budget is a conservatively-run investment manager particularly when options are expensed.
deficit is approaching 5% of GDP and which is unusual among its listed peers interest rates are expected to rise this in having grown largely without making The US market rallied strongly during the year and so we would expect to see acquisitions and which is currently taking year as optimism over the economic and some slowing in personal consumption share in the mutual fund market.
Despite having very little growth in the medium term.
is the leading US producer and distributor exposure to the most cyclical parts of the of floor coverings.
In recent years it and a economy, the Companys North American It is therefore encouraging that the subsidiary of Berkshire Hathaway have portfolio marginally outperformed the corporate sector is showing signs of life.
consolidated the industry and now control market, thanks largely to very solid profit Profits have now been rebounding for 70% of the carpet market between them.
growth from large holdings like Golden two and a half years and while executives Loblaw is a well-run Canadian supermarket West Financial, Wellpoint and Moodys.
language remains cautious, their actions chain with attractive growth prospects.
In aggregate the Companys North have become a little bolder there has American investments remain both been a pick-up in mergers and acquisitions The most notable sale was of the considerably more profitable and no activity and advertising and capital semiconductor company, Analog Devices.
more expensive than the market as a whole spending are rising gently.
Despite additions to the Companys and we expect them to continue to grow remaining American tech stock, Microchip, profits faster than the market over extended There were a number of new purchases this sale resulted in a further reduction in periods.
Whilst there will be further during the year.
Iron Mountain is the the Companys already limited exposure individual stock changes in the portfolio dominant record management company in to the US technology sector.
While these characteristics should remain intact.
16 ANNUAL REPORT 2004 MANAGERS PORTFOLIO REVIEW 1 Canon 2 Asahi Glass At Canon, demand for colour Asahi Glass manufactures photocopiers is rising.
Picture glass for TV displays.
1 2 Japan Japanese equities finally returned to form sectors troubles.
Recent trends in some companies that boast a record of in the year under review with Tokyo property prices and consumer prices successful expansion.
These include offering the best return amongst developed suggest that downward pricing pressure holdings in companies with globally market indices with a gain of 50% in local has eased, although it is too early to competitive businesses, such as Canon currency terms.
This followed a fall that confidently project a sustained period and Toyota Motor, or in those with very had taken the main equity indices to their of rising prices.
strong domestic positions, such as lowest levels in nearly 20 years by consumer products manufacturer Kao.
The situation in the banking sector remains However, changes in management style pivotal.
The sectors health is improving are widespread, and provide opportunities The relatively modest economic expansion and perceptions have changed to invest in businesses with latent strengths that began in 2002 continued last year.
dramatically over the course of the year but erratic track records.
For example, Industrial production rose further, helped to the considerable benefit of our holding we purchased a holding for the Trust in by export demand and rising private in UFJ.
The effective bailout of Resona by Tokyu Corporation, a collection of capital spending.
Unemployment fell, the government in the spring of 2003 operating businesses with a private although private consumption has been was critical, and the larger banks have railway company its core.
The value of steady rather than buoyant over the last also made some progress in increasing these assets is being enhanced by various year.
In addition, nominal GDP growth their profitability.
A reduction in debt levels management improvements, although the is not yet clearly positive, as price levels at the most highly geared companies have better environment is acting as a tailwind.
have continued to fall in certain areas.
also contributed to an improvement in the We will continue to look for similar The outlook for prices is one of the more quality of the banking sectors loan situations, whatever path the economy interesting issues for Japan at the moment.
Over the past decade, and particularly in recent years, falling prices have depressed The remainder of the Trusts investments profitability and exacerbated the banking are mainly concentrated in Japanese SCOTTISH MORTGAGE INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 17 MANAGERS PORTFOLIO REVIEW 1 BHP Billiton 2 CNOOC BHP Billiton is one of three CNOOC has a unique position in dominant global players in the Chinese offshore oil industry.
iron ore. Picture courtesy of Picture courtesy of CNOOC.
1 2 Asia Pacific and Other Emerging Markets It has been a remarkable period in the think that a substantial position in certain Once again this company has exceeded Asia Pacific region and the other emerging energy and commodity stocks may be forecasts and has prospered in each of markets.
For the first time markets have warranted for some considerable time.
We continue begun to recognise the full impact of to add to our position as despite its Chinese growth.
2004 may also turn We have made some increases to our excellent stock price performance the out to be the year in which the crippling direct Chinese investments, for instance rating still seems abnormally cheap in deflation in some Asian economies, most with new purchases of Zhejiang a global context.
Expressway and Sinotrans, the freight notably Hong Kong, finally comes to an end.
Elsewhere declining risk premiums forwarder.
Although there is some risk We will be surprised if the year ahead of slowing activity over the next year, offers such smooth progress as we have and improved economic management have allowed India, Russia and Brazil we believe that some of the most exciting recently enjoyed.
A period of nerves over to prosper.
individual long term growth stocks are Chinese economic overheating or Russian becoming apparent as Chinese politics is probably overdue, whilst rising The most notable feature of markets companies develop the management global interest rates are seldom helpful globally has been the accrual of pricing capabilities to exploit the inherent growth to volatile assets in Asia and Emerging power to producers of raw materials and of their markets.
We have continued to be Markets.
We intend to use any such encouraged by the growth that India is periods of nervousness to add to our energy, as Chinese demand has surged.
Our portfolio has benefited from this now producing.
We have replaced our exposure to these regions as we strongly successful holding in the State Bank with believe that the economic and corporate powerful trend through holdings such as Petrobras, Lukoil, Norilsk Nickel and Oil and Natural Gas Corporation on opportunities available are still highly BHP Billiton.
A note of caution may be price grounds.
attractive in the years ahead.
due now, as the current high returns in these industries are bound to attract Comfortably our largest individual holding substantial new supply.
Nevertheless, we in the region is in Samsung Electronics.
18 ANNUAL REPORT 2004 MANAGERS PORTFOLIO REVIEW 1 Avio 2 Messer Griesheim Avio is part of the Arianespace Messer Griesheim, the German consortium, the worlds largest industrial gases company, was satellite launcher.
Picture courtesy acquired by its larger, better rated of Avio.
Picture courtesy of Air Liquide.
1 2 Fixed Interest The general economic and financial high yield bonds which have performed investment grade and high yield markets.
climate was beneficial for Scottish very well due to institutional investors While we would be surprised to see the Mortgages bond portfolio in the year shift into higher yielding assets and the returns of the past two years matched, to 31 March and we are pleased to sharp decline in the default rate.
Our Scottish Mortgages bond portfolio should report a 12.5% return on the Trusts focus on companies which are expected continue to meet its objective of generating portfolio.
Growth was stronger than to reduce indebtedness has also led to income to help offset borrowing costs while anticipated almost everywhere but the several success stories.
For example also proving an attractive investment in its BSkyB, Stagecoach, Castle Transmission own right.
slack in the economy and the impact of Asian production kept a lid on inflation.
and Messer Griesheim have all either been upgraded to investment grade or This mix of improved growth and low inflation is perfect for corporate bonds.
redeemed their bonds early at a premium.
It allows companies to enhance their credit ratings without inflationary fears Our expectation is that interest rates will hurting bond markets.
continue to rise in the next 12 months in the UK and US but that this is largely Our preference through the year has reflected in bond prices.
European bonds look less susceptible and we continue to been to buy bonds with a positive exposure to economic recovery.
However the risk is that inflation rises more than anticipated For example we have invested in insurance companies bonds which have and we will guard against this.
Higher benefited both from the recovery in equity company profitability will likely be markets and an increased focus on risk sustained and there should be ample management after recent painful episodes.
opportunity to find companies which We have also invested in a selection of are reducing indebtedness in both SCOTTISH MORTGAGE INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 19
