DIRECTORS AND MANAGEMENT Directors and Management Members of the Board come from a broad variety of backgrounds.
The Board can draw on a very extensive pool of knowledge and experience.
Baillie Gifford & Co, a leading UK investment management firm, who act as Managers and Secretaries to the Company have done so since its formation in 1909.
He was a director of 4 WG McQueen 1 Sir Donald MacKay The Standard Life Assurance Company for Gordon McQueen is 57 and was Donald MacKay is 67 and was 13 years until 2001. appointed a Director of Scottish Mortgage appointed a Director of Scottish Investment Trust PLC in 2001 and is Mortgage Investment Trust PLC in 1999, Chairman of the Audit Committee.
He was became Chairman in 2003 and is an executive director of HBOS plc, Bank of Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
3 MM Gray Scotland and Halifax plc, where his chief He is an economist who was Professor of Michael Gray is 56 and was appointed a role was Chief Executive, Treasury.
Political Economy at Aberdeen University Director of Scottish Mortgage Investment and Professor of Economics at Trust PLC on 26 February 2004.
He is a former Chairman and Chief Executive he led the 5 The Earl of Portarlington chairman of The Malcolm Group PLC and growth of McQueen International over a George Portarlington is 65 and was Scottish Enterprise and is currently a 17 year period as it evolved from being a appointed a Director of Scottish Mortgage director of Edinburgh Income and Value printing company into a global enterprise Investment Trust PLC in 1997.
providing a range of support services to director of Queensland Trading and Holding technology companies.
On McQueens Company Limited of Brisbane and of Cold 2 GA Ball acquisition, he became Senior ViceStorage Holdings Limited of Singapore.
Geoffrey Ball is 60 and was appointed a President of Sykes Enterprises Inc. a global Director of Scottish Mortgage Investment NASDAQ quoted outsourcing services 6 JPHS Scott Trust PLC in 1983 and is the senior company.
He retired from Sykes in 1999 independent director.
He is executive and currently has many business, John Scott is 51 and was appointed a community, charity and sporting interests Director of Scottish Mortgage Investment chairman of CALA Group Ltd, having led Trust PLC in 2001.
He is a former executive the Management Buy Out in 1999.
He is a director of the Scottish Community Foundation and a director of Lazard Brothers & Co. Limited.
was president of the House Builders During his twenty years with Lazard, he was Federation of England and Wales from former director of Scottish Enterprise.
8 ANNUAL REPORT 2004 DIRECTORS AND MANAGEMENT 7 2 5 1 4 6 3 deeply involved with the merchant banks Capital Management Limited and a Director 28 billion.
Based in Edinburgh, it is one Asian activities.
He is currently a director of Trafigura Asset Management Limited.
of the leading privately owned investment of various companies, including Dunedin management firms in the UK, with Income Growth Investment Trust PLC, Martin 27 partners and a staff of over 400.
It All Directors are members of the Currie Pacific Trust plc, Xaar plc, Miller won both the Investment Week Investment Nomination and Audit Committees.
Insurance, Albany Venture Managers and Trust Group of the Year award for the Schroder Japan Growth Fund plc.
second year running and also the Managers and Secretaries Investment Trusts Magazine Group of the Scottish Mortgage is managed by Baillie Year award.
There is no guarantee that Gifford & Co, an investment management 7 Lord Strathclyde Baillie Giffords past performance will be firm formed in 1927 out of the legal firm repeated in the future.
Thomas Strathclyde is 44 and was Baillie & Gifford, WS, which had been appointed a Director of Scottish Mortgage The manager of Scottish Mortgages Managers and Secretaries to the Company Investment Trust PLC on 26 February 2004. portfolio is James Anderson, a partner of since its formation in 1909.
He is currently the Leader of the Opposition Baillie Gifford.
Stock selection is primarily in the House of Lords.
His parliamentary Baillie Gifford is one of the largest the responsibility of specialist teams career to date includes extensive ministerial investment trust managers in the UK and covering all the regions of the world.
experience at the Departments of currently manages eight investment trusts.
Employment, the Environment, Trade and The firm of Baillie Gifford & Co is Baillie Gifford also manages unit trusts and Industry and the Scottish Office.
Prior to authorised and regulated by open ended investment companies, entering politics in 1988 as a Government the Financial Services Authority.
together with investment portfolios on Whip, Lord Strathclyde worked in the City behalf of pension funds, charities and other for the insurance brokers, Bain Dawes.
Lord institutional clients, both in the UK and Strathclyde is also Chairman of London overseas.
Funds under the management or based hedge fund manager Trafalgar advice of Baillie Gifford total around SCOTTISH MORTGAGE INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 9
