8 Investment is our primary activity and is directed towards our objective of providing the core investment for those seeking a long term store of increasing value.
Investment Team Investment Team Our investment team is headed by Alan Young, Investment Director, and Grant Lindsay, Head of Equities.
Six investment Investment Approach managers are supported by investment analysts, an economist and administration staff.
The support team provides research Investment Decisions across the entire portfolio.
Investment Approach Our overall objective is to provide the core investment for those seeking a long term store of increasing value.
To meet this objective, our investment approach within equities focuses primarily on a search for good value in high quality companies, which maintain sound management, strong market positions, good cash flow and the ultimate ability to pay a growing dividend.
We believe this approach, and the extent to which we can attain diversification across geographical regions and industrial sectors, potentially lowers the risk attached to our portfolio.
We will be developing a strategy for investing in property and fixed income over the next months.
This strategy will continue the theme of investing in value, whether in equities, property or debt.
Investment Decisions The environment in which we operate is highly fluid in terms of political and economic factors, regulation, tax, accounting standards and practices, commercial law and technological change.
Information relating to each of these aspects is considered by the Investment Director together with the investment managers responsible for different asset classes.
This provides a top-down view of the relative attractiveness of different asset classes, and we cross-reference these against information and analysis from brokers and other sources.
The board monitors this process and its content.
The board reviews investment strategy in depth at least twice a year, and discusses progress and necessary changes to investment strategy at each meeting.
The diagram on the next page illustrates the process by which our investment decisions are made.
Stock selection remains central to our approach.
Surrounding the stock selection discipline, we track economic and political developments in all the countries in which we invest 26 at the year end.
We also do this for those countries or regions where we are considering investment.
In addition, we monitor emerging or expected investment themes concerning individual industries, the corporate sector as a whole and equity markets around the world.
How the Corporate Capital is Allocated s n o i t a u l a V k c o t S d n a s I r r n v o e e s t t m c g e e n t S a T h, e t m n e e s k a I s r n c n a p i t o M i u l i M o t t P a f c r d n o o t a l m 9 Within our equity portfolio, managers and analysts complete an Our managers and analysts meet the management of companies extensive analysis of individual stocks which includes the use of in all regions of the world and also attend broader forums, our own dedicated worksheets that enable us to compare conferences and seminars.
This is essential in order to remain companies on a like-for-like basis.
well-informed of company and industrial developments.
Decision-making involves examining the activities of companies Our investment approach is geared towards identifying core in which we are considering investment.
We look at them in holdings with good long term growth potential.
We seek their wider context and, in addition to evaluating a companys companies that are strong enough to withstand difficulties management, we review its policies and behaviour on issues of brought about by an ever-changing background of economic social responsibility and environmental impact.
These factors cycles, corporate trends and volatility in capital markets.
In the are considered in an appropriate and balanced manner when we short term, these factors can influence significantly the make our initial investment decision and are reviewed regularly.
volatility of the portfolio, however in the long term such We may engage in dialogue with the companies on particular volatility has tended to be less marked.
issues and, if not satisfied, may vote against the recommendation of the board of a company in which we hold an investment.
Such factors also contribute to decisions to divest.
