14 This section of our report gives a review of the portfolio which, at the year end, contained 330 investments.
The hoop diagrams below give snapshots of the whole portfolio, first by geography and then by broad sector.
In the narrative, we list sector by sector all the Resources and Basic investments held, which had a year end value greater Industries than 0.1% of the total portfolio valuation.
The exceptions are the sections on investment companies Capital Goods and fixed income where we show all the holdings.
In all, investments equal to 95% of the portfolio by value are shown.
Consumer Goods and Products The table at the top of page 25 summarises the investment changes over the year.
The classification table, also on page 25, gives a breakdown of the main Services industries in each broad sector and the percentage of the portfolio held in each geographical area.
Financials Investment Companies Fixed Income m UK 279 Europe 47 Investment Changes North America 98 Japan 25 Rest of the World 48 Classification of Distribution Total Assets less by geography Investments Current Liabilities 497 m Resources and Basic Industries 100 Capital Goods 57 Consumer Goods and Products 73 Services 105 Distribution Financials 112 by sector Investment Companies 11 Fixed Income 11 Other Net Assets 28 Total Assets less Current Liabilities 497 Figures as at 31 July 2004.
Portfolio Review 15 Resources and Basic Industries Oil, Chemicals and Resources m Higher demand, led by China, and constraints on supply had a BP 17.2 Shell Transport & Trading 14.8 profound impact on commodity markets.
The threat of terrorism BHP Billiton 4.3 unsettled the oil markets, which faced potential disruption of supply Exxon Mobil 4.3 from Saudi Arabia as terrorist attacks in Iraq moved down the Rio Tinto 3.9 peninsula.
The price of crude oil increased by over $10 to more than Total 2.7 $40 per barrel at the end of the year under review, pushing gasoline John Wood Group 2.0 prices to the psychological $2 per gallon level in the US.
Natural gas Air Liquide 1.4 prices rose in tandem with oil prices, and production in the US PetroChina 1.0 Burlington Resources 1.0 continued to fall causing further concern in the energy markets, and Schlumberger 1.0 coal, only recently deemed to be a fuel of the past, rallied strongly as Woodside Petroleum 0.9 a result.
BG Group 0.9 Oil company profits benefited from the higher oil price, but share British Vita 0.8 Merrill Lynch World prices were restrained.
Following Shells reclassification of 23% of its Mining Trust 0.8 proven reserves, we trimmed our holding.
We initiated a holding in Croda International 0.8 Suncor, the Canadian oil tar sands producer, and Sasol, the South RPM International 0.7 African gas-to-liquids company.
As China moves to cool demand in Shin-Etsu Chemical 0.7 sectors such as steel, we reduced our holdings in Rio Tinto and BHP Johnson Matthey 0.7 Billiton, which supply iron ore and coking coal to the steel industry, Linde 0.6 and we sold Jiangxi Copper which had performed strongly.
If the BOC Group 0.6 Chinese authorities manage to engineer a soft landing for the CNOOC 0.6 EnCana 0.5 economy we shall be looking to rebuild positions as the longer term Other Holdings 9 2.7 outlook for the mining sector remains encouraging.
Total 64.9 m Construction and Building Materials In the UK, rising interest rates increased the likelihood of a slowdown Persimmon 4.1 Wolseley 2.3 in the residential property market.
Favourable employment conditions Aggregate Industries 1.4 and a shortage of new housing supply may allow a soft landing but Crest Nicholson 1.2 the sector faces increased risks.
Our approach has shifted to increasing Lafarge 1.1 investment in companies that are better protected from higher Marshalls 0.9 interest rates.
We reduced our holding in Persimmon while adding to Tostem Inax 0.7 our holding in Crest Nicholson, whose business model is increasingly Siam Cement 0.6 focused on affordable housing in regenerated urban areas.
Other Holdings 1 0.4 Total 12.7 The global recovery helped building material companies in Asia, while in Europe the picture remains mixed.
We reduced our holding in Wolseley as the company increases its dependency on acquisitions to achieve growth.
Following strong performance in Asia, we reduced exposure to Chinese and Thai building materials companies, and reinvested the proceeds in Japan, where confidence improved and has encouraged private construction after years of decline.
16 Portfolio Review m Utilities National Grid Transco 2.9 Strong yields and sensible valuations helped utilities outperform the Scottish & Southern Energy 2.8 markets, which is unusual for a year of economic recovery when Scottish Power 2.4 investors normally switch out of utilities into more cyclically exposed, Kelda Group 2.2 or stronger growth sectors.
However, we added to Scottish & Huaneng Power 2.1 Southern, National Grid Transco and the Italian electricity provider United Utilities 1.6 Enel and participated in United Utilities rights issue.
Datang International Power 1.4 The regulatory review of prices, which affects a number of our UK Constellation Energy 1.2 water and electricity stocks, is entering its crucial final phase.
Hong Kong & China Gas 1.1 Regulators are scheduled to make key rulings this autumn.
Despite a Australian Gas fairly transparent process, there is still the risk that some companies Light Company 1.0 may not achieve a favourable outcome.
WPS Resources 0.8 Consolidated Edison 0.8 Irrespective of a slowdown in its economy, the demand for power in Hongkong Electric 0.7 China appears insatiable and shortages remain commonplace.
Enel 0.6 Although fuel costs are rising, the authorities appear to be Other Holdings 1 0.3 supportive of the power companies increasing tariffs, and we added Total 21.9 to the electric company Datang.
We also added to Hong Kong & China Gas, a major beneficiary of the recovery in the property and tourism markets and from its expansion into the Chinese markets.
Capital Goods m Autos and Industrials Pentair 1.6 Shares in many cyclical companies performed strongly as global Toyota Motor 1.0 markets anticipated the economic recovery.
Pentair, the diversified US Swire Pacific 1.0 company that is our largest industrial holding, performed well, partly FCC 0.9 because of plans to move the companys product range away from Keppel 0.7 tools and towards the faster-growing water technologies division.
Hyundai 0.6 Honda 0.6 Rising raw material costs and the reduction in car manufacturers PT Astra 0.6 incentives in the US prompted us to reduce our exposure to the Jardine Matheson 0.5 automotive sector.
We sold small holdings in the Japanese parts Snap-on 0.5 manufacturers Keihin and Showa.
This was partly offset by an Other Holdings 5 1.5 increase in our holding in Toyota Motor, which continues to gain Total 9.5 global market share and to show industry-leading profitability.
With the Chinese authorities desire to restrain the growth of their car market, we sold Denway whose shares had risen substantially.
17 Electronics and Engineering m A cyclical rebound in this sector during the year benefited a number General Electric 3.1 Canon 3.0 of our holdings.
With our focus on well-positioned companies with Renishaw 1.9 strong management teams and a willingness to pay dividends, we Hoya 1.6 added to Renishaw, the precision measurement company.
In Sweden, Spirax-Sarco 1.4 we reduced our holding in the tool maker Sandvik on a premium Kidde 1.4 valuation and bought bearings manufacturer SKF as consolidation, Sandvik 1.4 improved pricing and a more rational approach to expansion of Illinois Tool Works 1.4 capacity helped prospects in the industry.
SKF 1.3 Bodycote 1.3 In the US, we took a holding in Harsco, a mill services and Keyence 1.2 scaffolding provider, and added to General Electric, which is expected Worthington Industries 1.2 to benefit from the global economic upturn after realigning its Harsco 0.7 portfolio of businesses.
Uncertainty over growth initiatives led us to Ushio 0.7 sell the industrial distributor, Grainger.
Emerson 0.7 Sato 0.5 In Japan, we disposed of our holding in Mabuchi Motors, as intense Other Holdings 4 1.5 competition in the small electric motor market has undermined the Total 24.3 longer-term attraction of the business.
We reduced our holding in Keyence, a manufacturer of sensors and measuring equipment that has benefited from strong capital expenditures growth in East Asia.
We made new investments in Horiba, another manufacturer of sensors and analysers, and Eneserve, a supplier of small power generators.
Information Technology m The improvement in the global economy underpinned the sector in Microsoft 4.0 First Data 2.2 the first half of our year.
Restructuring undertaken in the past three Cisco Systems 2.0 years provided significant operational gearing, translating into robust Intel 1.8 earnings growth.
In the second half, continued earnings expansion Sage 1.6 did not translate into higher share prices causing valuations to Check Point Software 1.5 contract.
This reflects the cyclical nature of the sector.
Motorola 1.1 SAP AG 1.0 During the year there was a welcome move towards returning income Flextronics 0.9 to shareholders.
Microsoft and Samsung are good examples.
The US Jabil Circuit 0.9 software companys proposed special dividend and longer-term Oracle 0.9 commitment to return capital will hopefully encourage others to United Microelectronics 0.9 follow these more shareholder-friendly practices.
Texas Instruments 0.8 Dell 0.7 We switched our focus towards software companies, predominantly in Samsung Electronics 0.7 niche growth areas.
We bought Hyperion Solutions, a provider of Thomson 0.6 business analytical software, and Check Point Software, an internet Other Holdings 8 1.8 security solutions provider.
Higher valuations led to the sale of Total 23.4 hardware company Analog Devices and a reduction in our Intel holding.
18 Portfolio Review Consumer Goods and Products m Beverages, Foods, Household and Tobacco Diageo 4.8 Conditions remained challenging, with reasonable demand offset by Reckitt Benckiser 3.7 higher input costs and retailers buying power.
Profits growth largely Unilever 3.4 depended on cost-cutting and on increasingly focused sales of British American Tobacco 2.7 innovative products that offer consumers the perception of some Allied Domecq 2.0 added value.
Reckitt Benckiser continued to stimulate consumers PepsiCo 1.7 interest with new household products maintaining the companys Nestl 1.7 record of strong growth.
Unilever struggled however, hit by falling LVMH 1.1 demand for Slimfast and for premium perfumes.
Its response was a Kao Corporation 1.0 Fosters 1.0 strategic shift to focus on profitability over volume growth.
Altria Group 1.0 A favourable swing in US litigation rulings boosted tobacco stocks.
BAT Malaysia 0.7 Competition authorities waved through British American Tobaccos Fraser & Neave 0.6 proposed merger of its US business Brown & Williamson with RJ Kraft 0.6 Other Holdings 4 1.8 Reynolds.
Total 27.8 We sold Scottish & Newcastle, Geest and JM Smucker and reduced Unilever and Diageo.
To participate in the emergence of Asian consumerism we established a new holding in LVMH, the French luxury goods company, and added to Kao, the Japanese cosmetics and household products company.
m Healthcare and Pharmaceuticals As the population in developed economies becomes older and GlaxoSmithKline 13.4 Abbott Laboratories 4.5 wealthier, demand for healthcare grows.
With healthcare deficits Johnson & Johnson 2.9 burgeoning around the world, the challenge for the industry is to Aventis 2.8 provide new, better and cost-effective treatments.
While medical UCB 2.5 device companies have been successful at this, pharmaceutical Novartis 2.5 companies have struggled to bring innovative new drugs to market.
Bristol-Myers Squibb 2.1 There are, however, some positive signs of improvement in research Takeda Pharmaceutical 1.9 and development productivity.
Merck 1.7 Gyrus Group 1.7 Despite the outlook for positive demand we continued to reduce Fresenius 1.1 exposure to the sector because of the current pressure on pricing.
Altana 1.1 Japan and Europe imposed price cuts and gave impetus to bipartisan Alcon 1.1 support for the re-importation of lower priced drugs into the US.
Baxter International 1.0 UnitedHealth Group 0.9 Significant holdings in Amersham and Celltech were taken over for.. Rhon-Klinikum 0.7 cash as industry consolidation continues.
We sold Gedeon Richter, the Zimmer Holdings 0.7 Hungarian generic drug company, and further reduced holdings in Steris 0.5 Johnson & Johnson and Merck.
We increased investments in Gyrus Roche 0.5 Group, Abbott Laboratories and Baxter International, and started a HCA 0.5 new investment in Cochlear, an Australian producer of implanted Other Holdings 4 1.3 hearing devices.
Total 45.4 19 Services Retail m UK consumption remained robust despite four base rate rises over Tesco 4.0 GUS 3.7 the last year.
However, survey evidence suggests that confidence is Wal-Mart 3.6 waning from the current position which was close to its recent Home Depot 2.3 peak.
Debt-financed takeovers were prevalent in the UK retail Next 1.8 sector.
New Look and Debenhams were taken private in this way.
We Kingfisher 1.7 added to Marks & Spencer which survived a bid approach and now Marks & Spencer 1.6 has a stronger management team.
A new holding was built in Metro AG 1.1 Halfords.
In food retailing, Safeway was acquired by Morrisons, CVS 1.0 which now faces a significant integration programme.
Tesco is Walgreen 0.9 PETsMART 0.8 thriving and continues to make strong inroads into non-food Halfords 0.7 categories.
We sold our Sainsbury holding as the company continues Lawson 0.7 to struggle with competitive pressures.
Sundrug 0.6 US retail sales also remained buoyant, helped by tax cuts.
We bought Pier 1 Imports 0.6 Giordano International 0.6 PETsMART, a rapidly growing chain selling pet products.
We sold some Other Holdings 8 2.0 Wal-Mart as the companys size makes domestic growth opportunities Total 27.7 increasingly difficult to find.
Overseas, we started a new holding in Metro AG, the German-based international retailer, and in Asia with Lifestyle, a Hong Kong department store, and Wumart, a Chinese operator of supermarkets and convenience stores.
Brewers, Hotels and Leisure m The global hotel industry recovered strongly from last years problems Hilton Group 2.5 Greene King 1.8 which included SARS, terrorist threats and the Iraq War.
The economic Wolverhampton & Dudley 1.7 recovery helped international business and leisure travel find a much InterContinental Hotels 1.3 firmer footing.
This upturn boosted our international hotel holdings, Accor 1.0 including Hilton Group, InterContinental Hotels and Accor.
Hilton Bob Evans Farms 0.6 Group also saw strong growth in its Ladbrokes business from the newCaf fide Coral Holdings 0.6 style fixed odds betting terminals.
We started a new holding in the Whitbread 0.5 fast food company Caf fide Coral, which benefited from strong Other Holdings 3 1.3 inbound tourism to Hong Kong with the lifting of visa restrictions Total 11.3 from the Chinese mainland.
We added to Tanjong, the Malaysian gaming and leisure company.
Wolverhampton & Dudley Breweries and Greene King, the suburban community pub and brewing companies, continued to trade strongly with steady organic growth plans and good cash generation.
Both recently announced important acquisition plans.
We sold our holding in another pub operator, Mitchells & Butlers, given concerns about its competitive positioning.
20 Portfolio Review m Media EMAP 3.0 A global advertising recovery, driven principally by the US, helped Gannett 1.7 drive share prices higher, although growth rates were modest.
The Reed Elsevier 1.7 short term remains positive but the outlook after the Olympic Games ITV 1.5 and the US election is clouded by greater economic uncertainty.
Pearson 1.5 Arnoldo Mondadori Editore 1.5 In the UK, Granada and Carlton completed their merger to form ITV.
United Business Media 1.2 Further corporate activity in the sector has been muted, although the Capital Radio 1.2 radio business has seen some changes as companies adjust their Yell Group 1.1 market positions.
Tlvision Franaise 1.1 Singapore Press Holdings 0.8 We initiated a holding in Tlvision Franaise, the French television VNU 0.7 company, and Cheil Communications, the leading Korean advertising Other Holdings 4 1.2 agency.
We increased our exposure to Capital Radio, which has Total 18.2 relatively high operational gearing, and also to Yell Group.
We funded these purchases by reducing holdings in Emap and VNU.
US media stocks saw mixed performance as doubts grew over large media conglomerates ability to sustain historic growth rates.
Comcasts unsuccessful bid for Disney reflected the challenges facing the industry.
Gannett, our core US holding with its stable of regional newspapers, has been relatively insulated from such issues.
m Transport Airport operators continue to benefit from growth in passenger BAA 2.7 East Japan Railway 0.8 numbers, driven by economic recovery and price competition among Forth Ports 0.8 airline operators.
Consequently, we increased our holding in BAA.
In Associated British Ports 0.7 China, concerns about higher fuel costs led to the sale of China Zhejiang Expressway 0.7 Southern Airlines: the proceeds were invested in Beijing Capital Other Holdings 4 1.0 International Airport, the operator of Beijing's primary airport.
Total 6.7 We reduced our holding in Associated British Ports after the Department of Transport rejected its application for a deep-water container facility near Southampton on environmental grounds.
Following a strong rise in the shares, we reduced our holding in Forth Ports on valuation grounds.
FirstGroup was reduced because of its high exposure to US dollar earnings.
In Asia, we established a new holding in East Japan Railway as the company should benefit from a recovery in domestic demand and improving real estate conditions.
21 Support Services m The provision of outsourcing services is the key theme in this diverse Compass 2.9 sector.
The more cyclical subsectors saw something of a rebound in Electrocomponents 1.9 Hays 1.9 2004, especially recruitment and personnel companies.
The jobs Premier Farnell 1.7 market improved in many regions with clients more willing to hire, Brambles Industries 1.6 especially on a temporary basis.
Catalogue component distributors Sysco 1.5 such as Electrocomponents and Premier Farnell also saw a more CDW 1.3 sustained return to growth, although this has not significantly China Merchants Holdings 1.1 boosted their share prices.
Pactiv 1.1 Serco 1.0 We added to China Merchants Holdings with its exposure to continued Republic Services 0.9 growth at Asian ports and initiated a new holding in Taiwan Secom, Michael Page 0.9 well placed for the growing demand for personal security.
Secom 0.8 Corinthian Colleges 0.6 As the US economy recovered we increased holdings in the waste Dignity 0.6 disposal operator Republic Services and in Pactiv, the packaging Other Holdings 1 0.2 specialist.
We reduced our holding in CDW, the information Total 20.0 technology reseller, as concerns grew about its ability to sustain the rate of growth.
We sold out of Securitas, which continued to struggle in the US security market, and also Patrick, given concerns about its exposure to the Australian budget airline industry.
We participated in the new issue of Dignity, the UK funeral services business.
m Telecommunications Services Europe remains a competitive market, with conditions in Northern Vodafone 9.9 Europe particularly intense.
Due to the unfavourable dynamics within BT Group 2.7 Verizon Communications 1.8 the UK mobile market we sold our holding in mmO2.
Telefonica 1.3 In the US, the sector consolidated as BellSouth and SBC bought AT&T China Mobile 0.9 Wireless.
We sold our AT&T Wireless holding and reinvested in Sprint America Movil 0.7 Corporation.
In Asia we increased our holding in China Mobile as Sprint 0.7 NTT DoCoMo 0.7 valuations became attractive.
Telfonos fide Mxico 0.7 Established fixed line national operators continue to see their share Telekom Malaysia 0.6 of the residential call market deteriorate as mobile and new entrants BellSouth 0.6 make gains.
Various initiatives are being taken to diversify their Other Holdings 2 0.8 Total 21.4 revenue streams, such as offering broadband services.
In the UK we reduced our holding in BT as we believe that its new revenue streams will take time to replace the profitability of calls.
22 Portfolio Review Financials m Banks Royal Bank of Scotland 13.8 Banks net interest margins remained under pressure but rising short HBOS 8.5 rates should provide some respite going forward.
Credit quality Barclays 6.2 continued to be good although concern mounted over the booming HSBC 4.9 UK housing and consumer credit markets.
The Bank of England has Lloyds TSB 4.3 tried to engineer a gradual slowdown with a series of interest rate Standard Chartered 4.3 rises and cautionary words.
Bank of America 2.2 BNP Paribas 2.1 Consolidation continued apace in the US but cross-border merger TCF Financial 1.8 activity in Europe has yet to occur to any great degree.
The reforms Commonwealth Bank to the capital adequacy rules, contained in Basle II, will require of Australia 1.7 banks with riskier lending portfolios to set aside more capital and Wells Fargo 1.6 improve their operational risk management.
BBVA 1.5 Mitsubishi Tokyo We cut back the number of holdings in Europe, switching from Banco Financial Group 1.4 Santander into BBVA and Socit Gnrale into BNP Paribas.
Japanese ABN Amro 1.4 banks bounced back strongly as they continued to reduce their nonUniCredito Italiano 1.1 performing loans, and we added to Mitsubishi Tokyo Financial Group.
UBS 1.1 In Asia, we added to Malayan Banking and Kasikornbank in Thailand, Bradford & Bingley 1.0 Northern Trust 1.0 both of whom are set to benefit from improving domestic economies.
Comerica 1.0 Siam Commercial Bank 0.9 JPMorgan Chase 0.8 Nordea Bank 0.6 Other Holdings 10 3.6 Total 66.8 m Insurance The regulatory environment for life assurance in the UK, while still Aviva 5.8 Marsh & McLennan 3.5 tough, is becoming less onerous with the price cap on Sandler-type CNP Assurances 2.3 products raised from 1% to 1.5% for the first ten years, with a review Prudential 2.0 thereafter.
The industrys capital position has strengthened with the Legal & General 2.0 rebound in equity markets, but there is still over-capacity meaning American International that more consolidation is likely.
Standard Lifes decision to Group 1.6 recommend a flotation illustrated the continuing pressures faced by Mitsui Sumitomo 1.1 many life companies in what remains a challenging environment.
Protective Life 0.9 Old Republic International 0.6 Operating conditions in the property and casualty sector continued to AXA 0.6 be strong in liability insurance but the pricing environment for Sampo 0.6 personal insurance was less favourable.
We sold some of our smaller Allianz 0.5 positions, particularly those exposed to the more volatile re-insurance Total 21.5 market such as Converium in Europe and PartnerRe in the US.
23 Real Estate m The real estate sector again performed well in Britain thanks to Slough Estates 4.9 UK Balanced Property Trust 1.3 strong demand from institutions, attracted by its recent outCheung Kong 1.3 performance of the equity market, lack of correlation with other asset Cousins Properties 1.0 classes and low volatility.
Direct investment remained strong but the Sun Hung Kai Properties 0.9 rental market was patchy with a buoyant retail sector contrasting Mitsui Fudosan 0.7 against a sluggish office sector.
Regulatory developments included Henderson Land the impending introduction of tax-efficient Property Investment Development 0.7 Funds, or PIFs, and a review into the use of upward-only rent reviews.
Other Holdings 1 0.3 Total 11.1 The industry has been consulted over PIFs and it remains to be seen how costly and restrictive the conditions are to qualify as a PIF.
Discounts to net asset value have fallen sharply as investors anticipate a favourable outcome.
We switched part of our Slough convertible holding into ordinary stock.
In Asia we increased our exposure to the property development companies in Hong Kong with an addition to Sun Hung Kai and a new holding in Henderson Land.
These are beneficiaries of the recovery in the local economy and the developing ties with China.
Speciality and Other Finance m Against a backdrop of improving economics, stock market trading Alliance Trust Finance 6.1 Alliance Trust Savings 3.5 volumes and listing prospects for many Asian countries we added to Hong Kong Exchanges our holding in Singapore Exchange, the operator of the securities & Clearing 1.0 and derivatives exchanges in this important Asian financial centre.
Credit Saison 0.7 In Japan, we increased our holding in Credit Saison, a leading Other Holdings 4 1.1 consumer finance company, which is expected to benefit from better Total 12.4 domestic demand.
Information about our investment in ATF and ATS is shown in note 8 on pages 47 and 48.
Further details about the business of ATS appear on pages 26 and 27.
24 Portfolio Review Investment Companies m Our investment company holdings are held primarily to gain exposure SVG Capital Convertibles 2.5 Candover Investments 2.1 to markets, sectors or other categories that we feel are attractive and Standard Life European offer additional diversification, but where it may be less effective for Private Equity 1.8 us to invest directly.
The holdings shown here represent all the Aberforth Smaller investment companies in the portfolio, other than Merrill Lynch World Companies 1.3 Mining and the UK Balanced Property Trust which are managed on a Eastern European Trust 0.7 sectoral basis, and shown under resources and real estate respectively.
Dunedin Buyout Fund 0.5 Falcon Investment Trust 0.3 The most significant change was the sale of F&C Latin American Trust The Korea Fund 0.3 that had rallied very strongly as confidence in the region picked up Genesis Chile Fund 0.3 due to rising commodity prices and recovery in Brazil.
We switched Electra Active Management 0.3 out of Korea-Europe into The Korea Fund which appeared more JP Morgan Fleming Japan 0.2 attractively valued and took a new position in the Eastern European Albany Ventures Fund III 0.2 Central European Growth 0.1 Trust.
We sold Edinburgh Dragon and Martin Currie Pacific and Total 10.6 increased our exposure to private equity through further drawdowns to Albany Ventures and Dunedin Buyout funds.
Fixed Income m Gilt and bond markets declined as fears of deflation receded with the HBOS 9.25% 2.2 recovery in economic activity.
The rise in gilt yields was mirrored by National Westminster 9% 2.1 Abbey National 10.375% 1.8 rising yields in the corporate fixed interest market.
Our fixed income Aviva 8.375% 1.2 investments are almost exclusively in UK finance sector preference General Accident 8.875% 1.1 stocks: although the capital value fell over the year by 8% they HBOS 9.75% 0.9 provide an attractive level source of franked income.
Standard Chartered 7.375% 0.8 There was little change in our portfolio during the year, although that National Westminster did include selling the small residue of minor holdings to focus on 8.125% 0.5 those which are more significant.
We expect a relatively steady Aviva 8.75% 0.3 outlook for these stocks as they have premium yields and good credit Halifax 6.125% 0.3 quality.
They also stand to benefit when stability at the long end of Total 11.2 the yield curve emerges once interest rate increases by the UKs monetary authority restrict consumer demand.
25 Investment Changes m Valuation Valuation 31 July 31 July 2003 Purchases Sales Appreciation 2004 The difference between 469m and Resources and Basic Industries 92 9 12 11 100 497m referred to on page 14 is Capital Goods 60 12 18 3 57 represented by other net assets of Consumer Goods and Products 79 5 15 4 73 28m, which are not represented in Services 101 19 21 6 105 the Investment Changes table.
Financials 109 14 9 2 112 23m of these other net assets are Investment Companies 10 2 3 2 11 held in sterling.
The geographic classification of the investments is by the domicile of their primary listing, save for investment companies with a specific regional focus.
However, the companies in which we invest are exposed to currencies and economies throughout the world.
