10 This section focuses on the main economic, corporate and equity market events which took place during the financial year and summarises our investment outlook.
Economies Economies Over the last year the global economic recovery has generally broadened out, led by strong demand from both the US and Companies China.
Indeed, Chinese growth became so strong that the authorities there were forced to take steps to cool the exceptionally high level of investment spending in particular Equity Markets industries, such as steel, aluminium and cement.
This tightening of policy raised fears initially of a sharp slowdown Investment Outlook in China, which would have an adverse impact on the rest of Asia, but recent evidence is providing some comfort and the authorities are well aware of the risks.
Throughout much of Asia, strong levels of trade activity have boosted production, employment and income levels, encouraging higher levels of consumer spending, a necessary condition for sustainable growth.
In Japan, however, although export growth has been strong, recovery in its domestic market has been hindered by the overhang of bad debt, continued lack of strength in the labour market and the ongoing problem of consumer price deflation.
Business confidence has improved, illustrated by the strong recovery in capital spending, but employment gains have been slower to appear, possibly hindered by the adverse impact of rising oil prices.
Investors remain hopeful, however, that employment growth will strengthen and that, after several false dawns, this particular recovery in the Japanese economy will prove to be sustainable.
Europes growth has lagged behind the US and Asia, because unemployment remains particularly high, denting consumer confidence and spending.
Labour market rigidity has restrained employment growth in recent years, but we have seen signs lately suggesting that the corporate sector is addressing some of this structural problem.
Increased labour market flexibility Oil Price - West Texas Intermediate $ per barrel 31 July 2003 to 31 July 2004 44 42 40 38 36 34 32 30 28 26 AS O N D J F M A M J J Source: Thomson Financial Datastream Investment Background 11 would boost competitiveness within Europe, which would be spending brightened, but concerns about the impact of rising particularly important were the euro to strengthen further from energy costs on companies profit margins and spending caused its present level.
The recent accession of ten new member technology stocks to fall back sharply in the second half, states may help to underpin demand within Europe over the producing a drop of 5% over the year.
Investment Outlook In the UK, the relatively high level of labour market flexibility has been an important factor in helping growth move above its The bias is still towards economic growth but there are trend level.
The exceptional strength of the housing market has persistent major uncertainties.
Near term, much hinges on oil.
also helped, but brings with it the risk of a wider economic A higher price would both reduce growth and raise inflation, slowdown if the recent tightening of monetary policy causes endangering Japans recovery and also affect growth engines house price growth to tail off more sharply than anticipated.
More secure sources of oil will be developed but volatility is the clearest prospect, biased towards relatively Companies strong prices because of potential demand from China and other industrialising countries.
The broadening out of the economic recovery has allowed companies to rebuild margins while productivity has remained We expect the gradual withdrawal of extreme levels of fiscal and relatively high, particularly in the US.
The combination of rising monetary stimulus in the US to continue but to take the oil corporate profits growth, lower levels of spare capacity and situation into account.
Therefore we hope any economic improved business confidence eventually produced the recovery slowdown will be short and minor and the world economy in capital spending which had been long awaited.
However, should become better placed to withstand unforeseeable shocks price competition is still fierce in many industries and much of than 18 months ago.
the increase in investment spending is taking place in emerging Company profits will grow more slowly from here, although at markets, where labour costs remain much lower.
This has an acceptable rate nonetheless, and company attitudes towards limited employment gains in the major economies.
Equity valuation levels are Companies must now deal with a higher oil price, which not extreme but are not outstandingly cheap.
Markets may threatens both to limit demand and boost costs, increasing the exaggerate any volatility in economies or profits in the short downward pressure on margins.
As can be seen in the chart on term but erosion of equities status as a long term asset class the left, the oil price rose over 40% during the financial year.
may soon have run its course.
We have moved the portfolio to a Many firms are unable to pass on all of the increase in energy more risk averse position once again by selling cyclical stocks prices, particularly in the manufacturing sector where and holding cash which we still currently see as the best competition remains severe.
Such businesses will continue alternative asset class.
cutting costs to protect their margins and are unlikely to create more jobs.
UK firms face additional pressure due to the strength of sterling, which has reduced competitiveness, the slow but steady build up of wage pressure and the high level of cash demands stemming from the restructuring of pension funds.
Equity Markets The chart on the right illustrates sterling-adjusted moves in Equity Markets - Sterling Adjusted equity markets over the last year.
Although most of the major 31 July 2003 to 31 July 2004 markets made gains in the first half of our financial year, the 130 second half was more mixed, reflecting investors concerns over 125 terrorism, the rising oil price and future prospects for economic Japan 120 growth and company profits.
115 At the sector level, the rising oil price increased the UK 110 attractiveness of resource stocks, pushing the FTSE World 105 Europe Resource Index up nearly 19%.
Cyclicals also benefited from the 100 general upturn in the economic cycle.
Technology stocks did US 95 well in the first half of our year as prospects for investment AS O N D J F M A M J J Source: Thomson Financial Datastream
