3 History, Investment Policy and Risks History Investment Policy The Second Alliance Trust PLC traces its origins back to 1880, To achieve the Companys objective, we seek long-term with the formation of The Hawaiian Investment and Agency growth in both capital and income by: Company.
That Company's purpose was to borrow money from Investing in both quoted and unquoted equities across Dundee merchants and lend it to sugar planters in Hawaii.
We are not wedded to any index nor to any Activities were soon broadened and the successor company, rigid geographical, sector, or industry, asset allocation The Western and Hawaiian Investment Company, was formed Investing internationally in preference shares and in debt in 1883 to offer mortgages in North America.
In 1918, the securities including government and corporate bonds directors of the Western and Hawaiian came to an agreement to share management and administration costs with the Investing in other assets, including property, and other Alliance Trust.
Both companies had participated in land investment vehicles mortgages in North America and shared agents across North Retaining the ability to borrow, as we have done from America.
Five years later, the name of Western and Hawaiian time to time, and thereby to gear our portfolio was changed to the Second Alliance Trust.
Investing in subsidiary and associated businesses which From these early beginnings, the Company began to allow us to expand into other related activities with the invest in fixed interest securities, while disposing of its objective of enhancing stockholder value.
Alliance Trust land mortgages and real estate interests Savings is an example of this policy By the mid-twentieth century, the Company was invested largely in equities, both quoted and unquoted, with some Risks debt securities Investment in any asset has associated risk.
The Company The Company continues to be predominantly an limits this through a wide spread of investments.
Presently, international equity investor, while retaining the power minimal gearing prevents the magnification of the impact of to invest in other asset classes in order to meet its market volatility on our assets.
We retain the ability to use objective derivative instruments which we recognise may increase risk.
The Company is an investment company with investment trust status.
It employs its own staff to manage its portfolio of assets and its affairs Objective To be the core investment for those seeking a long term store of increasing value.
