The Group Asset Finance What we do We offer a broad selection of asset financing and Singer & Friedlander is a specialist banking and leasing services for individuals and companies, investment management group with a tradition of operating through a network of regional offices innovation in financial services.
We provide insurance premium finance and offer finance facilities to companies and What makes us different individuals for new and used equipment and for Our business is based on strong personal vehicles and leasing services to the public sector, relationships especially the NHS.
Our approach is to look at each transaction Investment Management however unusual on its merits, rather than taking Singer & Friedlander Investment Management the one size fits all stance of many of our Limited SFIM is one of the largest discretionary competitors managers of private client and family trust money in Our clients value our ability to make decisions very the UK, with offices in London, Birmingham, Leeds, quickly and the fact that they can speak directly to Nottingham and the Isle of Man.
Our clients are loyal the decision-maker to us because they like our flexibility, our personal Once weve made a commitment, we deliver on it approach and most importantly our ability to Our thinking may be innovative, but our values deliver excellent returns on their investments.
remain traditional Our three businesses are supported by our More details of the services we offer can be found at Offshore Services, based in the Isle of Man, which www.
co. uk offer facilities for those wishing to deal outside the UK.
We offer the whole range of deposit, banking, Our business treasury and investment management services, Our business is divided into three main areas: tailored to the needs of overseas residents and Banking expatriates.
These include online banking, foreign Asset Finance exchange facilities and a money market currency Investment Management account with debit card and cheque book.
We also offer loan facilities, including residential mortgages.
Banking We offer the full menu of banking services to small Creating value for shareholders and medium sized companies and to private individuals and entrepreneurs.
Our expertise includes Our focus is on creating the maximum return for our corporate banking, trade finance, property finance, shareholders by growing the business organically private banking and treasury services.
We also provide by means of appropriate acquisitions where online banking and bespoke services for companies attractive opportunities arise and by optimising use and individuals.
Our clients are based mainly in the of the Groups capital.
UK, and are served by our offices in London, Manchester and the Isle of Man.
The Group Report and Accounts 2004 Singer & Friedlander Group PLC 1 Contents 1 The Group 2 Contents 3 Highlights 2004 4 Group Board 6 The Executive Management Team 7 Senior Personnel Outside of the Executive Team 8 Chairmans Statement 10 Chief Executives Review of Activities 22 Corporate Governance 29 Report on the Directors Remuneration 33 Report of the Directors 36 Corporate Social Responsibility 38 Statement of Directors Responsibilities 39 Group Profits by Business Activity 40 Independent Auditors Report 42 Consolidated Profit and Loss Account 43 Consolidated Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses 44 Consolidated Balance Sheet 45 Balance Sheet 46 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 47 Notes to the Accounts 77 Abridged Accounts of Singer & Friedlander Limited Consolidated Profit and Loss Account Consolidated Balance Sheet Balance Sheet 80 Directory of Principal Offices 2 Singer & Friedlander Group PLC Report and Accounts 2004 Contents
