Report of the Directors The Directors of Carillion plc present their annual report, together with It is Carillions aim to foster a working environment in which all the audited financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2004. employees are treated with courtesy, dignity and respect.
Carillion continually strives to eliminate all bias and unlawful discrimination in Principal activities and business review relation to job applicants, employees, business partners and members Carillion is a leading support services and construction company of the public.
Employees who become disabled are, wherever possible, delivering integrated solutions for infrastructure, buildings and retrained or provided with equipment so that they can continue their services, operating throughout the UK and in a number of overseas employment.
The objectives of Carillions Equal Opportunities and Diversity A review of the Groups businesses, financial performance and future Policy are: developments is contained in the Chairmans Statement, Chief Executives Review and the Operating and Financial Review.
to have a workforce that represents and responds to the diversity of customers and todays society: Analyses of turnover, results and net assets by business segment and to improve safety and quality provided by a balanced and productive geographical location are given in Note 2 on page 49. workforce: to seek a better public image and market position, leading to Profits and dividends improved links with the community in which Carillion works: The Consolidated Profit and Loss Account is shown on page 42.
The to ensure adherence to legal requirements: pre-tax profit on ordinary activities before exceptionals and goodwill to lower staff turnover, absenteeism and sickness levels leading to was up 8 per cent to 54.7 million 2003: 50.8 million.
Post cost savings: exceptionals and goodwill of 61.1 million there was a pre-tax loss of to provide a fair working environment in which discrimination will 6.4 million 2003: profit of 23.8 million.
not be tolerated: to create a working environment free from discrimination, An interim dividend of 1.675 pence per ordinary share 2003: harassment, victimisation and bullying: 1.575 pence was paid in November 2004 together with an additional to work towards finding ways for under represented groups to fully dividend of 1.0 pence per ordinary share from PPP equity sales.
It is realise their potential within Carillion and to take reasonable steps to proposed to pay a final dividend of 4.825 pence per ordinary share help such groups: 2003: 3.475 pence plus a special dividend of 1.7 pence from PPP to ensure that all employees are aware of the Group Equal equity sales on 24 June 2005 to shareholders on the register at the Opportunities and Diversity Policy and provide any necessary close of business on 29 April 2005.
The payment of these dividends ongoing training to enable them to meet their responsibilities amounts to 15.7 million 2003: 14.1 million.
A dividend reinvestment plan DRIP will also be offered.
Carillion also recognises the merit of developing a workforce that incorporates the many diverse skills and backgrounds available from Directors within the total population and accordingly, will strive to become an The Directors of the Company who served during 2004 are shown on organisation that will recognise, value and understand diversity and page 31 of the Remuneration Report.
Biographical details for each provide its employees with genuine opportunities to improve and Director at 31 December 2004 are given on pages 22 and 23. reach their full potential.
In accordance with the Articles of Association, Chris Girling retires by Carillion places great importance on open and regular communication rotation and, being eligible, offers himself for re-election at the Annual with employees through both formal and informal processes.
As part General Meeting on 11 May 2005.
Chris Girling has a contract of of this commitment, a Group newspaper, Spectrum, is produced on service which is subject to one years notice of termination by the a regular basis for all employees.
The views of employees on matters affecting their interests are The interests of the Directors and their families in the share capital of also sought through The Great Debate.
This is a major exercise the Company are shown in the Remuneration Report on page 37. undertaken by the Group in 2003 and 2004 to capture the feelings and views of a wide range of employees: in 2004, 1,300 UK Employees employees attended The Great Debate sessions.
These views are Information relating to employee numbers and remuneration is given then taken into account in the development of work related initiatives in Note 6 on page 52. as part of Carillions strategy to become an employer of choice.
Employees are key to achieving Carillions business strategy and the Carillion stages The Great Debate as part of the ongoing quest for Group is committed to improving their skills through training and cultural change and to produce step changes which: development and nurturing a culture in which employees feel valued for their contribution and are motivated to achieve their full potential.
raise understanding of what drives motivation, morale, engagement and performance: Carillions core values of openness, collaboration, mutual dependency, allows employees to take ownership and be empowered to build and innovation, professional delivery and sustainable profitable growth implement solutions: have been developed to emphasise the changing working practices demonstrates Carillions desire to change attitudes and behaviours required to succeed in an environment where partnership and based on listening to the views of its employees.
integrated solutions are becoming the norm.
38 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Accountability 05 Team Talk was introduced in May 2003 as a direct result of The Great Charitable and political contributions Debate and extensive research with Carillion employees, who said Payments for charitable purposes made by the Group during the year they wanted face-to-face communication with their line managers.
The Team Talk is held on a monthly basis and provides the opportunity for primary beneficiaries of these charitable donations were The Wildlife two-way communication, discussion and feedback.
It focuses on local Trust, Business in the Community, the British Heart Foundation and issues and key corporate messages and information.
CRASH, the construction and property industry charity for the homeless.
Individual performance development reviews are also held to discuss The Carillion Group also contributes more than 1 per cent of profits performance and progress.
per annum in cash or in-kind staff time on community projects to community activities and are members of the Business in the Employees can also exchange best practice information on a Community PerCent Club.
Knowledge Management Forum on the Carillion Group intranet.
The Company and its subsidiaries made no political donations during Involvement in the Group is also encouraged through means such the period under review.
as the periodic grant of share options under the Sharesave Scheme which gives all UK employees the opportunity to have a financial stake Carillion response to Tsunami Disaster in the Company.
Carillion has become a patron of RedR, the charity that co-ordinates the provision of engineers and other professionals to front-line disaster Carillion seeks to involve all employees in its leading edge programmes relief agencies.
This will enable Carillion to provide a sustained to integrate safety into everything it does and to improve its response, not only in respect of the tsunami disaster, but also for other environmental performance, including the understanding and future disasters.
application of the principles of sustainability.
Further information on Health and Safety, the Environment and Community is given in the Engineers and others who wish to use their skills to help with disaster Corporate Social Responsibility section on pages 20 and 21. relief can apply to become a member of RedR and if they are accepted, they may be called upon to work in disaster relief areas for typically up In support of future European legislation, Carillion will involve, engage to three months.
If a Carillion employee is accepted by RedR, Carillion and consult with employees by introducing People Forums across the will release them with support subject to the requirements of the Group to develop communication and give employees the opportunity business.
to express their views on business issues.
Specifically, the objectives of the People Forums will be: Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting will be held at 11.30am on Wednesday to improve employee information and consultation: 11 May 2005 at Austin Court, 80 Cambridge Street, Birmingham to help employees feel more involved and valued: B1 2NP.
The notice of the Annual General Meeting accompanies this to support the continued education and development of employees: Annual Report and Accounts.
to improve business performance by enabling employees to be better aware of the business climate in which they operate: Amongst the business to be transacted is a proposal to renew to help employees to be responsive to and better prepared for the authority for the Company to purchase its own shares.
31 December 2004, the Company had authority from shareholders for the purchase of 21,396,458 of its own shares.
Substantial share interests At 9 March 2005, the Company had received formal notification Auditor of the following substantial interests in the ordinary share capital of Resolutions to reappoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditor and to authorise the Company: the Directors to determine its remuneration will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Number of shares held Percentage Schroder Investment Management Approved by order of the Board Limited, its subsidiaries and affiliated companies 38,548,670 17.97% R F Tapp FMR Corp. and its direct and indirect Secretary subsidiaries and Fidelity International 9 March 2005 Limited and its direct and indirect subsidiaries 27,808,734 12.96% Legal & General Group Plc 7,113,336 3.32% Policy for payment of suppliers It is the policy of the Group that each business agrees terms and conditions for transactions with its suppliers and for payment to be made on these terms providing the suppliers meet their obligations to the businesses satisfaction.
The Group as a whole therefore does not apply a general recognised code with regard to the payment of all suppliers.
The Company does not have any trade creditors.
The number of days credit outstanding for the Group averaged 63 days at 31 December 2004 67 days at 31 December 2003.
39 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Accountability 05
