Our Board 1 2 3 4 567 8 1 Sir Neville Simms 2 Philip Rogerson Chairman Age 60.
Sir Nevilles career has been spent Philip was appointed to the Board in the construction industry having in October 2004 and is a member originally joined Tarmac in 1970, of the Nominations Committee.
becoming Chief Executive in 1992 He is presently Chairman of and Deputy Chairman in 1994.
Aggreko plc, THUS Group plc Sir Neville is also Chairman of and Viridian Group plc and is a International Power plc, a Trustee Non-Executive Director of Davis of the BRE Trust, a Governor of Service Group plc and Northgate Ashridge Management College plc.
He was an Executive Director and a member of the Presidents of BG plc from 1992 to 1998, Committee of the CBI.
He was latterly as Deputy Chairman.
until May 2002 a Member of the Court of the Bank of England.
Sir 3 John McDonough Neville was appointed Chairman Chief Executive Age 53. of the the Board of Carillion plc in John was appointed Chief May 1999 and is Chairman of the Executive in January 2001 and Sustainability Committee and the is a Non-Executive Director of Nominations Committee.
He is a member of the He is a Chartered Engineer.
CBIs Public Services Strategy Board.
He was formerly Vice At the 2004 AGM, Sir Neville President, Integrated Facilities announced that by the Annual Management, Europe, the General Meeting on 11 May Middle East and Africa of 2005 he would stand down both Johnson Controls Inc. as the Chairman and as a Director of the Company.
22 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 A Strong Team Section 04 4 Chris Girling 6 Roger Dickens 8 Andrew Parrish Finance Director Age 51.
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Chris was appointed to the Non-Executive Director Age 59.
Andrew joined the Board Carillion plc Board in November Age 57.
Appointed to the Board in March 2000 and is Chairman 1999.
Chris is a Chartered in May 2000, Roger is the Senior of the Remuneration Committee Accountant and holds the Independent Non-Executive and a member of the Audit and degree of Master of Business Director and Chairman of the Nominations Committees.
He was Audit Committee and a member also Chairman of the National previously Group Finance of the Remuneration and Stud, a member of the CBIs Director of Vosper Thornycroft Nominations Committees.
Manufacturing Council and was Holdings plc.
Roger is the Chairman of West previously Group Chief Executive Bromwich Building Society, the of Senior plc.
Andrew is a 5 Roger Robinson NEC Group Limited and assa Chartered Engineer.
Executive Director Training and Learning Limited Construction Services and a former Chairman of iSOFT Jean-Paul Parayre Age 53.
Roger joined Tarmac Group PLC.
He is also a Director not pictured Construction as Contracts of Headlam Group plc.
He is a Jean-Paul Parayre served Director in 1989 subsequently Chartered Accountant.
as the Senior Independent becoming Managing Director Non-Executive Director until he of Tarmac Civil Engineering, 7 David Garman stood down from the Board on International and Rail.
Jean-Paul was was appointed to the Board of Age 53.
Appointed to the Board appointed to the Board in May Carillion plc in May 1999 and in September 2004, David 1999 and served on the Audit, has Group-wide responsibility is a member of the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration for Construction and Health and Nominations and Remuneration Committees throughout his term Safety matters.
David is Chief of appointment.
He is Chairman of the Government Task force on Executive of TDG plc, which he of Vallourec S. A.
Modern Apprenticeships and is a joined in 1999 from Associated Fellow of the Institution of British Foods where he was an Civil Engineers.
23 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 A Strong Team 04
