In 2004, Carillion Transport the UKs first privately financed in this area.
UK investment in Markets and won new orders and framework rail enhancement project, rail enhancement projects and Outlook contracts in the heavy rail and for Chiltern Railways, worth renewals is expected to be road infrastructure markets, 50 million.
Our UK roads 3.3 billion in 2005 and we worth 1.0 billion.
The value of business had a particularly expect growing opportunities its order book and framework successful year.
We won new to increase our share of this Transport contracts at 31 December 2004 long-term maintenance contracts market from its current level was 888 million.
for Warwickshire County Council of around 10 per cent.
In and Wolverhampton City Scandinavia, we are well placed We made good progress in our Council, together worth up to benefit from the outsourcing UK and Scandinavian rail markets to 94 million, and reached of rail infrastructure work, which towards our goal of replacing financial close on the A249 is expected to grow at 10 per within three years the turnover PPP road project in Kent, cent per annum over the next we have lost as a result of worth around 120 million to three years.
transferring rail maintenance Carillion, including construction, work to Network Rail.
In the UK, maintenance and concession The outlook for our roads we won a five-year framework company turnover.
business is positive, particularly contract for renewing track in the Local Authority road and switches and crossings and In 2005, we expect continuing maintenance market.
Annual contracts for rail enhancement opportunities to grow our rail expenditure on local road projects, together worth a total business and make further maintenance is some 2 billion of 763 million.
These included progress with rebuilding turnover and the proportion that is Leading edge solutions The Channel Tunnel Rail Link CTRL is Britains first high-speed rail link, comprising 79km of twin-track line between London and Cheriton.
Carillion Transport is constructing the track for Phase Two of the CTRL to the exacting standards required for high-speed rail travel.
08 Carillion Transport also maintains Phase One of CTRL.
Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Operating and Financial Review 03 currently outsourced to the private sector is expected to increase significantly from its current level of around 40 per cent.
We also continue to target road construction projects selectively, focusing primarily on projects being procured under the Governments 1.
Early Contractor Involvement programme, for which planned 1.
We reached financial Director, Carillion Transport.
close in 2004 on a investment is some 6 billion.
In 2004, we won two upgrade Marylebone and new long-term local Beaconsfield stations for authority road maintenance Chiltern Railways, an contracts worth up to increasingly important 94 million, one for commuter route into Warwickshire County London.
Council and the other for Wolverhampton City Council.
for tomorrows world 09 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Operating and Financial Review 03 In 2004, Carillion Health won the provision and management of estimated capital value in the Markets and new contracts worth 161 million the new centre and all clinical region of 400 million.
These Outlook increasing the value of its yearservices, potentially worth around hospitals form part of the end order book and framework 60 million over five years.
We Governments PPP hospital contracts to 592 million.
also successfully renewed our programme, for which planned contract to provide facilities capital expenditure over the next Health New contracts in 2004 included management services to four three years is around 5 billion.
the Birmingham and Solihull LIFT Health Trusts in Essex, worth In addition, we also expect further project and an extension to 50 million over five years.
opportunities to bid for ISTCs in Darent Valley Hospital in Dartford, which the Government is investing Kent.
We are also building new The outlook for our Health some 2.5 billion over the next facilities at Rampton Hospital business continues to be very five years, and for publicly funded under the ProCure 21 programme, positive.
We expect to reach infrastructure work under the for which we are a framework financial close on the Queen 7 billion ProCure 21 programme.
Together Alexandra Hospital, Portsmouth, with our clinical partner, we were worth approximately 1.0 billion, appointed as the preferred bidder in the first half of 2005.
We are for our first Independent Sector also bidding for two more major Treatment Centre ISTC, in hospitals, Pembury in Kent and Basildon, where we will provide a Walsall in the West Midlands, fully integrated service including which together have an Integrated solutions Carillion is an equity partner in the special purpose company responsible for providing the new John Radcliffe Hospital in Oxford.
Carillion is also building the 284 bed hospital, which has a construction value of 130 million, on the site of the existing John Radcliffe hospital without interruption to patient services.
Once operational, Carillion will provide facilities management 10 services for the new hospital too.
Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Operating and Financial Review 03 1.
Adrian Bull, Managing high-quality catering products in Basildon, Essex.
We will be Director, Carillion Health.
and services for staff, patients providing a fully integrated and visitors to the hospitals service, including the 2.
We have launched a new we help to manage.
provision and management catering brand, Caf Blue, of the new Centre and all which forms part of the 3.
Together with our clinical clinical services.
integrated facilities partner, we were appointed management service we as the preferred bidder for provide to customers in the our first Independent Sector health sector.
Caf Blue offers Treatment Centre, in 2004, from project finance to support services 11 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Operating and Financial Review 03 In 2004, Carillion Business also continued to concentrate the Future programme, the Markets and Services won new orders worth on developing long-term outlook in the education sector Outlook 640 million and its order book relationships with key customers.
and framework contracts at In 2005, we expect around 80 per 31 December 2004 were cent of the turnover in our UK The UK private sector facilities worth some 821 million.
Building business to be generated management market continued Business Services from 20 key customers.
to be very competitive in 2004, Our UK Building business had a with fewer opportunities for successful year winning new Our UK Building business has also Carillion Services to bid for orders in its key sectors.
These been successful in the growing contracts that met its selectivity included contracts in the retail education sector, winning criteria.
In contrast, the outlook sector worth 170 million, in the construction contracts in 2004 in the public sector facilities urban high-rise residential sector worth around 134 million.
In management market has worth 180 million and in the addition, we expect to reach become increasingly positive offices and other developments financial close in the near future during 2004, with a number of sectors worth around 130 on the 150 million PPP schools Local Authorities seeking million.
By December 2004, our project for Renfrewshire.
With strategic partnerships to deliver UK Building order book for 2005 further opportunities expected integrated asset and facilities was largely secure and we were for both PPP and non-PPP management solutions.
We are firmly focused on winning work projects under the Governments currently shortlisted for one such for 2006 and beyond.
We have 25 billion Building Schools for project in Bradford and we are Sustainable solutions The magnificent NV Buildings in Manchester situated opposite the Lowry Centre.
The finished project will provide 246 luxury apartments and form an important part of the regeneration of the Salford Quays area.
The apartments provide an environment and living 12 accommodation to the highest standards.
Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Operating and Financial Review 03 targeting a number of similar projects for other Local Authorities.
These projects demand the combination of a wide range of skills, including project finance, design, construction, maintenance, facilities management and property development.
2. our capabilities and experience in providing similar solutions for 1.
We provide integrated PMEs customers include Director, Carillion Business facilities management Deutsche Bank, Royal Bank other public sector customers, Services.
solutions for a number of Scotland, KPMG, we believe we are well positioned of blue chip customers, GCHQ, the Department in this emerging market.
Carillion Services provides including some 8,000 for Environment, Food and facilities management properties for BT.
Rural Affairs, the Driver and services for the Hackney The recent acquisition of Vehicle Licensing Agency Technology and Learning Planned Maintenance and Plymouth, Torbay and Centre under a 30-year Engineering PME Hampshire Councils.
contract with the sponsors significantly enhances of this PFI project, including our service capability teaching areas, a library, and the size and quality museum, offices, of our customer portfolio.
to transform a brownfield site 13 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Operating and Financial Review 03 2004 was a very successful year Our businesses in the Middle East construction of the whole of its Markets and for our International Regional were awarded construction Festival City development and Outlook Businesses, which won new contracts worth 216 million, we have reached agreement on orders worth 1.0 billion, including a 175 million contract further construction contracts increasing their year-end order for our joint venture business in worth up to 400 million.
This was Dubai for a major phase of the joint venture support services International despite the effect of selling multi-billion pound Festival City business with Emaar Properties is Carillion BTP, which had an development, which is being expected to achieve significant Regions order book of 150 million.
developed by our partner in the growth in 2005 and beyond UAE, the Al Futtaim Group.
as it extends its portfolio of A Carillion-led consortium property under management, reached financial close on two In 2005, our focus in Canada including the first phases of of the first three PPP hospital is on delivering our two PPP Dubai Festival City.
concession contracts to be let hospitals and extending our in Canada the William Osler in success in the Ontario road Toronto and the Royal Ottawa maintenance market to other together worth over 650 million Provinces.
In the Middle East, to Carillion.
Our highways we have already had further maintenance business in success in 2005.
We have been Canada won new contracts selected by the Al Futtaim Group worth 180 million.
to manage the design and International solutions A celebration of the opportunities being created by the Dubai Festival City development.
As well as building major phrases of this multi-billion pound development, Carillion has also been appointed to 14 manage its design and construction.
In 2004, Carillion reached business in Canada won new financial close on two PPP contracts in 2004 worth hospitals in Canada, the around 180 million and Royal Ottawa and the new now maintains a substantial William Osler hospital in proportion of the provincial Toronto, an architects road network in Ontario.
impression of which is shown here.
expected to generate income This sophisticated marina for Carillion Canada of over and luxury apartment 650 million, including development comprising construction, facilities six towers, some up to 37 management and concession storeys high, will be home company turnover.
from Europe to the Middle East to Canada 15 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Operating and Financial Review 03
