Our Mission, Vision, Values and Strategy Our mission Sustainable, profitable growth Making tomorrow a better place.
enhancing long-term profitability by focusing on todays objectives whilst Our vision is to be the leader in investing for the future.
Developing and delivering integrated solutions for nurturing long-term client relationships infrastructure, buildings and services.
and maintaining a flexible approach to our chosen markets.
Carillions transformation has been Innovation constantly searching achieved by bringing together first-class for and implementing fresh approaches people committed to our vision and to improve all aspects of our business.
values and focused on the needs of Enabling Carillion, its customers our customers.
and suppliers to create competitive advantage, share knowledge and learn Our values guide the way we work.
At Carillion we believe it is not only what we do that matters, but how we Health and Safety has absolute priority so do it.
Therefore, we strive to live our that all our people can expect to work safely core values in everything we do.
In late 2004, we launched a radical new initiative, Target Zero, aimed Openness listening to each other at eliminating all reportable accidents.
This is and sharing ideas, issues, problems an ambitious target, but as there is no such and opportunities.
Building trust with thing as an acceptable accident, we are our customers, suppliers and all our determined to reduce them to zero.
stakeholders, working with integrity and transparency.
Building a sustainable business Collaboration working together to by creating positive impacts on the deliver optimum solutions, respecting environment and on the communities in the different skills, knowledge and which we operate, is fundamental to the experience of everyone involved.
This has put Carillion at the Mutual dependency understanding forefront of responsible business practice.
each others objectives, looking after each others Health and Safety and Our strategy is to deliver sustainable striving to achieve the best for all by profitable growth through working with customers and suppliers so that risks and rewards are shared.
growing support services and Public Professional delivery using a best Private Partnerships PPP organically practice approach to managing and and by acquisition fulfilling our customers needs, whilst maintaining a strong and selective achieving the highest professional construction capability focused on standards in quality, Health and Safety higher added-value contracts for and environmental ownership.
long-term customers 02 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 What We Do 01
