PRESIDENT AND BOARD OF DIRECTORS PRESIDENT Sir Mark Weinberg Aged 73, founded the St. Jamess Place Group with Mike Wilson in 1991 and was Chairman of St. Jamess Place Capital plc until 1 September 2004, when he became President.
He currently chairs the Investment Committee.
He originally practised as a barrister and was formerly Deputy Chairman of the Securities and Investments Board, the forerunner to the Financial Services Authority.
THE PRESENT DIRECTORS OF THE COMPANY ARE: Mike Wilson Chairman Aged 61, founded the St. Jamess Place Group with Sir Mark Weinberg in 1991 and was Chief Executive until 1 September 2004.
He is a member of the Compliance Committee and Nomination Committee.
He has worked in the life assurance industry since 1963 and with Sir Mark Weinberg since 1968.
He is a trustee of the St. Jamess Place Foundation, was a non-executive director of Vendme Luxury Group plc between 1993 and 1998 and was formerly Chairman of the Mental Health Foundation.
Mark Lund Chief Executive Aged 47, became Chief Executive on 1 September 2004 following his appointment as Deputy Chief Executive and Chief Executive Designate on 5 January 2004.
He was formerly Chief Executive of J P Morgan FundsHub and Chief Executive of Virgin Direct, prior to which he was a director of Henderson Investors plc, where he worked for ten years.
He is a member of both the Compliance Committee and the Investment Committee of the SJPC Board.
He is a Member of the Securities Institute, the UK Society of Investment Professionals and the CFA Institute.
He is also a trustee of the St. Jamess Place Foundation.
Charles Bailey Non-executive Director Aged 70, was appointed to the Board as an independent non-executive Director in September 1998, and is a member of the Remuneration, Audit and Compliance Committees.
Previously a Partner of Price Waterhouse, he is also a director of RIT Capital Partners plc, of Antofagasta plc, a mining company, and of Atrium Underwriting plc, a listed Integrated Lloyds Vehicle.
Sarah Bates Non-executive Director Aged 46, joined the Board as an independent non-executive Director on 1 September 2004 and is a member of the Investment Committee.
She is a director of F&C Pacific Investment Trust, Invesco English and International Trust, New India Investment Trust, as well as a strategic investment advisor to the Merseyside and East Riding Pension Funds and lay advisor to the investment committee of the Royal College of Surgeons.
She has a law degree from Trinity Hall, Cambridge and an MBA from London Business School.
22 PRESIDENT AND BOARD OF DIRECTORS continued David Bellamy Managing Director Aged 52, was appointed to the position of Managing Director on 1 January 2002, having previously fulfilled the role of Group Operations Director.
He has worked in the insurance industry since 1973 and joined the Group in April 1991.
He was appointed to the board of St. Jamess Place UK plc in 1993 and to the Board of St. Jamess Place Capital plc in September 1997, with specific responsibilities for SJPCs operational facilities.
He is a member of the Compliance Committee and a trustee of the St. Jamess Place Foundation.
Andrew Croft Group Finance Director Aged 40, joined the Group as Financial Accountant in 1993 and was promoted to various roles culminating in his appointment as Finance Director of St. Jamess Place Capital plc on 1 September 2004.
He qualified as a Chartered Accountant at  in 1988 and has a degree in Accounting and Economics from Southampton University.
James Crosby Non-executive Director Aged 49, is a non-independent non-executive Director representing HBOS plc, appointed in June 2000.
He was appointed Chief Executive of Halifax in 1999 and Chief Executive of HBOS plc in 2001.
He is also a non-executive director of ITV plc and of the Financial Services Authority.
He is a Fellow of the Faculty of Actuaries.
Ian Gascoigne Group Sales Director Aged 48, was appointed to the Board as Group Sales Director on 1 January 2003.
His specific responsibilities include the recruitment, growth and development of the St. Jamess Place Partnership.
He has worked in the insurance industry since 1986 and joined the Group in December 1991.
He was appointed to the Board of St. Jamess Place UK plc in 1997 and is a member of the Compliance Committee.
He has a degree from Lancaster University and an MA from Leicester University and is also a trustee of the St. Jamess Place Foundation.
Phil Hodkinson Non-executive Director Aged 46, was appointed to the Board as a non-independent non-executive Director on 21 February 2002 representing HBOS plc and is a member of the Audit Committee.
He was appointed Chief Executive of the Insurance and Investment Division of HBOS plc in September 2001 and is a director of Sainsburys Bank plc, Esure Insurance Limited and Business in the Community.
He is a Fellow of the Institute of Actuaries.
Anthony Loehnis CMG Non-executive Director Aged 69, is considered by the Board to be a non-independent non-executive Director, by virtue of his position as a former executive Director of the Company.
He joined the reconstructed Board in May 1996 and is Chairman of the Compliance Committee and a member of the Investment Committee.
Directorships external to the Group include Alpha Bank London Limited, Mitsubishi Securities International plc and AGCO Corporation USA.
He is also a director and treasurer of the UK-Japan 21st Century Group.
He was formerly a director of SG Warburg Group plc and was an executive director of the Bank of England.
23 PRESIDENT AND BOARD OF DIRECTORS continued Derek Netherton Non-executive Director Aged 60, is an independent non-executive Director, appointed in May 1996.
He is Chairman of the Audit Committee and a member of the Remuneration Committee.
He is Chairman of Greggs plc and his non-executive directorships outside the Group include Next PLC and Hiscox plc.
He is a Fellow of the Institute of Actuaries and was formerly a director of J. Henry Schroder & Co Limited.
Michael Sorkin Non-executive Director Aged 62, was appointed to the Board as an independent non-executive Director in January 2002 and is a member of the Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
He joined Hambros Bank in 1968 and was a director of Hambros PLC between 1986 and 1999 and a Managing Director of SG Hambros from 1999 to 2001.
He is Vice Chairman of Investment Banking at N M Rothschild Corporate Finance Limited and a non-executive director of J Z Equity Partners plc.
Grenville Turner Non-executive Director Aged 47, was appointed to the Board on 20 December 2002 as a non-independent non-executive Director, representing HBOS plc.
He is Chief Executive of Intelligent Finance, a division of HBOS plc, having formerly fulfilled the role of Head of Intermediary Sales at HBOS plc Retail Division.
Other directorships include Halifax Estate Agencies Limited and Centrica Personal Finance Limited.
The Viscount Weir Non-executive Director Aged 71, joined the Board of RIT and Northern plc, a predecessor company of St. Jamess Place Capital plc, in 1982 as an independent non-executive Director.
He is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and a member of the Nomination and Audit Committees.
He is also honorary President of Balfour Beatty plc and a director of C P Ships Limited.
He was formerly Chairman of the Weir Group plc and a director of The Bank of England, British Steel Corporation and other companies.
He is Chairman of the Trustees of the St. Jamess Place Pension Scheme.
PROPOSED BOARD APPOINTMENT Simon Gulliford It is proposed that, subject to shareholder approval, Simon Gulliford be appointed to the Board as an independent non-executive Director at the AGM on 12 May 2005.
Aged 46, he is Chief Executive of Simon Gulliford Ltd, an independent marketing consultancy, prior to which he was Group Marketing Director of Barclays plc.
Other directorships include William Jackson & Sons Ltd and Archant Newspapers.
Formerly he was also Marketing Development Director of EMAP plc and Marketing Director of Sears plc.
He is a Council member of the Marketing Group of Great Britain and a Fellow of the Marketing Society.
