Kaikhushru Shiavax Nargolwala Chairman Appointed to the Board on 7 May 1999.
Appointed to the Board on 7 May 1999.
Appointed to the Board on 9 December He is responsible for governance and He is Chairman of the Groups Wholesale 2002 and as Chairman on 8 May 2003. performance in Africa, the Middle East Banking business with responsibility for He spent most of his career with British and South Asia and has governance business strategy, performance and Petroleum, rising to become a main responsibility for the United Kingdom and development of relationships with the board director and Chief Executive of BP the Americas.
He joined Standard Groups key corporate and institutional Chemicals before he retired in 2000.
He is Chartered in 1976 and has held a number clients globally.
He is responsible for Chairman of BUPA and is a non-executive of senior positions working in London, corporate governance across the Asia director of Sunderland PLC.
Hong Kong, New York and Singapore in Pacific region and India and from corporate finance, treasury and general March 2005 he will also be responsible for 2.
Evan Mervyn Davies CBE management.
He will retire from the Board governance in Afghanistan, Bangladesh Group Chief Executive at the Annual General Meeting on 5 May and Sri Lanka.
He is a non-executive Appointed to the Board on 16 December 2005.
Age 56. director of Tate & Lyle PLC and is on the 1997 and as Group Chief Executive on Visa International Asia Pacific Regional 28 November 2001.
He joined Standard Chartered in Chartered in 1993 with responsibility for Appointed to the Board on 16 November 1998 as Group Head of Sales.
He is based global account management and prior to 2002.
He is responsible for Risk, Group in Singapore.
Age 54. joining the Board he was based in Singapore Special Asset Management, Legal and in charge of the Groups Corporate and Compliance.
From March 2005 he will also Investment banking business.
Before his be responsible for governance in Africa, appointment as Group Chief Executive he the Middle East, Pakistan, the United was executive director with responsibility Kingdom, Europe and the Americas.
Prior for Hong Kong, China and North East to his appointment, he was Chief Operating Asia and for Group-wide Technology and Officer, Barclays Private Clients at Barclays Operations.
He is a non-executive director PLC.
He was Group Finance Director of of Tesco PLC and of Tottenham Hotspur plc.
The Woolwich plc, before it was acquired Age 52. by Barclays, where his responsibilities also included risk, compliance and treasury.
Appointed to the Board on 12 May 2000.
He is responsible for the Groups Consumer Banking business worldwide.
He joined Standard Chartered in July 1999 with responsibility for Consumer Banking in Asia.
44 Standard Chartered Annual Report and Accounts 2004 14 5 7.
Paul David Skinner Appointed to the Board on 14 May 2002.
Appointed to the Board on 1 January 2005.
Appointed to the Board on 3 November He is responsible for Finance, Strategy, She is Chief Executive Officer of BUPA 2003.
He is chairman of Rio Tinto plc, the Technology and Operations.
Prior to his and a non-executive director of Compass global mining company, and was formerly appointment he was a director with Group PLC.
She was previously Director, a Group Managing Director of the Royal worldwide consultants McKinsey & Co. Asia Pacific with British Airways, a Dutch Shell Group of companies and CEO He had been with McKinsey since 1988, non-executive director of BAA and of of its global Oil Products business.
He is where he worked extensively in the banking Cable & Wireless Communications plc a director of the Tetra Laval Group, the and technology sectors in a wide range of and on the Board of the Association of privately owned global foods packaging international markets.
Age 54. company, and is also a member of the board of INSEAD, the Euro-Asian business 8.
Appointed to the Board on 24 February Appointed to the Board on 22 October 1997.
He is Chief Executive Officer of 1996.
He is Chairman of Banyan Tree 16.
Oliver Henry James Stocken MTR Corporation Limited of Hong Kong Holdings Pte Ltd.
He is also Chairman of Appointed to the Board on 1 June 2004. and is non-executive Chairman of Standard the Wah-Chang Group.
In addition, he is He is Deputy Chairman of 3i plc and a Chartered Bank Hong Kong Limited.
Chairman of Singapore Management non-executive director of Pilkington plc, Previously he was Chief Executive Officer University, Chairman of MediaCorp and a The Rank Group PLC and GUS plc.
of GKN plc and Brambles Industries plc.
board director of Singapore Airlines Limited.
Previously he was Group Finance director He is a fellow of the Royal Academy of He is based in Singapore.
Engineering, the City and Guilds of London Institute and the Institute of Chemical 12.
Rudolph Harold Peter Markham Audit and Risk Committee Engineering.
He was formerly a president Appointed to the Board on 19 February Rudy Markham Chairman of the Society of British Aerospace 2001.
He is Finance Director of Unilever Jamie Dundas Companies.
Ruth Markland Board Nomination Committee Appointed to the Board on 15 March 2004.
Appointed to the Board on 3 November Bryan Sanderson Chairman He is a non-executive director of J Sainsbury 2003.
She was formerly Managing Partner Rudy Markham plc and Chairman of Macmillan Cancer Asia for the international law firm Freshfields Ruth Markland Hugh Norton Relief.
Previously he was Chief Executive Bruckhaus Deringer.
Officer of the UK property company Board Remuneration Committee MEPC and Finance Director of the Airport 14.
Hugh Edward Norton Hugh Norton Chairman Authority Hong Kong.
Appointed to the Board on 7 August Ho KwonPing 1995.
He was formerly a Managing Ruth Markland Paul Skinner Director of British Petroleum.
Oliver Stocken Director of Standard Chartered Bank.
