Financial Review Derivatives Due to the diversified nature of the Groups business, the Groups Derivatives are contracts whose characteristics and value derive policy is that liquidity is more effectively managed locally, in-country.
from underlying financial instruments, interest and exchange rates Each Country ALCO is responsible for ensuring that the country or indices.
They include futures, forwards, swaps and options is self-sufficient and is able to meet all its obligations to make transactions in the foreign exchange and interest rate markets.
payments as they fall due.
The Country ALCO has primary Derivatives are an important risk management tool for banks and responsibility for compliance with regulations Group policy and their customers because they can be used to manage the risk of maintaining a Country Liquidity Crisis Contingency Plan.
A substantial price, interest rate and exchange rate movements.
portion of the Groups assets are funded by customer deposits made up of current and savings accounts and other deposits.
The Groups derivative transactions are principally in instruments These customer deposits, which are widely diversified by type where the mark-to-market values are readily determinable by and maturity, represent a stable source of funds.
Lending is reference to independent prices and valuation quotes or by using normally funded by liabilities in the same currency.
The Group also maintains significant levels of marketable The Group enters into derivative contracts in the normal course securities either for compliance with local statutory requirements of business to meet customer requirements and to manage its or as prudential investments of surplus funds.
own exposure to fluctuations in interest and exchange rates.
The GALCO oversees the structural foreign exchange and The Group applies a potential future exposure methodology to interest rate exposures that arise within the Group.
Policies and manage counterparty credit exposure associated with derivative terms of reference are set within which Group Corporate Treasury transactions.
This is calculated by taking the cost of replacing manage these exposures on a day-to-day basis.
the contract, where its mark-to-market value is positive together Policies and guidelines for the setting and maintenance of capital with an estimate for the potential future change in the market ratio levels are also delegated by GALCO.
Group ratios are value of the contract, reflecting the volatilities that affect it.
The monitored centrally by Group Corporate Treasury, while local credit risk on contracts with a negative mark-to-market value is requirements are monitored by the local ALCO.
restricted to the potential future change in their market value.
The credit risk on derivatives is therefore usually small relative to their Operational Risk notional principal values.
For an analysis of derivative contracts Operational risk is the risk of direct or indirect loss due to an event see notes 47 and 48 on pages 112 to 113. or action resulting from the failure of technology, processes, infrastructure, personnel and other risks having an operational Liquidity Risk impact.
The Group seeks to ensure that key operational risks are The Group defines liquidity risk as the risk that, the bank either managed in a timely and effective manner through a framework of does not have sufficient financial resources available to meet all policies, procedures and tools to identify, assess, monitor, control its obligations and commitments as they fall due, or can access and report such risks.
them only at excessive cost.
It is the policy of the Group to maintain adequate liquidity at all The Group Operational Risk Committee GORC has been times, in all geographical locations and for all currencies.
Hence established to supervise and direct the management of operational the Group is in a position to meet all obligations, to repay risks across the Group.
GORC is also responsible for ensuring depositors, to fulfil commitments to lend and to meet any other adequate and appropriate policies and procedures are in place for commitments made.
the identification, assessment, monitoring, control and reporting of operational risks.
Liquidity risk management is governed by the Group Asset and An independent Group operational risk function is responsible for Liability Committee GALCO.
This Committee, chaired by the GED establishing and maintaining the overall operational risk framework, Finance and with authority derived from the Board, is responsible and for monitoring the Groups key operational risk exposures.
This for both statutory and prudential liquidity.
These responsibilities unit is supported by Wholesale Banking and Consumer Banking are managed through the provision of authorities, policies and Operational Risk units.
They are responsible for ensuring compliance procedures that are co-ordinated by the Liquidity Management with policies and procedures in the business, monitoring key Committee LMC with regional and country Asset and Liability operational risk exposures, and the provision of guidance to the Committees ALCO.
respective business areas on operational risk.
Compliance with operational risk policies and procedures is the responsibility of all managers.
Every country operates a Country Operational Risk Group CORG.
The CORG has in-country governance responsibility for ensuring that an appropriate and robust risk management framework is in place to monitor and manage operational risk.
40 Standard Chartered Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Business Risk Hedging Policies Business risk is the risk of failing to achieve business targets due The Group does not generally hedge the value of its foreign to inappropriate strategies, inadequate resources or changes in currency denominated investments in subsidiaries and branches.
the economic or competitive environment and is managed Hedges may be taken where there is a risk of a significant through the Groups management processes.
Regular reviews exchange rate movement but, in general, the management of the performance of Group businesses by the Group believes that the Groups reserves are sufficient to absorb any Management Committee, comprising Group Executive Directors foreseeable adverse currency depreciation.
The Group also seeks and other senior management are used to assess business risks to match its assets denominated in foreign currencies with and agree management action.
The reviews include corporate corresponding liabilities in the same currencies.
financial performance measures, capital usage, resource The effect of exchange rate movements on the capital risk asset utilisation and risk statistics to provide a broad understanding of ratio is mitigated by the fact that both the value of these investments the current business position.
and the risk weighted value of assets and contingent liabilities follow substantially the same exchange rate movements.
Compliance and Regulatory Risk Compliance and Regulatory risk includes the risk of non-compliance Capital with regulatory requirements in a country in which the Group The Group believes that being well capitalised is important.
The Group Compliance and Regulatory Risk function Group Asset and Liability Committee targets Tier 1 and Total is responsible for establishing and maintaining an appropriate capital ratios of 7-9 per cent and 12-14 per cent respectively.
framework of Group compliance policies and procedures.
Compliance with such policies and procedures is the Basel II responsibility of all managers.
The Group has a centrally managed Basel programme with work streams operating in businesses covering both credit and Legal Risk operational risk.
Work is well advanced and the Group expects Legal risk is the risk of unexpected loss, including reputational to be in line to gain compliance with the Basel Accord by loss, arising from defective transactions or contracts, claims 1 January 2007. being made or some other event resulting in a liability or other loss for the Group, failure to protect the title to and ability to There is close alignment between the objectives of Basel II and control the rights to assets of the Group including intellectual the Groups own best practice goals.
As a leading international property rights, changes in the law, or jurisdictional risk.
bank, we are concerned by the potential impact of inconsistent implementation of the Basel Accord cross border and regard this The Group manages legal risk through the Group Legal Risk as a key industry issue for Regulators to address.
Committee, Legal risk policies and procedures, and effective use of its internal and external lawyers.
International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS From 1 January 2005, the Group will be required by European Reputational Risk Directives to report its consolidated financial statements under Reputational risk is defined as the risk that any action taken by IFRS, as endorsed by the European Union.
Our first published the Group or its employees creates a negative perception in the results under IFRS will be the 2005 Interim Report.
In May 2005 external market place.
This includes the Groups and or its we intend to present to investors and analysts the impact of customers impact on the environment.
The Group Risk Committee IFRS on the Group following the restatement of our 2004 examines issues that are considered to have reputational financial statements.
repercussions for the Group and issues guidelines or policies as appropriate.
It also delegates responsibilities for the management The transition to IFRS represents a significant change in our of legal regulatory and reputational risk to the business through accounting policies.
The principal changes are: business risk committees.
In Wholesale Banking, potential recording all derivatives and certain debt security assets at reputational risks resulting from transactions or policies and fair value on the balance sheet: procedures are reviewed and actioned through the Wholesale Banking Reputational Risk Committee.
Consumer Bankings recording additional bad debt charges for time-value Product and Reputational Risk Committee provides discount provisions: similar assurance.
recording interest on a level yield basis: Independent Monitoring recording the cost of share options awarded to employees on Group Internal Audit is an independent Group function that a fair value basis: reports directly to the Group Chief Executive and the Audit and Risk Committee.
Group Internal Audit provides independent confirmation that Group and business standards, policies and procedures are being complied with.
Where necessary, corrective action is recommended.
Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Standard Chartered 41 Financial Review ceasing goodwill amortisation: IFRS does not change net cash flows or the underlying economics of our business.
However, excluding the potential dividends proposed but not declared are no longer accrued impact of recording all derivatives on balance sheet at fair value, as a liability: we expect an increase in shareholders funds, particularly from grossing up of the balance sheet for items no longer not accruing dividends until declared.
The cost of awarding share permitted to be netted: options to employees is expected to increase.
consolidating certain assets and liabilities previously The accounting rules for fair valuing all derivatives is expected to permitted to be off balance sheet: cause some degree of earnings volatility in the future.
Although the Group will aim to minimise this volatility, our priority will be to reclassification between liabilities and shareholders funds ensure risk is managed effectively.
of certain preferred securities and shares: and Our expectation is that the impact of IFRS on the Groups deferred tax effect on IFRS adjustments.
regulatory capital will be minimal.
2004 2003 $million $million Tier 1 capital: Shareholders funds 8,435 7,529 Minority interests equity 111 83 Innovative Tier 1 securities 1,246 1,155 Less: restriction on innovative Tier 1 securities 68 160 Unconsolidated associated companies 30 13 Less: goodwill capitalised 1,900 1,986 Add: provision for retirement benefits after tax 110 124 Total Tier 1 capital 7,964 6,758 Tier 2 capital: Qualifying general provision 335 387 Perpetual subordinated debt 1,961 1,914 Other eligible subordinated debt 3,525 2,898 Restricted innovative Tier 1 securities 68 160 Total Tier 2 capital 5,889 5,359 Investments in other banks 33 742 Other deductions 34 4 Total capital 13,786 11,371 Risk weighted assets 71,096 58,371 Risk weighted contingents 21,028 19,791 Total risk weighted assets and contingents 92,124 78,162 Capital ratios: Tier 1 capital 8.6% 8.6% Total capital 15.0% 14.5% 2004 2003 $million $million Shareholders funds Equity 7,759 6,880 Non-equity 676 649 8,435 7,529 Post-tax return on equity normalised 20.1% 15.7% Comparative restated see note 54 on page 118.
42 Standard Chartered Annual Report and Accounts 2004
