In 2004, we added a number of We have a Board which provides a I am proud of the way our employees acquisitions and alliances good balance of support and challenge responded to this crisis.
Employees complementing our organic growth.
to the Groups senior management.
Because Most recently, we entered into an of the scale of this disaster, Standard Jamie Dundas has an outstanding agreement to acquire Korea First Bank Chartered has made an initial corporate record in areas relevant to Standard for approximately Korean Won KRW donation of $5 million to relief funds.
Chartered, including experience in Hong 3.4 trillion $3.3 billion, which we have Kong and a background in banking.
We are also making good progress with financed with a placing of Standard our Seeing is Believing campaign and Chartered PLC ordinary shares for Former Barclays Group Finance Director, so far have achieved 20 per cent of our approximately GBP 1.1 billion $2 billion Oliver Stocken is Deputy Chairman of target of raising funds for one million together with other funding resources.
3i PLC, and has wide experience as a sight restorations.
We are also actively This acquisition is still subject to company director.
promoting our Living with HIV programme, regulatory approval.
However, it is very Val Gooding, chief executive of BUPA to raise awareness of HIV AIDS.
clear that this will be a new engine of and a non-executive director at Compass However, corporate responsibility is earnings growth for the Group.
Group PLC, brings marketing and about more than community support.
We will be a partner in Bohai Bank, brand expertise to the Group.
She was We have established a Corporate a unique opportunity to start a new previously with British Airways, her final Responsibility and Community Committee, national bank in China.
Through a role being Director, Asia Pacific.
This Committee works to consortium with PT Astra International I would like to thank Lord Stewartby, align business strategy with the Tbk, we also acquired a controlling Sir Ralph Robins and David Moir who corporate responsibility aspirations of interest in PT Bank Permata Tbk, retired from the Board in 2004.
Our approach to corporate Indonesias sixth largest bank.
Stewartby left after 14 years of service responsibility has become an integral Completing the transfer of the ANZ to the Group, most recently as part of our values as a company.
project finance team will deepen our non-executive Deputy Chairman, the Wholesale Banking expertise, while Senior Independent Director and In summary PrimeCredit in Hong Kong gives us the Chairman of the Audit and 2004 has been a year of significant access to the consumer banking subRisk Committee.
We have built on our track prime sector.
record of performance, establishing Sir Ralph had over 15 years of service good growth momentum.
We have Each of these will give us competitive on our Board.
David was with Standard achieved a number of strategic goals.
advantage in our chosen markets.
Chartered for 46 years and made an As a result, we are now a stronger bank invaluable contribution, including as with a more diversified earnings base.
Corporate Governance Chairman and Director of Standard We believe good governance and good Chartered Nakornthon Bank in Thailand and Deputy Chairman and performance reinforce each other.
In the Director of Standard Chartered Bank past year there has been an intensified Malaysia Berhad.
focus on regulation in the financial services industry and we are working I would like to thank them all for the even more closely with our regulators tremendous guidance and support they around the world.
Bryan Sanderson, CBE I have also placed great importance on Chairman reinforcing our Board strength.
During Corporate Responsibility 16 February 2005 2004, we announced the appointments 2004 ended on a tragic note for the of three new high-calibre non-executive world when the Asian Tsunami struck.
directors: Jamie Dundas, Oliver Stocken We operate in five of the countries and Val Gooding.
Their appointments most affected by the Tsunami.
Sadly, extend the skills base of the Board and two of our employees were lost in the add further to its existing diversity.
Tsunami and a number of our employees have lost family members.
Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Standard Chartered 5
