Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2004 Developing our core business 4 Continued investment in service We continue to invest in our service offer to the customer.
During the year we have developed new ticketing and product information as well as improved weekly product training sessions for our in store teams.
Our fitters academy programme above is now in full rollout with fitters from over 60% of our regions being trained and accredited during the year.
This exclusive programme to Carpetright, which has been developed with the Flooring Industry Training Association FITA, will ensure that service to the customer continues to improve.
Laminate range rolled out We completed the rollout of a full laminate range by September 2003 across all of our stores.
This range of up to 30 styles and colours of laminate is exclusive to Carpetright and provides great choice and excellent prices merchandised within its own area in the store, under the Woodright branding.
We also provide a full service to the customer of planning, estimating, product information as well as a full fitting service if it is required.
We have already grown our laminate market share to over 7% within the last six months and we have also seen growth in our vinyl sales as the two products have been brought together inside the store.
Small store opening programme During the year we have opened 11 small format stores in small towns where Carpetright is not currently represented.
These provide an excellent opportunity to enter into a new market, which is dominated by the independent retailer.
The performance of these stores has exceeded our expectations and provides an excellent opportunity to further grow our store portfolio in areas we had previously thought might not be economical.
We expect to add a further 80100 of these stores over the next three to five years.
Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2004 5 Own brand development We continue to develop our in-house brands with the launch during the year of our new Ross brand for all our new Wilton and Axminster ranges as well as our other brands being re-coloured and refreshed within the store.
This provided a whole new look in the stores and we continue to benefit from the strength of our own brand offer, which accounts for over 99% of our total carpet sales.
Great value to the customer We never forget the importance of providing great value to the customer each and every day as well as fantastic one off deals where the customer gets something extra.
We have seen great success during the year of our new carpet of the month and star buy promotions as we continue to offer even better value to the customer.
Crossley relaunch Towards the end of the year we relaunched our Crossley brand focused on new wool rich carpets across the stores.
Crossley is one of the best known names in carpets, and this new exclusive range to Carpetright will provide further opportunities at the higher end of our offer.
