Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2004 Board of Directors and Executive Directors Executive Management 1 Lord Harris of Peckham 61 1 2 16 Chairman and Chief Executive Lord Harris has over 40 years experience in carpet retailing and is one of the best known names in the business.
He was Chairman and Chief Executive of Harris Queensway plc from 1964 until the company was taken over in 1988.
Lord Harris was also a Non-Executive Director of Great Universal Stores plc for 18 years, retiring from the GUS Board in July 2004.
2 John Kitching 53 Managing Director John Kitching joined Carpetright on its formation in 1988, having occupied a number of senior management roles within Harris Queensway.
3 4 He was appointed Sales Director in 1992 and Managing Director in 1996.
John has overall responsibility for European operations.
3 Darren Shapland 37 Group Finance Director Darren Shapland joined Carpetright as Finance Director on 1 November 2002.
Darren had held senior financial and operational positions with the Burton Group, Arcadia and Kingfisher, with his previous appointment being as Finance Director of Superdrug Stores plc.
Darren has responsibility for finance, internal audit, logistics, information systems and central services.
5 6 4 Christian Sollesse 45 Sales Director Christian Sollesse joined Carpetright in 1995 having worked for many years in senior retail management roles in Harris Queensway and Harris Interiors.
Christian was appointed Sales Director in 1997 and is responsible for sales and retail management.
5 Martin Harris 35 Commercial Director Martin Harris joined Carpetright in 1991, having been a Director of Harveys Furnishing Group Limited.
Martin became Marketing Director in 1997, resigning to become a Non-Executive Director in 1998.
In November 7 8 2002 Martin resumed Executive Director responsibilities as Buying Director.
Martin assumed responsibility for Marketing during the year and is now Commercial Director.
9 10 Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Audit Committee Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2004 Non-Executive Directors Management structure 6 Sir Harry Djanogly, CBE 65 With the growth and expansion of operations in both the UK and Europe 17 Non-Executive Director the business has formed an Operating Committee which comprises all Sir Harry Djanogly was appointed a Non-Executive Director in 1993 and Heads of Department.
Sir Harry has confirmed his intention to retire from the Board in spring 2005.
Top from left to right: Patricia Dregent 7 Martin Toogood 57 Company Secretary Non-Executive Director Kevin Nicholson Martin Toogood has wide retail experience in several companies including Director of Financial Control BhS, Habitat, Heals and B&Q.
Martin joined the Board in 2002.
He is Guy Moloney now Chairman CEO of ILVA, the Danish furniture retailer embarking on Head of Internal Audit a programme of international expansion.
Sarah Jones Director of Commercial Planning 8 Baroness Wilcox 63 Steve Challis Non-Executive Director Director of Logistics Baroness Wilcox was appointed a Non-Executive Director in 1997.
Ian Woosey Judith spent over 20 years in the food industry and six years as Chairman Director of Information Technology of the National Consumer Council.
She is on the Council of the Institute of Technology, President of the Institute of Trading Standards and a Bottom from left to right: Non-Executive Director of Cadbury Schweppes plc.
Judith is Chairman Caron Grant of Carpetrights Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
Head of Marketing Mike Seabrook 9 Baroness Noakes 55 Director of Finance, Europe Non-Executive Director and Senior Independent Director Wayne Bond Baroness Noakes, a chartered accountant, is a Non-Executive Director Head of Central Operations of Hanson plc, Imperial Chemical Industries plc and the English National Richard Renouf Opera, and a trustee of the Reuters Founders Share Company.
Head of Consumer Affairs Previously she was with KPMG for 30 years and was the Senior Carol Sawyer Non-Executive Director of the Bank of England.
Sheila chairs the Head of Personnel and Payroll Audit Committee.
Tim Lovegrove Director of Property 10 Simon Metcalf 61 Non-Executive Director Simon, 61, is a chartered accountant and worked in corporate finance as a Director of County Bank and its successor organisations for over 25 years, latterly as Vice Chairman of Hawkpoint Partners.
He is currently a Non-Executive Director of The Collinson Group, Professional Travel Insurance Limited and a Director of Sports & Leisure Group plc.
Board Committee memberships as at 28 June 2004 Sir Harry Djanogly Mr S Metcalf Baroness Noakes Chairman Mr M Toogood Baroness Wilcox Chairman Chairman Mr J Kitching
