Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2004 Growing our new business 10 New In House Carpets We completed the rollout of 38 concession departments within the Allders stores towards the end of the year.
This followed the successful trial over summer 2003.
The In House Carpets offer provides an excellent range of carpets, laminates and vinyl floor coverings to the Allders department store customer, at great prices and backed up by the Groups central services and cutting warehouses.
We believe this new specialist department store brand provides an excellent opportunity for the Group to enter into a market segment where we currently have no representation and there is significant potential for further expansion.
Growing direct to home We have further invested in our Carpetright at home offer with an additional eight vans being added to the fleet taking the total to 40.
The service is now offered throughout the country and provides both an at home offer to the retail customer as well as a service to the insurance companies and their customers when there is a replacement requirement.
The operation continues to grow customers, sales and profits and provides a further growth opportunity for the business.
Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2004 Pre-refurbishment 11 Post-refurbishment New stores in the Benelux Having completed our assessment of all our stores and opportunities we are actively seeking to grow our portfolio by about 10 15 stores to a total of over 100 stores across Belgium and Holland.
We opened our first new store at Venlo towards the end of the year, quickly followed by a second new store at Deventer above, both in Holland.
These new stores take the best of what we have learnt over the last 18 months into a new store format and Making Benelux more efficient geographical areas where we previously had no representation.
Critical to the profit improvement in both Belgium and Holland has been the drive to both grow our margin and manage costs efficiently Growing Benelux market share At the start of the year we completed the reorganisation of the business with money saved by sharing services and infrastructure We continue to learn about the local tastes and requirements in with the UK operation as well as combined buying for the Group.
both Belgium and Holland and have further developed our offer to We have also identified about 15 opportunities where the stores provide what the customer wants.
We have launched new ranges, have excess trading space, which we can sublet to other improved our point of sale material as well as continuing to take our complementary retailers to our offer.
We have now completed prices down and improve our value to the customer.
These factors five of these sublets, one of which was our Drogenbos store, along with our excellent people will enable us to continue to grow above, where we have sublet over 8,000 sq.
market share in the region.
