Report of the directors The directors present their report and accounts for 31 December 1 January the year ended 31 December 2004.
2004 2004 or date of GROUP ACTIVITIES appointment The principal activity of the Company, which G J Allen 1,290 1,239 remained unchanged throughout the year, is that of JLHudson 20,645 20,042 an investment trust.
The Inland Revenue has R W Jewson 2,147 1,562 approved the Company as an investment trust for J Reeve 25,882 22,950 the purposes of section 842 of the Income and MRRiley Corporation Taxes Act 1988 for the year ended FLJ Walton 6,724 6,724 31 December 2003 and its affairs are directed so as to enable it to continue to attain such approval.
This All the above interests are beneficial.
None of the approval is subject to there being no subsequent directors had at any date any interest in either of the enquiry under Corporation Tax Self Assessment.
Company intends to conduct its business so as to On 14 January 2005 Mr J Reeve acquired a further continue as an approved investment trust following 134 ordinary shares in the Company through his the objective set out on page 1 of this report.
regular monthly saving in the Temple Bar Investment The Company has one active wholly owned Trust ISA.
On 21 January 2005 Mr R W Jewson subsidiary company, whose principal activity is acquired a further 37 ordinary shares in the investment dealing, and one dormant subsidiary.
Company through his regular monthly saving in the Temple Bar Investment Trust Savings Scheme.
No The close company provisions of the Income and other changes in the interests shown above Corporation Taxes Act 1988 do not apply to the occurred between 31 December 2004 and Company.
A review of the business is given in the Chairmans No other person was a director during any part of statement and the Managers report.
ORDINARY DIVIDENDS The directors retiring by rotation and or in The results of the Group are shown on page 23.
An compliance with the provisions of the Combined interim dividend of 8.64p per ordinary share was Code are Mr J Reeve, Mr G J Allen, Mr R W Jewson paid on 30 September 2004 2003: 8.43p and the and Mr F L J Walton.
Mr M R Riley was appointed a directors are recommending a final dividend of director during the year and in accordance with the 18.38p per ordinary share 2003: 17.80p, a total for Articles of Association will stand for re-election at the the year of 27.02p 2003: 26.23p.
Subject to annual general meeting.
Each of these directors shareholders approval, the final dividend will be paid being eligible, the Board recommends their reon 31 March 2005 to shareholders on the register on election.
In making these recommendations the 18 March 2005.
After deducting the ordinary Board has carefully reviewed the composition of the dividend there is a revenue surplus of 203,000 to Board as a whole and borne in mind the need for a be transferred to consolidated revenue reserves.
proper balance of skills and experience.
The Board PERSONAL EQUITY PLANS ISAs does not believe that length of service per se detracts The Company has conducted its investment policy so from the independence of a director, particularly in as to remain a qualifying investment trust under the ISA relation to an investment trust, and on that basis and Personal Equity Plan regulations.
It is the intention does not consider that any of the directors standing of the Board to continue to satisfy these regulations.
for re-election are not independent.
It is confirmed that, following formal evaluation, the performance of DIRECTORS each director continues to be effective and each The directors of the Company during the year were continues to demonstrate commitment to the role.
as stated below and their interests in the ordinary Mr Hudson is retiring from the Board with effect from share capital of the Company are as follows.
Each of the conclusion of the annual general meeting and the directors held office throughout the year except accordingly will not be standing for re-election.
for Mr MR Riley who was appointed on 20 September 2004.
There were no contracts subsisting during or at the end of the year in which a director of the Company TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST 15 Report of the directors continued is or was interested and which are or were significant processes, investment style, resources and risk in relation to the Companys business.
As noted in the Chairmans Statement, the has a service contract with the Company.
recent performance of the Company has been good, having outperformed its benchmark index over 5 PAYMENT OF SUPPLIERS and 10 year periods.
The Companys policy is to obtain the best possible terms of payment from suppliers for all forms of DONATIONS business.
All terms agreed with suppliers have been No political or charitable donations were made complied with during the year.
There were no trade during the year 2003: Nil.
creditors at the year end.
AUDITORS SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDERS A resolution to re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as As at 15 February 2005 the following company had auditors to the Company will be proposed at the indicated an interest in 3% or more of the issued annual general meeting on 29 March 2005. ordinary shares of the Company.
DIRECTORS AUTHORITY TO PURCHASE % THE COMPANYS OWN SHARES Legal & General Group plc 3.10 The directors consider it desirable to give the Company the opportunity to buy back shares in MANAGEMENT CONTRACT circumstances where the shares may be bought for The Company has a management agreement with a price which is below the net asset value per share Investec Investment Management Limited IIM for of the Company.
The purchase of ordinary shares is the provision of investment management, intended to reduce the discount at which ordinary secretarial, accounting and administrative services shares trade in the market through the Company to the Company and its subsidiaries.
The agreement becoming a new source of demand for ordinary is subject to one years notice of termination by shares.
The rules of the UK Listing Authority provide either party.
that the maximum price which can be paid by the IIM receives an investment management fee of Company is 5% above the average of the market 0.35% per annum, payable quarterly, based on the value of the ordinary shares for the five business value of the investments including cash of the days before the purchase is made.
Investments in funds managed by the The Company is not intending to make such Investec Group are wholly excluded from this purchases at present and will only exercise the charge.
60% 2003: 60% of the investment power after careful consideration and in management fee payable to IIM is charged by the circumstances where, in the light of prevailing Company to capital reserves and the remaining 40% market conditions, it is satisfied that it is in the 2003: 40% to the revenue account on the basis of interests of the Company to do so.
The appropriate the expected long term division of returns.
resolution is set out in the notice of meeting on The investment management fee charged for the page 38. year ended 31 December 2004 amounted to 1,455,064 2003: 1,242,110 net of value added tax.
By order of the Board of Directors MK Slade IIMs performance under the contract and the For Investec Investment Management Limited contract terms are reviewed at least annually.
Secretary In the opinion of the directors the continued 15 February 2005 appointment of the investment manager on the terms set out above is in the best interests of shareholders.
A comprehensive assessment of the performance and objectives of the investment manager was carried out in 2003 in conjunction with an independent consultant.
This covered, inter alia, the performance of the manager, their management TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST 16
