Managers report The importance of the US economy to most financial disappointing.
In stockmarkets, travelling is often markets worldwide has ensured that investors better than arriving and the best performance in remain alert to its major macro economic trends.
these sectors is often achieved when the Although many of the negatives voiced during the commodities concerned are most out of favour.
bear market, such as the high levels of consumer In last years managers report we characterized the debt and weak employment growth in the US, Temple Bar portfolio as one which had been remained unresolved, investors appetite for risk constructed fairly defensively.
We were happy across asset classes appeared to grow during 2004. holding a combination of utility shares trading at Possibly investors became immune to the known discounts to their asset values, multinational negatives and were encouraged by the absence of companies selling strongly marketed branded goods any new issues about which to fret.
However, an and those companies likely to benefit from self-help alternative view is that investors were so eager to and thus less reliant on economic strength for their buy high yielding asset classes that the success.
Overall, two of these three positions served accompanying risk was of secondary importance.
Water stocks, in particular, performed well Whatever the reason, risky assets performed well throughout the year as investors were attracted to with the strength of high yield bonds and emerging high dividend yields and the hope of a positive market debt and equity surprising many regulatory outcome which duly occurred in commentators.
The trend was similar in other equity December.
markets, with the shares of the largest companies In general, self-help was a positive theme for the underperforming those of smaller companies.
For example, in recent years, the building After a very quiet first half of the year, UK equities materials company RMC had worked hard to performed strongly in the second part of 2004.
Even improve the quality of its operations and reduce with the luxury of hindsight it is not easy to rationalise indebtedness.
As a result, the company was a far the timing of this movement.
Equity valuations were more attractive business by 2004 and received a quite low, profit announcements were generally very generous bid from Cemex, a Mexican cement positive, dividend payments were in many cases company.
Similarly, Tate & Lyle has evolved from a better than expected and there was a reasonable position of generating its earnings from commodity amount of merger and acquisition activity.
However, businesses to one where it adds a great deal of all these positive factors had been present in the first value in the production process.
The major success half of the year too.
This illustrates how hard it is to in 2004 for the company was the development of time market movements and explains our preference sucralose as a low-calorie sweetener with a far for finding stocks which we believe are cheap and better aftertaste than the competitor products.
The allowing the market to determine if and when to explosion in sales of sucralose together with the realize this undervaluation.
hope that Tate & Lyle would develop more new A number of themes were prevalent in investors products over the next few years helped drive its minds during the year: the high oil price, the strength share price to an all-time high in 2004. of the Chinese economy and its seemingly insatiable While our positions in multinational branded goods demand for commodities, the weakness of the US companies were not a large drag on performance, dollar inextricably linked to the large trade deficit the returns of this group were disappointing in 2004. and increasing prices for many raw materials.
Competition continues to intensify in this area, which However, the effect these themes had on share has necessitated increased advertising expenditure prices was not always as expected.
For example, and further brand innovation.
In addition, the power despite the oil price increasing significantly, the and quality of retailers own brands is growing and prices of the major UK oil companies, BP and Shell, the brand owners are finding it harder to justify the were up by only about 10% during the year.
Similarly, premiums at which their products sell.
although commodities such as copper, iron ore and As always, we continue to keep a watchful eye on nickel all rose during the year, the performances of the level of turnover on the portfolio as we are very the largest mining shares such as Rio Tinto, Anglo aware that this generates a cost which we wish to American, BHP Billiton and Lonmin were generally TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST 10 Managers report continued keep as low as practically possible.
Many of the areas which we purchase shares, we do so at a time when they are highlighted last year are therefore still relevant.
Provided nothing happens to make us continue to hold significant positions in the water change our original analysis, we are content to hold and electricity sectors, believing the companies will the shares until they return to favour.
Historically, we be able to grow their dividends more quickly than have found that our average holding period is two the rest of the market.
We also remain overweight in years although this average covers a wide range of tobacco companies, which we think will continue to outcomes.
We think it is important, however, not to benefit from price increases in cigarettes to generate target a defined level of portfolio turnover, as that strong cashflow and good dividend increases.
might restrict us from making some justified Amongst our candidates for self-help this year are investment decisions.
The advent of hedge funds Rentokil and ITV.
Rentokil was formerly viewed as a has clearly increased turnover levels in equity glamour stock, despite its mundane business profile markets.
We believe much of this turnover is driven of office cleaning, pest control, parcel delivery and by noise and babble and, while the swiftest of tropical plant maintenance.
In recent years, the investors are able to benefit from this activity, we do companys earnings have come under great not think that there is anything, on the whole, to be pressure as internal operational issues have come to gained in the long run by focusing on short-term light and general competitive conditions have holding periods.
Our strategy remains one dedicated increased.
However, its Chairman is very keen to to searching for value over the medium term and this bring stability back to the company.
This could result will sometimes unavoidably result in periods of in disposals, cost-cutting and also some strategic short-term underperformance.
Ultimately, we believe Rentokil will As we move into 2005, great attention is focused on become a more focused, better managed company the weakness of the US dollar.
The large US trade capable of producing respectable earnings growth.
deficit continues to widen and a weaker currency is However, its current rating suggests the market seen as the most benign way of reversing it.
Although ITV remains a highly However, the trading partner with whom the US has watched television channel, the proliferation of the widest deficit is China and the Chinese renminbi channels in recent years has led to audience is currently pegged to the US dollar.
If this peg holds, fragmentation and a loss of market share.
While the the dollar weakness may have to be focused on increased competition has undoubtedly been other currencies, and in particular the euro, which responsible for much of the market share loss, it is while possibly curing some of Americas ills may possible that the programming schedule has also simply create new ones for Europe.
We have, therefore, bought the shares in the expectation that the decline The current consensual outcome is for an orderly in market share can be halted through improved decline in the US dollar.
This would help to alleviate programming and the continued development of the many imbalances such as the US trade deficit and new ITV stations.
In addition, internally generated the global economys over-reliance on the US cost cuts should be supplemented by a significant consumer and European and Asian exporters and fall in regulatory payments.
thus form a more solid base for future economic growth.
However, we think this should not be As we have commented in previous years, there are assigned too high a probability.
Perhaps the dollar many styles of investment management and none of will overshoot to lower levels than expected.
them guarantee success over either the short or Perhaps it may catch investors out and actually rise.
However, we believe the contrarian As with all major currency movements, there is principles to which we adhere will continue to always the possibility that it will encourage increased provide a flow of interesting investment trade barriers and protectionism and, therefore, opportunities.
Alastair Mundy With markets offering insufficient compensation, in Investec Investment Management Limited terms of high yields or low ratings, to encourage 15 February 2005 braver action, the Temple Bar portfolio remains fairly TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST 11
