Directors back row from left to right, John Hudson, Richard Jewson, Field Walton front row from left to right, Martin Riley, John Reeve, Gary Allen JOHN REEVE, Chairman, aged 60, was appointed a director in 1992.
He was formerly executive chairman of the Willis Group, group managing director of Sun Life Assurance Society and a member of the boards of the Association of British Insurers and the International Insurance Society.
He is currently Chairman of Alea Group Holdings Bermuda Limited and a director of a number of other companies.
GARY J ALLEN, aged 60, was appointed a director in 2001.
He has over 35 years experience in engineering and is former chairman of IMI plc.
His other directorships include The London Stock Exchange, N V Bekaert SA and The National Exhibition Centre.
JOHN L HUDSON, aged 59, was appointed a director in 1992.
He is a former chief executive of Wagon plc and is currently chairman of Birmingham International Airport Limited, Whittan Group Limited and Metal Castings Limited and is chairman and chief executive of Calder Industrial Materials Limited.
RICHARD W JEWSON, aged 60, was appointed a director in 2001.
He first worked in the timber and building material supply industry, becoming managing director of Jewson the builders merchants for twelve years from 1974, and then managing director and chairman of its parent company Meyer International plc from which he retired in 1993.
He is currently chairman of Octagon Healthcare Limited and Archant Limited, deputy chairman of Anglian Water Services Limited and a non-executive director of Grafton Group plc.
MARTIN R RILEY, aged 61, was appointed a director in 2004.
He has 35 years experience in stockbroking and fund management in the City and is a former director of Henderson Crosthwaite Ltd, Guinness Mahon & Co Ltd and Barlows PLC.
He is currently chairman of SR Europe Investment Trust PLC and CAEC Howard Holdings Ltd and a director of Bonfield Asset Management Ltd and various private investment companies.
FIELD L J WALTON, aged 64, was appointed a director in 1983.
He started his career in engineering management and moved to the City as an analyst with Cazenove in 1971.
Subsequently he held a number of positions in fund management.
He is currently a director of MacArthur & Co. Limited, chairman of Biofuels Corporation PLC and a non-executive director of a number of engineering and trust companies.
Independent non-executive director and member of the audit committee and nomination committee.
Chairman of the audit committee and Senior Independent Director.
