TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC MANAGERS REPORT & PORTFOLIO REVIEW DR J B MARK MOBIUS 30 April 2004 This is the Annual Report for the Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC for the year ended 30 April 2004.
Performance Attribution Explanation Since inception, the Company has outperformed the MSCI Emerging Markets Index.
Over the period the Company returned 393.8%, compared to MSCIs 231.0% return.
During the year ended 30 April 2004, the Company returned 30.7%, while the MSCI Emerging Markets Index and S&P IFCI Composite Index gained 38.4% and 40.2%, respectively.
The Companys performance was enhanced mainly by its overweight position in China, Singapore, Thailand and Hong Kong.
Positive attribution was also derived from stock selection in Israel, China and Hong Kong.
However, the positions in South Korea, Hungary and the Philippines did not perform satisfactorily and hurt performance.
Going forward, we believe that our disciplined, value-orientated approach will continue to generate superior returns for our shareholders.
In Asia, key purchases included South Korean companies, CJ Corp. the countrys largest integrated food producer, SK Corp. a major player in South Koreas refining industry, and POSCO, one of the worlds largest steel producers.
Net sales were undertaken in India and Taiwan, as some valuations grew expensive.
European additions were seen mainly in Denmark, Greece, Croatia and Turkey, while sales were undertaken in Austria and Russia as sale targets were reached.
Major buys included Carlsberg: a major brewing group with significant exposure to Eastern Europe and Asia: OTE Hellenic Telecom, the principal integrated telecommunication services provider in Greece: Pliva, the largest pharmaceutical company in Central and Eastern Europe: and Koc Holdings, one of Turkeys leading diversified conglomerates.
In South Africa, the Company invested in Nedcor, one of the four major banks in South Africa.
In Latin America, the Company increased its holdings in Brazil, while undertaking selective sales in Mexico and Argentina.
Investments in the region included integrated electric utilities, Copel and Eletrobras, while the Company divested its interests in Cemex, allowing it to realise gains.
As of 30 April, the largest portion of the Companys holdings could be found in China-Hong Kong, followed by South Korea, Thailand and Brazil.
The Companys top three sectors were oil & gas, commercial banks and electric utilities.
Overview Emerging markets recorded good stock market performances for the most part of the year, as investors regained confidence and Asian markets recovered from the aftermath of the avian flu.
However, concerns about an overheating economy in China, rising interest rates in the US and the worsening situation in Iraq combined to drive emerging markets lower in April.
Despite these issues, over the longer term we believe that emerging markets will continue to command greater attention due to 1 an improved outlook for global economic growth, 2 good growth prospects in the emerging markets, 3 the undervaluation of emerging markets companies versus developed markets companies, 4 improving outlook for the emerging markets as a result of continued reforms being implemented, 5 undervalued currencies vis-a'-vis the US Dollar and the Euro, 6 changed differential perceptions of emerging market risk in the wake of the Enron and Worldcom scandals in the US, and 7 increased dividends being paid by emerging market companies.
Asia Chinas economy continues to record very high growth, growing 9.7% year-on-year in the first quarter of 2004 and 9.1% in 2003.
China attracted record Foreign Direct Investment inflows of US$53.5 billion in 2003, up 1.4% year-on-year, as the economy continued to interest foreign investors.
The trend continued this year with inflows registering US$14.1 billion in the first quarter of 2004, an increase of 7.5% year-on-year.
Significant investments were made in factories, real estate and other fixed assets.
Growing consumer and corporate demand resulted in increased imports, which led to a US$8.4 billion trade deficit in the first three months of the year.
Exports were up 34.2% year-on-year to US$115.7 billion, while imports rose 42.3% to US$124.1 billion.
In an effort to prevent overheating, measures were implemented to cool down the economy in April 2004.
These included raising the reserve requirements at some commercial banks, mainly those with low capital adequacy ratios and high non-performing loans, from 7% to 7.5% and capping bank lending for the funding of steel, aluminium and cement projects.
The introduction of a more flexible exchange rate was also discussed where the currency would be allowed to trade in a wider range against a basket of currencies.
In South Korea, President Roh Moo-hyuns impeachment, the first in the countrys history, in March, pushed the country into turmoil.
Rohs presidential powers were immediately suspended, with the Constitutional Court now reviewing whether the impeachment should be voided or Roh dismissed.
In the interim, Prime Minister Koh Gun took over as acting president.
Soon after, the parliamentary elections saw the Uri Party, a progressive liberal party backed by the suspended President Roh Moo-hyun, win a majority in parliament with 152 seats in the 299-seat National Assembly.
The partys 13 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC MANAGERS REPORT continued policies include promoting free market economic policies, maintaining a strong relationship with the US and cleaning up politics.
Uris victory will likely influence the impeachment hearing against Roh and likely result in his reinstatement according to market commentators.
Economically, South Korea continued to release positive macroeconomic data, with the central bank expecting 2004 GDP to grow by up to 6% mainly due to strengthening exports.
However, weak domestic demand continues to be a concern.
In India, contrary to market expectations, the Congress Party and its allies will form the next government, as voters ousted the BJP Party in the 2004 General Elections in April-May.
The unexpected scale of their victory has to an extent surprised this new political alliance, which has beaten the BJP NDA alliance by a wide margin.
Dr. Manmoham Singh was formally sworn in as Indias 13th prime minister in May as Congress Party leader, Sonia Gandhi announced that she would not accept the position.
Conservative projections from the Finance Ministry indicate a GDP growth of 8.1% for the fiscal year 2003-2004, more than double the 4% recorded the previous year.
Strong agriculture output, which showed a 9.1% increase, compared to a 5.2% decline in the previous year, and an improving manufacturing sector supported growth.
The external sector also recovered with exports and imports up 13.5% and 24.9%, respectively, in the first nine months of the fiscal year 2003-2004.
Thailands economic growth has continued to strengthen year after year since the crisis in 1997 8 with this year expected to be even stronger.
The World Bank expects 2004 GDP to grow 7.2%, with government expectations for first quarter GDP to surpass 7%, while 2003 GDP grew 6.7%, due to strong exports and consumer spending.
Citing the countrys improved external position and public finances as well as strong economic growth, Fitch Ratings raised its outlook on Thailands long-term foreign and local currency sovereign ratings to positive from stable.
Six Asian countries, Thailand, India, Myanmar, Sri Lanka, Bhutan and Nepal all agreed to create a free trade zone by 2017.
The trade bloc would allow regional economies to better their trade relations and lead to greater cooperation between the nations.
Latin America Brazil, the regions top performer in 2003, due to President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silvas commitment to reforms and improving macroeconomic fundamentals, took a breather in 2004 with investors locking in gains.
A 0.2% contraction in 2003 GDP resulting from a 3.3% fall in household consumption dampened confidence in the countrys recovery.
However, the countrys trade sector continued to provide good news with first quarter exports growing 29.3% to US$19.5 billion and imports increasing 18.1%.
Lagging the region in 2003, Mexicos stock market outperformed in the first four months of 2004.
Supported by an improvement in the US economy, Mexico benefited from greater external demand, higher exports and strong retail sales.
Mexicos trade balance improved in 2003, as the trade deficit fell 29% year-on-year to US$5.9 billion.
Exports rose 2.8% year-on-year to US$160.5 billion, while imports rose 1.3% to US$171.0 billion.
For the first quarter, exports were up 10.6% year-on-year while imports rose 11.5%.
Exceeding market expectations, fourth quarter GDP rose 2% year-on-year, resulting in full year growth of 1.3% year-on-year.
Eastern Europe Eastern European stock markets recorded strong performances as Central and Eastern European economies CEE implemented structural reforms to align their economies with their western counterparts.
On 1 May 2004, Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Estonia, Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania, Malta, Poland, Slovakia and Slovenia joined the European Union EU, expanding the bloc to include 25 states and a population of 450 million.
The countries offer attractive investment opportunities when comparing them to old Europe.
Two most important factors differentiating them from current EU members apart from obvious facts such as lower GDP capita and living standards are cheap well-educated labour and much lower corporate taxes.
Average labour costs are at least 50% below the lowest EU levels in Portugal or Greece and around 80% lower than in Germany or the Netherlands.
Also there are significant differences in corporate tax levels that benefit the new accession countries and companies incorporated there.
With no trade barriers, borders or customs with the EU from 1 May, CEE companies will enjoy lower export related costs and better margins on their EU exports.
Moreover, 14 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC MANAGERS REPORT continued exports to the EU from almost all accession countries have been growing strongly over the last two years despite the slowdown in the EU.
As a result we have seen much faster GDP growth in CEE than in the Eurozone.
South Africa In South Africa, general elections were held on 14 April 2004, where as widely expected, the African National Congress ANC emerged victorious taking 70% of the votes, giving it 279 seats in the 400-seat Parliament.
The opposition Democratic Alliance DA won 50 seats, while the Inkatha Freedom Party IFP will have 28 seats.
In line with his partys overwhelming victory, President Thabo Mbeki was formally re-elected for a second term in office.
Aimed at uniting emerging markets in trade talks and international forums, South Africa, India and Brazil signed a framework agreement.
The 2003 GDP growth slowed to 1.9%, compared to 3.6% in 2002 as a 28% appreciation in the Rand during the year took a toll on exports.
On an annualised basis, fourth quarter GDP figures did show an improvement, growing 1.1% quarter-on-quarter compared to 0.5% in the preceding quarter, indicating a bottoming out of the economy.
Outlook Visible with the expansion of the EU trade bloc, emerging markets continue to benefit from greater globalisation.
We expect companies with attractive valuations, improved corporate transparency and good management, to do well going forward.
Countries with governments who are friendly to businesses, particularly foreign investors who encourage such investments with preferential taxation as well as good infrastructure will attract the lions share of foreign capital.
As such we will continue to build positions in stocks we deem to be attractively valued and stand to benefit from the global recovery ahead.
Manager Templeton Asset Management Ltd. TAML, part of the Franklin Templeton Group with US$343.8 billion in assets under management as of 30 April 2004, has over 17 years of investment experience in emerging markets and approximately US$11.6 billion as of 30 April 2004 in assets under management.
TAML currently has 23 portfolio managers and analysts located in 11 emerging markets, Moscow Russia, Warsaw Poland, Istanbul Turkey, Johannesburg South Africa, Hong Kong, Singapore, Shanghai China, Seoul South Korea, Mumbai India, Rio fide Janeiro Brazil, and Buenos Aires Argentina.
Moreover, TAMLs Emerging Markets Team receives support from approximately 6,500 employees of Franklin Resources Inc. its ultimate parent company.
Thank you for your continued interest and support.
