TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors have pleasure in presenting their Annual Report for the year ended 30 April 2004.
Principal Activity and Status In the opinion of the Directors, the Company has conducted its affairs so as to be able to seek approved investment trust status from the Inland Revenue under section 842 Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 for the accounting year ended 30 April 2004.
Pursuant to arrangements between the Association of Investment Trust Companies and the Inland Revenue, who have agreed that written approval of investment trust status can be granted within the Corporation Tax Self Assessment Regime, written approval for all accounting periods to 30 April 2003 has been received.
Provisions contained in the Taxation of Capital Gains Act 1992 exempt approved investment trusts from corporation tax on their chargeable gains.
Share Capital and Warrants Changes in the share capital of the Company are set out in Note 12 of the Notes to the Financial Statements.
Details of the warrants issued by the Company are set out in Note 20.
The final date for exercise of the warrants will take place on 30 September 2004.
Share Buy-Back Proposals At the last Annual General Meeting TEMIT was granted the authority to buy back up to 68,277,638 Ordinary Shares representing 14.99% of the issued ordinary share capital on 30 April 2003.
During the year under review and to this day, the Company has not bought back any shares.
As stated on page 30 renewal of this authority will be sought at this years Annual General Meeting.
Invested Funds Sales of investments during the year crystallised realised net gains of 4,382,000.
Invested portfolio funds at 30 April 2004, had a value of 768,120,000 against a cost of 601,564,000.
Net Asset Value The net asset value of the Ordinary Shares as at 30 April 2004 was 171.01 pence per share.
Results and Dividend The return on ordinary activities for the year after tax amounted to 13,160,914.
The Directors propose a recommended ordinary dividend of 2.25 pence per Ordinary Share making a total dividend for 2004 of 10,242,531.
If approved, this will be payable on 22 September 2004 to ordinary shareholders on the register at close of business on 27 August 2004.
2,918,383 has been transferred to Reserves.
It should be noted that despite the fact there is a significant increase in the dividend rate per share for the year ended 30 April 2004, the percentage of retained income is consistent with prior years.
Creditor Payment Policy Investment transactions are settled by the Company in accordance with the terms and conditions of the relevant market.
While the Company follows no formal code, its policy is to agree the terms of payment at the start of business and ensure that the supplier is aware of the terms of payment.
Payment is made in accordance with these terms provided that the supplier is also complying with all relevant terms and conditions.
For the year ended 30 April 2004 the number of trade brokers creditors days was 1 day 2003: 1 day.
27 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC DIRECTORS REPORT continued Substantial Shareholdings As at 22 June 2004 the Company had been notified that the following were interested in 3% or more of the issued share capital of the Company: Percentage Number of of issued Name Ordinary Shares Share Capital British Steel Pension Fund Trustee Limited 18,235,734 4.01% Legal & General Investment Management 15,873,769 3.49% Lazard Asset Management 13,669,960 3.00% Going Concern The Directors are satisfied that the going concern basis is appropriate in preparing the Financial Statements.
Directors and Management No Director had notified the Company of any interest as defined in Schedule 7 of the Companies Act 1985 existing either at the beginning or at the end of the year to 30 April 2004 in the Companys Ordinary Shares or Warrants save for the following Directors: 30 April 2004 30 April 2003 Geoffrey A Langlands Ordinary Shares 3,000 The Honourable Nicholas Brady Ordinary Shares 5,000 5,000 Sir Ronald Hampel Ordinary Shares 21,618 The Company has not received notification of any change in the above interests as at 2 July 2004.
The following were Directors during the year to 30 April 2004: Geoffrey A Langlands Sir Ronald Hampel appointed 15 Dec. 2003 The Honourable Nicholas Brady Charles B Johnson Sam L Ginn appointed 15 Dec. 2003 Andrew S B Knight appointed 15 Dec. 2003 Peter C Godsoe OC appointed 15 Dec. 2003 Sir Richard Brooke, Bt.
resigned as a Director on 15 December 2003 Martin L Flanagan resigned as a Director on 15 December 2003 Richard Frank resigned as a Director on 15 December 2003 Sir John Shaw CBE resigned as a Director on 15 December 2003 Sir Brian Williamson CBE resigned as a Director on 15 December 2003.
Mr Johnson is a director of Templeton Worldwide, Inc. and a director and shareholder of Franklin Resources, Inc. Mr Brady is Chairman of, and until 1 October 2003 a shareholder in, Darby Overseas Partners, LP Darby Partners.
On 1 October 2003 Franklin Resources, Inc. announced the completion of its acquisition of Darby Overseas Investments, Ltd. and Darby Overseas Partners, LP collectively Darby.
Franklin Resources Inc. previously owned 12.66% of Darby, and with the completion of the acquisition, now has 100% ownership.
Mr. Brady is Darbys chairman and founder.
Mr Brady will retire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting to be held on 21 September 2004.
Geoffrey A Langlands has been a Board member for over nine years and is offering himself up for annual re-election in compliance with best corporate governance principles.
He has extensive portfolio management and business experience of Latin America.
The Board recommends his re-election.
28 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC DIRECTORS REPORT continued Sam L Ginn, Peter C Godsoe OC, Sir Ronald Hampel and Andrew S B Knight were all appointed to the Board on 15 December 2003.
Peter Smith was appointed to the Board on 17 May 2004 and, under the Articles of Association, they will retire and offer themselves for election at the Annual General Meeting.
The Board is delighted to recommend the election and re-election of all the Directors whose distinguished resumes are set out in this Annual Report.
Following the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting, Geoffrey A Langlands shall step down as Chairman and it is the Boards intention to elect Sir Ronald Hampel to succeed him.
It is proposed that Geoffrey A Langlands shall remain on the Board as a Non-Executive Director.
It is also proposed that Sir Peter Burt be elected as a director with effect from 1 October 2004.
His biographical details are set out below.
Sir Peter Burt is currently Chairman of ITV plc and of Gleacher Shacklock Ltd.
He graduated MA from St Andrews University with 1st class Honours in Modern History and Political Economy and MBA from the University of Pennsylvanias Wharton School where he was a Thouron Scholar.
He worked in the electronics and computer industry for six years, initially with Hewlett Packard in Palo Alto, before turning to banking.
He joined the Bank of Scotland in 1975 and became head of its International Division in 1985.
He was appointed Chief General Manager of the Bank in 1988 and Group Chief Executive in 1996.
He initiated its 2001 merger with the Halifax, becoming Executive Deputy Chairman of the combined business before he retired in January 2003.
As well as being a leading oil and energy finance bank, Bank of Scotland was one of the first European banks to convert Latin American debt to equity in the 1980s.
Although the Companys Articles of Association disapply the provisions of sections 293 and 379 of the Companies Act 1985 which require that, in the absence of specific shareholder approval, a Director, upon attainment of 70 years of age, should vacate his office, the Board believes it is in the Companys interests that Sir Ronald Hampel age 72 and Charles B Johnson age 71 offer themselves for re-election in terms of these requirements of the Companies Act 1985.
This is in accordance with the AITC Code of Corporate Governance, which recommends that Directors over the age of 70 should offer themselves for re-election every year.
The Board recommends their election.
During the year, Templeton Asset Management Ltd TAML acted as investment managers to the Company under an investment management agreement and received from the Company a monthly fee at an annual rate of 1.00% of the net assets of the Company.
During the year Franklin Templeton Investment Management Limited FTIML acted as Secretary and Administrator of the Company and received a monthly fee at an annual rate of 0.25% of the total net assets of the Company plus additional sums to finance part of the costs of the Templeton Investment Plan.
The agreements between the Company and TAML, and FTIML, can be terminated by either party giving the other one years notice of termination.
The Board keeps under review the performance of TAML as Investment Manager to the Company.
In the opinion of the Directors the continuing appointment of TAML on the agreed terms is in the best interests of the shareholders as a whole.
The Directors believe that TAML is well positioned to act as investment manager to the Company and well equipped to identify attractive investment opportunities.
Each Director has a letter of appointment from the Company.
Other than previously stated, no Director was a party to or had an interest in any contract or arrangement with the Company at any time during the year.
The Directors statements in respect of Corporate Governance and their Responsibilities in respect of the Financial Statements are set out on pages 34 and 37 respectively.
29 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC DIRECTORS REPORT continued Business Review A review of the Companys activities and an indication of likely future developments is contained in the Chairmans Statement on pages 10 and 11 and in the Managers Report & Portfolio Review on pages 12 to 15.
Auditors RSM Robson Rhodes LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in office as auditors to the Company and a resolution proposing their re-appointment will be submitted at the Annual General Meeting.
Custodian JPMorgan Chase Bank acts as global custodian for the Company and receives a fee for the provision of custody and nominee services to the Company under a custody agreement which contains provision for the exclusion or limitation of liability as set out in the agreement.
The custody agreement may be terminated by either party giving the other 60 days notice.
Special Business The Special Business to be dealt with at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting of the Company relates to the renewal of authority for the issue of new shares in certain circumstances, renewal of authority for the Company to purchase its own shares in the market, amendments to Articles of Association and the continuation of TEMIT as an investment trust.
Renewal of Authority for the Issue of New Shares As in previous years a resolution was passed by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting of the Company on 18 September 2003 permitting the Directors to allot new shares at times when the share price stood at a premium to net asset value.
The Directors consider that the reasons for asking shareholders to approve such authorisation still apply.
Under the Templeton Investment Plan the Plan, if the shares are trading at a premium to the net asset value, the authority can be used and investors under the Plan are then able to buy shares at the offer price.
In such circumstances, the Company would also benefit from an increase in its diluted net asset value per share.
The resolution to allot shares in this way is set out as Resolution No.
13 in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
This resolution, if passed, will give your Directors power to allot equity securities of the Company for cash up to a maximum aggregate nominal amount of 5,690,300 being an amount equal to 5% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at the date of the notice of the Annual General Meeting to investors under the Plan or in other circumstances, as if Section 89 1 of the Companies Act 1985 did not apply.
This Section requires, when shares are to be allotted for cash, such shares first be offered to existing shareholders in proportion to their existing holdings of shares, this entitlement being known as pre emption rights.
The calculation of the above figure is in accordance with the limits laid down by the UK Listing Authority and Investment Protection Committee guidelines, and the Directors will not use the authority other than in accordance with these guidelines.
The authority contained in Resolution No.
13 will continue until the Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2005 and your Directors envisage seeking the renewal of this authority in 2005 and in each succeeding year, subject to such renewals again being in accordance with the above guidelines.
Your Directors will not make any issues of new Ordinary Shares unless they consider it advantageous to the Company to do so.
Renewal of Authority to Purchase Own Shares At the Annual General Meeting of the Company held on 18 September 2003 a Special Resolution was passed authorising the Company to purchase its own shares in the market.
This authority will expire at the conclusion of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
30 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC DIRECTORS REPORT continued The Directors consider that the reasons for asking shareholders to approve such authority still apply.
The main purpose of any share buy-backs will be to enhance the net asset value of the remaining Ordinary Shares, as the shares will only be acquired at a cost which is less than their net asset value.
Purchases should also provide liquidity for shareholders wishing to sell their Ordinary Shares and may have a beneficial effect on the discount at which the Ordinary Shares currently trade to their net asset value.
The resolution to authorise the Company to purchase its own shares is set out in Resolution No.
This Resolution, if passed, will give the Company the authority to purchase its own shares within guidelines established from time to time by the Board.
This represents 15% of the Ordinary Shares in issue as at 30 April 2004.
Purchases will only be made for cash at a cost which is below the prevailing net asset value per Ordinary Share.
Under the rules of the UK Listing Authority, the maximum price which may be paid is 5% above the average of the market values of the Ordinary Shares for the five business days before the purchase is made.
The minimum price payable will be 25 pence, being the nominal value of an Ordinary Share.
Purchases will be funded either by using available cash resources, by selling investments in the portfolio or by borrowings.
No Ordinary Shares will be purchased by the Company during periods when the Company would be prohibited from making such purchases by the rules of the UK Listing Authority.
14 will continue until the Annual General Meeting in 2005 and your Directors envisage seeking the renewal of this authority in 2005 and in each succeeding year.
Amendments to Articles of Association Your Directors have been reviewing certain aspects of TEMITs Articles of Association in light of the new requirements of corporate governance and other general legislative developments.
It is therefore proposed to replace the existing Articles of Association and a special resolution is to be proposed at this years Annual General Meeting to adopt new Articles of Association, with the main changes contained in the new Articles being explained in an Appendix to the Notice of Meeting.
Continuation of TEMIT A requirement was introduced into TEMITs constitution for a five yearly vote on the continuation of the Company as an investment trust.
The last such vote was passed at the Annual General Meeting in 1999 and, therefore, an ordinary resolution is to be proposed at this years Annual General Meeting for the continuation of TEMIT as an investment trust.
The Independent Non-Executive Directors have met separately without the Investment Manager present, and they unanimously recommend voting in favour of the continuation vote at the Annual General Meeting.
Recommendation The Directors believe all the resolutions proposed are in the best interests of the Company and the shareholders as a whole and recommend all shareholders to vote in favour of all the resolutions, as they intend to do so in respect of their own shares.
By Order of the Board Registered Office Exchange Tower 19 Canning Street Edinburgh EH3 8EG Sara A MacIntosh UK for and on behalf of Franklin Templeton Investment Management Limited Secretary 2 July 2004 31
