Global equities I S SOUTHEASTERN OUTHEASTERN A ASSET SSET M MANAGEMENT, ANAGEMENT, I INC. NC.
Southeastern Asset Management Memphis, USA Philosophy Outlook Southeastern Asset Management seeks to achieve superior longWe enter 2005 with a portfolio that is nearly fully invested with term performance by acquiring equity securities of nancially some cash reserves awaiting qualifying investments.
The strong, well-managed companies run by capable managements, intrinsic values of most companies we own are experiencing at market prices signicantly below our assessment of their solid growth.
However, equity markets around the world rose business value.
We are long-term owners and our time horizon quickly in the last two months of 2004 which makes it a greater when purchasing a company is five years.
We sell stocks when challenge to nd additional qualifying investments.
This is they approach our appraisal value.
Equities purchased at prices particularly true in the US where a number of optimistic substantially less than their intrinsic worth protect capital from assumptions appear imbedded in equity prices.
We are working significant permanent loss and also appreciate substantially once hard to nd additional investments that meet our criteria but we the market recognises the companys economic value.
will remain patient until they present themselves.
Ten Largest Investments For example, if we buy a company for half its intrinsic value, if % of this portfolio the value grows 12% per year through retained earnings, and if 1 Walt Disney United States 7.0 the share price rises to reect corporate worth in the fifth year, the 2 Comcast United States 6.8 investment will grow by a compound rate of 29% per year.
Two- 3 Philips Electronics Netherlands 6.5 thirds of the return comes from the gap between price and value 4 Olympus Optical Japan 6.3 closing: only one-third comes from the business value growing.
5 Sompo Japan Insurance Japan 6.0 6 Willis Group Bermuda 6.0 7 Cemex Mexico 5.9 Performance Review 8 DirecTV United States 5.9 The lack of volatility in the US and most overseas markets that 9 SAKS United States 5.8 we follow created a tremendous challenge to nding under priced 10 Countrywide UK 5.7 securities throughout the year.
As an illustration of the dearth of price uctuations, in December the Chicago Board Options Exchange volatility index VIX fell to its lowest level since 1996.
The S&P 500 and the Dow Jones Industrial Average did not have a single day of 2% variance versus thirty occasions where the averages moved more than 2% in 2003.
Britains FTSE 100 Index had 2 days of 2% variance in 2004 versus 20 days in 2003.
Japans TOPIX index had 9 days of 2% variance in 2004 versus 26 days in 2003.
However, there were a few bouts of volatility in September and October which allowed us to invest in wonderful businesses at attractive prices.
We made six new investments in the fourth quarter while also adding to some existing investments, with a total of 17 stocks in the portfolio.
During 2004, 15 of the 17 stocks made a positive contribution to performance.
The top five contributors to performance were Fairfax Financial Holdings, Walt Disney Company, Willis Group Holdings, Sompo Japan Insurance, and Comcast Corporation.
The two negative contributors to performance were General Motors and DirecTV.
