United Kingdom mainstream equities Henderson Global Investors London Investment Style area.
We used the Marks and Spencer tender offer to reduce our This portion of the portfolio seeks to add value relative to the FTSE position here, and we benefited from the completion of the take- 350 Index ex investment companies by exploiting anomalies that over of Artisan Components by ARM.
arise in any of four strategies: fundamental similar to active management, event driven e. g. stocks undergoing M&A activity, Relative value trades have also been marginally positive.
The UKrelative value arbitrage between different classes of shares or Dutch spread in Reed Elsevier reduced, although the spread listings of a company and liquidity provision.
between Carnival UK and US listings remained relatively wide.
The removal of the dual listing structure for Royal Dutch Shell presents Since we have been managing the portfolio in this way, liquidity an interesting opportunity in 2005. provision has been the most successful strategy.
Markets have been strong enough for long enough for companies that need to raise Outlook finance to be confident of being able to do so, and we have seen a Overall we are positive about 2005.
Equity markets are reasonably number of examples, including International Power and Somereld.
valued, with companies continuing to generate good cash-ow.
There have also been a limited number of new listings, such as The challenge will be assessing how they will re-invest this: in Premier Foods and Admiral Insurance.
Those that have come to buying other companies: in increasing capital expenditure: or in market have been of high quality and have generally been priced returning money to shareholders.
The extremely low levels of attractively.
volatility that were present in 2004 seem likely to increase and this should lead to a greater number of opportunities for our Enhanced Market Review Index process.
The UK market built on the gains of 2003, with a total return of Ten Largest Investments 12.8% in the FTSE All-Share index in 2004.
% of this portfolio 1 BP 8.2 Portfolio Activity 2 HSBC 7.3 Fundamental trades were a small positive contributor.
We have 3 Vodafone 7.1 generally been underweight in poor quality companies and some 4 GlaxoSmithKline 5.5 5 Royal Bank of Scotland 4.2 of these have received take-over approaches or have seen 6 Shell Transport & Trading 3.2 speculation about possible take-overs, for example Novar and TBI.
7 Barclays 2.8 On the positive side we have done well out of our positions in pub 8 HBOS 2.5 companies.
Tobacco stocks have also been strong and we have 9 AstraZeneca 2.4 10 Lloyds TSB 2.1 taken profits in some of our overweight positions.
The increase in corporate activity has led to more opportunities for event-driven strategies, although returns are relatively slim in this 9
