Japan Brandes Investment Partners San Diego, USA Investment Style While we monitor short-term events in Japanese equity markets, Brandes Investment Partners, L. P. is a bottom-up value-orientated our investment philosophy focuses on company-by-company equity manager in the style espoused by Graham & Dodd.
In analysis with a long-term perspective.
In all market short, we believe that buying businesses at a discount to their environments, we search for and hold what we believe to be true value is likely to produce superior long-term results.
fundamentally sound companies trading at discounts to our estimates of their fair values.
We believe this strategy will provide We believe that a stocks price and its fair value often detach from patient investors with favourable results.
one another in the short term.
Our approach is to view a stock as Ten Largest Investments a small piece of a business that is for sale.
Thus we focus on the % of this portfolio fundamental characteristics of a company in order to develop an 1 Nippon Telegraph & Telephone 4.0 estimate of its intrinsic value.
Because of the volatile nature of 2 Hitachi 4.0 the overall market where sentiment can shift rapidly between 3 Japan Tobacco 3.9 sweeping optimism and overwhelming uncertainty prices of 4 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries 3.8 stocks tend to uctuate much more than the intrinsic value of 5 Daiichi Pharmaceuticals 3.4 6 Fuji Photo Film 3.3 the companies they represent.
By choosing stocks that are selling 7 Tanabe Seiyaku 3.2 at a discount to our estimates of their intrinsic business value, we 8 Mitsubishi Tokyo Financial 3.2 seek to establish a margin of safety and an opportunity for 9 Millea Holdings 3.1 superior performance with below average risk.
This combination 10 Eisai Company 3.1 of rational fundamental analysis with the discipline to take advantage of market price irrationality enables us to target superior long-term results.
Portfolio Commentary Since Brandes took over this portfolio it has returned 8.7%, compared to 6.5% from the FTSE Japan Index.
Gains for holdings in the pharmaceuticals industry made the most substantial contribution to the Portfolios returns.
Top performers in this industry included Taisho Pharmaceutical and Eisai Company.
Positions in industries such as commercial banking and tobacco also tended to post gains.
During the quarter, we sold Joyo Bank Commercial banks as its market price advanced toward our estimate of its fair value.
We purchased shares of Rohm Company Semiconductors & Equipment at prices we consider attractive.
