United States Henderson Global Investors London Investment Style opportunities in the mid-cap sector as the structure of the The Enhanced Index EI approach as has been explained in the fund enables us to focus our activities where there are UK report on page 9 has been specifically engineered to sit greater investment opportunities, outside the most between passive and active management, and might be analysed and largest companies.
alternately described as low-risk active management.
We Returns from the liquidity strategy are dependent on equity combine fundamental and technical strategies to create market conditions.
As long as conditions remain good we portfolios that are risk-focused but return-driven, seeking to anticipate an active and profitable period.
deliver a limited level of outperformance relative to the The relative value strategy has been challenging during the benchmark, with a very low level of risk.
The team does not latter part of 2004 but we anticipate a greater contribution have any traditional style biases such as company size, value or in 2005 as more opportunities arise.
One of the particular strengths of the EI approach is that In December, several large mergers were announced, it enables the team to allocate capital to different strategies including Oracle PeopleSoft, Sprint Nextel, Symantec according to the investment opportunities that are identied.
We would expect to see more of these kinds of deals during 2005 which should create opportunities for Overview of performance and contributors the event-driven strategy.
The Enhanced Index process has delivered strong returns since Ten Largest Investments inception.
These returns were derived from all of the four % of this portfolio different strategies that make up the potential sources of return.
1 General Electric 3.0 2 Exxon Mobil 2.6 The techniques are as follows: 3Microsoft 2.3 fundamental strategy: this has many similarities with an 4 Citigroup 1.9 active equity strategy and did well throughout 2004.
The 5 Pzer 1.6 6 Bank of America 1.5 deal between Sprint and Nextel made a positive 7 Johnson & Johnson 1.4 contribution within the telecom sector.
The active 8 American International Group 1.4 positions in mid-cap names including First Marblehead, CB 9 IBM 1.3 Richard Ellis, Coach and Assurant drove performance on 10 Wal-Mart Stores 1.3 the long-side of the portfolio.
liquidity strategy investing in deal ow opportunities : due to the IPO deal ow being strong, there were good opportunities.
relative value e. g. arbitrage between different classes of shares or listings of a specic company : in the fourth quarter, there were fewer opportunities.
event-driven e. g. stocks undergoing M&A activity, changes to index constituents : in the fourth quarter, there were also fewer opportunities for the team to invest in.
Outlook 2005 The fundamental strategy aims to be the most consistently contributing strategy as stock opportunities can always be identied by the fund manager.
