Far East APS Asset Management Singapore APS started to manage the Asia-Pacic ex Japan portion of Witan Ten Largest Investments % of this Investment Trusts investments in September 2004.
APS was not portfolio 1 Ishares MSCI South Korea Index Fund Korea 20.7 able immediately to structure the portfolio along its regional 2 Kookmin Bank Korea 8.6 model portfolio as arrangements for Korean and Taiwanese 3 Samsung Electronics Korea 8.1 investments were not in place at the outset.
Instead, in order to 4 BHP Billiton Australia 6.5 achieve exposure to these markets, we have used exchange-traded 5 WMC Resources Australia 6.3 products.
Following the year-end, accounts for both markets are 6 Texwinca Hong Kong 5.8 7 Venture Singapore 5.8 open and the portfolio is fully invested.
8 SK Telecom Korea 5.2 9 Newcrest Mining Australia 4.6 Investment Style 10 British American Tobacco Malaysia 3.1 APS is a bottom-up stock picker.
We look for stocks that are good value from a longer term perspective: this may mean growth The major influence on the markets has been Chinas continued stocks which do not reect a realistic conservative view of the growth.
We expect that China will continue to grow at high growth prospects in their present share prices, or it may mean rates, though not as high as we saw in 2004.
We do not expect stocks that are cheap either in a fundamental sense value stocks that Chinas growth will come to a hard landing, but expect that or with a cyclical view cyclical stocks.
APS is independent in its the rate will slow to 7% 8% from the present rate of more than portfolio management and tends to be somewhat counter- 9%.
However, nding profitable investments will not be easy due cyclical, without being contrarian merely for the sake of it: our to capacity expansions.
portfolio adjustments should have little, or even negative, relationship to the general market.
Generally, a substantial The prices of materials have been signicantly impacted and this portion of the portfolio contains non-index stocks.
has been a very profitable area for us.
All commodity prices are above what would have been regarded as long run levels three Market Commentary years ago.
We will continue to watch the balance between the Since APS took over this portfolio it has risen by 8.7% while the growth in supply and the growth in demand very closely, as this benchmark for the portfolio rose 8.9%.
We had a few winners will determine both growth opportunities and also trends in during this period, but there was no broad theme among the prices.
We will continue to stay in touch with Chinese winners and losers.
developments in particular, monitoring materials prices and the impact that they have on manufacturers as well as any other The following table shows the ten largest investments in the opportunities and threats that Chinas growth will present.
It shows that the largest single weighting is our Korean proxy exposure.
This has enabled us to keep cash levels below the required 3%.
