Continental Europe Wellington Management Company Boston, USA Investment Style Outlook The Witan Europe Portfolio is managed by the Europe Research We are anticipating a slower economic environment in 2005, Team at Wellington Management Company.
Within the Europe with slower global demand leading to downward pressure on Research Team, each analyst is assigned a group of industries for commodity prices and ination.
It will be difficult for European on-going coverage and is directly responsible for selecting companies to sustain the positive earnings surprises of the past portfolio securities from their coverage universe.
The overall year in a slowing macro environment, particularly with the drag portfolio is diversied by style as each of the Teams analysts have of a weak dollar.
Nevertheless, equity valuations remain developed separate and appropriate approaches to each industry.
reasonable, especially relative to bonds where prices are now back at their highs in Europe.
Equities are trading at 13x forward cash Review earnings, towards the low end of recent historical experience.
During the fourth quarter, European equities continued to This suggests that investors are still quite cautious about the advance off their August lows, gaining 7% in local currency earnings outlook for 2005, despite the 10% gain in stock prices terms.
These gains occurred despite the 9% strengthening of the from the August lows.
And while there has been a somewhat euro against the dollar and the negative overhang from greater willingness to accept risk as the market rose over the past increased US regulatory scrutiny of both the insurance and the few months, we still expect more relative upside from the three pharmaceutical industries.
Stock prices ended the year above areas of the market where we have been seeing the most their recent trading range and at their highest levels in over opportunity lately growth stocks, non-commodity cyclicals, and thirty months.
In contrast to the first part of the year, we saw the higher volatility stocks.
best performance this past quarter from non-commodity cyclical stocks and stocks with above-average volatility.
Stocks like Among growth sectors, we continue to have an overweight in Capitalia, Munich Reinsurance, Vivendi, and Lufthansa were media, and to favour television broadcasters M6 and Antena 3, strong performers for the portfolio.
We still like many of these both having strong positions in oligopolistic markets showing companies as the consensus remains too pessimistic on their above average secular growth.
In healthcare, we believe the longer term outlook.
And while insurance and airline stocks have market is underestimating the potential of Elans new blockbuster begun to perform better, the performance of semiconductor multiple sclerosis drug, Tysabri, by up to 50% or more.
This drug stocks like Philips has been patchy.
We expect that a bottoming should dominate the market as it is rolled out this year.
in semiconductor fundamentals will eventually spark a rally Ten Largest Investments from the current extremely low relative valuations.
% of this portfolio 1 Novartis Switzerland 7.2 The other area that had lagged and where we had found many 2 Total France 6.7 good investment opportunities growth stocks did not perform 3 Deutsche Telekom Germany 6.6 as well in the quarter.
For example, our healthcare stocks were 4UBS Switzerland 5.6 hurt by the potential withdrawal of several major drugs from the 5 Ericsson Sweden 4.1 6 ING Netherlands 4.1 US market.
The share price in telecommunications equipment 7 AXA France 3.9 maker Ericsson also paused for breath following fears that service 8 Lafarge France 3.9 provider mergers in the US could cut telecom capital 9 SAP Germany 3.7 expenditures.
We still believe that the market will be positively 10 Antena 3 Television Spain 3.6 surprised by revenue growth in its core mobile infrastructure business in 2005, and that the stock has further upside.
