United Kingdom smaller companies Henderson Global Investors London Investment Style Sportingbet, an internet gambling company, Urban Dining, The emphasis is to pick companies that exhibit a solid business which owns the Tootsies chain of High Street restaurants, and model, strong management, a sound financial structure and where Shaftesbury, a West End real estate company.
earnings forecasts are robust or have the potential to be upgraded.
Allied to this has been a careful approach to valuation, with the We sold stocks such as Enterprise Inns, the pub owner, and Taylor aim of buying growth at an attractive price.
Strong sell disciplines Nelson Sofres, the marketing research company, to finance these are then employed to ensure under-performing stocks are weeded purchases.
Both these investments have been highly successful in out and portfolio gains are maximised.
the last two years and have now become large companies.
Market Review The largest holding in the portfolio, Henderson Strata After the dramatic surge in 2003, 2004 proved to be another Investments, is currently undergoing significant transformation.
vintage year for UK smaller companies.
The Hoare Govett Smaller It has changed its investment mandate to concentrate on much Companies Index ex investment companies produced a total smaller UK companies.
This move may help performance, given return of 20.7% compared to a total return of 12.8% in the FTSE the strong outlook for this part of the market where we have a All-Share Index.
Given a background of rising interest rates, dedicated resource and a strong track record.
sharply higher commodity prices, dollar weakness and a slowing UK housing and consumer market, these returns are highly Market Outlook creditable.
The good earnings growth enjoyed by UK plc and the After two years of strong gains for UK smaller companies, the high level of take-over activity in the mid and small cap areas of outlook for 2005 continues to look favourable.
Returns should be the market were the main drivers that helped smaller companies less spectacular than in the recent past as input cost ination, in the market make strong progress into considerable macro currency uctuations and lower consumer demand depress headwinds.
However valuations are still reasonable, global economies are robust and ongoing high levels Portfolio Activity of corporate activity support prospects for positive total returns.
2004 again saw significant change in the portfolio, particularly There remains scope for bottom-up investing techniques to add focused towards the latter part of the year.
The portfolio was value through focused stock selection.
further broadened in the year, allowing diversication across a Ten Largest Investments wide range of sectors.
This diversity is a reection of a bottom-up % of this approach across the whole market.
portfolio 1 Henderson Strata Investments 20.2 2 W S Atkins 3.3 We had particular success in the year with corporate placings and 3 T & F Informa 3.2 new issues.
This area was buoyant with AIM stocks being 4 Domino Printing Sciences 3.0 particularly favoured for new companies joining the London 5 Interserve 2.9 6 Balfour Beatty 2.7 market.
The portfolio invested in a number of new issues 7 Grainger Trust 2.2 including E2V, a sensor electronics manufacturer, Hamworthy, 8 Bellway 2.1 a diversied engineering business, TRL, a specialist defence 9 Games Workshop 2.0 business, Phoenix IT, an IT services outsourcer and Goals Soccer 10 Meggitt 1.9 Centres, a leading operator of 5-a-side soccer centres.
Other new investments in the year included Augean, a waste services company specialising in hazardous materials, 10
