Directors H M Henderson J Horsburgh C G Clarke FCA R W C Colvill Age 52 Appointed Age 49 Mr Horsburgh was Age 60 Mr Clarke joined Age 64 Mr Colvill was a director in 1988, appointed a director and the Board in 1992 and was appointed a director in 1994 Mr Henderson became Chief Executive officer with Managing Director and became Chairman of Chairman on 24 March effect from 2 February from 1 January 1993 the Audit Committee in 2003.
He is responsible for to 30 June 2000.
He is also Deputy partner of Cazenove & Co. the overall management of over 30 years experience of Treasurer of the RNLI.
After and subsequently a senior Witan.
He has over 25 investment management 25 years fund management executive at Cazenove years experience of and was a senior executive experience in the City, he Group plc, retiring in 2002. investment management.
of Henderson Global joined Marks and Spencer to He is also a director of He was formerly with Investors, retiring fully in set up their Financial Cadogan Settled Estates Schroder Investment March 2003.
He is Services division, later Limited.
Management Limited Chairman of Rensburg plc becoming finance director of where he was UK and a Trustee of the Marks and Spencer plc and Managing Director.
Commonwealth War Chairman of Marks & Graves Endowment Fund.
Spencer Financial Services He is also an independent and its unit trust subsidiary.
adviser to the trustees of a He was also Chairman for 9 large pension scheme and years of the Money Advice an honorary adviser to Trust, a charitable company.
A W Jones MA, FREng, R H McGrath C S McVeigh III R A Bruce FRAeS, FIEE, CIM Age 58 Mr McGrath was Age 62 Mr McVeigh was Age 55 Mr Bruce was Age 65 Mr Jones was appointed a director in appointed a director in appointed a director appointed a director in 1996.
He is Group Credit 1996 and became Chief Executive of of Citigroup European Risk Director at Barclays Chairman of the H. Young Holdings plc, Investment Bank and a PLC where he has Remuneration Committee a marketing company.
responsibility for asset on its formation in quality and credit risk December 2003.
He was across the Barclays Group.
formerly Chief Executive of He is also a non-executive BICC plc.
He is Chairman director of Clearstream of British International International.
Limited, Alert Communications Limited and The Manchester Airport Group plc.
He is a former member of The Financial Reporting Council.
Members of the Audit Committee which is chaired by Mr Colvill.
Members of the Remuneration Committee which is chaired by Mr Jones.
