Global equities II MFS International Boston, USA Fund manager overview Boston-based MFS is a global money management business.
With Health Care investment ofces in London, Tokyo and Singapore, the companys Stock selection within health care contributed to outperformance.
history dates back to March 1924, when it established the first US Shares of Lincare Holdings a leading provider of oxygen and mutual fund.
Globally, MFS has 77 billion under management, other respiratory therapy services, rallied after Medicare the company distributes solely through intermediaries and has announced a favorable decision to raise monthly dispensing fees more than six million investors worldwide.
MFS has a multifor respiratory drugs.
Shares of Caremark, a leading pharmacy product investment expertise and distribution.
benets manager, rose after management doubled third quarter profit and raised fourth quarter earnings guidance, due to new Ownership: MFS has been owned by Sun Life of Canada since contracts and the March acquisition of its rival, AdvancePCS.
1982, with 22% available for employee ownership.
Our holding in AstraZeneca detracted from performance.
Our overweight position in health care results from two areas.
First, Investment philosophy: Stocks of companies that provide we nd medical equipment companies attractive due to their sustainable earnings growth and trade at a discount to their above-average growth prospects.
Second, we favour expected growth rate will outperform the market.
Fundamental pharmaceutical companies reasonable valuations and ability to research is the most reliable method of identifying these stocks.
Investment process and asset allocation: MFS fundamental Energy research provides the building blocks of stock ideas.
Our Stock selection within the energy sector positively impacted portfolio construction process incorporates the most attractive performance, with EnCana the primary contributor.
The stock of opportunities across all sectors and across all regions.
Risk is North Americas largest oil and gas exploration company rallied controlled at multiple levels.
after management announced strong production growth estimates and an increase in its share buyback program.
The Performance Review portfolio also capitalised on our underweighting in the energy The Global Equity strategy outperformed the FTSE All-World sector.
We believe energy companies are benefiting from Index in the fourth quarter of 2004.
Stock selection in the abnormally high and unsustainable oil prices, and that most consumer staples, nancials, health care and energy sectors energy stock valuations, compared to historical averages, are not contributed to the portfolios performance, as did our particularly compelling.
underweighting the energy sector, whilst stock selection in the information technology and consumer discretionary sectors Information Technology detracted from performance, as did our positions in information Stock selection within the technology sector adversely impacted technology and overweighting in the health care sector.
Our holding of Symantec, the global leader in information security, traded lower after management significant Impacts on Performance by Sector announced the acquisition of Veritas Software Corp. We remain Financials underweight in this sector because we believe many stocks have Strong stock selection in nancials contributed to performance.
expensive valuations relative to our growth projections.
Shares of Erste Bank Austria and OTP Bank Hungary, two larger regional banks with exposure to Eastern Europe, appreciated due to Other positive investor sentiment over the growth prospects of the Two other holdings that had a significant positive impact on the region.
Our position in Banco Bilbao Vizcaya, Spains second largest portfolios performance were Reckitt Benckiser, the worlds bank, appreciated after management reported increased third largest manufacturer of household cleaners, and Telefonica, a quarter profit due to continued strength in its Mexican operations.
12 Outlook Ten Largest Investments % of this Following a strong fourth quarter, fuelled by the re-election of US portfolio 1 Reckitt Benckiser UK 3.7 President Bush and a retreat of record high oil prices, we 2 Air Liquide France 2.6 anticipate that global growth will revert to normal levels.
3 American Express United States 2.2 However, corporate activity including capital spending and share 4 Roche Switzerland 2.1 buybacks should continue to increase throughout 2005, which 5 Sano-Aventis France 1.9 should offer compelling opportunities for investors.
While many 6 Accenture United States 1.9 7 Diageo UK 1.8 market participants focus on the recent currency uctuations, we 8 Sandvik Sweden 1.8 will continue to invest on a security specic basis in order to 9 Johnson & Johnson United States 1.8 capitalise on our core competency of bottom up, fundamental 10 Telefonica Spain 1.7 research.
