qxd 13 3 05 12:05 pm Page 4 What we do Our business Across Centrica our focus is now entirely on energy and home-related services.
The needs of our customers lie at the heart of everything we do, from sourcing and securing energy to providing a broad range of distinctive services to homes and businesses.
Key markets We serve customers in Britain, Spain, Belgium, Canada and the USA.
4 Annual report 2004 Centrica plc CT001 p04-p05 AW.
qxd 13 3 05 12:06 pm Page 5 Centrica British Gas Centrica Business Energy Residential Services We source the gas and Under the British Gas name in Centrica Business Services aims services provided under our electricity we need to supply our England, the Nwy Prydain and to meet the specic needs of its HomeCare range.
We also customers in Britain through a British Gas names in Wales, customers, from the largest provide HomeCare for team of specialists working in and Scottish Gas in Scotland, industrial and commercial plumbing and drains, home Centrica Energy.
The business we supply gas and electricity operators to small and mediumelectrics and kitchen consists of our upstream gas to residential customers sized enterprises.
appliances and are a national production, electricity throughout Britain.
As well as We market gas and electricity installer of domestic, monitored generation, wholesale and energy, we offer customers a to businesses under the British home security systems.
industrial gas sales activities and wide choice of complementary Gas Business brand across British Gas directly employs our energy optimisation unit.
Britain, offering the exibility of over 8,000 engineers to carry Our gas reserves in Morecambe We are the first choice gas an open tariff or the security of a out its gas, plumbing and Bay are supplemented by supplier for millions of people, xed-term contract.
We are now electrical services.
production from several North and since the market opened the number one supplier of A range of on-demand Sea elds.
Our interests in to competition in 1998 weve energy to the commercial sector drainage services are provided seven gas-red power stations become the largest supplier of in Britain measured by supply by Dyno-Rod, which became help meet the demand of our electricity to residential points.
part of British Gas this year.
Apart from energy, we It operates through a network addition, we are committed to Apart from supplying energy provide heating care for of franchises covering the UK investing in renewable we are also the largest businesses, ensuring central and Ireland.
generation with interests in domestic central heating and heating breakdowns are In addition, there are a offshore developments in the gas appliance installation and attended by a fully-qualied growing number of Dyno-Locks Irish Sea and North Sea, and maintenance company, with British Gas engineer.
maintenance and breakdown Turnover Turnover Turnover 914m 6,906m 1,200m Operating profit Operating profit Operating profit 512m 337m 64m www.
co. uk Centrica Storage One.
Tel Centrica North America Europe Centrica Storage operates the One.
Tel is the largest indirect Direct Energy is North Americas We are active participants in Rough gas storage facility a xed-line competitor to BT in largest competitive energy and the liberalising energy markets partially-depleted gas eld in residential markets.
The line customer base can choose Canada we serve residential Our energy supply joint business provides storage from the UKTalk range of call customers in Ontario, Manitoba venture, Luminus, supplies services for a wide range of plans, offering a no monthly fee and Alberta.
customers in both the customers, including and free weekend calls option or In the US, Direct Energy residential and business businesses within the Centrica unlimited usage.
UKTalk supplies customers in markets of Belgium.
Tels Pennsylvania, Ohio, Michigan Following the opening of the The facility lies approximately free 118 111 directory enquiries and those parts of Texas not Spanish energy market at the 18 miles off the coast of east service.
Mobile customers have served by our subsidiary start of 2003, Luseo Energa is Yorkshire, supported by an a broad choice of free handsets companies CPL Retail Energy focused on providing electricity onshore gas processing terminal and exible tariffs and our and WTU Retail Energy.
for small and medium-sized at Easington.
internet service caters for Direct Energy Business businesses in Spain.
For regulatory reasons, customers with a range of dial Services provides Centrica Storage operates as a up and broadband packages.
comprehensive energy separate business from the rest One.
Tel also provides telecoms solutions to businesses of the group.
services to British Gas throughout Canada and many customers.
Turnover Turnover Turnover Turnover 133m 218m 2,375m 287m Operating profit Operating profit Operating profit Operating profit 69m 16m 134m 4m www.
com operating profit is shown before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items, including joint ventures and associates excluding Accord trading revenue includes group share of Luminus joint venture turnover Annual report 2004 Centrica plc 5
