qxd 13 3 05 12:09 pm Page 16 Operating and financial review continued performance in relation to partnership with our suppliers customers who are Workplace peer organisations.
In 2004, to help ensure that the way experiencing difficulties paying Because we believe that Centrica continued to be listed they operate is consistent with their bills.
The trust was sustainable business success in the FTSE4Good indices, our values and business established with initial funding depends on our continued conrming that we continue principles.
In 2004, we piloted of 10 million over three years ability to recruit, retain and to meet globally-recognised a survey to engage our and targets households that develop the right people, we corporate responsibility suppliers in working with us are particularly susceptible to have put in place a rigorous standards.
Also in 2004, we to manage corporate debt, including those on low and innovative group-wide were included in both the Dow responsibility in our supply incomes or benets, onepeople strategy.
Jones Sustainability World and chains.
Over the next five parent families, older people This strategy is focused European Indexes and we were years, we will be extending and those with disabilities.
on helping us to become ranked in the second quintile of this approach across our British Gas has also been an employer of choice, the Business in the Community supplier base.
working in partnership with seeking to recruit and retain corporate responsibility index.
At the heart of our service Help the Aged to launch a the best people in the ethic is a commitment to help capped price tariff and a employment market.
Marketplace make life safe, warm and campaign to reduce avoidable, Our people management A passion for our customers comfortable for all our cold-related deaths among priorities are: is one of our core values.
All customers with a particular older people.
to be clear about what we our businesses strive to win focus on families, older people We continue to promote offer our people and what and retain the trust and loyalty and people with disabilities the safe and responsible use we expect from them: of our customers.
in some of Britains most of our products and services, to promote diversity within In practice, this means: deprived communities.
We the organisation, both in ensuring that our customers Working in partnership with are, for example, working with recognition of the inherent enjoy a superior customer seven national charities, British the Health and Safety value of diversity and to experience and a consistently Gas here to HELP programme Executive to assist in policy ensure that we reect the high-quality service: a unique collaboration making, following the diversity of our customer ensuring that our services between the public, voluntary development by British Gas base: meet our customers needs and private sectors is helping of the Downstream Incident to attract the best possible and make their lives easier: to reduce household poverty.
Data Report for gathering people as a means of ensuring that our sales and To date, 671 communities have carbon monoxide CO delivering a world-class advertising techniques are signed up, covering 340,000 incident information.
customer experience and trusted and are reliable: and households, and British Gas We actively support the Gas achieving our business goals: working with our customers has committed a further 290 Industry Safety Group, the Gas to build leadership capability to promote the safe and million over the next three Industry Engineers Committee and actively manage responsible use of our years to assist vulnerable and other organisations succession planning: products and services.
customers and tackle the issue including the Department of to develop our people so In addition, a business of of fuel poverty.
Trade and Industry and the that they can realise their Centricas size inevitably has To support our more Royal Society for the potential, maximise their an impact on the supply chains vulnerable customers, British Prevention of Accidents.
contribution and gain of which we are a part, and Gas has set up an independent During 2004, British Gas maximum job satisfaction: we are increasingly working in trust fund to provide grants to launched a safety campaign and to highlight potential dangers to promote a safe and in the home.
The campaign healthy working environment.
here to HELP progress as at 31 December 2004 emphasises child safety Our aim is to help our people Activity Status through a range of awareness enjoy a work life balance that is materials aimed at parents, right for them and to ensure Zones signed up 671 many of which are available at that they are able to give of Households included 340,000 www.
Our policy, wherever Zones completed 234 British Gas has also been appropriate and consistent with Household assessments completed 115,188 working closely with the operational requirements, Charity referrals 28,775 National Union of Students is to encourage new ways Completed benefit checks 15,274 to boost awareness, among of working that improve Total unclaimed benets identied 5.6 million landlords and students, of productivity and morale, Potential average benefit gain per qualifying household 1,308 the dangers of CO poisoning.
increase diversity, develop Customers have been surprised and delighted to be dealt with in their mother tongue, and as a result they recommend us to their family and friends.
Mandeep, British Gas customer service adviser 16 CT001 p09-p18 OFR AW.
qxd 13 3 05 12:09 pm Page 17 talent and reduce costs.
existing training programmes planning and senior-level Community contribution 7.35m Our exible working project, in 2005. recruitment processes.
WorkWise, for example, uses We continue to work with One of the more innovative new technologies to offer the government and a range leadership development 12% exible working arrangements of organisations, including the initiatives in 2004 was Prison to more than 1,000 employees.
Employers Forum on Disability, Partners, a mentoring 33% The health and safety the Employers Forum on Age programme run by Business of everyone who works for and Business in the in the Community, which pairs Centrica is essential to the Community, to inform policy businesses with prisons.
making and further develop Centrica senior executives Accident incidence and our approach.
have worked with the absence rates were reduced We promote active dialogue management team at in 2004 even though our with our people and, for Wormwood Scrubs prison, Charitable gifts headcount and industrial asset example, conduct an annual providing and gaining Community investment base increased.
insight on decision-making Commercial initiatives occupational health service In 2004, approximately 80% and strategy development provided employee and of employees responded and in a complex and challenging business benets through early overall employee engagement environment.
intervention and modern increased by 4% compared and employability: rehabilitation techniques.
Community create opportunities for We have more to do We offer a range of training In line with our overall employee involvement and will continue to strive for and development opportunities corporate responsibility and development: improvement and to subject for all our people, from our strategy, the theme of our enhance customer focus our performance to stringent front-line engineers to our community investment by targeting social problems management review.
programme is ensuring such as fuel poverty We are committed to The British Gas Engineering access to the essentials.
that relate to our areas creating a truly diverse and Academy, for example, We are involved only in those of expertise: inclusive workplace with continues to provide a focus community projects that align encourage sustainable social equality of opportunity for all.
for our engineer recruitment with our core business enterprise by extending our During 2004, we continued and training activities.
In 2004, activities, skills and experience.
values into the charity and to implement our diversity more than 1,200 new engineers This focus enables us to voluntary sector: and strategy, which focuses on an participated in training and build a compelling case for deliver in-kind support.
integrated approach to development activities at the community investment, Encouraging and supporting diversity and inclusion issues academy.
We also launched enables our employees to employee involvement in the among our employees and an education programme to identify with our community community is integral to our our customers and the sharing raise awareness of the range initiatives and helps to build approach to corporate of best practice.
of engineering opportunities the sustained commitment that citizenship.
We believe that Our commitment to diversity British Gas offers.
employee engagement in a is demonstrated, for example, The quality of leadership in In 2004, we contributed broad range of issues of social by the setting up of the the group is critical to Centricas 7.35 million 6.6m in 2003 concern is not only good for diversity and inclusion action success, and we provide in cash, time and in-kind the community, but offers group in January 2004, which development opportunities support to community causes.
significant development is chaired by the managing for managers throughout their Our approach to community opportunities and, as a director of Centrica Energy and careers.
These are underpinned involvement includes: consequence, benets us ensures that the infrastructure by our leadership competence the systematic management as a business.
is in place to enable the framework, which defines of our community investment: In January 2004, we implementation of our diversity the skills and behaviours that building long-term launched an employee strategy throughout the group.
will help us achieve our partnerships with community volunteering programme In 2004 we developed a range strategic objectives.
organisations and charities: throughout British Gas, of training materials to raise The management talent the continuous evaluation of encouraging employees to awareness and understanding review process, introduced our community programme.
take up to two days off each of diversity amongst our in 2002, enables us to monitor We aim to contribute to year to spend on volunteering employees, which we will individuals leadership potential projects and programmes that: assignments in their local continue to integrate with and feeds into the succession promote education skills communities.
In conjunction British Gas has set up an in-house language line service This company is to help customers whose first language is not English.
making a big effort to The company has a network of more than 200 staff who speak a total of 35 languages.
Callers welcome the chance be helpful it feels to explain their query in their native language.
Surveys show like Im getting great this service, launched in 2003, has brought high levels of customer satisfaction and improves customer retention.
The company recognised how the diversity of its own staff could benefit its diverse customer base.
Jaswinder, British Gas customer Annual report 2004 Centrica plc 17
