qxd 13 3 05 12:13 pm Page 29 allocation of shares only vests and is released to the executive the employment by giving one years written notice and if the companys TSR over the performance period is ranked that the company may pay compensation in lieu of notice.
in 25th position or above relative to the 99 other companies The dates of the executive directors service contracts are in the LTIS comparator group.
No shares vest if the TSR over set out in the table on page 30. the performance period is ranked below 50th position in the LTIS comparator group.
Between 25th and 50th position, shares vest External appointments of executive directors on a scale from 100% to 40%.
The board believes that experience of other companies In April 2004, LTIS allocations equal to 75% of base salary practices and challenges is valuable both for the personal were awarded to executive directors and, at the same or lower development of its executive directors and for the company.
rates, to certain other senior executives.
The maximum number of It is therefore the companys policy to allow each executive shares that could be transferred to each executive director upon director to accept one non-executive directorship of another satisfaction of the performance conditions appears on page 31. company, although the board retains the discretion to vary this Prior to 2002, the Trustee of the LTIS bought shares in the policy.
Fees received in respect of external appointments are market to match the likely future requirements for shares under retained by the individual director.
Any shortfall going forward will be satisfied by the In 2004, Phil Bentley received 51,667 as a non-executive issue of new shares.
director of Kingfisher plc, Mark Clare received 49,000 as a non-executive director of BAA plc and Sir Roy Gardner received 100,000 as chairman of Manchester United plc.
TSR Centrica and FTSE 100: 2000-2004 Non-executive directors 200 Non-executive directors including the chairman do not hold 150 service contracts.
Their appointment is subject to the articles of association and the dates they joined the board are shown in 100 the table on page 30.
Their fees are approved by the board, upon 50 the recommendation of the executive committee, whose members are the executive directors: Sir Roy Gardner, Mark Clare, Phil 0 99 00 01 02 03 04 Bentley and, from 1 January 2005, Jake Ulrich: and three other senior executives: Grant Dawson, general counsel and company secretary, Deryk King, managing director of Centrica North America, and Anne Minto, group human resources director.
Upon Years ended 31 December the recommendation of the executive committee, which Centrica TSR index 30 December 1999 100 was endorsed by the nominations committee, the fees payable FTSE 100 TSR index Source: Alithos Ltd to Roger Carr as chairman were agreed by the board as 250,000 per annum.
The above table compares the companys TSR performance Following the examination of the role of non-executive with that of the FTSE 100 Index for the five years ended directors in the Higgs Report and the subsequent changes to 31 December 2004. the Combined Code, in 2004 the executive committee conducted As required by Schedule 7A of the Companies Act 1985, a review of non-executive directors fees excluding fees paid to a rolling definition of the FTSE 100 has been used, whereas the the chairman.
This took into account not only the need to attract definition used for the purposes of the LTIS is the FTSE 100 as individuals of the right calibre and experience, but also their constituted at the beginning of the period.
In order to demonstrate increased responsibilities and time commitment, as envisaged the delivery of shareholder value during the relevant performance in the new Code, and the fees paid by other companies.
period, the TSR graphs for the LTIS awards that vested in October The executive committee received survey and other information 2004 are shown on page 31. from remuneration consultants, Towers Perrin.
As a result of this review, their annual fees were increased from 35,000 to 50,000, Pension with an additional 15,000 and 10,000 being paid to the Executive directors also participate in a contributory, final respective chairmen of the audit and remuneration committees.
salary pension scheme details of which are given on page 33.
The non-executive directors, including the chairman, do not participate in any of the companys share schemes, incentive Other employment benefits plans or pension schemes.
In common with other senior management, executive directors The remuneration report from page 27 to page 29 up to this are entitled to a range of benefits, including a company car, life statement has not been audited.
From this point until the end of assurance, private medical insurance and a financial counselling the report on page 33, the disclosures, with the exception of the scheme.
They are also eligible to participate in the companys line graphs on page 31, have been audited by the companys Inland Revenue-approved sharesave and share incentive plans, auditors, .
which are open to all eligible employees on the same basis, providing a long-term savings and investment opportunity.
Service contracts It is the companys policy for the notice period in executive directors service contracts not to exceed one year.
The committee retains a level of flexibility in order to offer contracts to new executive directors that contain an initial notice period in excess of one year, provided that after the first such period the notice period reduces to one year.
The executive directors service contracts have no fixed term but provide that either the director or the company may terminate Annual report 2004 Centrica plc 29
