Jake Ulrich Chairman 58 N. Deputy chief executive and Manchester United plc, president Managing director, Centrica Roger Carr joined the board as managing director, British Gas of Carers UK, president of the Energy 52 E. US citizen a non-executive director in 2001 47 E. Employers Forum on Disability Jake Ulrich was appointed to the and was appointed chairman Mark Clare joined British Gas plc and chairman of the National board on 1 January 2005.
He is chairman of in 1994 as group financial Apprenticeship Task Force.
appointed managing director of Mitchells & Butlers plc, deputy controller, and was appointed Centrica Energy in 1997.
Between chairman of Cadbury Schweppes finance director of Centrica in 1997.
Patricia Mann OBE plc and a senior adviser to In 2000, he was appointed deputy director of Accord Energy Ltd, a Senior non-executive director Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co Ltd. chief executive, and from January joint venture between Natural Gas 67 A. N. R. He was previously chief executive 2002, managing director of British Clearinghouse NGC and British Patricia Mann was a non-executive of Williams plc and chairman of Gas.
He is a non-executive director Gas.
He previously worked for director of British Gas plc from Thames Water plc and Chubb plc.
of BAA plc, The Energy Saving NGC, Union Carbide Corporation December 1995 until Centrica was Trust Ltd and The Energy Retail and the OXY Mid Con Peoples demerged in February 1997.
She Association Ltd. Energy Group.
Helen Alexander CBE was a vice president international Non-executive director 48 of J Walter Thompson Co Ltd and A. N. R. 5.
Mary Francis remains a director of JWT Trustees 10.
Paul Walsh Helen Alexander joined the board Non-executive director 56 A. R. Ltd. She is on the board of the Non-executive director 49 in January 2003.
She is chief Mary Francis joined the board in UK Centre for Economic and A. N. R. executive of The Economist Group, June 2004.
She is Director General Environmental Development and Paul Walsh joined the board in a trustee of the Tate Gallery and an of the Association of British Insurers National Trust Enterprises, is a March 2003.
He is chief executive honorary fellow of Hertford College, until 31 March 2005 and was trustee of the AA Motoring Trust of Diageo plc, having previously Oxford.
Formerly, she was a nonformerly a senior civil servant in the and was formerly a director of the been its chief operating officer and executive director of BT Group plc Treasury and the Prime Minister's Woolwich Building Society and served in a variety of finance roles.
She is a director of the Bank Yale and Valor plc.
He is a non-executive director of England, a member of the Press of Federal Express Corporation Complaints Commission and a and a governor of the Henley 3.
Paul Rayner trustee of the Almeida Theatre.
Group finance director 46 E. Non-executive director 50 A. R. Phil Bentley joined Centrica plc Australian citizen as group finance director in 2000.
Sir Roy Gardner Paul Rayner joined the board in Prior to that, he was finance Chief executive 59 E. N. September 2004.
He has been director of UDV Guinness from Sir Roy Gardner was appointed finance director of British American 1999 and group treasurer and finance director of British Gas plc Tobacco plc since January 2002. director of risk management of in 1994.
From 1995 he had In 1991 he joined Rothmans Note Diageo plc from 1997.
Previously, responsibility for the business Holdings Ltd in Australia, holding Sir Michael Perry chairman, he spent 15 years with BP in units which subsequently formed senior executive appointments, Robert Tobin and Roger Wood several international finance roles.
Prior to joining British and became chief operating officer were directors of the company He is also a non-executive director Gas he was managing director of of British American Tobacco until 10 May, 23 September and of Kingfisher plc.
GEC-Marconi Ltd and a director Australasia Ltd in September 1999.
Key to membership of committees A Audit committee N Nominations committee E Centrica executive committee R Remuneration committee 22 Annual report 2004 Centrica plc
