AstraZeneca Annual Report and Global Market Overview 06 Form 20-F Information 2004 Global Market Overview World markets Doctors remain the key decision makers as Future pharmaceuticals market In 2004, the world market for to which treatments should be prescribed Whilst the fundamentals of the world pharmaceuticals, as defined by the 46 for their patients, but as the economic pharmaceuticals market remain robust, countries audited by IMS, was valued at burden of funding therapies increases, the industry is facing real challenges.
Growth for the total market payers, including governments, health remained at 8% the same level for 2003 insurers, managed care organisations, Heightened public awareness of drug in constant US dollars terms, despite lower employers and patients, are increasing their safety concerns rather than a balanced growth 9% as compared to 10% in the influence over the choices doctors make.
perspective of benefit risk, coupled with US, which accounts for approximately Pharmaceutical companies are increasingly worries over the cost of medicines, has 47% of world sales.
The US, Europe having to demonstrate the value of their undermined the reputation of the industry.
and Japan together represent 88% products in terms of health and economic of the world market.
outcomes to a wide variety of customer Regulators are setting increasingly groups including payers, patients, high hurdles as the industry is working Over the past five years, the US has physicians, regulators and governments.
to improve R&D productivity through increased its share of the world market by This requires investment throughout application of new technologies.
3%, in contrast to Europe, where market the clinical and commercial development share has been static at 29%, and Japan, of a product, in studies covering costThe industrys intellectual property base where market share has declined from 15% effectiveness, cost-benefit and postis being challenged by generic to 12%.
This changing pattern reflects approval outcomes in addition to traditional manufacturers looking to make an early differences in the respective healthcare trials designed to prove safety and efficacy.
entry into large markets with resultant systems approaches to drug use and pressure on life cycles.
pricing: the US allows free pricing and tends Growth drivers and limiters to adopt innovative products more rapidly The continued growth of the Successful companies will be required compared to Europe and Japan which both pharmaceutical industry indicates that to enhance their productivity in the enforce price control measures.
the market for the industry is not mature.
discovery and development of new There is a strong fundamental demand for products designed to meet the burgeoning Several countries experienced above healthcare that underwrites the industrys needs of the market.
In Europe, Turkey future growth prospects.
Specific elements 30%, Greece 19%, Ireland 16%, Spain that contribute to this include: 10%, and Portugal 10% outgrew the world market.
In Asia, China showed The growing number of people who continued strong growth in absolute and expect high standards of healthcare, percentage terms, reaching $7.2 billion especially among the elderly, who the ninth largest worldwide market, an represent a rising proportion of increase of 26%.
Chinas growth along developed nations populations.
with that of Thailand 16%, Egypt 15%, Many diseases are under diagnosed, the Philippines 14% and Taiwan 12% sub-optimally treated or do not have show the potential of the region for future effective therapies.
In Latin America, Mexico, the tenth largest worldwide market, and Venezuela This growing demand will be met not only delivered growth of 10% and 24%, by existing therapies but also by new ones respectively.
However, despite good growth originating from the advances in the in 2004 of 28% and 19%, respectively, understanding of the biology of disease Brazil and Argentina remain below their and the application of new technologies.
Innovative new products have been launched in recent years, which are Pharmaceuticals as part of healthcare changing therapeutic approaches and Expenditure on healthcare typically are improving quality of life for patients.
represents between 6% and 15% of a country's gross domestic product GDP, Healthcare systems, whether based on with developed nations towards the top public or private funding, have a finite ability end and developing nations spending less.
Cost containment As a proportion of this, pharmaceutical remains an ever-present restraint to growth.
expenditure is usually between 10% and During 2004, this has become even more 20% and is therefore still less than 2% of evident with increasing pricing pressures GDP in most cases.
Pharmaceuticals offer across all major markets, notably the US many advantages over other forms of and Germany.
This is felt most within large treatment for illness and they are often primary care categories.
particularly cost-effective when compared to in-patient care.
