com Strategy AstraZeneca Group Strategy AstraZeneca aims to create enduring value for society and shareholders, by discovering, developing, manufacturing and marketing differentiated medicines that make a real contribution to human health.
Our culture is based on innovation, a responsible way of doing business and performance.
In response to an environment that is becoming even more challenging, we aspire to deliver a level of productivity that matches the best among our peers.
We are committed I look forward to playing my to delivering sustained financial performance, part in ensuring AstraZenecas through growth and productivity, that will place AstraZeneca among the best in the industry.
This strategy for sustainable, profitable Louis Schweitzer growth is supported by the following core business priorities, paying heed to the setbacks experienced in 2004: I am grateful to the AstraZeneca Board for the Sales growth confidence they have shown in me by electing Release of the full potential of our marketed me as their Chairman.
Percy Barnevik as the therapies through resource allocation and first Chairman of AstraZeneca has served the investment in projects that will extend their use Company with distinction.
On behalf of the and bring benefits to new patient populations.
Board, shareholders and AstraZeneca Further strengthening our commercial skills employees, I would like to thank him most to drive success in our key markets.
warmly for his wise counsel, influence and leadership of the Board.
Enhancing our presence in important new, emerging markets through organic growth Since my appointment to the Board in and strategic regional investments.
March 2004, I have had the opportunity to Step-change in productivity get to know my Board colleagues, to meet Commitment to vigorously improve productivity senior managers in the Company and to get in pursuit of operational excellence in all our a clear view of the Companys strong financial activities, to be among the most efficient and effective companies in our sector.
performance as well as the strategic opportunities and significant challenges facing Developing new business approaches that will AstraZeneca.
I have been most impressed with meet the changing needs and expectations of what I have seen of the senior management regulators, payers, prescribers and patients.
of the Company led by Sir Tom McKillop.
Strong pipeline and active risk management I very much look forward to working closely Successful delivery to market of the next with him and my Board colleagues and playing wave of differentiated products currently my part in ensuring the Companys future.
Following the Companys strong financial Rigorous management of our portfolio of products in development, to mitigate risks performance in 2004, the Board has associated with new innovative products recommended a second interim dividend and make future growth more robust.
of $0.645, 34.3 pence, SEK4.497 per Ordinary Share bringing the total dividend for the year Expansion of the development pipeline to $0.94, 50.3 pence, SEK6.697 per Ordinary through continuously improved in-house discovery processes, complemented by Share, an increase in dollar terms of 18.2%.
In 2005, we aim to deliver strong financial Pursuit of value-creating investment performance, characterised by top-tier earnings in significant targeted licensing and acquisition opportunities.
growth and improved shareholder returns, while continuing to build an innovative and valuable Corporate responsibility pipeline capable of driving shareholder value Delivery of our core values through over the long term.
People Delivery of optimised performance and sustainable business outcomes through: Improved organisational effectiveness.
Optimised individual and team performance.
Effective management and development of talent.
Louis Schweitzer Improved leadership capability.
