AstraZeneca Annual Report and Operational Review Form 20-F Information 2004 31 Commercialisation and Portfolio Management AstraZeneca continues to have one of the development, the product is tested against to the information and services they need.
most competitive portfolios of marketed this target profile and is only prioritised This includes IT collaborations that will aim products in the pharmaceutical industry.
for further investment if it meets or exceeds to deliver innovative channels for providing Maintaining the quality of this portfolio the target.
patients with information about their and of our development pipeline of new treatment and or their disease.
Through products requires careful prioritisation Where appropriate, we exploit internet closer partnership with patients, we aim both to manage the progression of strategy and marketing technologies to to build our understanding of their needs promising compounds from development facilitate and enhance our commercial and how we can best respond.
to market place and to maximise the activities.
Growing numbers of doctors value of high potential marketed products.
and patients actively seek information Our products are marketed primarily to We are committed to organic growth, from us via the internet and, where allowed, physicians both general and specialist but in common with other leading we are able to share knowledge, best as well as to other healthcare professionals.
pharmaceutical companies, our licensing practice and expertise via this channel.
Marketing efforts are also directed towards activities seek to bring in new products explaining the value and the therapeutic and or technologies and to support growth Direct and timely communication via the benefits of our products to governments products in a cost-effective manner.
internet facilitates some of the important and healthcare buying groups, for example, goals for the organisation such as managed care organisations in the US, Product Strategy & Licensing PS&L, supporting our sales efforts: augmenting trust hospitals and budget-holding medical while working closely with R&D and our our brands: maintaining and building groups in the UK and other organisations major marketing companies, leads the longer term relationships: and ensuring which pay for healthcare costs in various commercial aspects of drug development appropriate use of our products.
In the US, we invest a significant and co-ordinates global market strategy.
services continue to grow in diversity amount of money in direct-to-consumer This includes selecting the right products and value to our customer groups, DTC advertising campaigns for certain and projects for investment, developing requiring us to monitor and evaluate new of our products notably Nexium and effective marketing platforms in time for techniques and technology to achieve our Crestor.
These DTC efforts are part of a new product launches and directing the business objectives and ensure ongoing comprehensive and, we believe, valuable creation and delivery of product marketing competitiveness.
AstraZeneca is campaign to educate consumers about strategies that successfully align global recognised as one of the industry leaders certain conditions and potential treatment and national plans.
for online marketing and communication options.
Research among physicians to customers.
supports our view that DTC advertising To ensure the success of our medicines, provides this educational value to we aim to address unmet medical needs, We have undertaken a number of consumer consumers.
find novel solutions, minimise technical risk initiatives to increase disease awareness and maximise commercial opportunity.
We and fully recognise the importance of AstraZenecas principal competitors have clearly defined lifecycle management patients and patient groups in making are other international, research-based programmes for all our products, which healthcare choices across the globe.
pharmaceutical and biotechnology maximise not just the commercial potential Drug and disease physician and patient companies which also sell branded, of the brands, but also the value they bring education modules developed across patent-protected, prescription to patients lives.
In addition, our customer our therapy areas have been deployed pharmaceuticals.
base has broadened over the past year internally and externally to great effect and our marketing programmes have and we continue to seek to leverage Following patent expiry, our products also widened accordingly to take account these resources across a wider group of compete with generic pharmaceuticals.
of every aspect of building global brands.
stakeholders, particularly where first-inCompetition with generic pharmaceuticals This includes working with, among others, class products are reaching our markets is principally on price since generic patient advocacy groups, caregivers, and demand for such education is high.
pharmaceutical companies typically incur opinion leaders and pharmacists.
only limited R&D costs compared to Internet-enabled processes have brought those of research-based companies such Target product profiles TPPs for each new efficiency and effectiveness gains across as AstraZeneca.
product are clearly defined at a very early R&D and commercial activities, facilitating stage in Discovery in order to set the rapid sharing and distribution of Our ability to maintain and enhance parameters for R&D activity and to help information within and outside the our competitive position in our chosen shape the marketing strategy.
Additionally, a number of therapy areas depends mainly on our is based on our insight into the needs in internet-enabled sourcing projects are development of new, innovative, the market place and the drivers behind enhancing our purchasing practices and cost-effective products from our R&D and recommending, prescribing, paying for and delivering clear, measurable value.
in-licensing activities, the manufacture taking the medication.
Among the factors and supply of products to high quality considered in developing a TPP are product As part of our commitment to exploring standards and the effective marketing of features and benefits, medical and health all the ways in which we can bring benefit products to our global customer groups.
outcomes information, market positioning, to patients, we are expanding our thinking demonstration of value and the competitive beyond medicines to include a focus on environment.
At each major stage in ways in which we can help them get access
