AstraZeneca Annual Report and Operational Review Form 20-F Information 2004 23 Respiratory and Inflammation R&I We aim to build on our Products corticosteroid in the US for children Symbicort budesonide formoterol is an as young as 12 months.
It has grown leading position in asthma innovative and effective asthma treatment strongly as a result of its beneficial profile treatment through the that offers superior efficacy with easily and it has strengthened its position as adjustable dosing.
This will enable doctors the inhaled corticosteroid of choice for growth of key products, to tailor a patients treatment of this the treatment of children under five with particularly Symbicort, variable disease with a single inhaler for asthma.
A regulatory application for all situations: for baseline therapy, for Pulmicort Respules was filed in Japan new indications and increasing the dose during worsening in October 2004. market launches and the attacks as well as for acute situations, thereby achieving greater efficacy than Oxis formoterol is a beta-agonist asthma successful introduction of with fixed doses.
It is a combination of the therapy with a fast onset and long-acting novel approaches to other inhaled corticosteroid, budesonide, and clinical effect for the relief of asthma the fast onset, long-acting bronchodilator, symptoms when corticosteroid treatment areas of inflammatory formoterol, in the Turbuhaler dry powder is not adequate.
disease such as chronic inhaler.
Symbicort Turbuhaler is approved in 90 countries and launched in more than Rhinocort budesonide is a nasal steroid obstructive pulmonary 70.
Phase 3 trials in asthma are complete in treatment for allergic rhinitis hay fever, disease COPD and the US.
perennial rhinitis and nasal polyps.
It combines powerful efficacy with rapid rheumatoid arthritis.
On 15 January 2005 results from the STAY onset of action and minimal side effects trial one of the largest asthma studies ever and is available as a once daily treatment conducted were published in the American in the Rhinocort Aqua pMDI and the Journal of Respiratory and Critical Care Turbuhaler dry powder inhaler forms.
Data revealed for the first time that Symbicort Single inhaler Therapy SiT, Accolate zafirlukast is an oral leukotriene a new asthma treatment concept which receptor antagonist for the treatment of develops Symbicort adjustable asthma available in most markets.
maintenance dosing, offers superior control in the main measures of asthma Pipeline management compared to traditional US development of the Symbicort pMDI Symbicort fixed dose, including a is progressing and the phase 3 clinical Therapy area overview significant 45% reduction in the frequency programme in asthma is complete.
Following a pre-NDA meeting with the FDA R&I world market value: $37 billion.
in the fourth quarter of 2004, a New Drug In Europe, in November 2004, we withdrew Application for this formulation is now The World Health Organization our regulatory application for Symbicort SiT targeted for the second or third quarter estimates that 100 million people to allow more data to be submitted.
We of 2005, although the FDA has identified worldwide suffer from asthma and expect to submit a Symbicort SiT regulatory some issues associated with the inhaler that COPD is the fourth greatest filing in Europe in the second half of 2005 that require the generation of additional cause of death globally.
containing additional data from further chemistry and manufacturing data or ongoing studies, including in total 13,000 possible modification of the device in order 2004 in brief patients with mild to moderate asthma.
Clinical data confirm efficacy and A file for Symbicort pressurised metered Seven new compounds have entered safety of Symbicort as an adjustable dose inhaler pMDI in asthma and COPD pre-clinical development, targeted at maintenance treatment for asthma.
was submitted to EU regulatory authorities COPD AZD7928 and AZD2914, asthma in July 2004. and rhinitis AZD2392 and AZD1744, The regulatory submission in Europe osteoarthritis AZD6357 and rheumatoid for Symbicort as a single inhaler Pulmicort budesonide is a corticosteroid arthritis AZD6703 and AZD5672.
treatment of asthma was withdrawn anti-inflammatory inhalation drug that In addition, AZD0902 is in pre-clinical to allow more data to be submitted.
helps prevent symptoms and improves the development for rheumatoid arthritis.
Approvals have been gained in two control of asthma.
Pulmicort remains one of The respiratory pre-clinical portfolio markets outside Europe.
the worlds leading asthma medicines and comprises AZD2098 and AZD1981 for is available in several forms, including the asthma as well as AZD6067 for COPD.
Regulatory application for Symbicort Turbuhaler dry powder inhaler, a pressurised pMDI formulation submitted in metered dose inhaler and the Respules Compounds currently in clinical Europe for asthma and COPD in July.
suspension for the treatment of children.
development include AZD3778 for asthma and rhinitis and AZD3342 for COPD.
Symbicort US filing scheduled for the Pulmicort Respules budesonide inhalation AZD8955 is in clinical development for second or third quarter of 2005. suspension is the first and only nebulised osteoarthritis and AZD8309 for rheumatoid AstraZeneca Annual Report and Operational Review 24 Form 20-F Information 2004 Sales growth is shown in both reported and underlying performance.
Reported performance takes into account all the factors including those which we cannot influence, principally currency exchange rates that have affected the results of our business.
Underlying performance shows sales growth at constant exchange rates CER to reflect the volume and price changes of the geographic and therapy areas and individual products by excluding the effects of exchange.
A description of the calculation of this measure is set out in the Financial Review on page 38, together with the reasons for its use.
AZD9056, a came from the sales of Pulmicort Respules P2X7 ion-channel blocker, is in phase 2 in the US.
A 17% increase in US Pulmicort clinical development for rheumatoid arthritis Respules sales resulted in a 4% increase and osteoarthritis as well as in phase 1 for in worldwide sales to $1,050 million for COPD.
All five compounds currently in Pulmicort.
Sales of Pulmicort in the US clinical development for various indications rose 13% to $576 million, more than are based on novel mechanisms of actions.
compensating for the 9% decline in Europe sales of $364 million.
We have discontinued the development of AZD0902 for the indication of COPD Sales for Rhinocort were down 3% for the as a result of its failure to meet the target year to $361 million as a result of a broadly product profile.
flat performance for the US market for inhaled nasal steroids in general, including In December 2004, AstraZeneca and Rhinocort Aqua.
Cambridge Antibody Technology entered into in a five-year discovery alliance to The increase in Accolate sales was driven generate monoclonal antibody therapeutics by price increases in the US sales up 18% principally in inflammatory disorders, to $84 million.
For AstraZeneca, this collaboration Performance 2003 provides access to leading technology for Reported performance the generation of fully human monoclonal Reported growth for R&I was 24%.
Sales antibodies for application across all relevant increased from $1,818 million to $2,261 disease areas, working alongside a leading million.
Underlying performance Performance 2004 After excluding exchange effects of $168 Reported performance million, R&I sales grew by 15% during 2003.
R&I sales grew by 14% from $2,261 million to $2,583 million, an increase of $322 Symbicort sales for the full year increased million, principally as a result of higher 61% to $549 million, as the product gained sales of Symbicort.
share in the rapidly growing market for fixed combination asthma treatments.
Underlying performance R&I underlying growth was $176 million, Pulmicort sales for the full year increased by with sales up 8%.
12% as a result of growth in the US market up 41%.
Pulmicort Respules accounts for Symbicort sales were up 32% to $797 most of this growth, with total prescriptions million in the year on share gains in the in the US market up 32%.
fast growing combination product segments of the asthma and COPD Rhinocort sales in the US were up 27% markets.
The majority of Symbicort sales accounting for almost all of the global were in Europe up 29% to $701 million.
Growth in Rhinocort Aqua Sales elsewhere rose by 65% to $96 million.
58% continued to more than offset the sales lost from the discontinuation of the More than 40% of global Pulmicort sales Rhinocort Nasal Inhaler formulation.
