AstraZeneca Annual Report and Operational Review 32 Form 20-F Information 2004 Supply and Manufacturing With 30 manufacturing sites in 20 countries in 2004.
New plant authorised included view to focusing stock reductions to improve and around 15,000 employees worldwide, formulation capacity for Symbicort in working capital utilisation.
our Operations organisation provides France, for Pulmicort in the US and for secure, high quality, cost-effective supply Nexium and Seloken Toprol-XL in Sweden.
The introduction of new purchasing category of AstraZenecas product range globally.
management proceeded throughout We measure our performance using four AstraZenecas global purchasing policies 2004 in key areas of spend to maximise key metrics: customer service, supply and processes together with our business value from external expenditure, and capability, cost efficiency and licence interruption risk management BIRM implementation will continue in 2005. to operate.
process are aimed at ensuring the supply of raw materials and other key supplies, Licence to operate Customer service all of which are purchased from a range We are committed to delivering a secure The fast and effective introduction of new of suppliers.
The BIRM process basis for assured product quality that products is key to success.
Our supply systematically examines a range of risk ensures both the safety and efficacy of our chains are designed to maximise flexibility.
scenarios to global supply, such as medicines.
As part of this, the outcomes For example, the global roll-out of Crestor disasters that remove supply capability of routine internal inspections as well as continued, European Exanta launches were or the unavailability of key raw materials those by regulatory authorities are supported, and all major markets completed and ensures that these risks are mitigated rigorously reviewed and, if required, actions the launch of Zoladex Safesystem which is by the implementation of contingency are taken to further enhance compliance.
designed to protect against needlestick plans, including the appropriate use of Device presentations of inhalation injuries when handling the injectable Zoladex dual or multiple suppliers and maintenance products present manufacturing challenges therapy.
With a few temporary exceptions, of appropriate stock levels.
Although the and where appropriate, like other major products and line extensions were price of raw materials may fluctuate from manufacturers, we keep these under review successfully supported with supplies time to time, our global purchasing policies with relevant regulators.
The results of all available to meet market demand.
seek to avoid such fluctuations becoming external inspections carried out during 2004 material in our business.
were satisfactory and we did not experience Supply capability any delays to approvals due to regulatory Our strategy remains to operate a small Cost efficiency compliance issues at our sites or those of number of sites for the manufacture of 2004 saw the continued implementation our contractors.
active ingredients and combine it with of our new supply system which has effective use of outsourcing.
AstraZeneca demonstrated progressive benefits, with Safety, health and environment SHE has active ingredient sites in the UK, higher customer service levels, reduced operating standards are increasingly Puerto Rico, Sweden and France and a manufacturing lead times and consequently stringent with regulators placing particular bulk drug purification plant in Germany.
reduced requirements for the build up of emphasis on environmental issues and Around 1,600 people are employed in stock.
The programme has now been the safety of chemicals.
AstraZenecas active pharmaceutical ingredient supply.
substantially implemented throughout the manufacturing sites operate under various supply network.
In 2004, improvements in regulatory and licensing regimes and Principal formulation sites for tablets and stock levels on mature products were partly we are focused on meeting all regulatory capsules are in six countries - the UK, offset by stock increases on launched requirements and current good practice Sweden, Puerto Rico, France, Germany products with exchange movements also standards.
There are currently no and the US.
There are also major increasing the financially reported figures.
environmental issues that constrain formulation sites for the global supply of AstraZeneca from fully utilising any sites.
parenteral and inhalation products in Cost efficiencies are also driven by The Company continues to track, Sweden, France and the UK.
Packaging continuous review of our manufacturing participate actively in, and pursue internal is undertaken at a large number of assets to make sure that they are being initiatives relating to, international research locations, both at AstraZeneca sites and used most effectively, whilst preserving the and policy developments associated with at contractors facilities, located close to flexibility we need to respond to fluctuations emerging environmental, health and safety our marketing companies to ensure rapid in demand.
Our facility in Karlskoga policy matters such as pharmaceuticals and responsive product supply.
Around Sweden was sold during 2004 and we in the environment, chemical control 12,400 people are employed in formulation will continue to make further adjustments regulations and global climate change.
to our manufacturing base to ensure It is possible that we could incur capital optimum utilisation of production facilities.
or operational costs in connection with Process improvements, additional capacity future voluntary activities or regulatory investments and the effective use of external The new supply system has also increased developments relating to these issues contractors ensure the secure and effective the focus on managing costs throughout including, for example, process or supply of our products.
As part of our overall the product lifecycle.
Product supply chains equipment changes associated with risk management, we carefully consider the are being modelled with a view to targeting wastewater quality, raw material timing of investment to ensure that secure cost of goods reductions through improving substitutions, green chemistry initiatives supply chains are in place for our products.
yields, undertaking process changes and or energy efficiency.
We are addressing adjusting buying patterns to reduce material these matters proactively and they are not Capital expenditure on supply and costs.
Stock levels and stock turns are also expected to have a material impact on the manufacturing facilities totalled $352 million being modelled for major products with a Companys competitive or financial position.
