AstraZeneca Annual Report and Operational Review Form 20-F Information 2004 35 Industry Regulation Our products are subject to numerous to the product licences.
In extreme cases, with similar provisions, the US Secretary regulations concerning their safety and the product licence may be revoked resulting of Health and Human Services has not yet efficacy.
In many cases, governments also in withdrawal of the product from sale.
fix their price and or restrict access to reimbursement.
The degree and scope of Manufacturing plants and processes are Europe regulation varies according to the product subject to periodic external inspection by Most governments in Europe control and countries concerned.
Regulations regulators as part of their monitoring the price and reimbursement of medicines governing prescription pharmaceuticals are procedures to ensure that manufacturers after taking into account the medical, stringent and manufacture and marketing are complying with prescribed standards financial and social impact of a product.
are normally conditional upon regulatory of operation.
This budget-based approach reflects approval.
Registration processes are increasing constraints in overall healthcare complex and time-consuming and involve Price regulation spending.
Regulation is Prescription medicines are subject require more assurance of value in their concerned not only with a products to government controls on price and expenditures on medicines.
chemical composition, but also with reimbursement which operate in most matters such as manufacturing, handling, countries in which we sell our products.
In several European countries, the pricing packaging, labelling, distribution, promotion This can result in large price differentials and reimbursement systems are being and marketing.
between markets, which may be further reviewed, with the aim of controlling and aggravated by currency fluctuations.
This is an ongoing AstraZeneca routinely participates in process that puts a downward pressure various industry associations and other US on pricing and reimbursement of bodies which, among other things, seek to Currently, there is no direct government medicines in Europe.
One example of ensure that those implementing legislation control of prices for non-government drug this is the increasing focus on, and support and regulations affecting pharmaceutical sales in the US.
Federal legislation mandates of generic versions of branded drugs, companies are fully informed as to their minimum discounts to US government as seen in a number of countries such as impact.
agencies purchasing drugs for the active France and Spain.
military, military veterans and other selected Product regulation populations.
Providing these substantial In Germany, so-called jumbo groups were Before a pharmaceutical product is discounts to the US government is also a introduced in support of a general aim to approved for marketing, it must undergo condition for the manufacturers drugs to be reduce spending on drugs, by calculating exhaustive and lengthy clinical trials.
reimbursed by state Medicaid programmes new and lower reimbursement price levels.
The process of developing a new and an additional rebate is required if These groups are formed around drug pharmaceutical product, from discovery manufacturer price increases after 1990 classes such as statins and PPIs.
In the to launch in the market, can take up to exceed the increase in inflation.
statin group, which includes branded as 12 years, but this period varies considerably well as generic products, this has led to in different cases and countries.
The time In addition, certain states have taken action significant decreases in reimbursement taken from submission of an application to require additional manufacturer rebates levels for branded drugs, as the reference for marketing approval to launch of the on Medicaid drug utilisation for the indigent price levels that determine reimbursement product is typically one to two years.
State Medicaid programmes will have dropped.
continue to be a challenge to the market in After a product has been approved and the US.
Innovative partnering opportunities Japan launched, it is a condition of the product have been established with select key states There is formal central government control licence that all aspects relating to its safety, for several years, and new opportunities of prices in Japan.
New product prices are efficacy and quality must be kept under continue to be pursued, as appropriate.
determined primarily by comparison with review.
Depending on the country, fines and However, this becomes more difficult with existing product classes.
All existing other penalties may be imposed for failure to each passing year.
products are subject to a price review adhere to the conditions of product licences.
based on the market price at least every In extreme cases, the product licence may The Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, two years.
In addition, products with be revoked resulting in withdrawal of the and Modernisation Act of 2003 was signed generic competition are forced to further product from sale.
Promotional and into law in December 2003.
The legislation reduce prices by 4-6%.
Regulations also marketing activities are also tightly controlled makes drug discount cards available include an overseas price referencing by regulations and self-regulating codes in 2004 and 2005.
These will be replaced system, under which prices can be adjusted of ethical marketing practices.
by a prescription drug benefit for Medicare according to the average price of four beneficiaries in 2006.
The Act also legalises major countries the US, the UK, Germany During the marketing of a product, strict importation of drugs from Canada if the and France.
Generally, if the US pricing procedures must be in place to monitor, US Secretary of Health and Human Services environment remains unchanged, these evaluate and report any potential adverse certifies that implementation will pose regulations are likely to have a positive reactions.
Where adverse reactions occur no additional safety risk and it will result impact on pharmaceutical prices in Japan.
or it is judged that they may occur, changes in a significant reduction in cost to the may be required to prescribing advice and American consumers.
