com Summary Directors report Corporate governance Board of Directors Board structure and processes Details of members of the Board at UK Combined Code on Corporate Board composition, responsibilities 31 December 2004 are set out on pages 18 Governance and appointments and 19.
In July 2003, the Financial Reporting Council in The Board comprises Executive and Nonthe UK issued the revised Combined Code on Executive Directors.
In the view of the Board, Board changes Corporate Governance which superseded and the majority of Board members excluding Percy Barnevik, Non-Executive Chairman, replaced the Combined Code published by the the Chairman are independent Non-Executive retired from the Board on 31 December 2004.
Hampel Committee on Corporate Governance Directors.
The differing roles of Executive in 1998.
The Board has prepared this report Directors and Non-Executive Directors are Louis Schweitzer was appointed Non-Executive with reference to the Combined Code.
clearly delineated, with both having fiduciary Chairman with effect from 1 January 2005. duties towards shareholders and all being Mr Schweitzer was first appointed to the The Company is applying all of the main and collectively responsible for the success of Board in March 2004 and was elected as a supporting principles of good governance in the Company.
However, Executive Directors Non-Executive Director for the first time by the Combined Code.
The way in which these have direct responsibility for business shareholders at the Annual General Meeting principles are being applied is described below.
operations whereas the Non-Executive AGM in April 2004.
Directors have a responsibility to bring The Company is complying with all of the independent, objective judgement to bear Also with effect from 1 January 2005, John provisions of the Combined Code except with on Board decisions.
This includes constructively Patterson was appointed as an Executive regard to the independence of all members challenging management and helping Director with responsibility for Development.
to develop the Companys strategy.
The Non-Executive Directors scrutinise the Karl von der Heyden, Non-Executive Director performance of management and have various The US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and Chairman of the Audit Committee, retired responsibilities concerning the integrity AstraZeneca PLC American Depositary Shares from the Board in April 2004, with effect from of financial information, internal controls and are traded on the New York Stock Exchange the end of the AGM.
He was succeeded in his risk management.
To help maintain a strong NYSE and the Company is subject to the role as Chairman of the Audit Committee by executive presence on the Board in addition reporting and other requirements of the US John Buchanan, Non-Executive Director.
to the Executive Directors, Board meetings Securities and Exchange Commission SEC are attended by two members of the Senior applicable to foreign issuers.
The US SarbanesDuring 2004, Michele Hooper and Joe Jimenez, Executive Team on a rotational basis.
Oxley Act came into force at the end of July 2002. both Non-Executive Directors, became As a result of its NYSE listing, the Company is members of the Audit Committee and The Board sets the Companys strategy subject to those provisions of the Act applicable Remuneration Committee respectively.
and policies and monitors progress towards to foreign issuers.
It also assesses whether In March 2004, the Board asked Sir Tom its obligations to the Companys shareholders The Company either already complies with McKillop to extend his term as Chief Executive and others are understood and met.
This or will comply with those provisions of the Act beyond his planned retirement date of March includes regular reviews of the Companys applicable to foreign issuers as and when they 2005 and he confirmed his willingness to do so.
financial performance and critical business issues.
The Board believes that, prior to the Act coming into force, the Company Election and re-election of Directors There is an established and transparent already had a sound corporate governance All of the Directors will retire under Article 65 procedure for appointments of new directors framework, good processes for the accurate of the Companys Articles of Association at the to the Board which is operated by the and timely reporting of its financial position AGM in April 2005.
The Notice of AGM will give Nomination Committee.
All of the Directors and results of operations and an effective details of those Directors presenting themselves retire at each AGM and may offer themselves and robust system of internal controls.
for election or re-election at the AGM.
The Board Consequently, the Companys approach to reviews annually the status of succession compliance with the Act has principally involved Annual General Meeting to senior positions, including those at Board the development and adjustment of its existing The Companys AGM will be held on 28 April level, and ensures it has regular contact corporate governance framework and 2005.
The principal meeting place will be in with and access to succession candidates.
associated processes concerning reporting, London.
There will be a simultaneous satellite internal controls and other relevant matters.
At its meeting in December 2004, the Board conducted its annual review and assessment of how it operates.
This was done without external facilitation and included consideration and discussion of the nature and level of its interaction with the Companys management: the quality, quantity and coverage of information which flows to the Board from management: the balance of the Boards time spent considering strategic issues compared to other matters: the content of Board meetings and presentations to Board meetings: the composition of the Board: Annual Review 2004 21 astrazeneca.
com Internal controls and management of risk the practical arrangements for the work of Purchase of own shares the Board: and the work and operation of the The Board has overall responsibility for the The Companys stated distribution policy Boards committees.
Overall, Board members Companys system of internal controls, which contains both a regular dividend cash flow concluded that the Board and its committees aims to safeguard shareholders investments and a share re-purchase component to give were operating in an effective and constructive and the Companys assets, and to ensure that the Company more flexibility in managing its manner.
proper accounting records are maintained and capital structure over time.
In August 1999, that the financial information used within the the Company announced a $2 billion share At the same meeting, the Chairman also business and for publication is accurate, reliable re-purchase programme to be completed reported to the Board on his conversations and fairly presents the financial position of the by the end of 2002.
This programme was with each Non-Executive Director about Company and the results of its business completed ahead of schedule in the second their individual performance and that of the operations.
The Board is also responsible for quarter of 2002.
In January 2002, the Board as a whole, which took place during reviewing the effectiveness of the system of Company announced an additional $2 billion the fourth quarter of 2004.
As the Chairmans internal controls.
The system is designed to re-purchase programme which was completed retirement was imminent, no formal review provide reasonable assurance of effective on schedule by the end of 2003.
In January of his performance was conducted.
operations and compliance with laws and 2004, the Board approved a further $4 billion The Non-Executive Directors reviewed the regulations, although any system of internal re-purchase programme to be completed performance of the Chief Executive and controls can only provide reasonable, not by the end of 2005. the Chief Financial Officer in their absence.
absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board keeps under continuous review its shareholders return strategy and restates its Chief Executive and the Senior The Company views the careful management intention to grow dividends in line with earnings Executive Team of risk as a key management activity.
Through while maintaining dividend cover in the two to The Chief Executive, Sir Tom McKillop, has the adoption by the Board of a Group Risk & three times range.
The Board also believes that delegated authority from, and is responsible Control Policy and supporting standards, the the share re-purchase programme is a key part to, the Board for directing and promoting the Company aims to formalise the drive to manage of shareholder return that addresses cash flow profitable operation and development of the business risks as a key element of all activities.
In the absence Company, consistent with the primary aim These business risks, which may be strategic, of strategic uses for cash, the Board expects of enhancing long term shareholder value.
operational, reputational, financial or to distribute the free cash flow generated over environmental, should be understood and the next three years through dividends and The Chief Executive is responsible to the Board visible to all managers using a simple and flexible share re-purchases.
for the management and performance of the framework.
The business context determines Companys businesses within the framework in each situation the level of acceptable risk During 2004, the Company purchased of Company policies, reserved powers and and controls and managers are challenged to 50.1 million of its own Ordinary Shares routine reporting requirements.
He is obliged recognise and assess this actively and clearly.
with a nominal value of $0.25 each for an to refer certain major matters defined in the aggregate cost of $2,212 million.
Following formal delegation of the Boards authority the purchase of these shares, they were all Code of Conduct back to the Board.
The roles of the Board, cancelled.
This number of shares represents The policy of the Company is to require all of the Boards committees, the Chairman, the 3.0% of the Companys total issued share its subsidiaries, and their employees, to observe Chief Executive and the Senior Executive capital at 31 December 2004. the highest ethical standards of integrity and Team are documented, as are the Companys honesty and to act with due skill, care, diligence delegated authorities and reserved powers, Since the beginning of the original re-purchase and fairness in the conduct of business.
the means of operation of the business and programme in 1999, the Company has The Companys management recognises that the roles of corporate functions.
purchased for cancellation in total 142.9 million such standards make a significant contribution of its own Ordinary Shares with a nominal value to the overall control environment and seeks, The Chief Executive has established and chairs of $0.25 each for an aggregate cost of $6,171 by its words and actions, to reinforce them the Senior Executive Team.
This number of shares represents 8.7% throughout the business.
In particular, all Executive retains full responsibility for the of the Companys total issued share capital at employees are required to comply with the authority delegated to him by the Board, the 31 December 2004. letter and spirit of the AstraZeneca Code of Senior Executive Team is the vehicle through Conduct and with the high ethical standards which he exercises that authority in respect The Company continues to maintain robust detailed by the Company in support of it.
of the Companys business including Salick controls in respect of all aspects of the share Health Care and Astra Tech.
re-purchase programme to ensure compliance During 2004, the Senior Executive Team with English law and the Listing Rules of the UK sponsored a review and re-structuring of the The members of the Senior Executive Team Listing Authority.
In particular, the Companys Companys full range of policies, standards are Jonathan Symonds, Chief Financial Officer: Disclosure Committee meets to ensure that and guidelines to ensure the hierarchy and John Patterson, Executive Director, the Company does not purchase its own content are clear and appropriate for ensuring Development: Bruno Angelici, Executive shares during prohibited periods.
At the AGM peoples understanding of what is expected Vice-President, Europe, Japan, Asia Pacific on 28 April 2005, the Company will seek a of them at every level in the business.
and ROW: David Brennan, Executive Vicerenewal of its current permission from Following formal Board approval early in President, North America: Jan Lundberg, shareholders to purchase its own shares.
2005, the new Group policies will be made Executive Vice-President, Discovery Research: available on a dedicated intranet site, the Martin Nicklasson, Executive Vice-President, availability and purpose of which will be widely Product Strategy & Licensing and Business communicated throughout the organisation.
Development: Barrie Thorpe, Executive VicePresident, Operations: and Tony Bloxham, Executive Vice-President, Human Resources.
