AstraZeneca Annual Report and Strategy 10 Form 20-F Information 2004 Strategy AstraZeneca aims to create enduring value Further strengthening our commercial risks associated with new innovative for society and shareholders, by discovering, skills to drive success in our key markets.
products and make future growth developing, manufacturing and marketing more robust.
differentiated medicines that make a real Enhancing our presence in important contribution to human health.
Our culture is new, emerging markets through organic Expansion of the development pipeline based on innovation, a responsible way of growth and strategic regional through continuously improved indoing business and performance.
house discovery processes, complemented by external In response to an environment that is Step-change in productivity collaborations and partnerships.
becoming even more challenging, we Commitment to vigorously improve aspire to deliver a level of productivity that productivity in pursuit of operational Pursuit of value-creating investment matches the best among our peers.
We excellence in all our activities, to be in significant targeted licensing and are committed to delivering sustained among the most efficient and effective acquisition opportunities.
financial performance, through growth and companies in our sector.
productivity, that will place AstraZeneca Corporate responsibility among the best in the industry.
Developing new business approaches Delivery of our core values through that will meet the changing needs and a responsible approach to business.
This strategy for sustainable, profitable expectations of regulators, payers, growth is supported by the following core prescribers and patients.
People business priorities, paying heed to the Delivery of optimised performance setbacks experienced in 2004: Strong pipeline and active risk and sustainable business outcomes management through: Sales growth Successful delivery to market of the Improved organisational Release of the full potential of our next wave of differentiated products effectiveness.
marketed therapies through resource currently in development.
Optimised individual and team allocation and investment in projects performance.
that will extend their use and bring Rigorous management of our portfolio Effective management and benefits to new patient populations.
of products in development, to mitigate development of talent.
Key Products Cardiovascular Gastrointestinal Oncology 1 Atacand candesartan cilexetil angiotensin II Losec Prilosec omeprazole proton pump inhibitor Arimidex anastrozole aromatase inhibitor for antagonist for hypertension for acid-related diseases breast cancer 2 Crestor rosuvastatin calcium HMG-CoA reductase Nexium esomeprazole magnesium proton pump Casodex bicalutamide anti-androgen for prostate cancer inhibitor statin for dyslipidaemia inhibitor for acid-related diseases Faslodex fulvestrant oestrogen receptor antagonist Exanta ximelagatran oral direct thrombin inhibitor for with no agonist effects for breast cancer prevention of thrombosis in association with major Iressa gefitinib signal transduction inhibitor for nonorthopaedic surgery small cell lung cancer Plendil felodipine calcium antagonist for hypertension Nolvadex tamoxifen citrate anti-oestrogen for breast and angina cancer Seloken Toprol-XL metoprolol succinate beta blocker Zoladex goserelin acetate LHRH agonist for prostate for hypertension, angina, heart failure and other uses and pre-menopausal breast cancer, certain benign 3 Zestril lisinopril dihydrate angiotensin converting gynaecological disorders and assisted reproduction enzyme inhibitor for hypertension, heart failure and diabetic nephropathy Respiratory and Inflammation Neuroscience Infection 4 Accolate zafirlukast oral leukotriene receptor Diprivan propofol intravenous general anaesthetic for Merrem Meronem meropenem ultra broad antagonist for control of asthma induction maintenance of anaesthesia and sedation of spectrum injectable antibiotic for serious bacterial intensive care patients infection Oxis formoterol inhaled fast onset long-acting bronchodilator for relief of asthma symptoms Naropin ropivacaine local anaesthetic for surgical anaesthesia and acute pain management Pulmicort budesonide inhaled anti-inflammatory for asthma control Seroquel quetiapine fumarate atypical anti-psychotic for schizophrenia and other psychotic disorders Rhinocort budesonide topical nasal anti-inflammatory for control of rhinitis Xylocaine lidocaine local anaesthetic for use in surgery and dentistry Symbicort budesonide formoterol inhaled combination of anti-inflammatory and fast onset longZomig zolmitriptan for the treatment of acute migraine acting bronchodilator in a single inhaler with or without aura 1 2 3 4 Licensed from Takeda Chemical Industries Ltd.
Licensed from Shionogi & Co. Ltd.
Licensed from Merck & Co. Inc.
Licensed from Sumitomo Pharmaceuticals Co. Ltd.
