AstraZeneca Annual Report and Operational Review Form 20-F Information 2004 33 Main Facilities Other Businesses We are making steady progress against AstraZeneca owns and operates numerous Astra Tech our targets for the reduction of waste production, marketing and R&D facilities Astra Tech is engaged in the R&D, and energy usage and the overall level worldwide.
Our corporate headquarters are manufacture and marketing of medical of accidents with injury is falling.
However, in London, UK and our R&D headquarters devices and implants for use in healthcare, sadly an employee died in an accident at are in Sdertlje, Sweden.
primarily in urology and odontology, as one of our manufacturing locations during well as in surgery and diagnostic radiology.
When any accidents occur, we Our principal R&D facilities are in the UK Astra Tech has a leading position in several use a range of investigation procedures Alderley Park and Charnwood : Sweden countries in Europe and is expanding to help us understand the causes and Lund, MIndal and Sdertlje : the US its operations in key markets, particularly avoid repetition.
Our aim for continuous Boston, Massachusetts and Wilmington, in the US.
improvement includes learning from Delaware : Canada Montreal, Quebec : incidences of non-compliance and sharing and India Bangalore.
Other R&D activity is All products showed good sales growth, best practice to further promote high carried out at Macclesfield and Avlon in the in particular the Dental Implant System, standards.
UK, Reims in France and Osaka in Japan.
which is gaining market share in several key markets.
Further investments have Further information and statistics about Out of a total of 30 manufacturing sites in been made in R&D, clinical research and our SHE performance can be found in 20 countries, our principal manufacturing new production facilities to strengthen the the separate Corporate Responsibility facilities are in the UK Avlon and product portfolio and, in the US, in sales Summary Report 2004 or on our website: Macclesfield : Sweden Snckviken and and marketing.
Gartuna, Sdertlje : the US Newark, Delaware and Westborough, Salick Health Care Massachusetts : Australia North Ryde, Salick Health Care SHC is a leading New South Wales : France Dunkirk, provider of outpatient oncology Monts and Reims : Germany Plankstadt management and consulting services.
and Wedel : Italy Caponago : Japan Ownership of SHC provides AstraZeneca Maihara and Puerto Rico Canovanas, with a unique window on the provider Guayama and Carolina.
sector of the US oncology market and access to many opinion leaders in the Bulk drug production is concentrated in field of oncology.
the UK, Sweden, France and Puerto Rico.
SHC manages full-service outpatient Substantially all of our properties are held comprehensive cancer centres in affiliation freehold, free of material encumbrances with major teaching and community and we believe such properties are hospitals in California, Florida and New York adequate for their purposes.
and is affiliated with a large network of over 160 physicians, working in specialised areas such as haematology and medical, radiation and surgical oncology.
In 2004, SHC continued to perform well in its cancer centre management business with positive profit and cash contributions.
We implemented a long term management agreement with NYU Hospitals Center with the opening of a new 85,000 square foot cancer centre in Manhattan in July 2004.
Focused on growth, SHC is actively pursuing consulting and management relationships in new markets in the US as well as exploring opportunities to bring its unique model of cancer care to the UK.
SHC also continued the development of its innovative clinical research network to improve patient care and cancer treatment.
The SHC Research Network is conducting a growing number of centrally co-ordinated phase 2 and 3 clinical trials.
