AstraZeneca Annual Report and Operational Review 30 Form 20-F Information 2004 Research and Development R&D R&D continues to focus on improving the Discovery geographic coverage of Nexium, Symbicort productivity and efficiency of new drug In Discovery our highly skilled scientists work and Atacand.
In 2004, the phase 3 discovery and development.
We are together across boundaries to exchange programmes for Cerovive and Galida simplifying our processes and continually ideas, to promote best practice and to have continued to progress as planned.
review our plans and decision-making.
maximise the opportunities that are offered Progression of the early development We have streamlined portfolio reviews and by our size and global reach.
We focus on portfolio has resulted in six projects target our strategic investment on areas finding novel medicines for targeted unmet achieving positive proof of principle directly linked to increased quality and medical needs.
This is supported by other in clinical studies during 2004. output of new products.
specialised Discovery groups in Safety Assessment, Process R&D and Global To enhance productivity during 2004, In Discovery, we aim to increase the output Science & Information who also support we continued to focus on simplifying the of high quality candidate drugs CDs the projects in their progress through processes for delivery of clinical trial data with a lower risk of failure in development.
while maintaining the flexibility of a global In Development, we aim to develop better organisation.
A new clinical organisational drugs faster.
Our core priority is to support increased structure was announced in October 2004 productivity in R&D.
This includes improving to support implementation of these new The consequences of the strong drive the quality of biological targets and chemical working practices.
We have also continued to increase productivity are becoming leads, so that we can expect reduced later to progress the operation of e-based evident in the size of the early development stage clinical product attrition.
Discoveryclinical and regulatory systems that portfolio.
During 2004, 18 CDs were Medicine the partnership between clinical significantly increase the speed of access selected 15 in 2003 and 11 in 2002. medicine and basic science is embedded to data worldwide and reduce regulatory At the end of 2004, there were 31 projects in the organisation.
There are many file preparation and submission timelines.
in the pre-clinical phase and 17, 17 and examples where this initiative has helped us In January 2005, following a year where 25 projects in clinical phases 1, 2 and 3 gain a better understanding of human there have been a number of respectively.
diseases and the suitability of future drugs disappointments, a new Executive Director to prevent and treat those diseases.
was appointed with responsibility for AstraZeneca employs around 11,900 We also continue to introduce, earlier in Development as part of an accelerated people in R&D.
We have six major joint the process, more stringent and, where significant programme of change to review discovery and development facilities in possible, high throughput testing of safety our pipeline and optimise the contribution of the UK, the US and Sweden: a further and drug metabolism pharmacokinetics, our Development and Regulatory functions.
four sites in the US, Canada, India and so that CDs chosen for development are France, which focus only on discovery, more likely to succeed.
Collaborations and a facility in Japan for development To complement our in-house R&D only.
These resources are complemented Our Global Science & Information group capabilities, over 250 new collaborations by clinical development at 43 sites around supports all research areas with skills in have been entered into in 2004 with leading the world.
In 2004, our R&D investment compound management, structural chemistry, academic centres and biotechnology totalled $3.8 billion.
bio-imaging, transgenics, protein science companies, bringing the total number of and information science and informatics.
active R&D collaborations and agreements R&D remains an integrated, project-driven to more than 1,700. organisation.
Our approach is therapy areaWe continue to invest in R&D facilities.
led with scientific, medical, technical and New or upgraded laboratory facilities were We entered into a strategic alliance with ethical input and control being provided opened in 2004 in Sweden, the UK and the Cambridge Antibody Technology CAT with by large, multi-skilled Discovery and US.
Ongoing training and development of the aim of discovering and developing human Development organisations.
This offers a our highly skilled employees continue.
antibody therapeutics in inflammatory number of advantages including sharing disorders.
The five year collaboration of best practice in terms of science and Development includes a minimum of 25 programmes technology and efficient use of resources People in our Development organisation to be initiated in the discovery phase and across a multi-site, global organisation.
specialise in clinical research, regulatory following the completion of the phase, CAT affairs and pharmaceutical development.
and AstraZeneca may each elect to continue Global knowledge expertise is recognised They work globally in therapy area-led funding programmes into development.
as a key competitive advantage for product teams that bring together all the AstraZeneca.
An R&D information and relevant functional skills and experience Other examples of external collaborations knowledge management initiative has needed for the robust, rapid progress of include those with Abgenix Inc. Sumitomo introduced a knowledge sharing system, new medicines and the management of Pharmaceuticals Co. Ltd. NeoGenesis initially directed towards supporting our development risks.
Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Cytokinetics, Inc. global R&D staff and their internal partners.
Array Biopharma Inc. Astex Our focus in 2004 was to progress Technology Ltd, BG Medicine Beyond We remain focused on meeting our regulatory filings for Exanta, to support the Genomics Inc., Dyax Corp. Shanghai objectives of delivering new, medically continued launches of Crestor and Iressa, Jiaotong University, Procardis, Griffith important and commercially successful and to make regulatory submissions for University, the University of Dundee and products to the market every year.
new uses that broaden the claims or Institut Curie.
