AstraZeneca Annual Report and Operational Review 36 Form 20-F Information 2004 Intellectual Property Product regulation: Astra Tech During 2004, AstraZeneca invested $3.8 Product registration and certified quality billion in R&D activities.
Obtaining adequate management systems form the basis of the protection for the intellectual property regulatory environment relating to medical associated with these activities continues devices.
In Europe, compliance with to be a key business imperative.
The range regulatory requirements involves the of protection includes patents, trade marks, implementation and maintenance of a design registrations, copyrights and internet quality management system and, for certain domain name registrations.
Medical devices in the US are regulated through a Our policy is to apply for patent and or other product registration requirement.
Astra appropriate intellectual property protection Tech continues to maintain a European and for all of the inventions and innovations US compliant quality management system.
of significant commercial value, which arise from our drug discovery, development, Product regulation: Salick Health Care manufacturing, marketing and other SHC business activities.
It is also our policy to The healthcare facilities to which SHC apply for intellectual property protection for provides administrative and management all inventions and innovations being created services on behalf of certain hospitals are as a result of the investments in R&D subject to extensive US federal, state and throughout the AstraZeneca organisation.
local legislation and regulations, such as those relating to the reimbursement and This policy is designed to provide each of control of healthcare costs.
The largest our new products with an effective portfolio single component of SHC revenue of valid, enforceable patent and other continues to be fees that are affected by intellectual property rights in all significant the reimbursement rates for healthcare markets to protect against unauthorised services, which are set or regulated by competition during commercialisation.
This shield of intellectual property rights extends to those areas of target identification, genomics and other research technologies in which we invest significant resources.
The adequacy of the patent, design, trade mark and domain name portfolio for individual products is kept under review during product development, clinical evaluation and marketing so that, wherever possible, additional protection may be sought for new applications and other developments.
The therapy area focus of our R&D operating model allows appropriate intellectual property strategies to be formulated and regularly updated from an early stage in product development.
We vigorously defend our intellectual property rights, including taking appropriate infringement action in various courts throughout the world.
