com Remuneration policy Throughout 2004, the principal components Overall remuneration policy and purpose Short term bonus: The Company is committed to maintaining a contained in the total remuneration package, dynamic performance culture in which every for employees as a whole, were: The Chief Executive was eligible for employee champions the growth of shareholder an annual bonus related solely to the value, is clear about the Companys objectives, Annual salary based on conditions in achievement of the targeted knows how their work impacts on those the relevant geographic market, with the performance of earnings per share.
objectives and that they will benefit from provision to recognise, in addition, the The bonus payable was on a scale of achieving high levels of performance.
value of individuals sustained personal 0-100% of salary and 50% of salary performance, resulting from their ability was payable for the achievement of The Board has confirmed that the Companys and experience.
This was derived overall remuneration policy and purpose is: Annual bonus a lump sum payment from the financial targets set by the related to the targeted achievement of Board and took into account external To attract and retain people of the quality corporate, functional and individual goals, expectations of performance.
The necessary to sustain the Company as one measured over a year and contained within bonus was not pensionable.
In the of the best pharmaceutical companies in a specific plan.
The corporate goals are light of the disappointing setbacks the world.
derived from the annual financial targets with Exanta and Iressa in 2004, the To motivate them to achieve the level of set by the Board and take into account Remuneration Committee and performance necessary to create sustained external expectations of performance.
Sir Tom McKillop agreed a reduction growth in shareholder value.
The functional goals are agreed by the in his bonus.
It was agreed that his Remuneration Committee at the start of, bonus for 2004 should be reduced In order to achieve this, remuneration policy and are monitored throughout, the year.
to a sum equivalent to 50% of the and practice is designed: Longer term incentive for selected groups, bonus he received in respect of 2003. a longer term incentive targeted at the This amounts to 430,000 $782,000.
To closely align individual and team reward achievement of strategic objectives with The Remuneration Committee was with business performance at each level.
close alignment to the interests of also mindful in setting the bonus for To encourage employees to perform to shareholders.
2004 that all employees, including their fullest capacity.
Pension arrangements which are Sir Tom McKillop, who had an interest To encourage employees to align their appropriate to the relevant national market.
in shares throughout 2004, had seen interests with those of shareholders.
Other benefits such as holidays and the value of their shares fall significantly To support managers responsibility to sickness benefit which are cost-effective during the year, in common with other achieve business performance through and compatible with the relevant national shareholders.
people and for them to recognise superior welfare arrangements.
performance, in the short and longer term.
Share participation various plans provide The Chief Financial Officer was eligible To be as locally focused and flexible as is the opportunity for employees to take a for an annual bonus related to the practicable and beneficial.
personal stake in the Companys wealth achievement of both the targeted To be competitive and cost-effective in creation as shareholders.
performance of earnings per share each of the relevant employment markets.
and the achievement of performance To be as internally consistent as is The way in which these elements are combined measures relevant to his particular practicable and beneficial taking due and applied varies depending, for example, on area of responsibility.
The bonus account of market need.
market need and practice in various countries.
payable was on a scale of 0-100% of salary and 50% of salary was payable The cost and value of the components of the In 2004, for each Executive Director, the for the achievement of target business remuneration package are considered as a individual components were: performance.
80% of the bonus related whole and are designed: to the achievement of the earnings Annual salary the actual salary for each per share target and 20% to the other To ensure a proper balance of fixed and of the Executive Directors is determined performance measures.
The bonus variable performance-related components, by the Remuneration Committee on behalf was not pensionable.
linked to short and longer term objectives.
of the Board and established in sterling.
To reflect market competitiveness taking These salaries reflect the experience and Longer term incentive Executive Directors account of the total value of all of the benefit sustained performance of the individuals are also rewarded for improvement in the components.
to whom they apply, as judged annually share price performance of the Company by the Remuneration Committee, taking over a period of years by the grant of share account also of market competitiveness options.
The grant of options under the and the level of increases applicable to all AstraZeneca Share Option Plan is determined other employees.
by the Remuneration Committee, as are the performance targets that will apply and whether they will apply to the grant and or exercise of options.
com capped UK Executive Directors.
Pension arrangements: In the review, the Remuneration Committee If this does not provide equivalence, confirmed that the reward package of Executive UK Executive Directors pension the Company has agreed to make Directors should be primarily benchmarked arrangements the Chief Executive up the difference.
The Company against major UK based companies with global is a member of the Companys main contribution in 2004 in respect of operations similar to those of AstraZeneca, as UK defined benefit pension plan.
The the pension element was 124,000 opposed to alignment with the global industry normal pension age under this plan $225,000.
However, in appropriately balancing is 62.
However, a members accrued the total package towards the delivery of award pension is available from age 60 without Other customary benefits such as a car and for demonstrable performance, bonuses any actuarial reduction.
In addition health benefits are also made available through and incentives should provide for upper quartile the accrued pension is available, participation in the Companys flexible benefits opportunity for upper quartile performance.
unreduced, from age 57 if the arrangements, which extend to the vast majority Company consents to a request for of the Companys UK and Swedish employees.
During 2004, the Remuneration Committee early retirement and from age 50 if the sought the views of major shareholders.
As retirement is at the Companys request.
Review of executive remuneration it is five years since the last major review, In 2000, the Company volunteered a the Committee identified that the competitive On death in retirement, the accrued commitment that a review of practice would market place in major UK companies had pension is guaranteed payable for the take place in five years, taking account of the developed and shareholder expectations had first five years of retirement and then view of the Companys shareholders and the also changed.
The Remuneration Committee reduces to two-thirds of this amount needs of the business at that time.
This review has taken the views of shareholders into should there be a surviving spouse took place during 2004. account in formulating proposals which focus or other dependant.
Any member upon performance-related pay and may choose higher or lower levels The Remuneration Committee reviewed strengthened the links to measures which are of survivors pensions at retirement, its basic philosophy and confirmed that aligned to the creation of shareholder value.
subject to Inland Revenue limits, in in seeking to achieve sustained growth These proposals, primarily for the Senior return for an adjustment to their own in shareholder value it would demand Executive Team, are closely aligned to current pension of equivalent actuarial value.
the highest level of performance from all best practice and include: Pensions are also payable to dependant employees with the Company conducting children.
In the event of a senior itself in a fair and moderate way, maintaining An increase in the annual bonus opportunity employee becoming incapacitated, the highest standards of social responsibility linked to a broader assessment of then a pension is payable immediately and corporate governance.
In order to achieve performance together with a requirement as if such person had reached normal this, it must attract and retain Executive for the Senior Executive Team to defer retirement age subject to a maximum Directors and other senior executives of a portion of their bonus earned into shares of 10 years additional service, based the highest quality, competing for them in for a period of three years.
As a result of on current pensionable salary.
In the the global employment market and providing the most recent consultation, the basis event of death prior to retirement, appropriate rewards directly linked to top of determining the annual bonus for the dependants are entitled to a pension performance.
Senior Executive Team will be changed.
of two-thirds of the pension that would In the past, the whole of the bonus of the have been earned had such person In the last five years, the Company has Chief Executive and 80% of those of the remained in service to age 62 plus a honoured its promise regarding shareholder others was determined by reference to capital sum of four times pensionable dilution.
Grants of options under the earnings per share.
Pensions in payment are increased AstraZeneca Share Option Plan worldwide determined by earnings per share, 25% annually in line with inflation, as have amounted to 2.71% plus 0.45% under by measures relating to the individuals measured by the UK Retail Prices the old Zeneca 1994 Executive Share Option particular area of responsibility and 25% Index, up to a maximum of 5%.
Dilution under other share plans has by a balance of qualitative and quantitative been 0.36%.
measures which address the quality of In respect of UK Executive Directors business performance.
The Remuneration whose pensionable earnings are During this time, the Company has intensified its Committee would reserve the right to capped by the earnings limit imposed action to align reward directly with performance.
modify the bonus outcome if it believed it by the Finance Act 1989, unapproved For example, the business performance report did not reflect the underlying performance defined contribution schemes are has been developed.
This contains the short of the business.
Currently, only the and long term strategic objectives agreed Chief Financial Officer is affected by annually with the Board and cascaded down The introduction of performance conditions this limit.
The Company has agreed throughout the Company: these are monitored on exercise of options granted under the to pay annually 50% of base salary quarterly and determine both short term bonus AstraZeneca Share Option Plan with no in excess of the statutory earnings cap and long term awards.
In addition, the reward of re-test facility, in order to bring our policy for the pension and associated tax employees at all levels has become increasingly in line with best practice.
liability, with the intention of providing differentiated based on their individual equivalence of benefits with nonperformance.
