com Product strategy & licensing A key aspect of our commitment Our ability to deliver the to top quality customer service commercial potential of our is our aim to provide fast, flexible strong range of branded and reliable supply of all the products in increasingly products in our range.
challenging markets is core Barrie Thorpe, to our continued success.
Executive Vice-President, Martin Nicklasson, Executive Operations Vice-President, Product Strategy & Licensing and Business Development Ensuring the quality, safety and efficacy We operate in an increasingly competitive In common with other leading of our medicines is a core priority.
Reports environment that presents both opportunities pharmaceutical companies, we also from internal routine inspections, as well and challenges.
The pharmaceutical look to strengthen our portfolio with as those by regulatory authorities, are industry continues to grow, driven by attractive products or technologies rigorously reviewed and, if required, increasing populations and improved from external sources and we actions taken to further enhance life expectancy.
In addition, there are still continuously monitor the opportunities compliance.
The results of all external major areas of unmet medical need, since for licensing partnerships.
inspections carried out during 2004 were many diseases do not have effective satisfactory, and we did not experience therapies, are unsatisfactorily treated e-business any delays in product approvals due to or are under diagnosed.
Advances in Our e-business activities focus on regulatory compliance issues at our sites science and technology are also growth strengthening our relationships with our or those of our contractors.
The factors that limit growth include stakeholders and improving our speed increasing pressure to contain costs from and efficiency.
We continue to introduce Safety, health and environment SHE governments and other groups who pay internet-enabled programmes that simplify operating standards are increasingly for healthcare.
We focus on effectively and improve processes, including clinical stringent with regulators placing particular managing the challenges and maximising development and supply chain systems.
emphasis on environmental issues and the opportunities to ensure sustainable To boost our marketing effectiveness, the safety of chemicals.
Our manufacturing success through the continued development we integrate e-marketing into our sites operate under various licensing of new, innovative and cost-effective commercial activities worldwide and we regimes and we are committed to medicines that meet patient needs and have a broad range of internet-based meeting all regulatory requirements as add value for society.
physician resources in key therapy areas.
There are currently no environmental issues that constrain Our product strategy and licensing Partnering with patients AstraZeneca from making full use of organisation, working closely with our As part of our commitment to exploring its sites.
R&D community and our major marketing all the ways in which we can bring benefit companies, leads the commercial aspects to patients, we are expanding our thinking We are making good progress in the of drug development and co-ordinates beyond medicines to include a focus reduction of waste and energy use and global market strategy.
This includes on ways in which we can help them get the level of accidents with injury is falling, selecting the right products and projects access to the information and services although, sadly, there was a fatal accident for investment, developing effective they need.
This includes IT collaborations at one of our manufacturing locations marketing platforms for new product that will aim to deliver innovative channels during the year.
When any accidents launches and directing the creation for providing patients with information occur, we use a range of investigation and delivery of marketing strategies about their treatment and or their procedures to help us understand the that successfully align global and disease.
Through closer partnership causes and avoid repetition.
We also work national plans.
with patients, we aim to build our closely with our suppliers to encourage understanding of their needs and how standards similar to our own.
More Our rigorous lifecycle management of we can best respond to them.
information about our SHE performance key marketed brands aims to ensure that can be found in the separate Corporate we maximise the commercial potential Responsibility Summary Report 2004 as well as the benefit that new uses for or on our website.
our medicines bring to patients lives.
