AstraZeneca Annual Report and Directors Report 52 Form 20-F Information 2004 Directors Report AstraZeneca PLC is the holding company of the Audit Committee by John Buchanan, regard to the independence of all members for a group of subsidiaries whose principal Non-Executive Director.
of the Audit Committee, as explained below activities are described in the Operational in relation to Marcus Wallenberg.
and Financial Reviews on pages 11 to 51, During 2004, Michele Hooper and Joe which are incorporated in this report by Jimenez, both Non-Executive Directors, The US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 reference.
Principal subsidiaries and their became members of the Audit Committee AstraZeneca PLC American Depositary locations are given on page 124. and Remuneration Committee, respectively.
Shares are traded on the New York Stock Exchange NYSE and the Company is The Companys dividend for 2004 of $0.94 In March 2004, the Board asked Sir Tom subject to the reporting and other 50.3 pence, SEK 6.697 per Ordinary Share McKillop to extend his term as Chief requirements of the US Securities and amounts to a total dividend payment to Executive beyond his planned retirement Exchange Commission SEC applicable shareholders of $1,555 million.
date of March 2005 and he confirmed his to foreign issuers.
The US Sarbanes-Oxley willingness to do so.
Act came into force at the end of July 2002.
In view of the Companys resources, results As a result of its NYSE listing, the Company of operations and overall financial condition, Election and re-election of is subject to those provisions of the Act the Directors continue to adopt the going Directors applicable to foreign issuers.
concern basis in preparing the Financial All of the Directors will retire under Article 65 Statements.
of the Companys Articles of Association at The Company either already complies with the AGM in April 2005.
The Notice of AGM or will comply with those provisions of the Changes in the Companys Ordinary Share will give details of those Directors Act applicable to foreign issuers as and capital during 2004, including details of presenting themselves for election or when they become effective.
The Board the allotment of new shares under the re-election at the AGM.
believes that, prior to the Act coming into Companys share plans, are given in force, the Company already had a sound Note 29 to the Financial Statements.
Mandatory shareholding for corporate governance framework, good Directors processes for the accurate and timely Board of Directors The Companys Articles of Association reporting of its financial position and results Details of members of the Board at require each Director to be the beneficial of operations and an effective and robust 31 December 2004 are set out on pages 8 owner of Ordinary Shares in the Company system of internal controls.
Consequently, and 9. with an aggregate nominal value of the Companys approach to compliance $125 500 shares.
Such holding must with the Act has principally involved the The Board held six scheduled meetings be obtained within two months of the date development and adjustment of its existing during 2004.
Four of the Board meetings of the Directors appointment.
At 31 corporate governance framework and were held in London, UK.
One meeting was December 2004, all of the Directors associated processes concerning reporting, held in the US and one in Sweden.
Each complied with this requirement and full internal controls and other relevant matters.
meeting was attended by all of its members details of each Directors interests in shares except that John Buchanan was unable to of the Company are set out in the Directors The principal area of work relevant to attend the October meeting, Joe Jimenez Remuneration Report on pages 60 to 68. the Act undertaken in the last 12 months was unable to attend the December was continuing preparations to enable meeting and Louis Schweitzer was unable Annual General Meeting the Company to comply in due course to attend either of those meetings due to The Companys AGM will be held on 28 with the SEC rules which implement section other commitments.
The Board is currently April 2005.
The principal meeting place will 404 of the Act.
These provisions become scheduled to meet six times in 2005. be in London.
There will be a simultaneous effective for the Company in 2005. satellite meeting in Stockholm.
Following the implementation of this section Board changes of the Act, the management of companies Percy Barnevik, Non-Executive Chairman, Corporate governance will be required to state its responsibility retired from the Board on 31 December 2004.
UK Combined Code on Corporate for establishing and maintaining an Governance adequate internal control structure and Louis Schweitzer was appointed NonIn July 2003, the Financial Reporting procedures for financial reporting and Executive Chairman with effect from 1 Council in the UK issued the revised annually assess the effectiveness of that January 2005.
Mr Schweitzer was first Combined Code on Corporate Governance structure and those procedures.
The appointed to the Board in March 2004 and which superseded and replaced the external auditor will be required to attest to was elected as a Non-Executive Director for Combined Code published by the Hampel and report on managements assessment.
the first time by shareholders at the Annual Committee on Corporate Governance in More information about the section 404 General Meeting AGM in April 2004.
The Board has prepared this report work carried out during 2004 is set out with reference to the Combined Code.
in the Financial Review on page 48.
Also with effect from 1 January 2005, John Patterson was appointed as an Executive The Company is applying all of the main The New York Stock Exchange Director with responsibility for Development.
and supporting principles of good The Company, as a foreign issuer with governance in the Combined Code.
American Depositary Shares listed on Karl von der Heyden, Non-Executive The way in which these principles are the NYSE, is generally obliged to disclose Director and Chairman of the Audit being applied is described below.
any significant ways in which its corporate Committee, retired from the Board in April governance practices differ from the 2004, with effect from the end of the AGM.
The Company is complying with all of the NYSEs corporate governance listing He was succeeded in his role as Chairman provisions of the Combined Code except with standards.
The exception to this is that AstraZeneca Annual Report and Directors Report Form 20-F Information 2004 53 the Company must comply fully with the Recognising the importance to shareholders reviews annually the status of succession provisions of the listing standards which and the investment community of news to senior positions, including those at Board relate to the composition, responsibilities about certain of the Companys key level, and ensures it has regular contact with, and operation of audit committees.
These development and marketed products, and access to, succession candidates.
provisions incorporate the rules concerning much of the Disclosure Committees work audit committees implemented by the SEC in 2004 focused on ensuring that accurate, At its meeting in December 2004, the under the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. complete and timely disclosures were made Board conducted its annual review and concerning Exanta, Crestor and Iressa.
assessment of how it operates.
This was The Company has reviewed the NYSEs Throughout 2004, as well as frequent ad done without external facilitation and corporate governance listing standards.
hoc meetings to review specific disclosure included consideration and discussion of Its corporate governance practices are issues, the Disclosure Committee met the nature and level of its interaction with generally consistent with those standards.
monthly to review a rolling schedule of key the Companys management: the quality, However, while the Companys Nonnews concerning the Company and its quantity and coverage of information which Executive Directors do meet without the products.
The schedule was subsequently flows to the Board from management: the Executive Directors present, these meetings reviewed on a monthly basis by the Senior balance of the Boards time spent have not been specifically pre-scheduled.
considering strategic issues compared to other matters: the content of Board The Companys Audit Committee complies Board structure and processes meetings and presentations to Board with the provisions of the listing standards Board composition, responsibilities meetings: the composition of the Board: which relate to the composition, and appointments the practical arrangements for the work responsibilities and operation of audit The Board comprises Executive and of the Board: and the work and operation committees.
In the view of of the Boards committees.
Overall, Board Executive Director and a member of the the Board, the majority of Board members members concluded that the Board and its Audit Committee, although not independent excluding the Chairman are independent committees were operating in an effective under the UK Combined Code, is Non-Executive Directors.
The differing roles and constructive manner.
independent under the criteria of the of Executive Directors and Non-Executive NYSEs listing standards concerning the Directors are clearly delineated, with both At the same meeting, the Chairman also composition of audit committees.
More having fiduciary duties towards reported to the Board on his conversations detailed information about the Audit shareholders and all being collectively with each Non-Executive Director about Committee and its work during 2004 are responsible for the success of the their individual performance and that of the set out in the Audit Committees Report Company.
However, Executive Directors Board as a whole, which took place during on pages 58 to 59. have direct responsibility for business the fourth quarter of 2004.
As the Chairmans operations, whereas the Non-Executive retirement was imminent, no formal review Disclosure Policy and Disclosure Directors have a responsibility to bring of his performance was conducted.
Committee independent, objective judgement to The Non-Executive Directors reviewed the In January 2004, the Board approved a bear on Board decisions.
This includes performance of the Chief Executive and revised version of the Companys Disclosure constructively challenging management the Chief Financial Officer in their absence.
Policy, which provides a framework for the and helping to develop the Companys handling and disclosure of price sensitive strategy.
The Non-Executive Directors In April 2004, a number of the and other information and defines the role scrutinise the performance of management Non-Executive Directors including the of the Disclosure Committee.
The Chief and have various responsibilities Chairman, the senior Non-Executive Financial Officer, the Group Secretary and concerning the integrity of financial Director and Louis Schweitzer attended Solicitor and the Vice-President, Corporate information, internal controls and risk a seminar organised by the Company Affairs were the members of the Disclosure management.
To help maintain a strong covering the roles and responsibilities Committee during 2004.
With effect from 1 executive presence on the Board in addition of directors of UK listed companies.
January 2005, John Patterson, Executive to the Executive Directors, Board meetings Director, Development, became a member are attended by two members of the Senior The Company maintained directors of the Disclosure Committee.
The Disclosure Executive Team on a rotational basis.
and officers liability insurance cover Committee meets regularly to assist and throughout 2004. inform the decisions of the Chief Executive The Board sets the Companys strategy concerning price sensitive information and policies and monitors progress towards Independence of Directors under and its disclosure.
Periodically, it reviews meeting its objectives.
It also assesses the UK Combined Code the Companys disclosure controls and whether its obligations to the Companys During 2004, the Board considered the procedures and the operation of the shareholders and others are understood independence of each Non-Executive Disclosure Committee as part of work and met.
This includes regular reviews of Director.
With the exception of two of carried out to enable management and the the Companys financial performance and them as set out below and the Chairman, Board to assure themselves that appropriate critical business issues.
the Board considers that all of the processes are operating for the Companys Non-Executive Directors are independent planned disclosures, such as its quarterly There is an established and transparent in character and judgement and that there results announcements and scheduled procedure for appointments of new directors are no relationships or circumstances investor relations events.
In addition, the to the Board which is operated by the which are likely to affect their independent Disclosure Committee reviews the process Nomination Committee.
All of the Directors judgement.
The Board also considers that for preparing and drafts of the Companys retire at each AGM and may offer themselves Louis Schweitzer, who was appointed Annual Report and Form 20-F Information.
The Board Non-Executive Chairman with effect from AstraZeneca Annual Report and Directors Report 54 Form 20-F Information 2004 Directors Report continued 1 January 2005, was independent on Wallenberg Foundation, a charitable President, North America: Jan Lundberg, appointment.
foundation in Sweden that supports Executive Vice-President, Discovery scientific research and educational Research: Martin Nicklasson, Executive For the reasons explained below, the Board programmes by awarding financial grants Vice-President, Product Strategy & does not believe that Hkan Mogren, Nonto individuals or institutions.
Although one Licensing and Business Development: Executive Deputy Chairman, or Marcus of the Foundations principal investments is Barrie Thorpe, Executive Vice-President, Wallenberg can be determined independent in Investor AB, all investment decisions of Operations: and Tony Bloxham, Executive under the revised Combined Code.
However, the Foundation are made by its investment Vice-President, Human Resources.
the Board believes that both Dr Mogren and committee, of which Professor Mller is Mr Wallenberg bring considerable business not a member.
Her role, as Chief Executive The Senior Executive Team normally meets experience and make valuable contributions Officer of the Board, is principally to lead once a month to consider and decide to the work of the Board and, in Mr the scrutiny of applications for grants all major business issues.
It also usually Wallenbergs case, the Audit Committee.
and maintain close contacts with scientific reviews those matters that are of a size and educational institutions in Sweden or importance to require the attention of, Dr Mogren was previously the Chief to develop the work of the Foundation.
or that are reserved to, the Board before Executive Officer of Astra AB and Executive such matters are submitted to the Board Deputy Chairman of the Company.
Both Jane Henney is a Non-Executive Director for review and decision.
Dr Mogren and Mr Wallenberg are members of AmerisourceBergen Corporation and of the Board of Directors of Investor AB, CIGNA Corporation, both of which are Each business function is subject to an a company which, at 31 December 2004, customers of the Company in the US.
annual budget and target-setting process, held approximately 4% of the Ordinary The Board considered these relationships including forecasts for the following two Shares of the Company.
This holding and concluded that they did not years together with a sensitivity and risk represents a significant proportion of compromise her independence.
analysis, quarterly updates of the forecast Investor ABs overall investment portfolio.
for the current year and regular reporting.
Additionally, Mr Wallenberg is the Chief Chief Executive and the Senior Performance reviews are undertaken in Executive Officer of Investor AB.
Executive Team each part of the business regularly.
The The Chief Executive, Sir Tom McKillop, has Companys quarterly business performance The Board also considered, in particular, delegated authority from, and is responsible management system uses a broad range the positions of Sir Peter Bonfield, senior to, the Board for directing and promoting the of measures that link directly to the Non-Executive Director, Erna Mller and profitable operation and development of the achievement of key business priorities.
For the reasons explained Company, consistent with the primary aim Treasury operations are centralised, operate below, it is the Boards view that they are of enhancing long term shareholder value.
within defined limits and are subject to independent.
They discharge their duties regular reporting requirements and Audit in a properly independent manner and The Chief Executive is responsible to the Committee reviews.
constructively and appropriately challenge Board for the management and performance the Executive Directors and the Board.
of the Companys businesses within the Internal controls and framework of Company policies, reserved management of risk Sir Peter is a Non-Executive Director of powers and routine reporting requirements.
The Board has overall responsibility for Telefonaktiebolaget LM Ericsson.
Marcus He is obliged to refer certain major matters the Companys system of internal controls, Wallenberg is also a Non-Executive Director defined in the formal delegation of the which aims to safeguard shareholders of Ericsson.
Investor AB, of which Mr Boards authority back to the Board.
The investments and the Companys assets, Wallenberg is Chief Executive Officer, holds roles of the Board, the Boards committees, and to ensure that proper accounting approximately 5% of Ericssons shares the Chairman, the Chief Executive and the records are maintained and that the representing approximately 19% of the Senior Executive Team are documented, financial information used within the voting rights.
The Board is satisfied that as are the Companys delegated authorities business and for publication is accurate, Sir Peters presence on the Ericsson Board and reserved powers, the means of reliable and fairly presents the financial results from his broad experience of the operation of the business and the roles position of the Company and the results of global telecommunications industry and not of corporate functions.
The Board is also from any connection with Investor AB or the responsible for reviewing the effectiveness Wallenberg family.
The Board also had The Chief Executive has established and of the system of internal controls.
The regard to the length of time which Sir Peter chairs the Senior Executive Team.
While the system is designed to provide reasonable has served as a Non-Executive Director of Chief Executive retains full responsibility for assurance of effective operations and the Company he was first appointed in 1995. the authority delegated to him by the Board, compliance with laws and regulations, the Senior Executive Team is the vehicle although any system of internal controls As the position was only established through which he exercises that authority can only provide reasonable, not absolute, in 2002, the Board wishes Sir Peter to in respect of the Companys business assurance against material misstatement continue in his current role as the senior including Salick Health Care and Astra Tech.
Non-Executive Director of the Company for one or two years more to provide The members of the Senior Executive Team Since the publication in September 1999 further continuity, subject to his re-election are Jonathan Symonds, Chief Financial by the Institute of Chartered Accountants in at Annual General Meetings.
Officer: John Patterson, Executive Director, England and Wales of the Turnbull Report, Development: Bruno Angelici, Executive Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on Professor Mller is the Chief Executive Vice-President, Europe, Japan, Asia Pacific the Combined Code, the Directors have Officer of the Board of the Knut and Alice and ROW: David Brennan, Executive Vicecontinued to review the effectiveness of the AstraZeneca Annual Report and Directors Report Form 20-F Information 2004 55 Groups system of controls, including representatives from each business accounting officers.
The Finance Code of operational and compliance controls, risk function.
Its role continues to be advisory Conduct also applies to all Finance function management and the Companys high level and is to assist senior management to employees and reinforces the importance internal control arrangements.
These identify and assess the main risks faced by of the integrity of the Companys accounts, reviews have included an assessment of the Companys business in a co-ordinated the reliability of the accounting records on internal controls, and in particular internal manner: to assess and document the which they are based and the robustness financial controls, by the internal audit Companys risk profile: and to ensure that of the relevant controls and processes.
function, management assurance of the the business focuses on critical business maintenance of control and reports from issues.
It is chaired by the Chief Financial During 2004, the Senior Executive Team the external auditor on matters identified Officer and reports twice a year to the sponsored a review and re-structuring of the in the course of its statutory audit work.
The Risk Advisory Companys full range of policies, standards Groups reports on the Companys risk and guidelines to ensure the hierarchy and A key part of these reviews is an annual profile are reviewed by both the Audit content are clear and appropriate for letter of assurance process by which Committee and the Board.
ensuring peoples understanding of what responsible managers confirm the is expected of them at every level in the adequacy of their systems of internal The Companys policy remains to embed business.
Following formal Board approval financial and non-financial controls, their an integrated risk management framework early in 2005, the new Group policies will be compliance with Company policies with the aim of continuing to ensure that made available on a dedicated intranet site, including those relating to safety, health the business understands the key risks the availability and purpose of which will be and the environment and local laws it faces.
The focus of the Risk Advisory widely communicated throughout the and regulations including the industrys Group is, in particular, on cross-functional organisation.
regulatory requirements, and confirm they risks, linking risk management to business have reported any control weaknesses performance reporting and seeking Group Internal Audit identified in the past year.
During 2004, continuous improvement in the management Group Internal Audit GIA is an independent the Company introduced continuous of risk by sharing best practice throughout appraisal function that derives its authority assurance processes which operate the organisation.
from the Board through the Audit throughout the year and are intended to Committee.
Its primary role is to provide keep senior management informed, on a Code of Conduct reasonable and objective assurance about rolling basis, of the state of internal controls, The policy of the Company is to require the adequacy and effectiveness of the any particular issues which have developed all of its subsidiaries, and their employees, Companys financial control framework, and the progress of any remediation work.
to observe the highest ethical standards compliance with laws, regulations and While the annual letter of assurance of integrity and honesty and to act with policies and risk management processes.
process has been retained, the year-round due skill, care, diligence and fairness in continuous assurance processes are the conduct of business.
The Companys GIA seeks to discharge the responsibilities intended to make the annual letter of management recognises that such set down in its charter by reviewing the assurance process more efficient and standards make a significant contribution to processes which ensure that business to improve senior managements visibility the overall control environment and seeks, risks are effectively managed: reviewing of the operation of internal controls.
by its words and actions, to reinforce them the financial and operational controls that throughout the business.
In particular, all help to ensure that the Companys assets The Directors believe that the Company employees are required to comply with the are properly safeguarded from losses, maintains an effective, embedded system letter and spirit of the AstraZeneca Code of including fraud: reviewing the controls that of internal controls and complies with the Conduct and with the high ethical standards help to ensure the reliability and integrity Turnbull Report guidance.
detailed by the Company in support of it.
of management information systems: reviewing the processes that ensure The Company views the careful The AstraZeneca Code of Conduct is set compliance with policies and procedures management of risk as a key management out in full on pages 158 and 159.
It is an and external legislation and regulation activity.
Through the adoption by the Board important demonstration of the Companys other than those relating to safety, health of a Group Risk & Control Policy and uncompromising commitment to honesty and the environment and product regulatory supporting standards, the Company aims and integrity.
The Company maintains compliance, which are the responsibility to formalise the drive to manage business procedures for raising integrity concerns, of other audit functions : and, on an ad hoc risks as a key element of all activities.
which include a confidential helpline for basis, reviewing whether value for money These business risks, which may be employees worldwide.
strategic, operational, reputational, financial confidential helpline was used by employees or environmental, should be understood to seek guidance on corporate responsibility GIA also acts as a source of constructive and visible to all managers using a simple issues or to raise concerns, all of which were advice and best practice, assisting senior and flexible framework.
The business fully reviewed and a report sent to the Audit management with its responsibility to context determines in each situation the Committee.
To date, no material issues improve the processes by which risks are level of acceptable risk and controls, and have been identified through this route.
identified and managed and to report and managers are challenged to recognise advise on the proper and effective use of and assess this actively and clearly.
The Company also has a Finance Code resources.
of Conduct which complements the main Much of the Companys work in the area AstraZeneca Code of Conduct and applies External auditor of risk management is facilitated by the to the Chief Executive, the Chief Financial A resolution will be proposed at the AGM Risk Advisory Group, consisting of Officer and the Companys principal on 28 April 2005 for the re-appointment of AstraZeneca Annual Report and Directors Report 56 Form 20-F Information 2004 Directors Report continued KPMG Audit Plc, London as auditor of became Chairman of the Nomination The Company has frequent discussions the Company.
Committee in Percy Barneviks stead.
with institutional shareholders on a range All of the current members of the Nomination of issues affecting its performance.
The external auditor has undertaken various Committee are Non-Executive Directors.
With These include meetings following the pieces of non-audit work for the Company the exception of the Chairman and Dr Mogren announcement of the annual results during 2004.
More information about this for the reasons explained above, the Board with the Companys largest institutional work and the audit and non-audit fees paid considers them all to be independent.
shareholders on an individual basis.
by the Company are set out in Note 32 In addition, the Company responds to to the Financial Statements on page 119.
The remit of the Nomination Committee is, individual ad hoc requests for discussions The external auditor is not engaged by the primarily, to lead the process for, and to from institutional shareholders.
The senior Company to carry out any non-audit work make proposals to the Board for, any new Non-Executive Director is available to on which it might, in the future, be required appointments as Directors of the Company.
shareholders if they have concerns which to express an audit opinion.
As explained The remit of the Nomination Committee contact through the normal channels more fully in the Audit Committees Report is available on the Companys website: of Chairman, Chief Executive or Chief on pages 58 to 59, the Audit Committee astrazeneca.
The principal task in Financial Officer has failed to resolve, has established pre-approval policies and relation to nomination matters in 2004 or for which such contact is inappropriate.
procedures for audit and non-audit work related to the appointment of a new Nonpermitted to be carried out by the external Executive Director, Louis Schweitzer, who All shareholders, including private investors, auditor and has carefully monitored the could subsequently become Chairman of have an opportunity at the AGM to put objectivity and independence of the the Board.
In the light of this, the Board felt questions to members of the Board on external auditor throughout 2004. the appointment process should not be matters relating to the Companys operation led by the Nomination Committee, which and performance.
Board committees is chaired by the Chairman.
Accordingly, Audit Committee a committee of Non-Executive Directors Employees Full details about the Audit Committee, its chaired by Sir Peter Bonfield, senior NonThe core values of the Company are respect composition, remit and work during 2004 Executive Director, led the process for the for the individual and diversity: openness, can be found in the Audit Committees appointment of Mr Schweitzer, which was honesty, trust and support for each other: Report on pages 58 to 59. supported by external search consultants.
integrity and high ethical standards: and leadership by example at all levels.
Remuneration Committee As with all new Non-Executive Directors, The members of the Remuneration a series of induction meetings with various The Company maintains an open Committee are Sir Peter Bonfield Chairman senior managers was arranged for management style and involves its of the Committee, John Buchanan, Mr Schweitzer following his appointment employees both in daily decisions which Erna Mller and Joe Jimenez.
This included his attendance affect them and longer term matters.
was appointed as a member of the at a meeting of the Senior Executive Team The Company is fully committed to Remuneration Committee with effect from over two days in November 2004. keeping all of its employees informed the end of the AGM in April 2004.
They are about their work unit and the wider all Non-Executive Directors.
The Board Science Committee business, as well as discussing the considers them all to be independent.
The members of the Science Committee implications of major business changes are Jane Henney, Erna Mller and Dame and other relevant matters.
Key business The remit of the Remuneration Committee Bridget Ogilvie.
They are all Non-Executive priorities are communicated throughout is, primarily, to recommend for decision by Directors.
the organisation and form part of the basis the Board the fundamental remuneration for the Companys employee bonus and policy for the Company and to ensure the The remit of the Science Committee is, incentive plans.
Details of employees proper operation of all plans for employees on behalf of the Board, to review and share plans appear in Note 29 to the involving the Companys shares.
More assess the international competitiveness Financial Statements.
particularly, it makes specific proposals and quality of science within the Company.
in respect of the remuneration packages The Executive Vice-President, Discovery In line with legal requirements and cultural of individual Executive Directors and the Research and the Chief Scientist and standards, more formal national and Companys most senior executives.
Head of Project Evaluation normally attend business level employee consultation meetings of the Science Committee.
arrangements exist in some countries, Further information about the membership including the UK.
There is a forum for and work of the Remuneration Committee Shareholders employee consultation at European level, and the Companys remuneration policy In its financial reporting to shareholders and chaired by the Chief Executive, in which and practice is set out in the Directors other interested parties by means of annual employee representatives from 19 countries Remuneration Report on pages 60 to 68. and quarterly reports, the Board aims to participate.
The Company also has a variety present a balanced and understandable of constructive relationships with trade Nomination Committee assessment of the Companys financial unions across its worldwide operations, The members of the Nomination Committee position and prospects.
including formal recognition and active during 2004 were Percy Barnevik Chairman dialogue where appropriate.
of the Committee, Hkan Mogren, Sir Peter The Company maintains a corporate Bonfield, Jane Henney and Joe Jimenez.
website containing a wide range of The Company believes that every employee With effect from 1 January 2005, Louis information of interest to institutional should be treated with the same respect Schweitzer, Non-Executive Chairman, and private investors: astrazeneca.
It values the rich diversity and AstraZeneca Annual Report and Directors Report Form 20-F Information 2004 57 creative potential of people with differing transaction, to ensure that those suppliers share re-purchase programme to ensure backgrounds and abilities and encourages are made aware of the terms of payment compliance with English law and the a culture of equal opportunities, in which and, subject to their compliance, abide Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
personal success depends on personal by the terms of payment.
The total amount In particular, the Companys Disclosure merit and performance.
It is Company of money owed by the Companys Committee meets to ensure that the policy that there should be no discrimination subsidiaries to trade creditors at the Company does not purchase its own shares against any person for any reason.
All balance sheet date was equivalent to 74 during prohibited periods.
At the AGM on judgements about people for the purposes days average purchases.
No equivalent 28 April 2005, the Company will seek a of recruitment, development and promotion disclosure is provided in respect of the renewal of its current permission from are made solely on the basis of their ability Company as it has no external creditors.
shareholders to purchase its own shares.
and potential in relation to the needs of the job.
Every manager is responsible for Purchase of own shares Political donations implementing this policy.
The Companys stated distribution policy Under the UKs Political Parties, Elections contains both a regular dividend cash flow and Referendums Act 2000, shareholder It is Company policy that people and a share re-purchase component to give authority is required for political donations with disabilities should have the same the Company more flexibility in managing its to be made or political expenditure to be consideration as others with respect capital structure over time.
In August 1999, incurred by the Company or its subsidiaries to recruitment, retention and personal the Company announced a $2 billion share in the European Union.
Depending on their skills and re-purchase programme to be completed Company nor its subsidiaries made any abilities, people with disabilities enjoy the by the end of 2002.
This programme was donations or incurred any expenditure in same career prospects as other employees completed ahead of schedule in the second 2004 in the European Union in respect of and the same scope for realising potential.
In January 2002, the which shareholder authority or disclosure The Company also takes all reasonable steps Company announced an additional in this Directors Report is required under to ensure that its working environments $2 billion re-purchase programme which the Act.
Neither the Company nor its can accommodate special needs.
was completed on schedule by the end of subsidiaries intend to make any such 2003.
In January 2004, the Board approved donations or incur any such expenditure Corporate responsibility a further $4 billion re-purchase programme in the European Union in the foreseeable The Company aims to set, promote and to be completed by the end of 2005. future.
However, the Act defines political maintain high standards of corporate organisation widely and, for example, responsibility wherever it operates.
Dame The Board keeps under continuous review interest groups or lobbying organisations Bridget Ogilvie, Non-Executive Director, its shareholders return strategy and concerned with the review of government is the Board member responsible for this restates its intention to grow dividends in policy or law reform may be caught by area and oversees the work of a crossline with earnings while maintaining dividend the definition.
functional, global corporate responsibility cover in the two to three times range.
The Company continues to The Board also believes that the share To enable the Company to continue develop its established systems for re-purchase programme is a key part to support such organisations without monitoring performance.
Policies and of shareholder return that addresses cash inadvertently breaching the Act, a resolution standards relating to corporate flow and potentially surplus capital.
In the will, in the same way as last year, be responsibility are maintained and widely absence of strategic uses for cash, the proposed at the AGM on 28 April 2005 communicated within the organisation.
In Board expects to distribute the free cash authorising the Company to make 2004, the Company was again included in flow generated over the next three years donations or incur expenditure in the the FTSE4Good and the Dow Jones through dividends and share re-purchases.
European Union up to an aggregate limit Sustainability World indices.
competition for places in the Dow Jones During 2004, the Company purchased STOXX European Index meant the 50.1 million of its own Ordinary Shares In 2004, AstraZenecas US legal entities Company lost its place in that index in 2004. with a nominal value of $0.25 each for an made contributions amounting in aggregate The Company publishes and sends to aggregate cost of $2,212 million.
Following to $323,000 2003 $258,000 to state shareholders a separate Corporate the purchase of these shares, they were political party committees and to campaign Responsibility Summary Report.
This number of shares committees of various state candidates first time, information in the Corporate represents 3.0% of the Companys total affiliated with the major parties.
All Responsibility Summary Report for 2004 issued share capital at 31 December 2004. contributions were made only where will be subject to an assurance process allowed by state law.
American nationals carried out by an independent, third party Since the beginning of the original those with valid green cards exercised organisation.
More detailed information re-purchase programme in 1999, the decision-making over the contributions and about the Companys approach to Company has purchased for cancellation the funds were not provided or reimbursed corporate responsibility can be found on in total 142.9 million of its own Ordinary by any non-US legal entity.
Shares with a nominal value of $0.25 each for an aggregate cost of $6,171 million.
On behalf of the Board It is not Company policy formally to comply This number of shares represents 8.7% GH R Musker with the Confederation of British Industrys of the Companys total issued share capital Group Secretary and Solicitor code of practice on the prompt payment of at 31 December 2004.
It is, however, Company policy to agree appropriate payment terms with all The Company continues to maintain robust suppliers when agreeing the terms of each controls in respect of all aspects of the
