AstraZeneca Annual Report and Operational Review 20 Form 20-F Information 2004 Oncology We aim to maintain our Products and chest pain.
It has consistently Casodex bicalutamide is the worlds demonstrated good tolerability and position as a world leader leading anti-androgen therapy for the is not associated with the typical side in cancer treatment treatment of prostate cancer.
The growth effects of chemotherapy.
of Casodex has continued mainly through through further launches a renewed interest in the potential benefits However, preliminary results from the of newer products such as of combination use of Casodex 50mg with recently reported ISEL clinical study Zoladex and other luteinising-hormone which compared Iressa, when used alone, Faslodex, the successful releasing hormone LHRH agonists.
to placebo in patients with advanced introduction of novel Casodex 150mg is approved for use in NSCLC, who had failed chemotherapy, early prostate cancer EPC in over 60 showed that, whilst there was a statistically approaches currently in countries and applications for the EPC significant improvement in tumour the pipeline and continued indications are under review in several shrinkage objective response rate and other markets.
During 2004, the German time to treatment failure, the difference growth for Casodex, regulatory authority did not agree a revised in favour of increased survival with Iressa Arimidex and Zoladex.
indication for Casodex 150mg, which is treatment failed to reach statistical now no longer available in that country significance compared to placebo in the though 50mg remains on the market.
Elsewhere, sales of Casodex 150mg continue to grow.
Prospective subgroup analyses from the ISEL study did show statistically Zoladex goserelin acetate available in significant differences in survival in favour one month and three month depots, is the of Iressa in patients of East Asian origin worlds second largest LHRH agonist by and non-smokers.
It is used for the treatment of prostate subgroup, there was a near doubling cancer, breast cancer and gynaecological of median survival, which supports the disorders.
It is approved for the treatment positive benefit risk ratio observed in of prostate cancer in 105 countries.
In EPC, previous studies in these patients.
Zoladex is the only LHRH agonist shown Therapy area overview to improve overall survival when used in In 2004, two publications appeared, addition to either radical prostatectomy or describing how patients who had World market value for cancer radiotherapy.
In breast cancer, Zoladex is dramatically responded to Iressa had a therapies: $22 billion and growing approved in 24 countries for the adjuvant genetic alteration mutation in the EGF strongly.
treatment of early stage pre-menopausal Receptor EGFR within the tumour cells, breast cancer as an alternative to and or in the biological target for the drug.
These In 2004, over 10 million people were addition to chemotherapy.
It is also widely mutations appear to be a predictor of diagnosed with cancer: by 2020 this approved for use in advanced breast cancer tumour response to Iressa.
The publication is forecast to reach 15 million.
Zoladex offers of these data sparked great scientific and proven survival benefits for breast cancer clinical interest in the drug, and may explain Six million people die from cancer patients with a favourable tolerability profile.
why the response rates observed in the every year - representing 12% of ISEL study in patients from East Asian deaths worldwide.
Iressa gefitinib is a highly researched, origin, and non-smokers were relatively first in class, new type of anti-cancer agent high.
We will be working to better 2004 in brief epidermal growth factor receptor-tyrosine understand the ISEL outcome in the kinase inhibitor EGFR-TKI that acts to context of further analysis of survival data, Rapid uptake in sales of Iressa block signals for cancer cell growth and secondary endpoints, EGFR status and continued until disappointing ISEL data survival.
It is indicated for the treatment other biomarkers.
in December led to comprehensive of non-small cell lung cancer NSCLC in reassessment of Iressa including patients who have failed chemotherapy.
Iressa is currently approved in 35 countries, withdrawal of MAA in Europe.
Patients with NSCLC generally have a including the US and Japan.
AstraZeneca short survival time and their quality of life is now actively consulting with regulatory Faslodex now available in the EU.
Previously published authorities to determine the impact of clinical trials with Iressa, used alone in the ISEL data.
It is possible that some Casodex approved for use in EPC patients treated for advanced NSCLC who regulatory authorities may require in over 60 countries.
have failed chemotherapy, reported that up AstraZeneca to withdraw its marketing to 50% of patients may experience benefit authorisation for Iressa.
In January 2005, ATAC data showed Arimidex is including tumour shrinkage in 12-18% of after consultation with the European significantly more effective than patients.
Over 40% of these patients were Medicines Evaluations Agency we withdrew tamoxifen in prolonging disease-free reported to experience early symptomatic the European Marketing Authorisation survival of post-menopausal women improvement in the symptoms of lung Application MAA for Iressa because the with early breast cancer.
cancer, such as cough, breathlessness ISEL survival results did not meet the AstraZeneca Annual Report and Operational Review Form 20-F Information 2004 21 Sales growth is shown in both reported and underlying performance.
Reported performance takes into account all the factors including those which we cannot influence, principally currency exchange rates that have affected the results of our business.
Underlying performance shows sales growth at constant exchange rates CER to reflect the volume and price changes of the geographic and therapy areas and individual products by excluding the effects of exchange.
A description of the calculation of this measure is set out in the Financial Review on page 38, together with the reasons for its use.
more effective in prolonging disease-free Signalling processes, which are critical The submission of a new MAA will be survival and has important tolerability to cancer cell division and survival, are considered after evaluation of the full benefits compared with tamoxifen.
Further the targets of a number of AstraZenecas ISEL data and new emerging studies.
data from the ATAC study presented in novel compounds designed with a December 2004 also showed that women different biological effect in mind, including In the US, we have voluntarily suspended switching from tamoxifen to Arimidex anti-angiogenesis, anti-proliferation and promotion of Iressa.
AstraZeneca has urged suffered fewer recurrences of their early anti-invasion.
physicians to consider other treatment breast cancer than those who stayed on options in the recurrent NSCLC population, tamoxifen throughout the standard five-year ZD6474 is a novel, orally active, anti-cancer in light of positive survival data with other course of treatment.
Arimidex is also agent that selectively inhibits two key agents, including another oral EGFR approved for the treatment of advanced cancer pathways: tumour blood vessel inhibitor.
AstraZeneca intends to continue breast cancer in post-menopausal women development through VEGFR inhibition to make Iressa available for those patients based on demonstrated advantages over and tumour cell growth and survival whose physicians feel they are benefiting tamoxifen and megestrol acetate.
scheduled to complete phase 2 clinical Faslodex fulvestrant is a new type of trials during 2005.
Based on the total data available for Iressa, endocrine therapy, an oestrogen receptor we continue to believe that it has a place antagonist, with no agonist effects, that AZD2171 is an anti-angiogenic agent in in the management of NSCLC and down-regulates the oestrogen receptor.
phase 1 that targets the growth of blood potentially other tumour types, providing Faslodex offers patients with hormonevessels of tumours.
AZD9935 is another substantial benefits for some patients in sensitive, advanced breast cancer more anti-angiogenic in pre-clinical development.
clinical practice and a favourable tolerability hormonal options before having to resort profile.
New studies will report in the first to expensive and poorly tolerated cytotoxic ZD6126 is a vascular targeting agent.
half of 2005, which will provide further chemotherapy.
Due to its novel mode of Phase 2 clinical trials were stopped due information on the efficacy and safety action, Faslodex offers an effective, well to cardiac events.
Pre-clinical work is now of Iressa and will further influence our tolerated additional treatment for patients, in progress to re-examine its potential.
thinking on the future of Iressa.
In the US, with the compliance and convenience AZD4440, another vascular targeting we anticipate a rapid reduction in new benefits of a once monthly injection.
agent, is in pre-clinical development.
While commercial prospects Following the EU approval in March 2004, ZD4054 is an endothelin antagonist in have certainly been reduced in Western Faslodex is now available in Europe, as well phase 2 that works by targeting the markets, the positive results in patients of as the US, Brazil and Argentina for the endothelin A receptor, inhibiting tumour East Asian origin offer the prospects of a second line treatment of hormone receptor cell proliferation.
ZD4054, which is being continuing successful business in these positive, advanced breast cancer in postevaluated in clinical trials for the treatment important markets.
See Financial Review menopausal women.
of hormone-resistant prostate cancer, has for financial impacts.
recently been granted fast track designation Nolvadex tamoxifen citrate remains a by the FDA.
Arimidex anastrozole is the worlds widely prescribed breast cancer treatment.
Arimidex AZD0530 and AZD0424, anti-invasives continues to grow strongly as it replaces Pipeline in phase 1 and pre-clinical respectively, tamoxifen as the preferred adjuvant Further trials are underway to evaluate the are designed to prevent tumours from treatment for post-menopausal women with potential benefits of Iressa in other EGFR spreading.
AZD3409 is a prenylation early breast cancer.
The large-scale ATAC driven tumours such as head, neck and breast inhibitor in phase 1 designed to inhibit the study, first reported in December 2001 and cancers.
The clinical trial programme in lung proliferation of cancer cells.
AZD5438 is a then most recently updated in December cancer is under review in light of the recent novel selective cyclin dependent kinase 2004, showed that Arimidex is significantly developments described in detail above.
inhibitor in phase 1 targeted at proliferating AstraZeneca Annual Report and Operational Review 22 Form 20-F Information 2004 tumour cells.
AZD1152, an aurora kinase estimated underlying growth.
In the US the underlying demand inhibitor designed to target cell division in prescription market share for aromatase was broadly unchanged with Casodex proliferating tumours, is now in pre-clinical inhibitors plus tamoxifen reached 29.0% share of total prescriptions in this market development.
AZD6244 ARRY142886, in December 2004 up 7.5 points over last being 83% in December 2003 growth of in phase 1 development, is a selective MEK year.
We now estimate that more than 50% 18% is principally a reflection of wholesaler inhibitor targeting proliferating tumour cells.
of newly diagnosed patients are receiving destocking in 2002.
Outside the US, sales of Arimidex AZD4769, an anti-proliferative agent, is in were up 46% for the year at $511 million.
Sales of Arimidex increased by 47% in pre-clinical development for solid tumours Full year sales were up 48% in Europe the US and by 45% in the rest of the world, including NSCLC.
$358 million, and increased 41% in Japan including a 61% increase in Japan.
AZD3841 and AZD8931, both antiSales of Iressa reached $228 million during proliferative agents, are in pre-clinical Iressa sales reached $389 million for the the year including sales in Japan of $101 development for solid tumours.
full year up 65%, including $176 million million.
Iressa sales in the US since launch in the US up 73% and $136 million in in May 2003 totalled $102 million.
The collaboration with Abgenix Inc. Japan an increase of 24%.
However, which aims to discover fully human fourth quarter sales in the US for Iressa Faslodex sales of $77 million reflect a monoclonal antibodies for the treatment were $17 million down 65% in view steady increase in usage for the treatment of cancer, has entered its second year.
of the regulatory uncertainties and the of advanced breast cancer in the US market.
This arrangement is complementary to increased probability of returns of unused our major activity in small molecules and product, we have not recognised the Underlying sales of Zoladex were is allowing us to tackle a broader range of revenue from sales made in the latter half maintained at $869 million.
It is anticipated the collaboration of the quarter.
Until the situation stabilises, Nolvadex declined by 66% following will contribute candidate drugs to the revenue from Iressa sales in the US will be patent expiry in the US in February 2003. development pipeline by 2006. recognised on confirmed patient usage rather than wholesaler shipment.
Performance 2004 Reported performance Zoladex sales remained substantially Oncology sales increased by 23% rising unchanged.
Declines in the US $152 $633 million from $2,743 million in 2003 million and Europe $386 million, down to $3,376 million in 2004.
13% and 9% respectively, were mitigated by a strong performance in Japan up 16% Underlying performance to $231 million.
After eliminating the effects of exchange of $196 million, the underlying sales growth The rate of fall in Nolvadex sales slowed rate was 16%.
to 31%: sales in the US were negligible although in Europe and Japan revenue Casodex sales outside the US were up 11% declines were less pronounced falling by for the year totalling $780 million.
Japan continue to grow strongly to $240 million, up 24% for the year.
Reflecting the Faslodex sales increased by 28% to reach maturity of the market in advanced prostate $99 million.
Launches in Europe contributed cancer, underlying performance in the US to the majority of this increase.
was essentially unchanged with sales for the year up 9% to $232 million.
Performance 2003 Reported performance Arimidex had another year of excellent sales Oncologys reported sales growth was growth, with sales up 48% to $811 million 16% as revenues grew by $374 million to as a result of increased use in the adjuvant $2,743 million.
treatment of early breast cancer.
The growing importance of aromatase inhibitors Underlying performance such as Arimidex to this patient population Oncology sales grew by 8% to $2,743 was affirmed in the recently updated million with growth from Casodex, Arimidex treatment guidelines published by ASCO.
and Iressa offsetting the decline in As the only aromatase inhibitor indicated for Nolvadex.
primary adjuvant treatment approved now in 80 countries Arimidex is well positioned Casodex sales outside the US increased to benefit from continued adoption of these by 23%, driven by good growth in Europe treatment guidelines in clinical practice.
Growth in Sales in the US for Arimidex for the full year Europe and Japan was driven by the were up 52% at $300 million, in line with expanding use of Casodex in early stage
