AstraZeneca Annual Report and Operational Review 12 Form 20-F Information 2004 Cardiovascular CV We are a world leader in Products Crestor.
In the US, we are seeing some Crestor rosuvastatin calcium is a member switches from Crestor to the fixed dose CV medicines, backed by of the class of products known as statins.
combination of simvastatin and ezetimibe.
Further regulatory approvals of Crestor in However, the majority of switches circa 2004 mean it has now been approved in 70% to that drug from statins have come We aim to build on our 67 countries most recently, Japan and from atorvastatin or simvastatin as at 24 strong position, focusing launched in 56, including the US, Canada December 2004 with only circa 10% of and the majority of the EU countries.
those switches coming from Crestor in the short to medium source: Verispan.
In the rest of the world, it term on the growth High cholesterol is now recognised as is still too early to assess the impact.
Of those people segments of hypertension currently being treated for high cholesterol, Our extensive, long term global clinical and heart failure, only about half reach their cholesterol research initiative known as the GALAXY goal on existing treatments, while the other programme, including studies that dyslipidaemia, thrombosis half have cholesterol levels that remain investigate cardiovascular risk reduction and and type 2 diabetes.
More effective treatments patient outcomes with Crestor, is now well continue to be required in this area.
Studies are ongoing in important medical In multiple clinical studies, Crestor has been areas, including regression of atherosclerosis Therapy area overview shown to be more effective in lowering low and in evaluating the reduction in mortality in density lipoprotein or bad cholesterol heart failure and end-stage renal disease.
CV world market value: $116 billion LDL-C than other prescribed statins, Further clinical studies in high-risk the single largest therapy area in the enabling more patients to reach their LDL-C populations have been reported during global healthcare market.
Additionally, Crestor produces an 2004, showing consistent beneficial lipid increase in high density lipoprotein or good effects.
In addition, initial results from the CV disease accounts for 17 million cholesterol HDL-C, an effect that is first study in the large ongoing deaths globally each year, making it maintained across the 5-40mg dose range.
pharmacoepidemiology programme, the greatest risk to life for most adults.
involving over 50,000 patients, are expected During 2004, Public Citizen, a US consumer to be available in the first half of 2005.
The statin market has a world market interest organisation, continued to raise value of $26 billion.
allegations concerning the safety of Crestor In December 2004, the Pharmaceutical and filed a Citizens Petition to ask the FDA Affairs Council of the Japanese Health 2004 in brief to withdraw Crestor from the US market.
In Ministry granted conditional approval of November 2004, public comments by Dr Crestor at a 2.5-20mg dose range.
The Crestor now approved in 67 markets David Graham, an FDA employee, also condition to be satisfied requires a Post and launched in 56. alleged safety concerns about the drug.
An Marketing Surveillance programme to be extensive database has been built up of carried out in a hospital environment prior Crestor world sales $908 million with preand post-approval clinical trials to a full-scale launch.
Whilst the scope over four million patients treated and experience involving more than 40,000 and duration of this programme is yet to morethan 15 million prescriptions patients and post-marketing surveillance of be agreed, it is unlikely that significant sales written.
Clinical trials experience and more than 15 million prescriptions written of Crestor will be made in Japan in 2005. post-marketing surveillance continue and four million patients treated with to support our belief that Crestor has Crestor since its launch in 2003.
Based on Following the introduction of a new a safety profile in line with other all these data, we continue to believe that medicine, the evolving experience of the marketed statins.
Crestor has a safety profile in line with other drug by use in regular clinical practice and marketed statins.
In September 2004, we further clinical studies being completed, the Seloken Toprol-XL sales again launched a publicly available website, initial label is updated accordingly.
com, where clinical the year, label changes in the EU regarding trial and post-marketing data are published dosing of Crestor were introduced in order First launches for Exanta in orthopaedic in the interests of transparency.
to reinforce proper use of the product.
surgery in 10 countries and approvals These changes included an emphasis in 17.
The concerns that the safety allegations on the starting dose and how to handle created in the minds of patients and patients at risk of class-related side The FDA did not approve Exanta physicians had an impact upon the sales effects.
During the year, an application for for marketing in the US.
More data performance of Crestor, particularly introduction of a 5mg dose form in the EU required before approval for long term in the US.
Sales in the rest of the world was submitted.
The European Regulatory use in the EU can be considered.
were also affected by these allegations Authorities have set up an arbitration but to a lesser extent and performance in process to agree what may be the most Approval for Atacand for the heart these markets has been largely in line with appropriate wording on the label for the 5mg failure indication in the EU and expectations.
A key priority for 2005 is to dose.
AstraZeneca is closely involved in approvable letter in the US.
restore growth in the US market share for these discussions.
97% of worldwide sales AstraZeneca Annual Report and Operational Review Form 20-F Information 2004 13 Sales growth is shown in both reported and underlying performance.
Reported performance takes into account all the factors including those which we cannot influence, principally currency exchange rates that have affected the results of our business.
Underlying performance shows sales growth at constant exchange rates CER to reflect the volume and price changes of the geographic and therapy areas and individual products by excluding the effects of exchange.
A description of the calculation of this measure is set out in the Financial Review on page 38, together with the reasons for its use.
and Renal Drugs Advisory Committee will by volume were at doses of 20mg or less.
As part of its review process, the FDA held review the proposed chronic heart failure a public Advisory Committee hearing in indication for Atacand at its meeting on Exanta ximelagatran is a novel oral direct thrombin inhibitor targeted to prevent and Washington in September 2004.
The clinical programme treat the formation of blood clots that hearing and its own review of the data, investigating the effect of Atacand on thrombosis.
A large clinical development the FDA decided in October 2004 that retinopathy in diabetic patients DIRECT programme, involving around 30,000 AstraZeneca had not established a positive continued during 2004. patients, provided data to support the benefit risk profile for Exanta.
This was due regulatory filings for Exanta, including data to safety concerns regarding liver toxicity Seloken Toprol-XL metoprolol succinate, regarding fixed oral dosing, rapid onset and cardiac events and also the FDAs a once daily tablet for 24 hour control of of action, low potential for drug food doubts as to whether the clinical trial design blood pressure and for use in heart failure and drug drug interactions and no need and data were adequate to demonstrate and angina, is the worlds leading product for routine blood coagulation monitoring.
The FDA did not by sales in the beta blocker plain and Exanta was approved for its short term approve Exanta for any of the indications combinations with diuretic class.
Patent indication by the EU Mutual Recognition sought the prevention of stroke in patients litigation is progressing in the US against Procedure in May 2004 for the prevention with atrial fibrillation, prevention of VTE three companies that are challenging of venous thromboembolism VTE in in patients undergoing knee-replacement AstraZenecas patents and seeking patients undergoing elective hip or knee surgery, or the long term secondary FDA approval to sell generic metoprolol replacement surgery in 17 countries prevention of VTE following standard succinate.
Further information about this and subsequently launched in 10. treatment of a clot.
Discussions are litigation is set out on page 115.
The regulatory review in Europe with ongoing with the FDA to determine if there France as the Reference Member State is now a realistic prospect of bringing Plendil felodipine is a calcium for use of Exanta in the chronic indications Exanta to the US market.
See Financial antagonist for the treatment of prevention of stroke in patients with Review for financial impacts.
Information atrial fibrillation and treatment of VTE is regarding patent challenges for Plendil ongoing and regulatory submissions have Atacand candesartan cilexetil is an is set out on page 114. also been made in other parts of the world.
angiotensin II antagonist for the first line treatment of hypertension.
The Atacand Zestril lisinopril dihydrate, an ACE In January 2005, the French Regulatory family of products has been well accepted inhibitor, is used for the treatment of a Authority AFSSAPS requested more in the market and competes in the fastest wide range of CV diseases, including information before the drug can be growing sector of the global hypertension hypertension.
considered for approval of long term use market angiotensin II antagonists plain for Europe.
AFSSAPS has requested further and combinations with diuretic.
During Pipeline clinical information confirming the efficacy 2004, regulatory filings for the heart failure We aim to broaden our CV portfolio and demonstrating the safety of Exanta indication were submitted in the EU and in the areas of thromboembolism, in atrial fibrillation to allow a definitive the US, based on the CHARM programme, dyslipidaemia, type 2 diabetes metabolic benefit risk assessment to be made while, a comprehensive clinical study programme syndrome, atrial fibrillation and vascular for VTE treatment, the authority does not in heart failure, showing significant disease prevention.
believe the data presented in the single reduction in cardiovascular mortality and THRIVE Treatment study provide adequate hospitalisation for heart failure in patients Galida is in phase 3 development and support for this use of Exanta and is treated with Atacand.
The heart failure is a PPAR agonist with effects on both proposing to reject this indication.
indication was approved in the EU in the alpha and gamma receptors, thereby AstraZeneca will now have discussions November 2004 and an approvable letter offering potential benefits in treating with AFSSAPS to examine what additional was received from the FDA in the US in insulin resistance and lipid abnormalities data need to be generated for the atrial December 2004.
The FDA Cardiovascular associated with type 2 diabetes and AstraZeneca Annual Report and Operational Review 14 Form 20-F Information 2004 metabolic syndrome.
Crestor was launched in the spring of Performance 2003 the alpha and gamma receptors could 2004 in France and Italy.
Based on the latest Reported performance also potentially be associated with adverse weekly data, value share of the statin market Reported growth for CV was 10% with effects and the clinical studies are being for Crestor is 4.4% in France and 8.0% in sales of $3,910 million, an increase of carefully monitored, since the balance Italy.
Sales in Canada for the full year were $341 million from $3,569 million, of dose dependent benefits and risks will $98 million, and the latest market share of notwithstanding the erosion of Zestril form the basis for final recommendations monthly total prescriptions for Crestor was sales following patent expiry.
Underlying performance During 2004, the FDA and other regulatory In the US, market share progress has been Excluding exchange effects of authorities reviewed all development more volatile, as a result of episodic media $249 million, CV underlying sales growth products in this class of drugs and the FDA coverage of challenges to the safety profile was $92 million or 3%.
has required that carcinogenicity studies of Crestor as discussed above.
Sales for the be completed before initiation of clinical year were $543 million.
In the week ending Global sales of Seloken Toprol-XL exceeded studies lasting more than six months.
14 January 2005, Crestor share of new $1 billion for the first time, on continued Galida has completed these carcinogenicity prescriptions was 6.0%.
Market share in the strong growth in the US up 47%, studies.
The FDA has further required that dynamic segment new and switch patients where market share of total beta blocker two year clinical studies be completed for was 8.2%.
prescriptions of Seloken Toprol-XL the New Drug Application and these are reached 26.2% in December 2003. now underway for Galida.
The estimated Prescriptions for Toprol-XL in the US Despite destocking in the last quarter, date for regulatory filings is now in 2007. increased by 18% for the full year, twice the wholesaler stocks remained higher than rate of growth in the beta-blocker market, normal at the year end.
Our further research in thrombosis includes and sales reached $977 million.
Market AZD6140, an oral anti-platelet therapy share of total prescriptions in December Atacand sales increased by 28% in the US, which is in phase 2.
AZD0837 thrombosis 2004 was 28.1%, up 1.9 points versus last and by 18% in the markets outside the US.
Full year sales growth rate was 7%, US sales growth exceeded growth in total inhibitor for thrombosis are in phase 2. which is still below estimated underlying prescriptions, indicating some increase in Novel research in atrial fibrillation includes growth as a result of net stock movements wholesaler stocks.
AZD7009, a new anti-arrhythmic in phase 2 year on year.
Sales of Seloken outside the that works predominantly on the atria to US were up 3% for the year at $410 million.
Crestor sales were $129 million, restore and maintain normal heart rhythm including $62 million in the US.
The early sinus rhythm in patients with atrial More than 70% of sales of Atacand come launch markets for Crestor included the fibrillation.
AZD7806, AZD4619 and from markets outside the US.
In these Netherlands, Canada and the UK.
In AZD6610 in the dyslipidaemia area markets sales continued to show good the US, Crestor was launched in midare in phase 1.
AZD8294, AZD8677, growth up 18% for the year with sales September.
In the week ending 16 January AZD8450 and AZD6370 for the treatment increasing to $627 million, driven primarily 2004, Crestor share of new prescriptions of metabolic disorders diabetes mellitus by volume gains in Europe.
Sales in the in the US statin market was 4.6% and the and dyslipidaemia, are all in pre-clinical US at $252 million were down 4% for the dynamic share of new statin treatments development.
full year, in line with prescription trends.
new and switch therapy only was 13.7%.
We have discontinued the development The rate of decline in Zestril sales reduced Lisinopril, the active ingredient in Zestril, of AZD0303 for thrombosis as a result of in 2004, with revenues falling by 15%.
Falls lost patent protection in most major its failure to meet the target product profile.
were seen in all regions, with US sales down markets during 2002 with significant sales 29% at $69 million.
Outside the US sales erosion taking place during 2003.
In the US, Performance 2004 were $371 million, an underlying fall of 12%.
generic lisinopril held an 80% share of sales Reported performance by the end of 2003.
CV sales grew by 22%, rising by $867 million Plendil sales also fell in 2004, again in all from $3,910 million in 2003 to $4,777 million regions.
In particular, sales declined in the Plendil sales rose by 5% to $540 million.
This growth was driven by the first US in the second half of the year to end Growth in the US was offset by lower sales full years sales of Crestor.
Underlying performance Tenormin worldwide sales were flat in 2004 Excluding exchange effects of $214 million, compared to 2003.
Growth in the US was CV sales grew by 17%.
offset by declines in Europe: sales elsewhere were broadly unchanged.
Sales of Crestor worldwide for the full year reached $908 million, compared with $129 million in 2003.
Sales in Europe were $231 million.
Prescription market share has increased in all the major markets and is now 10.3% in the Netherlands, and 3.8% in the
