Forward Looking Statements factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from Forward looking statements, within the meaning of Section our expectations include: international economic and political 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the conditions: changes in laws, regulations, and accounting US Securities Exchange Act of 1934, are made throughout standards: distributor and licensee relationships and actions: this Report, including in the Description of Business Risk effectiveness of spending and marketing programmes: and Factors, the Operating and Financial Review, the Report of unusual weather patterns.
the Directors and the Report on Directors Remuneration.
These forward-looking statements are based on a number Although the Group believes that the expectations reflected of assumptions made by Cadbury Schweppes management in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, it cannot concerning future events and information currently available guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance to management.
You should not rely unduly on these or achievements.
forward-looking statements, which are not a guarantee of performance and are subject to a number of uncertainties 6.
Comparative Statements and other facts, many of which are outside of the Groups In this Report, Cadbury Schweppes makes certain statements control, and could cause actual events to differ materially with respect to its market position, or its products or from those statements.
Although Cadbury Schweppes brands market position, in comparison to third parties.
believes the expectations reflected in those forward-looking These statements are based on independent sources, statements are reasonable, it cannot assure you that these such as Euromonitor and AC Nielsen.
These statements are accurate to the best of the knowledge and belief of expectations will prove to be correct.
In addition to those Cadbury Schweppes.
factors described under Risk Factors, other important 18 Cadbury Schweppes Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2004 Report of the Directors Directors Biographies 20 General 22 Dividends 22 Directors 22 Directors Share Interests and Substantial Shareholdings 22 Policy on Payment to Suppliers 23 Going Concern 23 Contents Inside Front Cover Glossary 174 Cross reference to Form 20-F 175 Index 178 Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2004 Cadbury Schweppes 19 Report of the Directors Directors Biographies Todd Stitzer Chief Executive Officer appointed a Director in March John Sunderland 2000 and CEO in May 2003.
Having trained as a lawyer, Executive Chairman appointed Chairman in May 2003.
Todd has been with the business for over 20 years during He is Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
John joined which time he has gained extensive marketing, sales, strategy Cadbury Schweppes in 1968.
Over the years, he has worked development and business leadership experience.
The on both the confectionery and beverages sides of architect of the recent acquisitions that have created Cadbury the business, on the boards of Cadbury Ireland, Cadbury Schweppes current platform for growth, Todd is well placed Schweppes South Africa, as a founding director of the to lead the organisation as it delivers on its commitment to Coca-Cola Schweppes UK joint venture in 1987, and then create superior shareowner returns.
as Managing Director of Trebor Bassett.
In 1993, he became Managing Director of the confectionery stream and a Todd is also a non-executive director of Diageo plc.
Todds member of the Cadbury Schweppes Board, and he was past roles at Cadbury Schweppes include being Chief appointed CEO in 1996.
His broad range of experience Strategy Officer between March 2000 and May 2003, working within the Cadbury Schweppes Group allows him to President & CEO of Dr Pepper Seven Up, Inc. between guide the leadership of Cadbury Schweppes as we seek to 1997 and 2000, and various senior sales, marketing and create enhanced shareowner value.
His participation in a general management roles.
range of key external organisations enables Cadbury Ken Hanna Schweppes to influence important decisions which affect the Chief Financial Officer appointed a Director in April 2004. whole of the industry.
His broad range of executive and financial leadership, gained John is also President of both the Confederation of British while working as the Chief Executive Officer and Group Industry and the Incorporated Society of British Advertisers.
Finance Director of Dalgety plc, as well as the Operating He is a non-executive director of The Rank Group Plc, a Partner focusing on fast moving consumer goods while Director of the Financial Reporting Council, an Advisory working for the private equity firm Compass Partners, make Board Member of CVC Capital Partners and of Ian Jones & him particularly qualified to lead the Cadbury Schweppes Partners and a leadership council member of Young finance function.
He is working closely with the Groups Enterprise.
senior management to deliver the Fuel for Growth programme and the Groups financial targets.
Roger Carr Deputy Chairman & Senior Independent Non-Executive Ken is also a non-executive director of Inchcape plc.
appointed a Director in January 2001 and became Deputy In addition to his roles in Dalgety plc 19971999 and Chairman in May 2003.
He is the Senior Independent Compass Partners 19992004, Kens past roles include Non-Executive and a member of the Audit, Nomination Finance Director of United Distillers Plc and Group Finance and Remuneration Committees.
He leads the Boards Director of Avis Europe plc.
consultations with major shareowners and his previous Bob Stack experience as both a Chairman and Chief Executive provide Chief Human Resources Officer appointed a Director in highly valued challenge and counsel to the leadership of the business.
He initially joined Cadbury Beverages in the US in 1990 as Vice-President, Human Resources for the global Roger is also non-executive chairman of both Centrica plc beverages stream.
In 1992, he moved to the UK as Group and Mitchells & Butlers plc.
He is also a Senior Advisor to Director of Strategic Human Resources management, Kohlberg Kravis Roberts Co. Ltd. and a Fellow of the Royal retaining his Vice-Presidency in the beverages stream and Society for the Encouragement of Arts, Manufacturers and leading executive development for the Company.
His past roles include being Chairman of Chubb appointed to the Board as Chief Human Resources Officer in plc until December 2002 and between 1984 and 2000 he 1996 and in 2000 his responsibilities were expanded to held a number of senior positions including Chief Executive of include corporate and external affairs and again in October Williams PLC and chairman of Thames Water Plc.
Roger is 2002 to include corporate communications.
Bob is also a non-executive director of J Sainsbury plc.
Prior to joining Cadbury Schweppes, Bob held various positions with Bristol-Myers and the American Can Company.
20 Cadbury Schweppes Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2004 Dr Wolfgang Berndt Rosemary Thorne Independent Non-Executive appointed a Director in Independent Non-Executive appointed a Director in January 2002.
He is a member of the Audit Committee September 2004.
She is a member of the Audit and and the Corporate and Social Responsibility Committee.
She brings a wealth of His broad range of executive and operational experience experience and expertise to the Board in the areas of gained in over 20 years as a leader in the fast moving financial reporting and corporate governance.
consumer goods industry enables him to contribute significantly to the Board.
Rosemary has been the Group Finance Director of Bradford & Bingley plc since 2000 and is a member of both the Wolfgang is also a non-executive director of Lloyds TSB Financial Reporting Council and Financial Reporting Review Bank plc, Lloyds TSB Group plc, GfK AG and a member of the Panel.
She is also a member of the Main Committee of Institute for the Future.
He was President, North America, The Hundred Group of Finance Directors.
Her previous roles for The Procter & Gamble Co. and President of its Global have included being Group Finance Director of J Sainsbury Fabric & Home Care division from 1999 until 2001 when he plc and Group Financial Controller of Grand Metropolitan plc.
Rick Braddock Baroness Wilcox Independent Non-Executive appointed a Director in June Independent Non-Executive appointed a Director in 1997.
He is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee March 1997.
She is Chairman of the Corporate and Social and a member of the Audit Committee.
Rick brings to the Responsibility Committee.
Her breadth of experience as a Board a broad range of consumer, marketing and executive retail entrepreneur, with consumer groups, and as a working leadership experience across several industry and peer in the House of Lords, allows her to contribute financial sectors.
extensively on commercial, human resource and CSR matters.
Rick is a non-executive director of Eastman Kodak Company, Baroness Wilcox is also a non-executive director of both Marriott International, Inc. and the Lincoln Center for the Carpetright plc and Johnson Services PLC, a Member of Performing Arts and Chairman of MidOcean Partners.
the House of Lords and President of both the National His previous roles between 1973 and 1993 included being Federation of Consumer Groups and the Institute of Trading Chairman of Priceline.
com and senior positions with Standards.
She is a member of the Council of the Foundation Citicorp Citibank, NA and Medco Containment Services, Inc. for Science and Technology and was Chairman of the Rick is 63 years old.
National Consumer Council between 1990 and 1995.
Baroness Wilcox is 64 years old.
David Thompson Independent Non-Executive appointed a Director in Mike Clark Group Secretary and Chief Legal Officer March 1998.
He is Chairman of the Audit Committee, a member of the Corporate and Social Responsibility Mike was appointed as Group Secretary and Chief Legal Committee and a member of the Remuneration Committee.
He joined the Group in 1980, serving His considerable financial and retail experience, gained whilst as Senior Vice-President, General Counsel and Secretary of working for The Boots Company PLC in both the UK and Cadbury Schweppes in the US before taking up his current North America, enables him to provide a significant appointment.
He is also a director of Camelot Group plc.
contribution to the Board and Audit Committee.
David is also Chairman of the Nottingham Building Society.
David joined The Boots Company PLC in 1966 where he held a number of senior finance positions, including Deputy Chief Executive and Finance Director, before retiring in September 2002.
Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2004 Cadbury Schweppes 21 Report of the Directors General Meeting set out why the Board believes that these Directors The Directors present their Report together with the should be re-elected.
Bob Stack has a service contract with audited Financial Statements for the 53 weeks ended the Company which is terminable at any time by the 2 January 2005 the year.
Company giving one years notice, and which terminates automatically at the normal retirement age of 60 years.
Principal Activities Further information on payments on termination of The principal activities of the Group are detailed in the Directors service contracts is set out in the Report on Description of Business on page 2.
The operating companies Directors Remuneration.
principally affecting the profit or net assets of the Group in the year are listed in Note 27 to the Financial Statements.
Share Capital Changes in the share capital of the Company are detailed in Business Review Note 21 to the Financial Statements.
At the 2005 Annual The Chairmans Statement, the Chief Executive Officers General Meeting, renewal will be sought of the authorities: Review, and the Summary Financial Review and Financial a for the Directors to allot relevant securities and to allot Statements, which appear in the 2004 Annual Review and equity securities for cash other than on a pre-emptive basis, Summary Financial Statement, report on the Groups shareowners having approved similar resolutions annually activities during the year, its position at the year end and since 1982: and b for the Company to purchase its own the early part of 2005, and the Groups likely future shares as and if appropriate, shareowners having approved a development.
Acquisitions and disposals are detailed in the similar resolution annually since 1998.
The Directors have no Operating and Financial Review on page 57.
The Group present intention to issue shares in the Company for cash continues to invest in research and development and details other than in connection with its share option and incentive are given in the Description of Business on page 14. schemes.
The authority to purchase shares has not been used since 1999.
Turnover and Profit Directors share interests and Turnover during the year amounted to 6,738 million substantial shareholdings 2003: 6,441 million.
Profit on ordinary activities before The interests of the Directors holding office during the year taxation amounted to 642 million 2003: 564 million.
in the share capital of the Company at the beginning of the Dividends year, 29 December 2003 or date of appointment if later, The Directors recommend a final dividend of 8.70 pence per and the end of the year, 2 January 2005 or date of ordinary share 2003: 8.35p to be paid on 27 May 2005 resignation if earlier, are detailed in the Report on Directors to ordinary shareowners on the register on 29 April 2005.
At the date of this Report the An interim dividend of 3.80 pence was paid on Company has been notified, in accordance with sections 15 October 2004, which makes a total of 12.50 pence 198 to 208 of the Companies Act 1985, of the following per ordinary share for the year 2003: 12.00p.
Ordinary interests in the ordinary share capital of the Company: dividends paid and recommended for the year will amount Number of shares Interest in to 255 million 2003: 242 million.
in which there issued share is an interest capital % Legal Proceedings Franklin Resources, Inc. 119,185,720 5.77 The Company and its subsidiaries are defendants in a Legal & General number of legal proceedings incidental to their operations.
Investment Management 61,686,656 3.00 The Company does not expect that the outcome of such proceedings, either individually or in the aggregate, will have The table on page 170 details notifications of interests since a material effect upon the results of the Groups operations 1 January 2002. or its financial position.
Directors Corporate and Social Responsibility The names of the Directors, together with brief biographical Details of the Groups Corporate and Social Responsibility details, are set out on pages 20 and 21.
David Kappler retired activities are given in the Description of Business on as Chief Financial Officer, and Ken Hanna was appointed pages 14 to 16. in his place, on 13 April 2004.
Rosemary Thorne was appointed as an independent Non-Executive Director on Employees 6 September 2004.
Details of the Groups employees, including numbers by geographical region, together with statements of policy At the Annual General Meeting to be held on 19 May 2005, about programmes for learning and development, employee Wolfgang Berndt, Bob Stack and Baroness Wilcox will retire involvement, equal employment opportunities and diversity, by rotation in accordance with Article 90 of the Articles of disabled persons and pensions are given in the Description of Association, and, being eligible, will each offer themselves for Business on pages 12 and 13. re-appointment.
Rosemary Thorne will also retire and offer herself for re-appointment, having been appointed as an Charitable and Political Contributions independent Non-Executive Director since the last Annual Details of the Groups charitable and political contributions General Meeting.
The explanatory notes to the Notice of are given in the Description of Business on pages 15 and 16.
22 Cadbury Schweppes Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2004 Environment Auditors Details of the Groups environment policy are set out in the The Companys auditors are Deloitte & Touche LLP, who Description of Business on page 15. are willing to continue in office and a resolution for their re-appointment and to authorise the Directors to determine Policy on payment to suppliers their remuneration will be proposed at the AGM.
The Company adheres to the Better Payment Practice Guide.
Details of how to obtain a copy of the Guide are on page 180.
Note 3 in the Financial Statements on pages 105 and 106 As the Company is a parent company, it has no trade states the auditors fees, both for audit and non-audit work.
However, the Groups policy is, when agreeing the Going concern conditions of each transaction, to ensure that suppliers are On the basis of current financial projections and facilities made aware of the terms of payment and to abide by, and settle in accordance with, these terms.
available, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate resources to continue in Directors Responsibility operational existence for the foreseeable future and, The Statement of Directors responsibilities in relation to accordingly, consider that it is appropriate to adopt the going Financial Statements is set out on page 88.
The statement by concern basis in preparing the Financial Statements.
the auditors on corporate governance matters is contained in their Report on pages 88 and 89.
By order of the Board MACClark Group Secretary 11 March 2005 Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2004 Cadbury Schweppes 23 This page has been left blank intentionally 24 Cadbury Schweppes Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2004
