Contents Description of Business 1 Report of the Directors 19 Corporate Governance Report 25 Report on Directors Remuneration 33 Operating and Financial Review 49 Financial Record 79 Financial Statements 87 Information Particulars for Shareowners 165 Glossary 174 Cross reference to Form 20-F 175 Index 178 Registered Office and Registrars Group Headquarters Computershare Investor Services PLC, 25 Berkeley Square, London W1J 6HB, UK P. O.
Box 82, Registered in England and Wales No.
52457 The Pavilions, Telephone Number: 020 7409 1313 Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 7NH, UK Group Secretary Telephone Number: 0870 873 5803 MACClark Fax Number: 0870 703 6103 Email: web.
co. uk Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Interested persons who wish to communicate with the Non-Executive Directors may do so by writing to Roger Carr at the Companys registered office.
Financial Calendar Final Dividend for 2004 Interim Dividend for 2005 Ordinary Shares Announcement of results 23 February 2005 26 July 2005 Ex-dividend date 27 April 2005 14 September 2005 Record date 29 April 2005 16 September 2005 Dividend payment 27 May 2005 14 October 2005 The Annual General Meeting of the Company is on 19 May 2005.
The Notice of Meeting, details of the business to be transacted and arrangements for the Meeting are contained in the separate Annual General Meeting booklet sent to all shareowners.
This document is the Report & Accounts and Form 20-F of Cadbury Schweppes public limited company for the year ended 2 January 2005.
It contains the annual report and accounts in accordance with UK generally accepted accounting principles and regulations and a reconciliation to US generally accepted accounting principles.
Together with the Form 20-F to be filed with, and the form 6-K to be furnished to, the US Securities and Exchange Commission in April 2005, it constitutes the annual report on Form 20-F for the US Securities and Exchange Commission.
Cadbury Schweppes Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2004 Description of Business 1. Business Overview Origins and portfolio development 2 The business today 2 Goals and priorities 5 Managing for value 6 Organisation structure and management 7 Business regions 8 Production assets 10 2.
Market Environment Competition 11 Industry trends 11 Consumers and customers 12 Raw materials and suppliers 12 3.
Organisation Capabilities and Governance Employees 12 number of employees 12 learning and development 12 leadership imperatives 13 employee communication and involvement 13 employee share ownership 13 equal employment opportunities, diversity and inclusiveness 13 disabled persons 13 health and well-being 13 pensions 13 Science and technology including research and development 14 Innovation 14 Intellectual property 14 Corporate governance 14 Corporate and social responsibility 14 human rights and ethical trading 15 consumer issues 15 environmental, health and safety 15 community value around the world 15 external ranking and verification 16 Government regulation and legislation 16 4.
Comparative Statements 18 Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2004 Cadbury Schweppes 1 Description of Business 1. Business Overview The Group has extended and strengthened its position in Origins and Portfolio Development certain markets and categories where it believed it could The origins of Cadbury Schweppes date back to the founding generate faster growth at higher margins and exited other of Schweppes, a mineral water business, by Jacob Schweppe markets and categories where it felt it did not have in 1783 and the opening of a shop which sold cocoa sustainable competitive advantage and where a sale created products by John Cadbury in 1824.
The two businesses were value for its shareowners.
merged in 1969 to create Cadbury Schweppes plc.
The most significant strategic moves over this period have been: Cadbury and Schweppes remain among the most important 1986 and 1987 sale of the food & beverage and health of the Groups brands.
Many of its other key brands are & household divisions also long established having been launched in the late 19th 1995 purchase of Dr Pepper Seven Up, a carbonated and early 20th centuries.
Most notable among these are soft drinks business mainly in the US Dr Pepper, Halls, Trident and Cadbury Dairy Milk.
1997 sale of Coca Cola Schweppes Beverages, a soft drink bottling operation, in the UK Brand Product Date Launched 1999 sale of beverage brands in 160 markets around the world Schweppes Carbonated water 1783 2000 purchase of Snapple, a non-carbonated premium Cadbury Cocoa powder 1824 beverage business mainly in the US Schweppes Tonic Water Quinine based 2003 purchase of Adams confectionery business, a gum carbonated drink 1870 and medicated sugar confectionery business with strong Dr Pepper Carbonated soft drink 1885 positions in North, Central and South America Halls Cough Tablets Cough drop 1893 Dentyne Chewing gum 1899 Today, the business is organised into five geographic regions: Canada Dry Carbonated soft drink 1904 Americas Beverages: Americas Confectionery: Europe Middle Cadbury Dairy Milk Milk chocolate bar 1905 East and Africa EMEA, which sells predominantly Chiclets Sugar coated gum 1914 confectionery but includes some beverage sales: Europe 7 UP Carbonated soft drink 1929 Beverages, selling beverages: and Asia Pacific, selling both Trident Sugar free gum 1962 beverages and confectionery.
Snapple Non carbonated soft drink 1972 Confectionery The Business Today In confectionery, the Group has substantially grown its share Since 1969, Cadbury Schweppes operations have been of the global confectionery market as it has extended its focused on confectionery and non-alcoholic beverages.
In the geographic and product participation.
This has primarily been late 1980s, the Group sold its non-core household product, achieved through acquisition, most notably Wedel in Poland food and hot beverage operations so that it could focus 1999, Hollywood in France 2000, Dandy in Scandinavia on confectionery and cold beverages.
In 2004, 60% of the 2002 and the acquisition of Adams 2003.
Groups net sales came from confectionery and 40% from beverages.
At the time of acquisition, Wedel was the number one chocolate brand in Poland and Hollywood the number two Over the last 25 years, the Groups geographic and product gum brand in France.
Dandy was the fourth largest gum participation within the confectionery and beverage markets business in the world, with strong market share positions in has been significantly changed, mainly through a programme Scandinavia, Switzerland and Russia.
Main Confectionery Acquisitions: 2000 2004 Date Company Country Percent Holding Consideration Description Comments Feb-99 Wedel Poland 100% 49m The number one chocolate brand at the time of acquisition Aug-00 Hollywood France 100% Not The number two gum business in France disclosed at the time of acquisition number one in 2004 Feb-02 Cadbury India India Share increased 111m Buy-out of the minority shares.
from 49% to 94% By the end of 2004, Cadbury Schweppes shareholding had reached 96%.
May-02 Kent Turkey 65% USD95m Turkeys leading sugar confectionery company Sep-02 Dandy Denmark 100% 222m Fourth largest chewing gum company worldwide at the time of acquisition with key markets in Scandinavia, Switzerland and Russia Mar-03 Adams US 100% USD4.2bn Second largest gum business world-wide.
2 Cadbury Schweppes Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2004 The US$4.2bn 2.7bn acquisition of Adams in 2003 market, the acquisition added the Trident, Dentyne Dentyne transformed Cadbury Schweppes position in the Ice, Chiclets and Bubbas range of gum and bubblegum brands confectionery market world-wide.
With turnover of around to the Group.
The Halls brand is the number one sugar brand $2 billion, a global market share of 24.7% in gum, a focus and the leading medicated brand world-wide source: on the important markets of North and Latin America and Euromonitor 2003. a strong position in the growing markets of medicated confectionery, Adams significantly increased Cadbury Today, Cadbury Schweppes is the second largest group in the Schweppes confectionery scale, product range and global confectionery market with a market share of 9.2% geographic reach.
This compares with a market share of 5.3% in 2001. source: Euromonitor Adams had a significant market presence and operations in North, Central and South America which accounted for 75% The Group has strong positions in many of the important of its sales.
Key markets outside the Americas were the UK, confectionery markets around the world.
It has a number one Greece, Egypt, Japan and Thailand.
Adams sales were or number two market share position in 23 of the top 50 focused on a small number of global and regional brands confectionery markets see table below and a leading market mainly in the gum and medicated sugar confectionery share in all of its geographic regions.
With a number two share of the world-wide gum Number of No.
2 Positions in the Top 50 Confectionery Markets Cadbury Schweppes Nestle Kraft Mars Wrigley Hershey No.
2 Position 6 115421 Total Confectionery 23 169652 Source: Euromonitor 2003 The Groups confectionery turnover is generated from Today, the Group sells its confectionery products in around products spanning the full range of the confectionery market 190 countries.
The table below shows the Further details are provided on page 10.
The Groups main change in percentage contributions to the Groups confectionery brands are Cadbury, Trident, Halls, Dentyne, confectionery turnover on a product and a geographic basis Stimorol, Hollywood, Wedel, Bassetts and Trebor.
In 1997, 73% of confectionery exception of Halls, which is sold in over 24 countries around turnover was generated by chocolate: in 2004 this figure fell the world, the Groups brands have regional or local to 46%, with 28% generated by gum, and 26% by other strengths.
Details of the Groups main confectionery brands sugar products.
In 1997, 87% of confectionery turnover was by region can be found on pages 8 to 10 Business Regions.
generated in EMEA and Asia Pacific, particularly in the UK and Australia.
In 2004, EMEA accounted for around 55% of confectionery turnover, Asia Pacific accounted for around 15% of confectionery turnover and the Americas accounted for around 30% of confectionery turnover versus just over 10% in 1997.
Sales Contribution by Product Sales Contribution by Geography 100% 100% 80% 80% 60% 60% 40% 40% 20% 20% 0% 0% 1997 2004 1997 2004 Sugar Gum Chocolate Asia Pacific Europe Americas Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2004 Cadbury Schweppes 3 Description of Business Beverages the subsequent acquisition of brands and businesses in the The Groups beverage business is concentrated in three regions Groups focus markets.
The acquisition programme increased where the Group believes it has or can build a sustained the scale of the remaining operations and expanded the competitive advantage: the Americas North America and Groups brand portfolio, particularly into the non-carbonated Mexico, Continental Europe and Australia.
sector of the beverage market.
The most significant of these acquisitions were Snapple in the US 2000, La Casera in This footprint was achieved through the disposal of non-core Spain 2001, Orangina in France 2001, Squirt in Mexico beverage brands and businesses in 160 markets in 1999, and 2002 and Apollinaris & Schweppes 2002.
Main Beverage Acquisitions 2000 2004 Date Company Country Percent Holding Consideration Description Comments Oct-00 Snapple US 100% 1.2bn The leading premium beverage business in the US.
Main brands were Snapple, RC Cola and Mistic Jul-01 La Casera Spain 100% 65m Spains third largest soft drinks producer Oct-01 Orangina France 100% 445m Soft drink brands in Continental Europe, North America and Australia.
Feb-02 Squirt Mexico 100% Not disclosed Acquisition of the Squirt brand in Mexico.
The Group already owned the Squirt brand in the US Nov-02 Apollinaris & Germany Share increased 115m Buy-out of the remaining 72% interest in the Schweppes from 28% to Groups German associate 100% As a result of these transactions 40% of the Groups beverage in all of the markets in which it has decided to operate, the turnover was generated from the sale of non-carbonated Group has built strong number 2 or number 3 market beverages in 2004 versus around 20% in 1997.
Sales Contribution by Product Sales Contribution by Geography 100% 100% 80% 80% 60% 60% 40% 40% 20% 20% 0% 0% 1997 2004 1997 2004 Stills Carbonates Asia Pacific Europe Americas The Groups main beverage brands include Dr Pepper, 7 UP, In beverages, Cadbury Schweppes operates both as a Schweppes, Snapple, Hawaiian Punch, Motts, Orangina, manufacturer and as a licensor.
The Group has wholly owned Oasis, Clamato, Canada Dry, A&W, Sunkist, Yoo-Hoo and La manufacturing operations in nine countries, the most Casera.
7 UP is owned by the Group in the US and Puerto significant of which are in Australia, Mexico, Spain, Rico only and Sunkist is a licensed product.
The Orangina Germany and the US.
There are bottling agreements in brand is owned around the world.
All other carbonated soft the United States and France with associated companies.
drink brands are owned in a limited number of countries, In 23 countries, including the US, Cadbury Schweppes principally the US, Canada, Mexico, Continental Europe, acts as a brand licensor, selling concentrate and syrup to Scandinavia and Australia.
Principal still drink brands are independently owned manufacturers certain of which are owned around the world.
Detail of the Groups main affiliated with competitors to which it also supplies technical beverage brands by region can be found in the Business and marketing support.
Following the 1999 disposal, outside Regions sections on pages 8 to 10. of these 23 countries the Group does not own the rights to any carbonated beverage, or water brands with the exception of Orangina.
4 Cadbury Schweppes Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2004 Goals and Priorities 20047 Goals 2004 Priorities 1 Deliver superior shareowner performance 1 Deliver annual contract 2 Execute Fuel for Growth 2 Profitably and significantly increase global 3 Integrate Adams and Beat the Model confectionery share 4 Execute Smart Variety 3 Profitably secure and grow regional beverages share 5 Integrate North America Beverages 6 Integrate Europe Beverages 4 Ensure our capabilities are best in class 7 Ratchet up innovation 8 Hone people and systems capabilities 5 Reinforce reputation with employees and society 9 Motivate, develop & reward our people 10 Continue high Corporate and Social Responsibility standards In October 2003, the Group set its strategic goals for the The Fuel for Growth initiative is designed to reduce the 2004 2007 period along with specific priorities for 2004.
Groups direct and indirect cost base by 400 million per Each goal has 2 priorities.
The goals are unlikely to change annum by 2007.
Major cost reduction opportunities include: from year to year but the priorities will.
the cost synergies arising from the integration of Adams: bringing together the beverage businesses in North America: The first goal and overarching objective is to deliver superior fully integrating European beverage acquisitions: shareowner returns.
Performance in respect of this goal reconfiguring the global confectionery supply chain: is measured by comparing Cadbury Schweppes Total and reducing administrative overheads at every level in Shareowner Return TSR against a set of 28 international the Group.
fast moving consumer goods peers.
A major proportion of the cost savings will support the The Group believes there is a direct link over time between achievement of the Groups margin growth goals.
The Group superior business performance and superior shareowner intends to reinvest around one third of the cost savings to returns.
The Group measures its annual performance based support growth initiatives, including increased investment in on three key business performance indicators: sales, margins, marketing, science & technology, innovation and commercial and cash flow.
It measures achievement of performance capabilities.
These performance ranges are: Integrating Adams and delivering on the acquisition case Turnover growth in the base business of between 3% and recognises the strategic nature of this acquisition and the 5% per annum at constant currency: scale and complexity of the integration programme.
The full Underlying operating margin growth before integration of Adams into Cadbury Schweppes involves the goodwill intangibles amortisation and exceptional items of merging of the separate commercial, back-office and supply between 50 and 75 basis points per annum at constant chain structures.
The integration is expected to be fully currency: and completed by 2006.
It requires the Group to deliver Free cash flow totalling 1.5 billion over the four year $125 million of cost synergies and $60 million of revenue period to 2007 at constant currency.
synergies, and the return on the capital invested in Adams to exceed the Groups weighted average cost of capital.
The An explanation of the measures used by the Group in setting its most significant projects are the creation of new back-office performance goal ranges and the reasons for using these measures and logistics infrastructure in the United States and Canada.
The project in the United States was successfully completed in the fourth quarter of 2004.
The Canadian project is Details on the Groups performance in respect of the scheduled for completion by the second quarter of 2005. financial goals and total shareholder return in 2004 are provided on pages 55 and 37.
Senior management incentives The Smart Variety growth initiative recognises that Cadbury are linked to the Groups external performance goals.
Schweppes business model is based on its diverse range Details of management performance incentives are provided of strong local and regional brands.
Smart Variety is a on page 35. commercial discipline which provides the Group with the decision rules and processes to leverage the combination of All of the Groups goals and priorities over the 2004 to its broad product range, geographic reach, routes to market 2007 period support the achievement of its overarching and manufacturing capabilities.
objective of superior shareowner performance.
Critical priorities in this respect are: executing Fuel for Growth: integrating Adams: executing Smart Variety: and increasing the level of innovation.
Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2004 Cadbury Schweppes 5 Description of Business Product innovation is an important growth driver in the The Group is seeking to maximise the returns from the beverage and confectionery markets.
In pursuit of its growth investment in Fuel for Growth and improve capital efficiency objective, the Group has set a goal of generating 15% of across the business.
The investment needed to deliver the sales from innovation by 2007.
Innovation is defined as sales 400 million of Fuel for Growth savings has been reduced generated in any particular year from new products launched from 900 million to 800 million.
More stringent capital in that year and the prior year.
In 2004, our innovation to allocation and working capital management is expected to sales ratio was 9%, up from 6% in 2003. improve the Groups capital efficiency.
In support of this innovation goal the Groups research and Investment and focus on growth will be increased through development activities were reorganised in 2004 into a innovation, marketing, sales execution and enhancing newly created Science and Technology function.
Further details Cadbury Schweppes commercial capabilities.
In addition, in are provided on page 14.
New processes and software have the United States, the Group will seek to further strengthen also been developed.
its carbonated soft drinks distribution through greater alignment with its bottling partners and consolidation of the 2005 Goals and Priorities independent bottling network.
For 2005, while the Groups goals have remained the same, a number of changes have been made to the priorities in order to provide greater focus on growth and returns.
20047 Goals 2005 Priorities 1 Deliver superior shareowner performance 1 Deliver annual contract 2 Execute Fuel for Growth and focus on Free Cash Flow 2 Profitably and significantly increase global 3 Invest, innovate and execute confectionery share 4 Execute Smart Variety 3 Profitably secure and grow regional beverages share 5 Invest, innovate and execute 6 Strengthen non CSDs and RTM 4 Ensure our capabilities are best in class 7 Roll-out Building Commercial Capabilities 8 Refine Supply Chain disciplines 5 Reinforce reputation with employees and society 9 Motivate, develop & reward our people 10 Continue high Corporate and Social Responsibility standards Managing for Value Managing for Value MFV was introduced into the Group in 1997.
Value Based Management remains fundamental to our strategic and operational processes.
It enables the Group to identify the generators of economic profit, and thus value, within the business.
Senior managers have a high percentage of their compensation based on MFV principles.
6 Cadbury Schweppes Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2004 Organisation Structure and Management The creation of a Science and Technology function in order In February 2003, the Group announced a comprehensive to accelerate growth and innovation.
management and organisational change designed to position the Group more effectively to drive a more focused growth The chart below depicts the organisational structure of the and efficiency agenda and enable the successful integration Group.
In addition to the five regions Americas Beverages: of Adams.
Americas Confectionery: Europe, Middle East and Africa: Europe Beverages: and Asia Pacific, there are six central The main changes were: functions Finance: Human Resources: Legal: Global Commercial: Science & Technology: and Global Supply Chain.
The consolidation of nine operating units into five larger The Science and Technology function was created in 2004 to regions to leverage better the Groups regional commercial accelerate the Groups innovation rate.
and supply chain scale, and The separation of the management of the supply chain The functions have both a Group headquarters and a regional from the commercial operations, allowing the commercial presence, with the objective of driving world-class managers to focus on delivering top line growth and the performance and ensuring that global strategies and supply chain managers to drive efficiencies.
processes are followed and targets met.
Functions Regions Global Supply Chain Americas Beverages Matthew Litobarski Gil Cassagne Executive Board Global Commercial Americas Confectionery Nick Fell Matt Shattock to 28.02.05 John Sunderland Chairman TBA Todd Stitzer Chief Executive Science and Technology Officer David Macnair Ken Hanna Chief Financial Europe, Middle East and Africa Officer Andy Cosslett to 28.01.05 Bob Stack Chief Human Matt Shattock from 01.03.05 Resources Officer Human Resources Bob Stack Mike Clark Chief Legal Officer and Group Europe Beverages Secretary Marie-Bernard Trannoy Finance and IT Ken Hanna Legal Asia Pacific Mike Clark Rajiv Wahi Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2004 Cadbury Schweppes 7 Description of Business Business Regions The following charts show the relative size of the Groups regions.
1 Turnover by Region Underlying Operating Profit by Region Americas Beverages Americas Beverages 11% 16% 25% Americas Confectionery Americas Confectionery 9% 41% 10% EMEA EMEA Europe Beverages Europe Beverages 16% 28% Asia Pacific Asia Pacific 33% 11% 1 For an explanation of underlying operating profit and a reconciliation to operating profit see page 50.
Americas Beverages 2004 % of Group Total 2004 % of Group Total Turnover 1,686m 25% No of employees 6,800 12% Operating Profit 448m 46% Operating Assets 435m 21% Underlying Operating Profit 506m 41% No of factories 11 Operating Margin 27% Underlying Operating Margin 30% Main markets: US, Canada, Mexico Main brands: Dr Pepper, 7 UP, Snapple, Motts, Diet Rite, Sunkist, Crush, Canada Dry, Schweppes, Clamato, Peafiel, A&W, Royal Crown, Nantucket Nectars The Americas Beverages region comprises operations in the The Group operates as a licensor, selling carbonated US, Canada and Mexico.
During the last quarter of 2003, the beverage concentrate to these bottling and canning North American operations of Dr Pepper Seven Up, Motts operations, including Dr Pepper Seven Up Bottling Group, and Snapple were brought together under a single in which Cadbury Schweppes has a 40% equity interest.
Dr Pepper Seven Up Bottling Group is an independent bottling company operating in Texas, California and 17 other The principal products of the business in North America cover Western and Midwestern states of the United States.
both the carbonated and still soft drinks market.
The main The processes and operations of the independently owned carbonated soft drinks brands are Dr Pepper and 7 UP.
The bottlers and canners are monitored to ensure high product Group owns 7 UP in the United States and Puerto Rico only.
The Group also provide marketing technical and Other important brands include Canada Dry, A&W and manufacturer support.
The still beverage brands are Sunkist, which is a licensed product.
The main still beverage manufactured and distributed by Group owned and other brands are Snapple, Hawaiian Punch, Motts, Clamato and independent companies.
In Mexico the principal brands are Peafiel, Squirt, Crush and In North America, the carbonated beverage brands are Canada Dry.
These brands are manufactured and distributed primarily manufactured and distributed through directly by Cadbury Schweppes and third party bottlers.
independently owned bottling and canning operations.
8 Cadbury Schweppes Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2004 Americas Confectionery 2004 % of Group Total 2004 % of Group Total Turnover 1,093m 16% No of employees 14,000 24% Operating Profit 38m 4% Operating Assets 272m 13% Underlying Operating Profit 139m 11% No of factories 11 Operating Margin 4% Underlying Operating Margin 13% Main markets: US, Canada, Mexico, Brazil, Argentina, Colombia Main brands: Halls, Trident, Dentyne, Chiclets, Bubbas, Cadbury, Beldent, Mantecol, Swedish Fish, Sour Patch Kids The Groups business in this region was significantly expanded Brazil and Argentina.
Key brands sold in the Americas include following the acquisition of Adams in March 2003 over 75% Halls, Trident, Dentyne Dentyne Ice, Bubbas, Clorets, of the Adams business is based in the Americas.
Americas Cadbury, Chiclets, Swedish Fish, Sour Patch Kids, Beldent, Confectionery operates businesses in all of the major Bazooka and Mantecol.
Manufacturing facilities are situated countries in the region including the US, Canada, Mexico, in Mexico, Brazil, Colombia, Canada and the US.
Europe, Middle East and Africa EMEA 2004 % of Group Total 2004 % of Group Total Turnover 2,246m 33% No of employees 21,500 37% Operating Profit 304m 31% Operating Assets 808m 39% Underlying Operating Profit 349m 28% No of factories 43 Operating Margin 14% Underlying Operating Margin 16% Main markets: UK, France, Poland, Spain, Russia, Turkey, Greece, Egypt, South Africa, Nigeria, Scandinavia Main confectionery brands: Cadbury, Maynards, Trebor, Bassetts, Poulain, Hollywood, Wedel, Trident, Halls, Stimorol, Dirol, Kent, Bim Bim, Chiclets The EMEA region includes all of the Groups interests in the operating unit.
The Group also operates in Spain, Poland, European including Russian, African and Middle Eastern Turkey, Greece, the Netherlands, Switzerland and Germany.
The United Kingdom is the Groups largest confectionery business in the EMEA region where In Africa and the Middle East, the Groups main confectionery the Group sells under the Cadbury, Trebor Bassett, Maynards, operations are in Egypt and South Africa.
The Group also Halls and Frys brand names.
operates in Morocco, Lebanon, United Arab Emirates, Ghana and Kenya.
In addition, the Group owns 46% of Cadbury Key confectionery brands in Continental Europe include: Nigeria, which is reported as an associate.
In Egypt, products Hollywood: Poulain and La Pie Qui Chante in France: Wedel are sold under the Cadbury, Bim Bim and Chiclets brand and Cadbury in Poland: Dulciora, Trident and Halls in Spain: names.
In South Africa, the Group sells confectionery Stimorol and V6 in Denmark, Belgium and Sweden: Halls and products under the Cadbury and Halls brand names.
In South Trident in Greece and Portugal: Halls and Saila in Italy: Cadbury, Africa, the Group also operates a food and beverage business, Dirol and Halls in Russia and Olips, Jelibon and Relax in Turkey.
Bromor Foods, and its products are sold under the Oros, Within Continental Europe, the French business is the biggest Energade and Brookes brand names.
Europe Beverages 2004 % of Group Total 2004 % of Group Total Turnover 653m 10% No of employees 3,000 5% Operating Profit 78m 8% Operating Assets 161m 8% Underlying Operating Profit 117m 9% No of factories 14 Operating Margin 12% Underlying Operating Margin 18% Main markets: France, Spain, Germany, Belgium, Luxembourg Main brands: Orangina, Schweppes, Trina, La Casera, Oasis, Apollinaris The key markets in the Europe Beverages region are France, Pampryl, Trinaranjus, Apollinaris, Gini and Vida.
This region Germany and Spain.
In 2002, the Group took full control of has wholly owned bottling operations in Germany, Spain, the Apollinaris & Schweppes business in Germany in which Portugal and Belgium and a bottling arrangement with it previously held a 28% stake.
Principal products include San Benedetto in France.
The region licenses its products carbonated soft drinks, mineral waters and still drinks, with in 19 countries across Continental Europe, Scandinavia key brands including Schweppes, Orangina, Oasis, La Casera, and Syria.
Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2004 Cadbury Schweppes 9 Description of Business Asia Pacific 2004 % of Group Total 2004 % of Group Total Turnover 1,050m 16% No of employees 12,400 21% Operating Profit 106m 11% Operating Assets 383m 19% Underlying Operating Profit 137m 11% No of factories 24 Operating Margin 10% Underlying Operating Margin 13% Main markets: Australia, New Zealand, India, Japan, Thailand, China Main confectionery brands: Cadbury, Halls, Trident, Clorets, Bournvita Main beverage and food brands Schweppes, Cottees Australia only This region comprises confectionery operations principally the Halls, Trident and Clorets brands in Japan and Thailand: in Australia, New Zealand, Malaysia, Indonesia, India, Japan, and the Bournvita and Halls brands in India.
In the Australian Thailand and China and a beverage and foods business in beverages market, products are sold under the Schweppes, Australia, Schweppes Cottees.
Cottees, Solo, Spring Valley, Sunkist and Wave brand names.
Schweppes Cottees also has a license to manufacture, sell In confectionery, in addition to selling Cadbury branded and distribute Pepsi, 7 UP, Mountain Dew and Gatorade.
products, the Group sells products under the Trebor and Manufacturing facilities are situated in Australia, New Zealand, Red Tulip brands in Australia: the Sportlife brand in China: India, Thailand, China and Singapore.
Production Assets Confectionery Beverages Total All of the above facilities are owned by the Group, except for Americas Beverages 11 11 6 facilities in Europe, Middle East and Africa, 1 in Americas Americas Confectionery 11 11 Confectionery, 2 in Asia Pacific and 1 in Americas Beverages, EMEA 43 43 all of which are leased.
Europe Beverages 14 14 Asia Pacific 17 7 24 All the facilities are considered to be in good condition, adequate for their purpose and suitably utilised according Total 71 32 103 to the individual nature and requirements of the relevant operations.
The Group has a continuing programme of Properties improving and replacing property when appropriate, to meet As of 2 January 2005, the Group had a total of 103 the needs of the individual operations.
manufacturing plants and bottling facilities, of which 43 were located in Europe, Middle East and Africa, 11 in Americas The table below details the material properties of the Group, Confectionery, 11 in Americas Beverages, 24 in Asia Pacific representing those sites with the most significant unmitigated and 14 in Europe Beverages.
Of these, 71 are engaged in the loss exposures.
All are manufacturing facilities and are owned manufacture of confectionery products and 32 are engaged by the Group except where indicated.
These properties have in the manufacture and bottling of beverage products.
a capacity utilisation in the range of 37100%.
Material Properties Location Principal products Area in 000 sq ft Production Capacity 000 tonnes Bournville, UK part leasehold Chocolate Confectionery 1,766 236 Somerdale, UK Chocolate Confectionery 933 95 Aspers, Pa. USA Beverages 620 737 Ringwood, Australia Chocolate Confectionery 610 39 Williamson, NY, USA Beverages 578 507 Rockford, Ill. USA Gum Confectionery 536 54 Sheffield, UK Sugar Confectionery 503 88 Coolock, Ireland Chocolate Confectionery 488 107 Puebla, Mexico Gum Confectionery 408 91 Chirk, UK Confectionery Feedstocks 261 61 Bauru, Brazil Sugar and Gum Confectionery 217 31 Overland, St. Louis, Miss.
USA Beverages Concentrates 199 188 Marlbrook, UK Confectionery Feedstocks 132 91 Carcagente, Spain Beverages Concentrates 130 19 Rathmore, Ireland Confectionery Feedstocks 106 55 Dublin, Ireland Leasehold Gumbase 80 23 in millions of litres 10 Cadbury Schweppes Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2004 2.
Market Environment Over 80% of the Groups gum is sugar-free.
Developing Competition markets overall are growing faster than developed markets.
The soft drinks and confectionery industries are highly Around 25% of the Groups confectionery sales are competitive: the Groups brands compete with many other generated in developing markets around the world.
Key multi-national, national and regional companies and private developing markets for the Group are: Mexico and Brazil in label suppliers in various markets.
The Group competes the Americas Confectionery region: Russia, Poland, Turkey, actively in terms of quality, taste and price of products and Egypt and South Africa in the EMEA region: and India and Thailand in the Asia Pacific region.
seeks to develop and enhance brand recognition through the introduction of new products, new packaging, extensive Value % total market 2004 Vs 2003 % advertising and promotional programmes.
Chocolate 54.0 3.0 The soft drinks industry includes a number of brand owners Sugar sweets candied 32.8 2.8 which act as licensors of branded products.
Through Medicated 2.9 1.8 Dr Pepper Seven Up in the United States, the Europe Gum 13.2 5.1 Beverages region, which is primarily based in Continental Sugar 5.0 1.9 Europe, and Schweppes Cottees in Australia, Cadbury Sugar free 8.2 7.6 Schweppes is the third largest carbonated soft drinks group Total confectionery $118.8bn 3.2 world-wide by sales volume.
Source: Euromonitor 2003 Source: Euromonitor 2003 Cadbury Schweppes is among the top two confectionery groups in the world by sales value see table below.
The chocolate confectionery market is primarily a branded The Groups main beverage market is in the US.
Four groups account for around 40% of the world AC Nielsen, the US refreshment beverage market, which chocolate confectionery market: each groups market share is includes non-alcoholic carbonated and non-carbonated soft built on regional strengths.
Cadbury Schweppes 7.2% drinks, was flat in volume terms but grew by 3% in value in chocolate share is built on strong positions in the UK, Ireland, 2004.
Carbonated soft drinks CSDs volumes have been flat Australia, New Zealand and India.
The gum market is also a or declining in recent years and fell by 3.1% in 2004.
It is more global in nature with brands and decline in volumes has been attributed to the combination of products being more consistent across different geographies.
above inflation pricing and consumers switching to nonTwo groups account for nearly 60% of total share.
Cadbury carbonated products, primarily sports drinks and bottled Schweppes number two position is built on strong market water.
Within the carbonated market, products sweetened shares in the Americas, parts of Continental Europe, with sugar regular have been declining by 7.0% in 2004 Japan and Thailand.
The sugar confectionery market is while products sweetened with low calorie sweeteners diet significantly more fragmented, with a greater presence have been growing by 5.2% in 2004.
Cadbury Schweppes of local and regional brands and private label products.
has 6 out of the top 10 non-cola diet CSDs in the United Cadbury Schweppes has the leading 6.4% share of the States, including Diet Dr Pepper, Diet A&W, Diet Sunkist and global sugar confectionery market.
In 2004, diet CSDs accounted for 23% of Cadbury Schweppes CSD sales in the US and grew by 19%.
Cadbury 2003 $ Share Total Chocolate Sugar Gum Schweppes does not participate in the sports drinks market in the US and only has a small presence in the bottled water Cadbury Schweppes 9.2% 7.2% 6.4% 24.7% market.
The non-CSD categories in which the Group Mars 9.9% 16.5% 3.2% participates fell by 1.2% in volume in 2004.
Nestle 7.8% 12.2% 3.5% Hershey 6.3% 9.3% 3.1% 2.1% Volumes % total market 2004 Vs 2003 % Kraft 4.7% 7.0% 2.7% Carbonated soft drinks 61 3 Wrigley 4.4% 33.9% Regular 42 7 Ferrero 4.2% 7.0% 1.4% Diet 19 5 Perfetti 2.2% 4.4% 5.7% Non carbonated 39 5 Lotte 2.0% 0.7% 9.2% Water 11 20 Isotonics 4 9 Source: Euromonitor 2003 100% Juice 10 5 Juice Drinks 9 0 Industry Trends Total 100 0 Both the beverage and confectionery markets in which the Group operates are growing.
Source: AC Nielsen December 2004 According to Euromonitor the global confectionery market grew by 3.2% in value in 2003.
It forecasts that the market will grow at a similar rate in the foreseeable future.
Within the overall confectionery market chocolate grew at 3.0% in 2003, gum by 5.1% and sugar by 2.8%.
In gum, consumers are switching away from sugared to sugar-free products.
Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2004 Cadbury Schweppes 11 Description of Business Consumers and Customers 3.
Organisation Capabilities and Governance The Groups products are primarily impulse products and Employees are sold to the consumer through many different outlets, The average employee headcount is: ranging from grocery stores to petrol station kiosks and fountain equipment at leisure, food and entertainment 2004 2003 venues.
In many markets, sales to the large multiple grocery trade accounts for less than 50% of sales.
No single customer Americas Beverages 6,774 7,020 accounts for more than 10% of the Groups turnover.
Americas Confectionery 14,002 13,672 EMEA 21,549 22,611 The Group has a variety of programmes in place to ensure Europe Beverages 3,019 3,139 that consumer insights are built into its commercial strategy.
Asia Pacific 12,436 12,480 In 2004, the Group put in place a new approach to Central 662 612 consumer segmentation and commercial strategy Total 58,442 59,534 development, based on rigorous and extensive consumer research in its key confectionery markets.
This is being During 2004, the average number of people employed by extended to its key beverage markets in 2005. the Group and its subsidiaries in the UK was 7,468 Raw Materials and Suppliers 2003: 7,409.
The Group uses a wide range of raw materials in the production of its confectionery and beverage products.
Learning and Development The main raw materials are: cocoa beans, sugar and other The Groups People Strategy sets out Cadbury Schweppes sweeteners including polyols and artificial sweeteners such commitment to ensuring all employees realise their full as aspartame, dairy products including milk, fruit and nuts.
Objectives are set and performance measured through annual individual performance and development Cadbury Schweppes buys its raw materials from about reviews.
Regular personal development and career 40,000 suppliers around the world.
No single supplier development discussions are held.
accounts for more than 10% of the Groups raw material purchases.
The Group developed a Human Rights and Ethical In 2004, learning and development focused on supporting Trading HRET policy in 2000.
Further details are provided the introduction of new operational processes more suited to on page 15. the scale and reach of the business following the Adams acquisition.
This included a revised Integrated Portfolio The Group seeks to minimise the impact of price fluctuations Management IPM process for new product development and ensure security of supply by entering into forward and launch, and a new Sales and Operations planning S&OP agreements and long-term contracts where such process which speeds up the process from ordering through agreements and contracts are available.
production and delivery of product as well as increasing the accuracy of forecasting.
In addition, significant learning and Cocoa beans are imported from West Africa and the Far development support was provided for the continued rollout East.
West Africa accounts for over 60% of world production.
of Probe, the new business enterprise system.
The Group buys cocoa beans and cocoa butter from a range of suppliers.
The Group attempts to minimise the effect of The Groups Building Strategic Capability programme, a cocoa price movements and secure its future cocoa fundamental building block of Managing for Value, continued requirements by entering into forward and future contracts to be rolled out across the Group, as was the coaching and for cocoa beans and cocoa butter.
people development skills training programme first introduced in 2003.
The Group purchases most of its sugar at prices essentially set by the European Union or maintained by various national A major new programme called Building Commercial governments through quotas and duties.
Only a relatively Capability was developed during 2004 for roll-out in 2005. small proportion of the Groups sugar requirements are The aim of the programme is to improve commercial decision purchased at fluctuating world prices.
It will further improve the marketing and sales experienced and does not anticipate difficulty in obtaining expertise by defining a common Cadbury Schweppes way of adequate supplies of sugar for its operations, with sources marketing and selling.
12 Cadbury Schweppes Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2004 Leadership Imperatives This objective is embedded in the Group-wide Equal In 2004, the Group rolled out its refreshed Leadership Employment Opportunities and Diversity Policy.
These outline the behaviours that are expected and Corporate and Social Responsibility CSR Committee of managers and leaders across the Group and are built into monitor procedures and progress and Cadbury Schweppes the individual performance reviews that occur twice a year.
uses training, workshops, and induction, and in some cases The Leadership Imperatives are: Accountable: Adaptable: Diversity Committees, to ensure it shares best practice and Aggressive: Forward Thinking: Motivating: Collaborative: celebrates diversity.
Additional initiatives were taken in Growing People and Living our Values.
2004 to explore new ways to extend the Groups commitments to ensuring an inclusive environment at work.
Employee Communication and Involvement Recommendations will be reviewed early in 2005 for Employee communication and engagement continued to implementation during the coming year.
expand in 2004 with all areas of the business putting in place a more integrated regional and global communication Disabled Persons structure and enhanced programmes.
The Group employs people with disabilities, though not all of them are formally registered disabled persons in UK terms.
Through its subsidiaries, Cadbury Schweppes has successfully If an employee becomes disabled, the Group always aims to entered into numerous collective bargaining agreements.
offer an alternative job, wherever possible, with retraining The Groups management has no reason to believe that it where needed.
would not be able to renegotiate any such agreements on satisfactory terms.
Health and Well-Being A number of health and well-being programmes are provided For the first time the Group undertook a common employee for employees at business unit level.
These programmes range climate survey among the Groups Senior Executive from employee nutrition & health education through to population and the three levels of management below it whole-family health management schemes.
The survey aimed to find out how colleagues include the provision of nutrition-focused cafeterias on site, across the business feel about working at Cadbury hygiene and health management education, subsidised Schweppes and asked for their views on a range of topics, activity facilities on site or off-site, organised sporting and including personal development, motivation and teamwork.
social activities, and a range of courses and counselling on The response rate was high at 74% and the overall results matters such as work-life balance, relaxation and stress were positive albeit with some areas for improvement.
management, managing weight change and reducing smoking or drinking.
A large number of business units have The outputs of the survey are being discussed in each region medical facilities for basic health and safety requirements.
and function during 2005 to see what further improvements In addition many provide medicals of one form or another can be made.
The next Global Climate Survey will be carried for employees to give an indication of fitness to work.
The intention over time is to extend the survey to every Cadbury Schweppes employee.
In 2004, these programmes were reviewed so that guiding principles could be put in place during 2005 to inform their Employee Share Ownership further development and the introduction of new facilities Share ownership among all Cadbury Schweppes employees is and programmes.
Employees in Australia, Canada, France, Germany, Ireland, Mexico, Netherlands, New Zealand, Pensions Portugal, Spain, UK and US have access to all-employee share Companies across the Group reflect local good practice in plan arrangements which involve participation on favourable their retirement provisions.
For example, the employee terms.
Overall, around 40% of all eligible employees choose representatives on the Pensions Consultative Committee to participate, and invitations to participate are generally elect half of the trustees administering the Company scheme communicated each year.
The Company appoints the remaining trustees.
Details on Group pension arrangements are provided in Details of stock option plans available to employees are Note 18 to the Financial Statements on page 119. provided in Note 30 to the Financial Statements on page 143.
In line with the Accounting For People reporting standard we introduced in last years Annual Review we continue to Equal Employment Opportunities, Diversity and track key facts and figures on the shape of our employee base Inclusiveness around the world.
Turnover remains low at 2-5% p. a. as for Diversity brings the richness of capabilities and perspectives 2003.
In 2004, our executive management population has that enable a global business to stay relevant to customers dropped to 165, from 180 in 2003.
The proportion of and consumers.
The objective of the Group is to have an women in this group has risen to 13% in 2004, up from inclusive employment environment in terms of race, colour, 11% in 2003. ethnic or national origin, gender, sexual orientation, age, religion, marital status and disability.
Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2004 Cadbury Schweppes 13 Description of Business Science and Technology including research and Corporate Governance development In managing the affairs of the Group, the Board of Cadbury In 2004, the Groups research and development activities Schweppes plc is committed to achieving high standards of were reorganised and came together under new Science and business integrity, ethics and professionalism across all its Technology leadership.
This function is represented at the activities.
The Board supports the highest standards of Chief Executives Committee and led by a Chief Science and corporate governance, and has approved a financial Code of Technology Officer.
During 2004, a new global science and Ethics that applies to the Chief Executive Officer and senior technology strategy was put in place to enable the Group to financial officers in the Group.
All members of the Board sign gain greater advantage in this area.
Currently, the function the Cadbury Schweppes Business Principles.
Both the Code undertakes the investigation of changes to existing products, and Business Principles are available on the Groups website and the development of new products, packaging and www.
This includes rigorously assessing the safety of ingredients and products and the inclusion of For the full corporate governance report and an outline of any benefit-enhancing ingredients, as well as the the Board of Directors remit, composition and activities see development of improved product tastes, textures and pages 25 to 31. physical properties of products which meet or exceed Corporate and Social Responsibility CSR customer expectations while also meeting regulatory Cadbury Schweppes business growth objectives are requirements of all countries where the product is sold.
developed with a strong sense of obligation and responsibility The Group uses its own science, technology and innovation to the wider society.
To sustain success in different and facilities as well as those of suppliers.
The Groups major changing markets and diverse cultures, the Group is facilities are based in Reading, UK: Morris Plains, New Jersey, committed to working to high international standards of USA: and Trumbull, Connecticut, USA.
There are several corporate and social responsibility CSR.
The Board-level smaller facilities around the world which support local Corporate and Social Responsibility Committee, established in business units.
The Group has committed to building a new 2000 and chaired by non-executive director Baroness Judith facility in the New Jersey area, which will be completed in Wilcox, oversees an agenda covering five activity areas: late 2005.
This will represent a significant upgrade to current facilities.
Human rights and employment standards: Ethical sourcing and procurement: The Group spent 63 million in 2004, 53 million in 2003 Marketing and Consumer issues: and 32 million in 2002 on research and development.
Environmental, health and safety: Community.
Innovation In 2004, Cadbury Schweppes invested in a new consumer The terms of reference for the committee are available to segmentation study across its major markets around the view on the investor centre page of the Companys website, world.
This is providing valuable insights for the innovation www.
Alternatively, they are platforms which the Group has chosen to pursue globally.
available in hard copy format from the Group Secretary.
It has also increased the focus on discovery of ideas to feed the Groups innovation pipelines, with the aid of a proprietary Some of the key areas the CSR Board Committee reviewed software tool and common process for innovation decisionin 2004 were: environment: health and safety: ethical making and resource allocation.
sourcing: food issues: community investment: external perceptions of the Groups CSR activity including CSR Intellectual Property indices ratings: and the Groups internal CSR process The Group is the owner of numerous registered trade marks, including awareness programmes.
2004 was our year of copyrights, patents, designs and domain names throughout Embedding CSR.
The Committee also received reports from the world together with numerous licences, as well as the Human Rights & Ethical Trade HRET working party and substantial know-how, trade secrets and technology.
These the Environment, Health & Safety Steering Group EHSSG.
relate to its products and the processes for their production, packaging, marketing and the design and operation of various After each meeting the CSR Committee Chairman reports processes and equipment used in its businesses.
An amount to the Board on all significant matters discussed or approved of 3,261 million has been included in the Groups balance by the CSR Committee.
In 2004, the Audit Committee and sheet at 2 January 2005 to reflect the cost of intellectual the Chief Executives Committee reviewed and discussed property acquired since 1985.
While the Group does a detailed report on risk management.
These risks include not generally charge annual amortisation of this cost in possible damage to reputation if the Group does not meet its accounts, in the event of any diminution in value, appropriate CSR standards, or fails to comply with applicable an appropriate charge would be made against income.
laws and regulations including legislation relating to the For further information on our policy regarding the environment and health and safety to employee practices amortisation of the cost of brands see Note 1 to the in different countries.
The risk report was discussed by the Financial Statements on page 102.
An important part of the risk review includes the Groups risk mitigation strategy.
14 Cadbury Schweppes Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2004 In 2004, an updated corporate and social responsibility Following a review in 2003, in 2004 a new integrated report was published which outlined the Groups Environmental, Health and Safety EHS Policy with commitments to major policies on and achievements against supporting EHS standards was introduced to replace the the five activity areas.
The report is published in full on the previous separate Environmental and Health & Safety Policies.
The next CSR report The Cadbury Schweppes EHS policy deals with environmental will be published in 2006.
Employees responsibility to issues related to the manufacturing of our products, protecting operate within the Groups CSR framework is set out in the bio-diversity and the eco-systems from which the Group Cadbury Schweppes Business Principles.
Each year all sources raw materials, the management of its supply chain managers in the business are asked to confirm that they and and the distribution, sale and consumption of its products.
their teams have seen the Business Principles and will abide by them.
The new EHS Standards incorporate management system requirements based upon both ISO 14001 and OSHAS The Group is a signatory to the UN Global Compact and 18001.
All sites within the Group are audited by the Group endorses its ideals.
The CSR activities of the Group involve an EHS Assurance Department and some are also externally active engagement programme with stakeholders to both audited and certified to one or more of the internationally inform policy and resource allocation, and to assess the recognised standards and the Eco-Management and Audit effectiveness and appropriateness of activities undertaken.
The Groups Human Rights and Ethical Trading HRET The Group continues to invest in systems, processes and policy was developed in 2000.
It covers core labour rights facilities to continually improve EHS performance, which is and dignity at work: health and safety in the workplace: fair measured and tracked against publicly available targets in the remuneration: diversity and respect for differences and key areas of energy use, water use and greenhouse gas opportunity for development.
The policy has been emissions.
developed taking into account international standards such as the International Labour Organisation conventions Local legislative requirements for health and safety reporting and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights as well as vary considerably across the world and this has made cultural and industry best practice from our local markets.
consolidation of such data difficult.
To enable the Group to It applies to all Cadbury Schweppes business units, as well publish a consolidated set of Group health and safety data, as its suppliers.
key performance indicators KPIs have been defined which all sites must report against on a globally consistent basis.
HRET pilot studies were conducted in five countries: China, The two core KPIs that the Group has selected are Lost Ghana, Indonesia, Mexico and Turkey.
The learning gained has Time Injury Frequency Rate LTIFR per 200,000 manhours been incorporate into Ethical Sourcing Standards for the and Serious Accident Rate SAR which is analogous to the Group which are being underpinned with a system for UK specific definition of Reportable Accident Incident supplier evaluation, training for employees and a programme Rate RAIR.
of engagement with our suppliers.
A new ethical sourcing director position has been created to manage the A new global EHS data reporting system was introduced implementation of these standards.
In 2004, the Group has at the end of 2004 to facilitate collation of all EHS KPIs continued to play a leading role in the International Cocoa in 2005.
Initiative to promote responsible labour practices and to work with cocoa farmers to improve their standard of living.
This Further detailed performance information is available in the industry initiative is committed to the development of CSR Report and is published on the Cadbury Schweppes certification standards by July 2005.
com became an active member of the Palm Oil Round Table.
The Groups growing Community Value around the World In 2004, the Groups food issues strategy group, chaired by strategy guides the businesses in how they can contribute to the Chairman, John Sunderland, developed 10 Group and assist local communities.
This is through pan-national, position papers and supporting policies on consumer issues national or locally targeted programmes often involving related to the role of food in public health and the marketing commercial sponsorship, significant employee engagement of our products.
These included a global marketing code of through direct involvement or secondment, and help with practice with particular reference to children, which is facilities, as well as direct financial support.
In the UK, published on the website: obesity prevention: enhanced Cadbury Schweppes is a member of The PerCent Club, labelling: portion size review: vending in schools guidelines: whereby it seeks to invest one per cent of pre-tax profits in withdrawal of embedded toys in products: added trans-fats in supporting the community working to established guidelines.
products: genetically modified ingredients and chewing gum During 2004, contributions within the UK to charities or disposal.
The Group is committed to playing a productive part, equivalent organisations through corporate giving or as part working with governments, industry and concerned of the activity of UK operating companies amounted to organisations in finding longer term solutions to problems 2.3 million 2003: 2.2 million.
posed by the current lack of education and understanding about the appropriate role of food and activity in public health.
Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2004 Cadbury Schweppes 15 Description of Business External Ranking and Verification Political Donations The Groups CSR performance is ranked by various external In 2004, neither the Company, nor any of its subsidiaries, indices, based on a mix of self-completed survey data and made any donation to any registered party or other EU external assessment.
These include: political organisation, incurred any EU political expenditure or made any contribution to a non-EU political party, each as Dow Jones Sustainability World Index and Dow Jones defined in the Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Sustainability STOXX Index.
Risk Factors in the food industry was 76% and the global food average The Groups business, financial condition, results of was 40%.
FTSE4Good and FTSE4Good Supply Chain Labour operations or share price could be materially adversely Standards Criteria.
The Group is included in these indices, affected by any or all of the following risks, or by other risks which measure performance of companies that meet that the Group presently cannot identify.
The information globally recognised CSR and supply chain labour standards.
set forth under the headings Treasury Risk Management, UKs Business in the Community Corporate Responsibility Liquidity Risk, Interest Rate Risk, Currency Risk, Fair Index.
In 2003, the Group was rated at 87%, up from 73% Value Analysis, Commodity Risk and Credit Risk on in 2002.
This is a ranking of second in the food producers pages 71 and 73 is incorporated herein by reference.
and processors sector and 49th out of 139 overall.
Currency Fluctuations In 2005, the Group will be independently auditing assurance The Group operates in many different countries and thus is and verification three areas of its CSR activity.
These are subject to currency fluctuations, both in terms of its trading environment: health and safety: ethical sourcing and business activities and the translation of its financial statements: principles.
furthermore, approximately 60% of its operating profits are now derived from the Americas.
During 2004, the impact Government Regulation and Legislation of exchange rate movements on the Group was adverse Production, distribution and sale of many of the and therefore turnover and total operating profit were Groups products are subject to governmental regulation 285 million, and 66 million lower respectively, than would regarding the production, sale, safety, labelling and have been the case had the exchange rates prevailing during composition ingredients of such products in the various 2003 been applied.
While the Group uses short-term hedging countries and governmental regions in which the Group for trading activities, the Company does not believe that it operates.
In addition, the manufacture of many of the is appropriate or practicable to hedge long-term translation Groups products, and the Groups other activities, in various exposure.
If the Group experiences significant currency markets is subject to governmental regulation relating to the fluctuations or is unable effectively to use similar interest discharge of materials into the environment, and also to the cover ratios, then the Groups financial condition could be reclamation and re-cycling of packaging waste.
of the Groups beverage products in certain markets is subject to governmental regulation encouraging returnable Competition and Demand containers.
At all times the Group is subject to the Both the beverages and confectionery industries are highly employment and health and safety legislation in those competitive.
In its major markets, the Group competes countries in which it has operations.
with other multinational corporations which have significant financial resources to respond to and develop the markets The Groups operations are also subject to the risks and in which both they and the Group operate.
These resources uncertainties inherent in doing business in numerous may be applied to change areas of focus or to increase countries.
A number of countries in which these operations investments in marketing or new products.
This could cause are conducted maintain controls on the repatriation of the Groups sales or margins to decrease in these markets.
earnings and capital and restrict the means available to the Furthermore, consumer tastes are susceptible to change.
Group for hedging potential currency fluctuation risks.
If the Group is unable to respond to rapid changes in However, the operations which are affected by such controls consumer preferences, the Groups sales or margins in are not material to the Group as a whole, and such controls individual markets could be materially adversely affected.
have not significantly affected the international operations of the Group.
In some of the countries where the Group operates, the regulatory authorities may have enforcement powers which could subject the Group to such actions as product recalls, seizure of products and other sanctions.
However, the Group believes that it has taken and continues to take measures to comply with applicable laws and governmental regulations in the jurisdictions within which it operates so that the risk of such sanctions does not represent a material threat to the Group.
16 Cadbury Schweppes Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2004 Dependence on Business Partners continues to take measures to comply with applicable laws A significant part of the Groups CSD business in the US is and governmental regulations in the jurisdictions within conducted through licensing arrangements with independent which it operates so that the risk of such sanctions does not bottlers.
Major competitors of the Group have substantial represent a material threat to the Group.
equity interests in certain of these bottlers.
These bottlers may come under pressure to replace the Groups brands with A number of countries in which these operations are competitor products, and although Cadbury Schweppes conducted maintain controls on the repatriation of earnings would be able to re-licence these brands, such a change may and capital and restrict the means available to the Group for well adversely affect volumes and profit, particularly in the hedging potential currency fluctuation risks.
There is also a greater concentration of the operations, which are affected by such controls, are not Groups customer base around the world generally, due to material to the Group as a whole, and such controls have not the consolidation of retail trade.
Pricing pressures from significantly affected the international operations of the Group.
customers in countries with concentrated retail trade, could adversely impact the Groups sales or margins.
In addition, Role of food in public health inappropriate action by or an incident at a licensee partner Many countries in the world face rising obesity levels, involving Cadbury Schweppes brands could impact severely resulting from an imbalance in the energy consumed through on the reputation of Cadbury Schweppes brands or the food and energy expended in activity.
The reasons for the Group as a whole.
societal level change that has occurred and why some individuals have a greater inclination to obesity are multiHowever, there is risk associated with Information Technology faceted and complex.
The Group depends on accurate, timely information and the possibility of governments taking action against the food numerical data from key software applications to enable industry, for example by levying additional taxes on or by day-to-day decision making.
The Group has continued to restricting the advertising of certain product types.
This would implement Probe, a major enterprise wide system.
In 2004, make it harder for the Group to market its products and it successfully implemented Probe in its carbonated soft would reduce sales and profits.
Also, consumer tastes may drinks business in the US, Cadbury Adams in Japan, Orangina change rapidly and if the Group is unable to respond its sales Schweppes in France and Cadbury in Ireland.
In 2005, it will or margins could decline.
be implemented in Great Britain both in Cadbury Trebor Bassett and the Group HQ.
Any disruption caused by a failure Contamination of Probe or similar applications, of underlying equipment or Despite safety measures adopted by the Group, the Groups of communication networks, for whatever reason, could delay products could become contaminated.
The Group uses many day-to-day decision making or cause the Group material ingredients in manufacturing beverages and confectionery, financial losses.
which increases the risk of contamination, either accidental or malicious.
While the Group believes that incidents of this Manufacturing type are generally localised, any contamination could be The Groups manufacturing facilities could be disrupted for expensive to remedy, may cause delays in manufacturing and reasons beyond the Groups control.
These disruptions may adversely affect the Groups reputation and financial condition.
include extremes of weather, fire, supplies of materials or services, system failures, workforce actions or environmental Fuel for Growth issues.
Any significant manufacturing disruptions could In 2003, the Group embarked on a significant cost reduction adversely affect the Groups ability to make and sell products, initiative to reduce direct and indirect costs across the which could cause the Groups revenues to decline.
This initiative, which includes all the integration activities related to the acquisition of Adams, involves Raw Materials significant reductions in factories and employees.
These are The Groups profitability depends to some extent upon the carefully and sensitively planned: nevertheless, major cost of raw materials from around the world, which exposes unforeseen difficulties could reduce the Groups earnings.
the Group to price and supply fluctuation.
Key items such as cocoa, milk, sugar and packaging materials are subject to Retirement Benefits potentially significant fluctuations in price and availability.
The Group has various retirement benefit schemes which are While the Group takes measures to protect itself against the funded via investments in equities, bonds and other external short-term impact of these fluctuations, there is no assets.
The scheme liabilities reflect the latest salary levels.
assurance that in the long-term any increase in costs can be The values of such assets are dependent on, among other recovered from customers.
A failure to recover these costs things, the performance of the equity and debt markets, from customers could decrease the Groups profitability.
Any shortfall in the Groups funding obligations may require significant additional funding from Governmental Actions the employing entities.
The Groups operations are also subject to the risks and uncertainties inherent in doing business in numerous countries.
The Group is subject to substantial government regulation that may change dramatically as a result of political, economic or social events.
Such changes may be wide-ranging and cover cross-border trading, taxation, employment practices, environment, health and safety issues, including actions such as product recalls, seizure of products and other sanctions.
The Group believes that it has taken and Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2004 Cadbury Schweppes 17
