Description of business Hanson is one of the worlds leading heavy building We use various methods, depending on the type of reserve, materials companies.
We are the worlds largest producer to estimate those reserves that are economically extractable.
of aggregates and one of the largest producers of heavy The estimated average selling price for products in a market building products such as concrete products and bricks.
is a significant factor in deciding whether or not reserves We have operations in North America, the UK, Australia, are value adding to extract.
Mineral reserves can be difficult Asia Pacic and Continental Europe.
to estimate and due to the nature of our operations, some production lives are shorter than others.
Our aggregate divisions include the production of crushed rock and sand and gravel as well as ready-mixed We pursue a policy of continual replenishment of our concrete, asphalt and cement operations.
We aim to retain reserves both through the acquisition of new businesses ready-mixed concrete and asphalt operations where and the development of new sites, performing extensive they are value enhancing and integrate with our aggregate geological due diligence on all new reserves through operations.
Our strategy does not include a significant drilling, sampling and data collection, as appropriate.
emphasis on owning cement operations.
We believe we have a strong history of securing planning permission for our sites.
This helps to ensure that our Our building products divisions include brick, roof tile reserve base continues to meet long-term future demand.
and concrete product operations such as pipes, blocks, and pre-cast concrete structures.
Our acquisition strategy also helps us to replace and supplement our holdings of mineral reserves.
Ever tighter Our products are used across all construction sectors: environmental and planning restrictions are making new housing, infrastructure, commercial and industrial.
Our permits increasingly difficult to obtain.
The permits which customers are primarily from the public and private works we have, our ability to renew them and to secure new sectors of the construction and building materials industry, ones through acquisition provide a vital way of building whilst a portion of our output is consumed internally in the long-term value.
production of downstream products such as asphalt and ready-mixed concrete.
We coat aggregate with bitumen We intend to invest capital expenditure continually in our to make asphalt: and aggregate, combined with cement existing businesses to maintain plant and equipment, to and other ingredients, makes ready-mixed concrete.
improve efficiency and to reduce costs.
Our experience in the aggregate and building products Bolt-on acquisitions remain our preferred route for expansion.
businesses is extensive, gained over many years.
We As well as helping us to build market share, bolt-ons are operate from over 1,600 facilities in 15 countries around intended to help minimise operating costs and can provide the world see page 108 for a breakdown by product.
greater market and product opportunities.
The fragmentation of the US market in both aggregates and building products Demographics, economic activity, infrastructure spend provides opportunities to continue to add value through and population growth are key drivers of demand for our bolt-ons by building additional volume onto an existing industry.
We recognise the importance of maintaining an support base.
The UK and Australia are largely consolidated appropriate geographic balance and will consider entering in aggregates, but offer opportunities for bolt-on acquisitions selected markets where we anticipate attractive long-term in building products.
We continue to review selected demand growth.
Our main geographic focus is the USA, the UK and All acquisitions are assessed against strict criteria and Australia.
We have a presence in a number of other markets must pass our due diligence and valuation processes.
that we believe have good long-term prospects.
As well as This means many of the opportunities we review do not our international position, we believe it is important to have result in completed acquisitions, which in turn can result strong local positions in the markets in which we operate.
in uneven timing of acquisition expenditure.
The weight of our products generally prohibits transporting them over long distances.
Therefore strong local market We intend to continue to maintain strong financial positions provide us with scale to reduce production costs discipline.
We believe we have a strong balance sheet and increase sourcing options to support a reliable and and will continue to seek to maximise the total return efficient customer service.
The mineral reserves which we own, or have the right to extract, are fundamental to the long-term growth of our business.
At December 31, 2004 we believe we had adequate reserves to permit production for a minimum of 20 years in all of our divisions at current production rates.
We also have access to considerable aggregate reserves for which we believe we have either not yet requested or not yet received extraction permits.
In addition, we plan to maximise the value of our marine based sand and gravel reserves, particularly in the UK.
See Competitive position on page 100 Description of business 5
