Report of the Directors The Directors submit their report together with the consolidated Substantial shareholdings accounts of Hanson and its subsidiary undertakings for the year ended Details of substantial interests 3% or more in Hansons share capital, December 31, 2004. as notied to Hanson, are shown in the Investor information section.
Incorporation and name Annual General Meeting The Company New Hanson was incorporated in England and Wales The AGM will be held at 11.00am on April 20, 2005, at the No.
4626078 on December 31, 2002 as Broadcast Sales Limited, Royal Aeronautical Society, 4 Hamilton Place, London W1J 7BQ.
changed its name to Hanson Building Materials Limited on June 4, 2003, Shareholders being sent this document will also be sent a separate re-registered as a public limited company, Hanson Building Materials PLC, notice of the AGM incorporating explanatory notes of the resolutions on July 10, 2003 and changed its name to Hanson PLC on October 14, to be proposed at the meeting.
The Company, formerly known as Hanson PLC Old Hanson, re-registered as a private limited company and changed its name to Shareholder communications Hanson Building Materials Limited on October 14, 2003.
Hanson values its dialogue with both institutional and private investors.
Based on publicly available information, constructive two-way Following shareholder approval on September 19, 2003 and Court communication with fund managers, institutional investors and analysts sanction on October 13, 2003 and October 20, 2003, a scheme of is promoted and encouraged.
The views of major shareholders are arrangement the Scheme and share capital reduction were implemented reported to the Board, with independent surveys undertaken by the whereby shareholders in Old Hanson received, in substitution for each Companys brokers on specic issues of relevance to the Company.
ordinary share of 2, one ordinary share of 10p in New Hanson.
Arrangements are also in place for the Senior Independent Director The Scheme became effective on October 14, 2003 and the reduction and other Non-executive Directors to meet with major shareholders, in nominal value of the new ordinary shares to 10p each became if they so request.
Additional forms of communication include the interim effective on October 21, 2003. and annual results presentations and the AGM see details of meeting above where shareholders are invited to participate.
The Scheme and the reduction in nominal value were implemented in order to increase the distributable reserves available to the Company.
The Hanson website at www.
biz provides access to information on the Company and its businesses.
Further details of the website can Results and dividends be found in the Investor information section.
It is not intended for the The profit after exceptional items and taxation for the year was 193.6m.
website address to be an active link or to otherwise incorporate the An interim dividend of 5.35p per ordinary share was paid on September contents of the website into this document.
The Directors recommend a final dividend of 12.80p per ordinary share which will, if approved at the AGM, be paid on April 29, 2005, to At the AGM, the Chief Executive will present a review of the results ordinary shareholders on the register at close of business London time and current business activity.
Shareholders are invited to ask questions on April 8, 2005.
After providing for cash dividends of 136.2m, the on items of business put before the meeting and will have the opportunity retained profit transferred to reserves was 57.4m note 20 of the Notes to vote separately on each resolution.
The Chairman will indicate the level to the accounts.
A financial review of 2004 and prospects for the year of proxy votes lodged in respect of each resolution following each vote 2005 are included within the Chairman and Chief Executives overview on a show of hands.
Details of those abstaining from voting will also be and the Operating and financial review.
After the meeting the Directors will also be available to meet with shareholders.
Activities Hanson is a focused heavy building materials company with operations Directors in North America, the UK, Australia, Asia Pacic and Continental Europe.
The present Directors of Hanson are: Note 1 of the Notes to the accounts gives an analysis of operating profit C D Collins, Chairman including joint-ventures and associated undertakings, turnover and capital A J Murray, Chief Executive employed by activity and by geographical location.
Lord Baker of Dorking CH W F Blount Acquisitions and disposals During the year Hanson acquired businesses at a total cost of 88.4m.
G Dranseld Net proceeds from the disposal of subsidiaries and investments during S L Keswick the year totalled 73.4m.
Further information is contained in note 21 W S H Laidlaw of the Notes to the accounts.
J W Leng J C Nicholls Fixed assets Details of movements in Hansons xed assets are shown in note 11 The Baroness Noakes DBE of the Notes to the accounts.
M W Welton Independent Non-executive Director Subsequent events Material post balance sheet events are described in note 32 of the Notes J W Leng and M W Welton were appointed to the Board on June 1, 2004 to the accounts.
Research and development G Dranseld, J C Nicholls and The Baroness Noakes will retire by rotation The development and improvement of new and existing products is an and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election at the forthcoming essential continuing process in our companies.
J W Leng and M W Welton, having been appointed since the last off in the year in which it is incurred.
AGM, will seek election to the Board.
Share capital CDCollins, S L Keswick and Lord Baker will retire immediately after Details of changes in share capital during the year and the number of the AGM and not seek re-election.
M W Welton will succeed CD Collins ordinary shares reserved for issue at December 31, 2004 are shown as Chairman.
in note 19 of the Notes to the accounts.
Details of shares purchased by the Company are shown in note 20 of the Notes to the accounts.
Brief biographical details of the Directors are given on page 32 and accompany the notice of the AGM.
Report of the Directors 33 Report of the Directors continued Directors interests The environment The interests of the Directors, in ofce at December 31, 2004, The progress of Hansons environmental performance is tracked and in the ordinary shares of Hanson appear in the Remuneration report reported quarterly to the Board.
P D Tunnacliffe, the Company Secretary, on pages 38 to 43. is responsible to the Board for environmental matters.
In addition to providing indemnification pursuant to Hansons Articles of Further information on the Companys approach to environmental Association or the articles of association, charter or by-laws of Hansons matters can be found on page 31 and within the Companys separate subsidiaries, Hanson maintains directors and ofcers liability insurance corporate responsibility publications and updates accessible on the for Directors and ofcers of Hanson and its subsidiaries.
Except for such Companys website.
indemnification and insurance and except for the respective terms of service of such Directors and ofcers, no Director or officer of Hanson Charitable and political donations or any of their respective relatives or spouses either had an interest During the year, the group made worldwide charitable donations of in any contract or transaction which was material to Hanson or such 321,000 2003 484,000, including 183,000 2003 152,000 related party or unusual in its nature or conditions or had any outstanding in the UK.
As in the previous year, no political donations were made.
indebtedness of a material nature owing to Hanson at any time during the last three years.
Policy on payment of suppliers The holding company, Hanson PLC, has no trade creditors.
The policy Employees and employment policies of Hanson companies is to agree payment terms with their suppliers and The success of the business ultimately rests upon the people working for abide by those terms, subject to satisfactory performance by the supplier.
The better the understanding among employees of their part in achieving the objectives of the business the greater the opportunity for success.
Auditors Ernst & Young LLP are the independent auditors of Hanson and, having Group policies are framed for adaptation to local legislation by the expressed their willingness to continue in ofce, a resolution proposing divisions.
In addition to matters of compliance, the policies centre around their re-appointment will be submitted at the AGM.
The Auditors reports business improvement and creating an environment where employees on the accounts are on page 46. can reach their full potential.
This includes employment practices relating to disabled persons.
Corporate governance The Directors are committed to high standards of corporate governance, Wide ranging employment policies are in place throughout the group, recognising that Hansons good reputation is one of the Companys most covering areas such as role and goal clarity, performance management, valuable assets.
To maintain this reputation Hansons subsidiaries will strive employee development, succession planning, recruitment, health and to act in accordance with the laws and customs of each country in which safety and equal opportunity in employment.
they operate: adopt proper standards of business practice and procedure: operate with integrity: and observe and respect the culture of each country Employment communication and involvement through a range of media in which they operate.
Within adopted business principles, divisional codes and meetings allows employees to have a better understanding of the of conduct and supporting policies are in place.
A code of ethics for the business performance, as well as important information on operational purposes of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 US SOX, which applies news, health and safety, the environment, employee news and community to Hanson as a company listed on the NYSE, covering Hansons Chief activities.
Two-way communication is encouraged and employees are able Executive, Finance Director, Legal Director, Divisional Chief Executives to make valuable contributions to improvement in business processes.
and other identiable persons in the group, including those performing senior accounting and controller functions, is in place.
This code is available Divisional companies all play their part in informing employees of the on request from the Company Secretary or on Hansons website.
financial and economic factors affecting the Companys performance and the actual results.
The Board is accountable to shareholders for good business governance.
The way in which Hanson applies the principles set out Health and safety in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial The progress of the safety performance throughout the businesses Reporting Council in July 2003 the Code is described within this worldwide is tracked and reported quarterly to the Board using standard Report of the Directors and in the Remuneration report.
P D Tunnacliffe, the Company Secretary, is responsible to the in full compliance with this Code throughout the year under review, save Board for health and safety.
Hanson uses the following indicators to provide a consistent measure As well as being subject to UK legislation and practice Hanson, of its performance.
According to best international practice the measures as a company listed on the NYSE, is subject to the listing requirements are per 200,000 hours worked: of the NYSE and the rules of the SEC.
Compliance with the provisions of SOX, as it applies to foreign issuers, is continually monitored.
Whilst Lost time incidence rate: this is the frequency rate of injuries the Directors believe that the groups corporate governance policies resulting in an employee being absent for one or more shifts.
are robust, changes have been and will continue to be made to ensure Lost day incidence rate: this is the frequency rate for days lost compliance with the rules that are in place at any point in time.
Hanson as a result of accidents.
follows UK corporate governance practice, which does not differ signicantly from the NYSE corporate governance standards, except The overall safety statistics for the group showed continued improvement that the Nominations Committee is required to be comprised of a majority, in 2004.
Although the number of lost work days shifts per lost time rather than entirely, of independent directors and there is no requirement incident remained at the same level as 2003, the incidence of lost time in the UK for a comprehensive code of business conduct and ethics.
However, during 2004, there was one employee work related fatality.
Although this is the lowest recorded annual number of fatalities since consolidated safety records were maintained in 2000, the only acceptable number is zero.
Further information on Hansons policies and procedures can be found on page 31 and within the Companys separate corporate responsibility publications and updates accessible on the Companys website.
34 Report of the Directors Report of the Directors continued The Board of Directors All Directors are equally accountable for the proper stewardship of The Board currently comprises the Chairman, the Chief Executive, the Companys affairs.
The Non-executive Directors have a particular two other Executive Directors and seven Non-executive Directors.
responsibility for ensuring that the business strategies proposed are There is a clear separation of the roles of the Chairman and Chief fully discussed and critically reviewed.
This enables the Directors to Executive.
As Chairman, C D Collins has the responsibility for the act in the best long-term interest of shareholders, whilst taking account running of the Board and for ensuring that all Directors are fully of the interests of employees, customers, suppliers and the communities informed of matters relevant to their roles.
As Chief Executive, in which the businesses operate.
The Non-executive Directors also A J Murray has responsibility for implementing the strategy agreed oversee the operational performance of the whole group.
To do this by the Board and for managing the group.
they have full and timely access to all relevant information, with updates also provided on governance and regulatory matters affecting the During the year, there was no change in the Chairmans other Company.
In addition, senior executives below Board level are invited, commitments.
He remains a Non-executive Director of four other as appropriate, to Board and strategy meetings to make presentations public companies as described on page 32, including the role of on their areas of responsibility.
Non-executive Chairman of Forth Ports PLC.
As part of the initial induction process for those Non-executive Directors All of the Non-executive Directors are, in the opinion of the newly appointed, documents describing the Company and its activities Board, considered to be independent of management and free are provided.
Site visits are arranged, with all Directors provided with from any business or other relationships which affect their ability the opportunity and encouragement for training to ensure they are kept to exercise independent judgement.
In the case of S L Keswick and up to date on relevant new legislation and best practice and changing The Rt Hon.
Lord Baker of Dorking, the Board considers their effective commercial and other risks.
In order to full their duties, procedures are appointment date as February 24, 1997, being the date of the final in place for Directors to seek both independent advice and the advice demerger which resulted in the current business focused on heavy and services of the Company Secretary who is responsible for advising building materials.
S L Keswick is the Senior Independent Director.
the Board, through the Chairman, on all governance matters.
The Board considers that the current Non-executive Directors bring During the year, an evaluation of the Boards effectiveness, including a wide range of business and financial experience required for the the effectiveness of committees of the Board, was undertaken by the successful direction of Hanson as an international force in the heavy Chairman by way of a written questionnaire to, and individual meetings building materials industry and provide a solid foundation for good with, all Directors.
The responses were subject to review by the Board corporate governance, ensuring that no individual or group dominates and identied improvements will be introduced in 2005, during which the Boards decision making.
Through the Nominations Committee, year a further evaluation process will be undertaken.
the Board ensures that plans are in place for the succession of Executive and Non-executive Directors.
As part of the evaluation process, the Chairman considered the performance, including time commitments, of each individual There were six Board and strategy meetings held during the year Non-executive Director and concluded that the performance of and the attendance records of individual Directors is set out below: each continues to be effective.
Attendance Also during the year and in the absence of the Chairman, the C D Collins 6 Non-executive Directors, led by SLKeswick, met to consider the A J Murray 6 performance of the Chairman.
It was concluded that the performance G Dranseld 6 of the Chairman was effective.
Similarly, during the year, the Chairman J C Nicholls 6 met with the Non-executive Directors to consider the performance of the Chief Executive in the discharge of his duties.
Again, it was concluded The Rt Hon.
Lord Baker of Dorking 6 that the performance of the Chief Executive continues to be effective.
W F Blount 6 S L Keswick 4 The Non-executive Directors full a key role in corporate accountability.
W S H Laidlaw 4 The remits and membership of the Remuneration, the Nominations and J W Leng appointed June 1, 2004 4 the Audit Committees of the Board are set out below.
The Baroness Noakes 6 Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee comprises three independent Non-executive The Board manages overall control of the Companys affairs with reference Directors: The Rt Hon.
Lord Baker of Dorking Chairman, W F Blount and to the schedule of matters reserved for its authorisation and approval, The Baroness Noakes.
Its role is described in the Remuneration report.
Matters reserved for authorisation and approval include long-term strategy, financial statements and significant changes The terms of reference of the Committee are available on request from in accounting policy, dividend recommendations, treasury activities, the Company Secretary or on Hansons website.
major acquisitions and disposals, major capital projects or expenditure, appointment of Directors, risk management policies and major changes Nominations Committee in the groups pension arrangements.
Matters for which the Board has The Nominations Committee consists of C D Collins as Chairman, responsibility include compliance with the groups environmental and A J Murray and all the independent Non-executive Directors.
health and safety policies and, as set out below, the groups system of The Committees terms of reference include the review of the structure, internal control.
Matters which the Board reviews include quarterly results, size and composition of the Board, with recommendations to the Board the groups management resource planning, charitable donations and the on any changes, and planning for the orderly succession of Executive effectiveness of the groups system of internal control, as set out below.
SLKeswick chaired meetings when the appointment of a successor to CDCollins was being reviewed.
During this year, on behalf of the Committee, SLKeswick led an extensive process to identify a successor to CDCollins which resulted in a recommendation to the Board that M W Welton succeed CDCollins as Chairman of the Company.
On behalf of the Board, the Committee also undertook searches for the appointment of new Non-executive Directors.
Report of the Directors 35 Report of the Directors continued In conducting these searches, the Committee appointed an external During the year, the Committees meetings considered or addressed, search consultancy and met with candidates prior to making a as appropriate, the following principal matters: the interim and full year recommendation to the Board, which resulted in the appointments of financial results prior to consideration by the Board: the scope and cost J W Leng and M W Welton as Non-executive Directors of the Company of the external audit: any non-audit work carried out by the auditors, on June 1, 2004 and January 4, 2005, respectively.
A candidate prole conrming it was in line with the Committees policy for the provision for the searches was agreed.
It is anticipated that, for the appointment of audit and non-audit services by the auditors to ensure the safeguarding of further Non-executive Directors, a similar procedure will be adopted.
of audit independence and objectivity: the annual internal audit plan and its resourcing: the auditors interim and full year reports, including During the year the Committee met twice formally in full, other than on the auditors own report on their independence and objectivity: an one occasion when JWLeng and WSHLaidlaw were unable to attend, evaluation of the effectiveness of the auditors and consideration of and on a number of other occasions, principally in the search for new their reappointment: the establishment of whistleblowing procedures: Non-executive Directors and in relation to the succession of the Chairman.
the auditors report to management: review of the groups internal control framework and identication and control of major risks: Following appointment by the Board, new Directors must submit monitoring compliance with the groups code of ethics: corporate themselves for election by the shareholders at the AGM following their governance developments in the UK and the USA: the monitoring appointment.
Thereafter, subject to the Articles of Association in relation of the groups International Financial Reporting Standards conversion to the re-election of Directors, all Directors are subject to re-election every exercise: changes to the groups accounting policies: the overseeing three years.
Recommendations to shareholders on the re-appointment of the groups SOX compliance work: and the Committees own terms of the Directors is not automatic and is subject to consideration of reference and evaluation of its effectiveness.
by the Committee, prior to approval by the Board.
The terms of reference of the Committee are available on request from The terms of reference of the Committee are available on request from the Company Secretary or on Hansons website.
the Company Secretary or on Hansons website.
Internal control Audit Committee The Board recognises that it is responsible for the groups system of The Audit Committee comprises three independent Non-executive internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Code requires Directors: The Baroness Noakes Chairman, W S H Laidlaw and the Board to review the effectiveness of the system of internal control, J W Leng.
C D Collins was a member of the Audit Committee but ceased including financial, operational, compliance and risk management, to act as a member of the Committee on the appointment of J W Leng.
In addition, Internal Control: Guidance for Directors For the period up to C D Collins ceasing to act as a member of the on the Combined Code was published in September 1999, to provide Committee, Hanson was not in compliance with the Combined Code guidance to Directors in respect of this requirement.
in respect of all members being independent Non-executive Directors.
The Board confirms that procedures, which accord with the guidance, The Chairman, Finance Director, Head of Internal Audit and the external have been in place for the year to December 31, 2004 and up to the auditors attend meetings of the Committee by invitation.
date of approval of the Annual Report and Form 20-F by the Board.
These procedures ensure that the Board is aware of the key risks facing The Committees duties include recommendations on the appointment the group and that the system of internal control is regularly reviewed of, and an assessment of the independence and objectivity of, the auditors: for effectiveness and adequacy.
However, such a system can only provide pre-approval of audit, review and attest services and permitted non-audit reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or services: ensuring the objectivity and independence of the auditors is loss, as it is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to maintained: review of the internal audit programme: the establishment achieve business objectives.
In seeking to achieve these objectives, many of whistleblowing procedures: review of the effectiveness of systems of which are already features of the existing processes and procedures for internal financial control, financial reporting and risk management: within the Company, the Board has specifically instituted the following the review and monitoring of the Companys accounting policies, financial processes, which have been in effect throughout the reporting period and up and other reporting procedures: and the review of the Companys to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Form 20-F by the Board.
statement on internal control prior to endorsement by the Board.
Policies The Committee meets at least four times a year.
During the year the A planning framework which incorporates a four year plan approved Committee met five times, which all of the then current Committee by the Board, with objectives for each business unit.
members attended, other than on one occasion when WS HLaidlaw A mechanism for reporting weaknesses in internal control systems was unable to attend.
and for monitoring corrective action.
The Baroness Noakes is identied as the Audit Committee financial Processes expert for the purposes of SOX.
Appointment of experienced and professional staff, both by recruitment and promotion, of the necessary calibre to full The Committee discharges its responsibilities through a series of their allotted responsibilities.
Committee meetings throughout the year at which detailed reports A comprehensive system of financial reporting to the Board, are presented for review.
The Committee commissions reports either based on an annual budget with monthly reports against actual from the external auditors, the Head of Internal Audit or Company results, analysis of variances, scrutiny of key performance indicators management, after consideration of the Companys major risks or and regular re-forecasting.
in response to developing issues.
The Committee meets privately Formal business risk reviews performed by management which with the external auditors and the Head of Internal Audit as appropriate evaluate the potential financial and non-financial impacts of and liaises with Company management in considering areas for review identied risks and possible new risk areas, set control, mitigation by the Committee.
and monitoring procedures and review actual occurrences identifying lessons to be learnt.
Regular treasury reports to the Board which analyse the funding requirements of each class of assets, track the generation and use of capital and the volume of liquidity, measure the groups exposure to interest and exchange rate movements and record the level of compliance with the groups funding objectives.
Well dened procedures governing the appraisal and approval of investments, including detailed investment and divestment approval procedures incorporating appropriate levels of authority and regular post investment reviews.
36 Report of the Directors Report of the Directors continued Verication Internal Audit An internal audit function within the business operations which Each major operating division has internal audit capability and these are undertakes periodic examination of business units and processes co-ordinated centrally by the Head of Internal Audit under the guidance and recommends improvements in controls to management.
During 2004 the Board required internal audit The external auditors who are engaged to express an opinion to be dedicated to meeting the requirements of SOX and was pleased on the accounts.
that this resulted in Hanson being able to report under section 404 ahead An Audit Committee of the Board, consisting of Non-executive of other UK dual listed companies listed in the USA.
The Board believes Directors, which considers significant control matters and receives that internal audit is now well placed to deliver assurance on a broader reports on internal controls from both the internal and external basis and that further development of the internal audit capability auditors on a regular basis.
will continue, necessitated in part by the growing demands of the A Risk Committee of the Board, consisting of the Chief Executive, regulatory environment.
Finance Director, Legal Director and other senior financial executives, which monitors and reviews significant financial and non-financial risk.
Going concern The Directors confirm that, after making appropriate enquiries, they have a Evaluation of disclosure controls and procedures reasonable expectation that Hanson has adequate resources to continue in In accordance with the requirements of section 302 of the US operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Chief Executive and Finance Director, to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
together with Hansons management, have evaluated the effectiveness, as at December 31, 2004, of the groups disclosure controls and Directors responsibilities for the accounts procedures as dened in Rules 13a-15 e and 15d-15 e under Company law requires the Directors to prepare accounts for each the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Based on this evaluation, financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the the Chief Executive and the Finance Director concluded that the Company and of the group and of the profit or loss of the group for that disclosure controls and procedures are effective in all material respects year.
In preparing these accounts, the Directors consider that they have: to ensure that material information relating to the group would be made selected suitable accounting policies, and applied them consistently: known to them by others within the group.
made judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and followed applicable UK accounting standards.
Managements annual report on internal control over financial reporting The Directors are responsible for ensuring that the group keeps proper In accordance with the requirements of section 404 of the US accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the following report is provided by the financial position of the group and enable them to ensure that the management in respect of the Companys internal control over financial accounts comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are responsible reporting as dened in Rules 13a-15 f and 15d-15 f under the for taking reasonable steps to safeguard the assets of the group and US Securities Exchange Act of 1934 : to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Hansons management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting for the group.
A copy of the Annual Report and Form 20-F of the Company is placed Hansons management has used the Committee of Sponsoring on the Companys website.
The Directors are responsible for the Organizations of the Treadway Commission COSO framework maintenance and integrity of statutory and audited information on the to evaluate the effectiveness of our internal control over financial Companys website.
Information published on the internet is accessible reporting.
Management believes that the COSO framework is a in many countries with different legal requirements.
Legislation in the suitable framework for its evaluation of our internal control over UK governing the preparation and dissemination of accounts may differ financial reporting because it is free from bias, permits reasonably from legislation in other jurisdictions.
consistent qualitative and quantitative measurements of our internal controls, is sufciently complete so that those relevant factors that By order of the Board would alter a conclusion about the effectiveness of our internal Paul Tunnacliffe controls are not omitted and is relevant to an evaluation of internal Company Secretary control over financial reporting.
February 24, 2005 Management has assessed the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, as at December 31, 2004, and has concluded Registered ofce that such internal control over financial reporting is effective.
There are 1 Grosvenor Place no material weaknesses in Hansons internal control over financial London SW1X 7JH reporting that have been identied by management.
Ernst & Young LLP, which has audited the consolidated financial Registered in England and Wales No.
4626078 statements of the group for the year ended December 31, 2004, has also audited managements assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting under Auditing Standard No.
2 of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board United States.
See the Auditors report on page 46.
Changes in internal control over financial reporting There have been no significant changes in the groups internal controls or in other factors that have occurred during the period that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the groups internal control over financial reporting.
