The Remuneration Report gives details of the Groups policies on senior managements remuneration in 2004 pages 57to65.
Discussion of the Groups operating and financial performance, liquidity and financial resources for 2004 and 2003isgiveninthe Operating andFinancialReview,  pages 27to47.
4 THEBUSINESS HISTORY AND DEVELOPMENT Group Overview Smith & Nephew is a global business engaged in the development, manufacture and marketing of medical devices inthe sectors oforthopaedics, endoscopyandadvanced woundmanagement.
The Group has a history dating back 149 years to the family enterprise of Thomas James Smith who opened a small pharmacy in Hull, England in 1856.
On his death in 1896, his nephew Horatio Nelson Smith took over the management of the business.
Smith & Nephew was incorporated and listed on the London Stock Exchange in 1937.
Today it is a public limited company incorporated in the UK and registered in, and conducted under the laws of, England and Wales.
Operations in countries other than the UK are under the laws of those countries.
In November 1999, the Group was listed on the New York Stock Exchange.
The corporate headquarters is in the UK andthe registered address is: Smith& Nephewplc 15Adam Street LondonWC2N6LA Tel: 44 0 2074017646 Website: www.
com In 2001, Smith & Nephew became a constituent member of the FTSE-100 index in the UK.
This means that Smith & Nephew is included in the top 100 companies traded on the London Stock Exchange measured in terms .
Recent Developments In March 2004, Smith & Nephew acquired Midland Medical Technologies MMT, the global market leader in metal-on-metal hip resurfacing for 70m in cash and notes.
Additional payments of up to 30m in cash and notes are contingent upon certain regulatory milestones being met.
MMT achieved sales in the 2003 calendar year of 20m.
Including acquired distributors, MMT contributed 20m to Smith & Nephews turnover in 2004.
In August 2003, Smith & Nephew withdrew from all markets the macrotextured version of its OXINIUM femoral knee component.
This withdrawal is specific to the macrotextured version of this OXINIUM component and does not affect any other product using OXINIUM technology.
As at that date 2,971 components had been implanted of which approximately 2,471 were in the USA, 450 in Australia and 50 in Europe.
As at 28 February 2005 782 revision surgeries had been carried out on affected patients and settlements agreed with patients in respect of 537 of these revisions.
As discussed more fully under Legal Proceedings, due to uncertainties relating to the amount of insurance coverage that will be available to cover certain existing claims and future claims, an exceptional charge of 80m has been recorded, representing unsettled insurance claims and an estimate of claims likely to arise in the future assuming that no further insurance cover is available.
These estimates constitute forward looking statements that are subject to uncertainties.
Depending on the number and average cost of actual revisions, costs to Smith & Nephew may be greater or less than the amount of this provision.
5 BUSINESS DESCRIPTION Group Structure Smith & Nephew operates on a worldwide basis.
This has been achieved through a series of investments and acquisitions, predominantly in the US but also in Europe, and through continued emphasis on the development  .
Smith & Nephew is organised into the three global business units of orthopaedics, endoscopy and advanced wound management and a separate indirect market unit.
Each of the three global business units manages its sales directly in ten international markets the US, Canada, the UK, Germany, Japan, Australia, France, Italy, New Zealand and Ireland and takes full responsibility for strategy, research and development R&D, manufacturing, marketing, sales and financial performance.
The remaining 22 markets in which the Group has selling companies are managed by country managers, with business responsibility for the whole of the Groups productrange, andcomprisethe indirectmarketunit.
A head office team in London, England directs the overall business and supports the business units, primarily in the areas of business development, company secretarial, finance, humanresources and investor relations, with a legal department based in Memphis, Tennessee.
A central research facility in York, England is charged with the development  scienceandbiology, .
Orthopaedics Overview Orthopaedic products comprise reconstructive joint implants, trauma products and associated clinical therapies.
Reconstructive implants include hip, knee and shoulder joints as well as ancillary products such as bone cement and mixing systems used in cemented reconstructive joint surgery.
Trauma products consist of internal and external fixation devices, used in the stabilisation of severe fractures.
Clinical therapies consist of products applied in an orthopaedic office or clinic setting and currently comprise bone growth stimulators and a joint fluid therapy product.
The orthopaedics business is managed worldwide from Memphis, Tennessee, which is also the site of its main manufacturing facility.
Orthopaedic implants and trauma products are also manufactured at a small facility in Tuttlingen, Germany.
As described in Property, Plant and Equipment, continuing strong sales growth has created the need  facilities.
The Groups reconstructive knee business is built on two major knee systems: GENESIS II, designed to facilitate the accuracy and efficiency of the operating procedure and provide improved long-term clinical results: and PROFIX, a  .
Within the reconstructive hip line, the SPECTRON cemented hip system and the REFLECTION acetabular cup system have documented positive long-term clinical performance.
More recently, the success of SYNERGY, a tapered titanium stem system, and ECHELON, a revision stem system, have established Smith & Nephew as a strongplayer inthisproductsegment.
The Group has developed and now manufactures knee and hip implant components made from oxidised zirconium OXINIUM which is patent protected and which management believes has improved wear  ofsignificantbenefit toyounger, moreactive patients.
Within the trauma business, products in internal and external fixation, such as the TRIGEN intramedullary nail system, PERI-LOC plating system, IMHS CP JET-X fixator and TAYLOR SPATIAL FRAME fixator, provide trauma surgeons a comprehensive offering of products to address acute and reconstructive procedures and hip fractures related to osteoporosis.
Orthobiologic products, including demineralised bone matrix are also offered foruse .
The EXOGEN ultrasonic bone healing stimulator and SUPARTZ hyaluronic acid joint fluid therapy are the main productsinthe clinicaltherapies sector.
To compete effectively in the growing global orthopaedic market, management believes that as well as having a leading edge product range it is important to have a skilled sales force that can build strong relationships with surgeons and to provide high levels of customer service.
Currently the global sales force numbers 1,260, of whom815serve the US market.
6 Strategy Smith & Nephews orthopaedics strategy is for future growth through product development in its existing core business and expansion into the fast-growing market for less invasive therapies.
Management believes that the orthopaedic market will continue to grow for the foreseeable future.
This is largely attributable to the increasing proportion of the population aged over 55 and the increasing need for joint reconstructive products and other orthopaedictherapies inyounger, moreactive patients.
Management believes that its sales growth has accelerated through the creation of separate divisions for trauma and reconstructive with separate internal resources and specialised sales forces.
Smith & Nephew also intends to further penetrate these markets by taking advantage of its portfolio of products and services, by expanding its sales force, and by introducing less invasive and alternative therapies.
The Group is also contributing to patient  websites .
New Products In 2004, the orthopaedics business continued the promotion and roll-outof OXINIUM technologyacross the knee and hip product line.
OXINIUM is a material exclusive to Smith & Nephew which has the strength of a metal with the wear properties of a ceramic material and expands the market for hip and knee implants.
The completion of the OXINIUM femoral head rollout was accomplished with the smaller and larger sizes being introduced in the market.
TheTANDEMBIPOLAR PROSTHESIS isdesigned toaddress the needs .
In 2004, the Group released for surgical evaluation the PERI-LOC plating system for lower extremity procedures.
The principal product of MMT, which was acquired in 2004, is the Birmingham Hip Resurfacing BHR prosthesis.
Hip resurfacing is a less invasive surgical approach, and preserves more bone, than total hip replacement and is more appropriate for use on younger and more active patients.
The business is based in Birmingham, UK and is being integrated into the  orthopaedics.
Its sales are principallyin the UK, continental Europe and Australia.
It is not approved for sale in the US.
Managements intention is to pursue FDA approval in the US for the BHR based on the significant amount of clinical data which has been assembled since1997.
Recent Regulatory Approvals In February 2004, the Japanese Ministry approved the GENESIS II HI FLEX KNEE tibial insert and the FDA cleared the INTERTAN nailforsale inthe US.
INTERTANnailsare used  aninnovativescrew designthat allowstwodifferent lockingoptions.
In July 2004, FDA cleared the OXINIUM revision femoral component for sale in the US.
This product can be used when an existing artificial knee needs to be replaced and can be used with stems and wedges which are sometimes needed inrevisionsurgeries.
In September 2004, the Japanese Ministry approved the Asian IMHS.
This is a titanium version of the stainless steel IMHS nail, sized forthe Asian anatomy.
During2004, the FDA issued a  AB antibioticloaded bonecement.
Competition Management estimates that the worldwide orthopaedic market excluding spine served by the Group grew by 13% in 2004 and is currently worth more than 6.5 billion per annum.
Management believes that Smith & Nephewholdsa 9% share ofthismarketbyvalue.
Principal global competitors in the orthopaedic market and their estimated global shares, are Zimmer 21%, Stryker 18%, DePuy Johnson& Johnson 17%, Biomet 11% andSynthes-Stratec 11%.
Endoscopy Overview Smith & Nephews endoscopy business, headquartered in Andover, Massachusetts, develops and commercialises a range of endoscopic minimally invasive surgery techniques, educational programmes and value-added services for surgeons to treat and repair soft tissues, articulating joints, spinal discs and vascular structures.
The business focuses principally on the arthroscopy sector of the endoscopy market.
Arthroscopy is the , inparticularthe kneeandshoulder.
7 The endoscopy business offers surgeons endoscopic technologies for surgery, including: fluid management and insufflation equipment for surgical access: digital cameras, digital image capture, central control, multimedia broadcasting, scopes, light sources and monitors to assist with visualisation: radiofrequency wands, electromechanical and mechanical blades, and hand instruments for resecting tissue: and specialised devices, fixationsystems andbioabsorbable materials torepairdamaged tissue.
Manufacturing facilities are located in Andover and Mansfield, Massachusetts and Oklahoma City, Oklahoma.
Majorservicecentres are located inthe US, the UK, Germany, Japan andAustralia.
Of the currentglobalsales forceof655,360serve the US market.
Strategy Smith & Nephews strategic intent is to establish the endoscopy business as the leading provider of endoscopic techniques for joint and ligament repair and to use its core capabilities to penetrate other select endoscopic markets.
Management believes the business capitalises on the growing acceptance of endoscopy as a preferred , patients andpayors.
To sustain growth and enhance its market position, the endoscopy business supports its strategy with surgeon education programmes, financing solutions, global fellowship support initiatives, partnerships with professional .
In February 2004, the endoscopy business expanded its Digital Operating Room  Medical, a leading provider of audio-visual technology and design for operating room applications.
Management believes that this will enable the Group to establish itself as a lead player in the fast growing market for operating roommodernisation.
New Products In 2004, Smith & Nephew introduced a new three chip endoscopic camera system providing superior image quality, digital output, the option of steam sterilisation, and compatibility with previous generation camera components.
The Group continued to expand its offerings in soft tissue repair with the ENDOBUTTON CL BTB and GTS system for knee tendon repair along with the BIORAPTOR anchor, ELITE PASS suture shuttle and CLEARTRAC disposable cannulas and obturators for arthroscopic shoulder repair.
To encourage surgeon adoption of arthroscopichip techniques, Smith & Nephew introduceda new hip access system, makingit easier for surgeons tosafely  hipjoint.
As the global market leader in arthroscopic resection, the Group introduced the SCULPTOR line of monopolar ablation probes, providingsafe and efficient removal of soft tissue .
Smith& Nephew also introduced additional improvements and enhancements to its DYONICS power system, with more aggressive disposable blades  POWERMAX shaver handpiece.
The launch of the new 20S generator system allowed entry into the new spinal market of facet joint pain treatment, complementing the Groups position as a leader for the treatment of disc degeneration.
The new generator platform continues to advance the treatment of spine pathologies through both IDET and the new ACUTHERM catheter fortargeted discdecompression.
Recent Regulatory Approvals During 2004, the endoscopy business obtained regulatory approvals for the following products in most major markets, except Japan where the approval process is traditionally slower: DURABRAID and ULTRABRAID high strength sutures: a new RF generator for two interventional spine procedures, IDET and disc decompression, in addition to probes for denervation of the facet joints:a graft sleeve  ACLgraft: .
Competition Management estimates that the global arthroscopymarkets in whichthe business  isworth 780 million a year and is growing at 8% annually, driven by increasing numbers of sports injuries, longer and more active lifestyles, patient desire for minimally invasive procedures, innovative technological developments and a need for cost effective procedures.
Management believes that Smith & Nephew has a 29% share of the global arthroscopy market.
Smith & Nephew also participates in the developing minimally invasive spinal and minimally invasive vascular markets and continues to seek ways to leverage its knowledge, experience and core capabilities inotherselected endoscopicmarkets.
8 Smith & Nephews main competitors and their estimated shares of the global arthroscopy market are: Mitek Johnson& Johnson 17%, Linvatec Conmed 14%, Arthrex 14%, Stryker 12% andArthrocare 7%.
Advanced Wound Management Overview Smith & Nephews advanced woundmanagement business isheadquartered inHull, England.
It supplies a range of products and clinical support services for the treatment of chronic and acute skin wounds.
It offers a range of products from initial wound bed preparation through to full wound closure.
These products are targeted particularly at chronic wounds connected with the older population such as pressure sores and venous leg ulcers, diabeticfootulcers, .
Advanced wound management products are manufactured in facilities in Hull and Gilberdyke, England: Largo, Florida:andLaJolla,  manufacturers.
The advanced wound management business has continued to build its sales and marketing infrastructure in the worlds major markets, with expansion of its sales force and global brand development.
These initiatives have led to increased levels of demand on the Groups manufacturing and global supply chain, which have been addressed  inthe .
Strategy The strategy for advanced wound management products is to focus on the higher added value segments of woundbed preparation and moist and active healing.
The formationof a joint venture withBeiersdorfAG in2001, BSN Medical, enabled the advanced wound management business to exit from its traditional medical textile woundcarebusiness allowingittofocusits  value advanced woundcareproducts.
The business has built its sales and marketing infrastructure in the worlds major markets, both through investment in its existing network and through the additional sales teams gained throughits acquired businesses in recent years.
The integration of the acquired sales forces has increased the capability of the business throughout the world, particularly in the key markets of the US and Germany.
Currently the global sales force is 905ofwhom200are inthe US.
In January 2004, the business acquired VERSAJET, a fluid jet debridement system, from HydroCision Inc. to add toits rangeofadvanced woundbed preparationproducts.
New Products Management believes that the market will continue the trend towards advanced products with their ability to accelerate healing rates, reduce hospital stay times and cut the cost of nursing and cliniciantime and aftercare in the home.
In 2002, the Group acquired the remaining 50% of its former joint arrangements with Advanced Tissue Sciences, Inc. ATS for the rights to apply human tissue technology to the treatment of all skin wounds including two significant products, DERMAGRAFT and TRANSCYTE.
DERMAGRAFT is a human dermal replacement designed as a treatment  isa  treatment ofburns.
At the end of 2002, ACTICOAT achieved Class III medical device approval in Europe and during 2003 the product achieved a drugtariff listinginthe United Kingdom.
ACTICOAT, acquiredfromWestaim ofCanada inMay2001, is an antimicrobial barrier dressing incorporating the smallest crystallised silver nanocrystalline silver used in the treatment of burns or wounds.
The silver reduces the risk of bacterial colonisation and acts to kill microorganisms that can cause infection and prevent or retard healing.
Sales have been driven by the worldwide  andthe applicationofthe technologytoa .
2004 was the second year of the launch of the expanded ALLEVYN hydrocellular dressing range.
Management believes that ALLEVYN is the largest selling dressing in its category in the world and that the continued focus on the brand will aid Smith & Nephew in maintaining this position.
2004 was the first full year of the sales of GLADASE, a  was launchedinthe US toreplace SANTYL, a collagenaseproduct.
Recent Regulatory Approvals During 2004, the advanced wound management business secured over 215 medical device and 65 pharmaceutical registration approvals in various markets throughout the world.
Among the most significant 9 approvals were those for ACTICOAT ABSORBENT, an absorbent antimicrobial barrier product, in Europe as a Class III device and the VISITRAK wound management system in Japan.
VERSAJET gained new approvals in Australia, .
Competition Management estimates that the sales value of the advanced wound management market worldwide is 1.9 billion a year, and that this grew 12% in 2004, and that Smith & Nephew has a 19% market share.
Growth is driven by an ageing population and by a steady advancement in technology and products that are more clinically efficient and cost effective than their conventional counterparts.
Management believes that, with approximately half of chronic wounds globally still treated with conventional dressings, there is strong growth potential for advanced technologyproducts.
Worldwide competitors in advanced wound management and their estimated market shares comprise Kinetic Concepts 21%, the  12%, Johnson& Johnson 9%, and3M 8%.
Joint Ventures and Discontinued Operations Joint Ventures, Associated Undertakings, Joint Arrangements and Other Interests Joint ventures are those in which the Group holds an interest on a long-term basis and which are controlled by the  contractualagreement.
Smith & Nephew owns 50% of the BSN Medical joint venture, which became operational on 1 April 2001.
It is jointly owned with Beiersdorf AG and is independently managed.
BSN Medical comprises traditional woundcare, casting and bandaging and compression hosiery businesses.
Headquartered in Hamburg, Germany it has manufacturing facilities in the US, UK, Germany, France, Republic of Ireland, South Africa, Mexico and Pakistan.
In certain markets, Smith & Nephews sales forces sell BSN Medicals products on an agency basis in return for an agency commission and in some markets, mainly in Asia, Smith & Nephew distributes BSN Medical products.
Results are accounted for under the gross equity method, whereby 50% of turnover, operating profit, interest, taxation andattributable profitforthe yearare & Nephewsprofitandloss account.
During 2004 BSN Medical acquired the fracture casting and splinting business of DePuy, Inc. a Johnson & Johnson company and has integrated it with its casting and bandaging business.
This acquisition furthered the establishment ofBSNMedicalas a  company.
Associated undertakings are those in which the Group has a beneficial interest of 50% or less in the equity capital and where the Group exercises significant influence over commercial and financial policy decisions.
In March 2002, the Group acquired 21.5% of AbilityOne Corporation AbilityOne as part of a transaction in which it disposed of its rehabilitation business to AbilityOne.
In September 2003, the Group disposed of its 21.5% interest in AbilityOne to Patterson Dental Inc. From 1 April 2002 to 12 September 2003 this interest was included in the Groups accounts as an associated undertaking and accounted for under the equity method, whereby 21.5% of operating profit, interest, taxation and attributable profit are incorporated into Smith & Nephews profit andloss account.
The Group had an interest in two joint arrangements with ATS, relating to products for the treatment of diabetic foot ulcers DERMAGRAFT since 1996, and cartilage replacement NEOCYTE since 1994.
On 25 November 2002, the  the interests itdidnotalready owninthe jointarrangements.
Discontinued Operations Discontinued operations in 2002 comprise three months of results of the rehabilitation business disposed of in March 2002.
The rehabilitation business manufactured and marketed products, equipment and product systems used to increase, improve or maintain functional capabilities after surgery or stroke or of individuals with disabilities.
10 OPERATING ENVIRONMENT REGULATION The international medical device industry is highly regulated.
Regulatory requirements are a major factor in determining whether substances and materials can be developed into marketable products and the amount of timeandexpense that shouldbe allotted tosuchdevelopment.
National regulatory authorities administer and enforce a complex series of laws and regulations that govern the testing, approval, manufacturing, labelling, marketing and sale of healthcare and pharmaceutical products.
They also review data supporting the safety and efficacy of such products.
Of particular importance is the requirement in many countries that products be authorised or registered prior to manufacture, marketing or sale and that such authorisation or registration be subsequently maintained.
The major regulatory agencies for Smith & Nephews products are the FDA in the US, the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency in the UK and the Ministry for Health Labour and Welfare in Japan.
Payment for many medical device products is governed by reimbursementtariff .
The trend in recent years has been towards greater regulation and higher standards of technical appraisal, which generally entail lengthy inspections for compliance with appropriate standards, including regulations such as good manufacturing practices.
Smith & Nephew believes that these recent changes will not have a material adverse effect on the Groups financial condition and the results of operations.
All significant facilities within the Group are subject to regular internal audit for medical device regulatory compliance with national and Group standards andpolicies.
Smith & Nephew believes that the Groups operations currently comply in all material respects with applicable environmental laws and regulations.
Although the Group continuesto make capital expenditure for environmental compliance, it is not currentlyaware of any  that would be required as a result ofsuchlaws andregulationsthat wouldhave a material adverse impactuponthe .
PRODUCT LIABILITY The Group monitors the safety of its products from initial product development through to product use or application.
In addition, the businesses of the Group analyse on a worldwide basis reports of adverse reactions and complaints relating to its products.
Each business reviews these adverse reactions and complaints and any safety matters arising with independent medical advisors.
These conclusions are subsequently reviewed by the .
Product liability is a commercial risk for the industry of which the Group is a part, particularly in the US.
Smith & Nephew has implemented systems it believes are appropriate in respect of loss control techniques.
These include reporting mechanisms to ensure early notification of complaints and a legal department which manages .
The Group carries product liability insurance to cover exposure as far as practicable.
With the exception of the macrotextured product liability claim, discussed under Legal Proceedings and Risk Factors, instances of loss to the Group arising from product liability claims have been covered either directly by the Group or by insurance.
Apart from the macrotextured claim, there are no individual product liability claims that are expected to have a material adverse effect onthe .
There can be no assurance that consumers, particularly in the US or elsewhere, will not bring product liability or related claims that would have a material adverse effect on the Groups financial position or results of operations in the futureorthat the   doctrines and attitudes regarding such matters.
See Risk Factors Product Liability Claims and Loss of Reputation.
11 RISK MANAGEMENT Smith & Nephews products are not inherently high risk.
However, if they malfunction, they could damage or impair the repair of body functions.
Management believes that the Groups quality, regulatory and medical controls and insurance cover is adequate and appropriate for this class of products.
The Groups reputation is crucially dependent on strong performance in this area and on appropriate crisis management if a serious .
The Board is responsible for the maintenance of the Groups systems of risk management and internal control and for reviewing their effectiveness.
These systems, which accord with the Turnbull Guidance, have been in place for 2004 and to the date of approval of the report and accounts and involve: the identification, evaluation and management of key risks through a Risk Committee, which reports to the Board annually: business reviews by the Board: and the review of the Audit Committee of internal financial controls and the risk management process.
These systems are reviewed annually by the Board.
Whilst not providing absolute assurance against material misstatements or loss, these systems are designed to identify and manage those risks that could adversely impactthe achievementofthe Groupsobjectives.
The Group maintains insurance against product, employers and directors and officers liabilities, and physical and consequential loss, subject to limits and deductibles.
The Group maintains liability provisions to cover known uninsured risks.
On 17 December 2004 the Group was advised that certain insurers had declined coverage for macrotextured kneeclaims.
12 OPERATING ACTIVITIES MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTION Smith & Nephews customers are the various providers of medical and surgical services worldwide.
In certain parts of the world, including the UK, much of Continental Europe, Australia, Canada and South Africa, these are largely governmental organisations funded by tax revenues.
In the US, the Groups major customers are public and private hospitals, many of which have combined to form large purchasing groups and receive revenue from private health insurance and governmental reimbursement programmes.
In the US, Medicare is the major source  regimes.
Competition exists among healthcare providers to gain patients on the basis of quality, service and price.
In many countries, and particularly in the US, providers are under pressure to reduce the total cost of healthcare delivery.
There has been some consolidation in the Groups customer base, as well as amongst the Groups competitors, and these trends are expected to continue in the long term.
Smith & Nephew competes against both specialised , includingthose withgreater financial, .
The Groups customers reflect the wide range of distribution channels, purchasing agents and buying entities in over 90 countries worldwide.
The largest single customers worldwide are the National Health Service in the UK and HealthTrust in the US.
Sales to these customers in 2004 each represented approximately 4% of the Groups worldwidetotal sales.
In the US the Groups products are marketed directly to doctors, hospitals and other healthcare facilities.
Each business unit operates a separate specialised sales force.
Within the orthopaedics business further specialisation of the sales force continues to be introduced progressively for reconstructive, trauma and clinical therapy products.
 US sales  sales agents who are managed by a mix of independent agents and the Groups own managers.
These agents are not permitted contractually to sell products that compete with Smith & Nephews.
In both businesses products are shipped and invoiced direct to the ultimate customer.
The advanced wound management business in the US operates a sales force of its own employees who market direct to the ultimate customer.
Advanced  US are shipped andinvoicedtoa numberoflarge .
In the other direct markets of the UK, Ireland, France, Germany, Italy, Australia, New Zealand, Canada and Japan the business units manage separate sales forces directly.
Except in Australia and New Zealand, where independent sales agents are used, the sales forces of the direct markets comprise employees and market directlytothe ultimate customer.
The indirectmarkets unit comprises direct , Belgium, Denmark, Eastern Europe, Finland, the Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, China, Hong Kong, Korea, Malaysia, Singapore, Taiwan, Thailand, the United Arab Emirates, South Africa, Mexico and Puerto Rico.
In these markets orthopaedics and endoscopy frequently share sales resources.
The advanced wound management sales force is separate since it calls on different customers.
In all other countries Smith & Nephew sells to third party  .
In Continental Europe, the Group operates three centralised distribution facilities.
Orthopaedics operates a facility in Paris which acts as a central holding and consolidation point for Continental European stock and stock returns.
Product is shipped to Group companies who hold small amounts of stock locally for immediate or urgent customer requirements.
Advanced wound management operates distribution centres at Nijmegen, the Netherlands and Gothenburg, Sweden from where stock is shipped directly to the ultimate customer in most Europeanmarkets.
MANUFACTUREAND SUPPLY Where management considers that the Group possesses a core competence its policy is to manufacture products internally wherever possible to ensure quality, regulatory and cost goals are met.
The Group invests in the expansionofits  these aims.
The Group outsources its manufacturing for several possible reasons including lack of in-house expertise, lack of a  .
13 Where products and services are outsourced, suppliers are determined based on a number of factors which include the complexity of the product, manufacturing technology, manufacturing capabilities, cost competitiveness and intellectual property.
Suppliers are selected based on their capability to provide products and services, their ability to establish and maintain a quality system and their financial stability.
Suppliers are monitored by on-site assessments and ongoing monitoring of delivered products.
Ongoing product assurance is  qualityplans.
Each business unit purchases raw materials, components, finished products and packaging materials from certain key suppliers.
These comprise principally metal forgings and stampings for orthopaedics, optical and electronic sub-components for endoscopy, active ingredients and finished goods for advanced wound management and packaging materials for all businesses.
Management believes that prices of principal raw materials and finished goods purchased are not particularly volatile and that these materials are generally available from various specialist suppliers.
Finished goods purchased for resale are primarily SUPARTZ joint lubricant and the BHR hip resurfacing product in the orthopaedic business: monitors and electrical devices in the endoscopy business: and enzyme debrider agents and ACTICOAT in the advanced wound management business.
SEASONALITY Smith & Nephews sales are generally at their highest in quarter four of any year.
This is caused by the relatively high number of accidents and sports injuries which occur in the North American and European autumn and winter which increases sales of orthopaedic and endoscopy products and by the deferral of elective surgery duringthe peak  thirdquarter.
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT The business units each manage a portfolio of short and long-term product development projects designed to meet the future needs of their customers and to continue to provide growth opportunities for their businesses.
The Groups research and development is directed towards all three business segments.
Expenditure on research and development amounted to 66.4m in 2004 2003 66.8m, 2002 61.3m, representing approximately 5% ofgroupturnover 2003 6%, 20026%.
The Groups principal research facility is located in York, England.
The Groups research programme seeks to underpin the longer-term technology requirements for its businesses and to provide a flow of innovative products.
The Group continues to invest in future technology opportunities, particularly bio-resorbable materials, tissue  acrossthe Group.
Product development programmes are carried out at the Groups principal manufacturing locations, notably in Memphis, Tennessee orthopaedics, Andover and Mansfield, Massachusetts endoscopy and Hull, England and La Jolla, California advanced wound management.
In-house research is supplemented by work performed by   UK andthe US.
INTELLECTUALPROPERTY Management believes that the Groups policy concerning intellectual property rights promotes innovation in its businesses.
Smith & Nephew has a policy of protecting, with patents, the results of the research and development carried out throughout the Group.
Patents have been obtained for a wide range of products, including those in the fields of orthopaedic, endoscopic and advanced wound management technologies.
Patent protection for Group products is sought routinely in the Groups principal markets.
Currently, the Groups patent portfoliostands at over2,500existing patents andpatent applications.
Smith & Nephew also has a policy of protecting the Groups products in the markets in which they are sold by registering trademarks as soon as possible under local laws.
The Group vigorously protects its trademarks against infringement and currently is not aware of any significant infringement of its trademark registrations.
The present trademark portfolioofthe  anddesignrights.
Smith & Nephews principal products are protected by intellectual property comprising patents, licences and know how, and it strives to provide a collection of intellectual property for each major product that reduces the risk associated with failure of any individual piece of intellectual property.
In addition, most pieces of intellectual 14 property protect a relatively small proportionof the Groups annual turnover.
As a result, the Grouptries toensure that its overallbusiness isnotsensitive tothe loss howevercaused .
In addition to maintaining a policy of protecting its market position by the filing and enforcement of patents and trademarks, Smith & Nephew has a policy of opposing third party patents and trademarks in those areas that mightconflictwiththe Groupsbusiness interests.
In the ordinary course of its business, the Group enters into a number of licensing arrangements with respect to its products.
None of these arrangements individually is considered material to the operations and the financial results ofthe Group.
PROPERTY, PLANTAND EQUIPMENT  as follows: Approximate area Square feet 000s GroupHead Office inLondon, England 15 , England 83  , Tennessee................ 680  inAndover, Massachusetts 112 , Massachusetts 110 , Massachusetts 90 , Oklahoma 100 Advanced  , England........ 546 Advanced , Florida 188 Advanced , California................... 69 The facilities in Memphis, Hull and Largo and the manufacturing facility in Andover are freehold whilst all other principal locations are leasehold.
The Group has freehold and leasehold interests in real estate in other countries throughout the world, but no other is individually significant to the Group.
Where required, the appropriate  approved the facilities.
During 2004 additional space of 20,000 square feet was leased at the endoscopy headquarters in Andover, Massachusetts and endoscopy manufacturing moved to a new facility in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma which has 45,000moresquare feet thanthe previousfacility.
As a result of its rapid rate of sales growth in recent years and anticipated continuing strong demand for its products, the orthopaedics business needs to increase its manufacturing capacity and administrative facilities.
A capacity expansion strategy has been formulated and in 2005 additional freehold manufacturing space of 105,000square feet andleasehold administrative space of72,000square feet willbe acquiredinMemphis.
Also during 2005, in the UK, new facilities for the development, manufacture and distribution of BHR products will be acquired in the Birmingham area and consolidated with the existing UK orthopaedics operations.
The strategy calls for further administrative and research and development facilities to be added in Memphis during2006andthe  future.
15 LEGALPROCEEDINGS The Company and its subsidiaries are parties to various legal proceedings including product liability, which are considered to constitute ordinary and routine litigation incidental to the businesses conducted by the Group, in some of which claims for damages in substantial amounts have been asserted.
The outcome of such proceedings cannot readily be foreseen, but other than detailed below management believes that they will not result inanymaterial adverse effect onthe  ofoperationsofthe Group.
Smith & Nephew is in dispute with ArthroCare Inc. which alleges infringement of three US patents related to certain bipolar radio frequency products.
In June 2004 an injunction was granted against Smith & Nephew prohibiting sales of affected products.
Sales of the affected products in 2004 up to the date of the injunctionwere 3m.
Management believes it has meritoriousdefences based uponpending trial courtmotions, re-examinations taking place in the US Patent and Trademark Office and an appeal to the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit andintendstocontest the case.
In August 2003 the Group withdrew voluntarily from all markets the macrotextured versions of its OXINIUM femoral knee components.
As at that date 2,971 components had been implanted of which approximately 2,471 were in the USA, 450 in Australia and 50 in Europe, the first component having been implanted in December 2001.
The product was withdrawn when management became aware of a higher than usual percentage of reports of early revisions revisions are implants which need to be replaced.
Whilst the cause of the revisions remains  that somepatients donotachieveadequate  inotherpatients, while there appears to be good initialfixation, this does not persevere.
Extensive testing andmodellinghas sofar failed to identify the precise cause of the failure and, due to the large number of variables involved, it is probable that the  understoodfully.
As at 28 February 2005 782 implants had been revised and settlements agreed with patients in respect of 537 of these revisions.
The total amount paid out in settlements, legal costs and associated expenses was 50m of which 32m had been or will be recovered from the insurer that provides the primary layer and 65% of the first excess layer in the Groups global product liability programme.
The balance of 18m is due from insurers in respect ofthe balanceofthe first excess layerandthe secondexcess layer.
On 17 December 2004 the Group was notified that two insurance carriers who comprise 35% of the first and 80% of the second excess layers of the Groups global product liability programme had declined coverage for macrotextured claims.
Management intends to take all steps available to it in order to enforce this coverage.
Nevertheless, in view of the uncertainty, management cannot assert that it is probable that coverage will be restored and consequently has recorded an exceptional charge of 80m representing the amount currently outstanding from these insurers and an estimate of the cost associated with claims likely to arise in the future assumingthat  andsubsequent excess layerinsurers.
The charge has been calculated based on: 1 the amount outstanding at 31 December 2004 from the insurers who have denied coverage: 2 an estimate of the average cost in respect of revisions where settlements were unresolved at that date: and 3 an estimate of the number of settlements of future revisions based on the current trend  five years andanestimationofthe average futurecostper settlement.
The Groups assessment of the impact of these revisions and related matters constitute forward-looking statements that are subject to uncertainties, including uncertainties relating to the outcome of settlements as compared to the assumptions made in estimating claim amounts.
Smith & Nephew cannot provide assurance that these estimates will prove correct.
Depending on the number and average cost of future settlements, costs maybe greater orless thanthe amountprovided see RiskFactors.
16 THE  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Smith & Nephews aim is to help people regain their lives by repairing and healing the human body.
The Group contributes to the treatment and the recovery of patients within its areas of expertise and helps clinicians treat more patients by simplifying procedures and providing cost-effective solutions to healthcare systems.
Smith & Nephew has a relatively minor impact on the environment but is committed to making continuous improvements to the management of its environmental, social and economic impacts so as to help develop a sustainable business.
Smith & Nephew is dedicated to helping improve peoples lives.
The Group prides itself on the strength of its relationship with its clinicians and other healthcare professional customers with whom it has a reputation for product innovation and high standards of customer service.
Healthcare economic considerations are integrated into the product development process to ensure that the benefits from the Groups new products and line extensions not only improve patient outcomes, provide better treatment and procedures for both clinician and patient but also  .
The Group has published a Sustainability Report since 2001, recording its progress in corporate social responsibility.
Every year the scope of the report widens and new measurements are published to help the Group monitor its progress and demonstrate to its stakeholders that sustainable development is taken seriously and is considered an integral part of the way the Group does business.
The fifth Sustainability Report will be published onthe Groupswebsite at the beginningofMay2005at www.
Smith & Nephews progress has been consistently recognised by two of the leading independent organisations that assess sustainable development activities.
In 2004, the Group was again included in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index DJSI with improved scores, and their report named Smith & Nephew as a leader in its sector.
This is the most widely recognised arbiter of good practice and is truly internationalin scope.
TheDJSI has again included the Group in both the World Index and the European Index.
In the UK, Smith & Nephew continues tobe includedinthe list ofFTSE4Good companies.
BusinessIntegrity Smith & Nephew aims to be honest and fair in all aspects of its business and expects the same from all those with whom it does business.
In 2005 it further developed its code covering the standards expected of its suppliers and the means it uses to ensure that these standards are met.
Smith & Nephew did not give or receive improper financial inducements, either directly or indirectly, for business or financial gain.
The Group works to the high industry standards set by Eucomed in Europe and Advamed in the US.
Accounting records and supporting documents are designed to describe accurately and reflect the nature of underlying transactions and conform to IFRS andUS GAAP.
The Groups code of business principles governs the way it operates so that it respects the rights of all its stakeholders and seeks to build open, honest and constructive relationships.
It takes account of ethical, social, environmental, legal and financial considerations in planning and business decisions.
The code is published as part ofSmith&  andcanbe foundonits website.
Innovation Smith & Nephew is dedicated to developing innovative, cost-effective products and techniques that deliver significant advantages to clinicians and patients.
The Group combines scientific and technical leadership with an understanding of the needs of clinicians and a familiarity with the emerging treatments and procedures being explored by them.
This enables Smith & Nephew to produce new products with distinct advantages in clinical .
The Groups research and development strategy is based both on assessment of market needs and a longer range view of future requirements and opportunities.
Radical new treatment and surgical techniques are developed together with technologies and fundamental scientific work that could deliver new products for up to 15years fromnow.
It has long been the Groups practice to develop platform technologiesthat enable the buildingofa productrange following the initial technology introduction.
This provides an efficient and cost-effective means for product development andthe abilitytodeliver a stream  tothe healthcarecommunity.
17 The Groups research strategy has involved gaining a biological understanding of problems and applying materials and design expertise to provide solutions.
Whilst this approach has been extremely successful and will remain a primary route for product development, increasingly the Group is seeking solutions based on active repair where physical or biological stimuli can enhance or accelerate the restoration of the normal function of damaged tissue.
The Group maintains links with pioneering research being conducted in academic and external research organisations around the world to ensure it continues to be at the forefront of innovation for the benefit of all its stakeholders.
Environment, Health and Safety Management The Group effected a policy and organisation change at the beginning of 2004, combining environment management with Health and Safety EHS to bring improvements through a more integrated and comprehensive approach.
This policy can be found on the Groups website.
Smith & Nephew is committed to the protection of the environment by using renewable resources wherever possible and developing manufacturing processes and products that minimise adverse effects on the environment.
The Groups businesses take effective action to control risks and minimise environmentalimpacts throughsystems and procedures based on a thorough understanding of the risks and appropriate training and support.
Good EHS standards and practice ensure that the environment and Smith & Nephew employees, together with others affected by the Groups business and its products, are protected from harm.
It is considered that good EHS practice contributes to business .
The Group has environmental management systems to identify, monitor and control potential risks and adverse impacts and to generate continuous improvements and cost savings.
Manufacturing processes are relatively low in environmental impact.
Emphasis is placed on the close control of energy, water consumption and waste, the latter being the main area of impact at manufacturing sites.
Waste prevention and minimisation programmes are in operation and sustainable development aspects of the Groups products are assessed during the research and development process.
Metres............ 384 399 386 342 Totals are for the Group as a whole for the year and willtherefore include divested businesses e. g. the rehabilitation business which was sold inMarch2002.
Waste, energy and water consumption has been increasing since 2001 due to significantly increased manufacturing capacity across the Group.
There has been an emphasis on reversing this trend in 2004 generally producing good results.
Smith & Nephew has relatively low energy consumption as the above figures show.
The Group is monitoring its energy consumption by reference to carbon dioxide emission guidelines set out by the Department of Environment in the UK.
The 2004 hazardous waste figure excludes a spillage of chrome plating materials which occurred at the orthopaedics manufacturing site in Memphis.
Working closely with the state authorities, prompt actionwas taken resulting in a total of 920 tonnes of affected soil being removed from the site  contamination.
A fullanalysis ofthese measurements are includedinthe SustainabilityReport onthe Groupswebsite.
Smith & Nephew monitors key health and safety performance measurements.
A set of graphs together with analysis ofthese movements are includedinthe latest SustainabilityReport.
Social responsibility The Smith & Nephew Code of Business Principles governs the way the Group operates with regard to all its stakeholders.
This clearly spells out the behaviours and conduct each of its stakeholders should expect from the Group in all its dealings with them.
For Smith & Nephew employees the Code of Business Principles provides a 18 framework to guide their actions and embodies the practical implementation of the Groups values in their daily lives.
There are additional policies that cover in more detail those relating to a particular stakeholder group.
All these canbe foundinthe SustainabilityReport onthe Groupswebsite.
Employees Smith & Nephew operates a policy of non-discrimination and seeks to provide an open, challenging, productive and participative environment based on constructive relationships.
Smith & Nephew welcomes disabled people and makes every effort to retain any employee who becomes disabled.
The Group endeavours to maintain good communication with employees through regular and timely dissemination of Group information and consultation.
One method it uses to do this is an employee global opinion survey every two years.
2004 was the third survey carriedout, the results ofwhichhave been the catalyst fora numberofimprovements.
The results of the 2004 Global Opinion Survey indicate the continued high level of employee engagement with the values and direction of the Group demonstrated in the 2002 and 2000 surveys.
Continuing high scores of positive responses reached levels ranging from 67% to 87%.
The process of analysing the data and identifying actions required is a continuous process across the business.
Activities are monitored by the GEC to ensure that improvementsare implemented.
The Group has started to measure a number of factors which relate to employee engagement including the proportion of appointments filled by internal candidates and labour turnover.
The initial measurements recorded can be seen below.
These measurements are being collected quarterly and will build to a useful monitoring tool and alert mechanism for action, as well as enable the Group to measure annual trends as an indication of improvedperformance.
Internal Appointments In 2004 an average of 30% of vacancies in the Groups top eight countries were filled by internal applicants with over 21% of the entire Groups vacancies filled by internal applicants.
The Group has a policy of open advertising and providing opportunities for existing employees wherever possible, while recognising the benefits of the new ideas andapproachesthat external recruitmentbrings.
Labour Turnover In 2004 the Group measured both general voluntary labour turnover and turnover relating specifically to employees who have been with the business less than two years.
The latter measure is an indication of how well the Group recruits and then retains its employees so that they can make a contribution to the business.
The average voluntary labour turnover for the year was 2.5% with a range of 1.0% 3.5%.
The average turnover of employees joiningthe Group withina  5.8%witha rangeof1.4%11.0%.
Thehigher number of employees leaving within two years of joining has prompted the Group to review its recruitment and integrationprocesses andintroducea .
Training and  The Group is committed to providing the training, information and authority needed by all employees to make the maximum contribution possible.
The Group is developing systems to collect measurements related to training and the investment made in the development of its people to achieve improved performance.
Learning and development programmes are in place to ensure that the Group attracts, retains, and develops to their full potential the best talent at all levels where possible.
These are linked, wherever possible, to formal performance appraisal and development planning processes.
It aims to fill vacancies by internal promotion, as the internal appointments data above suggests, but looks to strike a balance between internal appointments and external appointments.
The Group endeavours to recruit, employ and promote employees on the basis of qualifications, behaviours and the abilities needed for the work to be performed.
Discrimination is not tolerated on any grounds andthe Groupprovides equal opportunitybased onmerit.
Leadership The Group aims to develop its current and future leaders and harness their talent to improve the performance of the business.
A set of group-wide leadership capabilities have been developed by the GEC and management development is a standing item on their meeting agenda.
Performance evaluation, coaching and attendance at  programmesare  purposes.
Workplace Smith & Nephew aims to provide healthy and safe working conditions for all its employees.
This is achieved by ensuring that health and safety and the working environment are managed as an integral part of the business  a keypart ofthisprocess.
19 The Group does not use any form of forced, compulsory or child labour.
The Universal Declaration of Human Rights of the United Nations is supported and the Group respects human rights, the dignity and privacy of the individualandthe rightofemployees tofreedom ofassociation, freedom ofexpression andthe righttobe heard.
Two-way Communication Smith & Nephew conducted its third bi-annual global opinion survey amongst all its employees during 2004.
Improved scores have been seen as a result of actions taken in response to previous surveys and many focused initiatives around the businesses are working to address areas of improvement which have been identified as priorities.
These surveys are an important measure of how the Group meets its values in practice and achieves .
The communications functions at Group Head Office, the Group Research facility and at the business units work closely with human resources management at each site on all forms of internal communication.
The corporate intranet is linked to all the business intranets to form a network that promotes transparency and knowledge, not only within each business but across the whole of the business.
They allow easy two-way communication worldwide and increase employees awareness of financial, economic and market factors affecting the Groups performance.
Societyand Community The Group works with national and local governments and other organisations to meet its legal and civic obligations, manage its impact on the environment and contribute to the development of laws and regulations that affect its business interests.
Smith & Nephew strives to be a good corporate citizen by being an active memberofits  .
The Groups principles for charitable giving are based on the criteria of being relevant to its three areas of expertise orthopaedics, endoscopy and advanced wound management, with the focus being on medical education.
Individual company sites also support their local communities in ways which will best meet their needs.
As a result the Group supports a range of charitable causes, mainly at local level, by donations of money, gifts in kind and employee time.
The Group recognises a strong obligation to contribute to the communities in which it operates.
The Groups main manufacturing sites work closely with their local communities on many initiatives which can be medical device related, but more often focus on meeting the needs of these communities.
Smith & Nephewalso targets activities  expertise andwhereits .
For example, project Apollo is the charitable and humanitarian service programme of Smith & Nephew orthopaedics designed to support the charitable work of surgeons, hospitals and charitable organisations by providing: medical products: healthcare information: medical and technical consulting: person-to-person support through employee volunteers: grant programmes covering transportation costs of medical personnel involved in relief efforts: award programmes recognising charitable and humanitarian activities: and medical textbooks for students indevelopingareas.
The Group realises that technologies and products designed to support the process of healing for physiciansand their patients around the world appear at a fast pace and that these advancements do not reach everyone.
Project Apollo seeks to link up with physicians and non-profit groups engaged in medical philanthropy to receive donations of Smith & Nephew products, as well as sponsorship and personal assistance from the Groups employees.
Teamed with these individuals and organisations, Smith & Nephew believes it has found a way of increasingthe impactofthe .
The Smith & Nephew Foundation is an independently administered charitable trust funded entirely by Smith & Nephew advanced wound management.
It offers awards to individuals in the nursing professions who wish to undertake postgraduate research with the objective of improving clinical practice in nursing and midwifery in the UK in order to enable them to further their professional training and education, thereby improving their clinical practice, medical knowledge and patient outcomes.
The Foundation is unique in being the largest single  nursingprofessions inthe UK.
Other examples of the programmes supported around its manufacturing sites can be found in the Performance sectionofthe SustainabilityReport onthe Groupswebsite.
In 2004, direct donations to charitable and communityactivities totalled 787,000 of which 300,000 went to the Smith & Nephew Foundation to fund research by individual nurses.
Smith & Nephew made no political contributionsin2004.
20 Customers The Group is committed to developing and delivering innovative, cost-effective solutions to provide benefits to healthcare professionals and their patients through improved treatment, ease and speed of product use and reduced healthcare costs.
To underpin this commitment, it will maintain significant investment in research and development  .
The Groups products are designed to be safe and reliable for their intended use and comply with or exceed all legal and regulatory requirements, includingthose concerningpackaging, labelling and user instructions.
The aim is to anticipate future standards and requirements so that the health and safety of its customers and patients is enhanced.
BusinessPartners Smith & Nephew is committed to establishing mutually beneficial relationships with its suppliers, customers and business partners.
The Group will only work with partners who it believes adhere to business principles and health, safety, social and environmental standards consistent with its own.
The Group continues to look at ways to improve its monitoring of the standards of its suppliers, not only with regard to the quality of materials which could impact the product range but also in their corporate social responsibility related activities so it can encourageprogress inthisarea ina similarmanneras itseeks .
Economic Contribution The Group business policies aim to achieve long-term growth and profits which in turn bring continued economic benefits to shareholders, employees, suppliers and local communities.
Smith & Nephews sustainable development depends ultimately on its ability to provide a satisfactory economic return.
In 2004, the Group generated an improved operating return on capital employed ratio of operating profit before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items, as set out in the Five Year Record, to the average of opening and closing capital employedplus net debt of34%.
Smith & Nephew continues to invest in research and development focused on delivering better outcomes for patients and improvements in application and use for medical practitioners.
The Group also aims to deliver cost savings to healthcare systems through such benefits as reduced dressing changes and shorter surgical operating times.
Through the use of its products the Group seeks to reduce patients time in hospital and return themtohealthfaster, improvingtheirlives .
The Group has built considerable expertise in the area of measuring healthcare economics within its advanced wound management business and is now in the process of introducing a similar system across its other businesses.
A description of the principles of healthcare economics and how they relate to Smith & Nephew products can be found in the Sustainability Report on the Groups website and expanded sections for both its orthopaedics and endoscopy businesses will be published during 2005.
The integration of healthcare economic considerations within the products and services the Group offers is evidenced in the product examples summarisedinthe  SustainabilityReport onthe Groupswebsite.
LookingAhead The Group is fulfilling an important role in its three areas of expertise, orthopaedics, endoscopy and advanced woundmanagement.
Increased demands are being made on healthcaresystems that manyare findingdifficultto meet.
The expanding elderly population has yet to be affected by the influx of the baby boomer generation that followed the Second World War.
Obesity is bringing forward the need for replacement hips and knees and increasing levels of diabetes.
With its risk of foot ulcers, diabetes is increasing the incidence of one of the most difficult wounds to heal.
More active lifestyles are putting greater strain on joints and increasing age makes the  able torecoverquickly.
Smith & Nephews strategy is to build upon its technology leadership positions, expand its markets into areas which may not have been treated before and offer the very best in products and services to the medical profession in order to be the preferred choice for patients.
The Group believes that it can achieve this by setting and meeting ambitious performance targets, by constant innovation in products and services and by earning the trust of everyone it deals with.
In all its business activities the drive towards sustainability is an ongoingand longterm process and Smith & Nephew is committed to maintaining a consistent effort and to improve on its output.
The Groups aim is to maximise these benefits through the application of innovation to produce more cost effective solutions to improve treatments and reduce healthcare costs thus contributing to sustainable and .
21 WebsiteAddresses The following provides a list of addresses for specific pages on the Smith & Nephew website to view policies and actionsreferred tointhe text .
html Energy, waste, emissions&dischargesanalysis:www.
html Health& Safety measurements & analysis: www.
html Product and service innovation examples: www.
com sustainability 2004 performance rep- 31. html EMPLOYEES Smith & Nephew had an average of 7,866 full-time equivalent employees in 2004, of whom 1,679 were located in the UK, 3,437 were located in the US and 2,750 were located in other countries.
The Group does not employ a .
A particular purpose of the survey is to test for any shortfall between published values and Group behaviours.
The Group Executive Committee then takes responsibility for ensuring that improvement areas are identified and that appropriate initiatives are put in place.
In the 2004 survey the overall response rate was 89% with 92% of respondents saying they were proud to work for Smith & Nephew.
Where the Group has collective bargaining arrangements in place with labour unions, these reflect local  effectively.
Smith & Nephew operates share option plans that are available to the majority of employees for further informationsee Note24ofthe Notes tothe GroupAccounts.
Further informationabout Smith & Nephew employees, management  out inthe SustainabilityReport onthe Smith& .
22 RISK FACTORS There are risks and uncertainties related to Smith & Nephews business.
The factors listed below are those that Smith & Nephew believes could cause the Groups actual financial condition or results of operations to differ materially from expected and historical results.
Factors other than those listed here, that Smith & Nephew cannot presently identify, could also adversely affect Smith & Nephews business.
The factors listed below should be considered in connection with any forward-looking statements in this report and the cautionary statements  .
Trends in Healthcare Expenditure In most markets throughout the world, expenditure on medical devices is ultimately controlledto a large extent by governments.
Funds may be made available or withdrawn from healthcare budgets depending on government policy.
The Group is therefore largely dependent on future governments providing increased funds commensuratewiththe increaseddemand .
Pricing of the Groups products is governed in most major markets largely by governmental reimbursement authorities.
This control may be exercised by determining prices for an individual product or for an entire procedure.
The Group is exposed to changes in reimbursement policy and pricing which may have an adverse impact on sales and operating profit.
The Group must adhere to the rules laid down by funding agencies including the US Medicare and Medicaid fraud and abuse rules.
Failure to do so could result in fines or loss of futurefunding.
In addition, competition exists among healthcare providers to gain patients on the basis of quality, service and price.
There has been some consolidation in the Groups customer base, as well as among the Groups competitors, and these trends are expected to continue long term.
Increased competition and unanticipated  todownwardpressure onpricesand ora declineinmarketshare in any of the Groups business areas which would adversely affect Smith & Nephews results of operations and hinderits growthpotential.
Currency Fluctuations The Group reports its results in Sterling.
However only 10% of group turnover arises in the UK compared with 49% in the US, 23% in Continental Europe and 18% in Africa, Asia, Australia, Canada and Latin America.
Fluctuations in the exchange rates used to translate the financial statements of operations outside the UK into Sterling may have a material effect on the Group.
If the Sterling exchange rate should strengthen against the US Dollarand  .
The Groups manufacturing cost base is situated in the US and the UK from where finished products are exported to the Groups selling operations worldwide.
Thus the Group is exposed to fluctuations in exchange rates between the US Dollar and Sterling and the currencies of the Groups selling operations, particularly the Euro and the Japanese Yen.
If the US Dollar and or Sterling should strengthen against the Euro and the Japanese Yen then  adversely affected.
Product LiabilityClaims and Lossof Reputation The development, manufacture and sale of medical devices and products entail risk of product liability claims or recalls.
Design defects and manufacturing defects with respect to products sold by the Group or by companies it has acquired could result in damage to or impairing the repair of body functions.
Smith & Nephew may become subject to liability, which could be substantial, because of actual or alleged malfunction of its products.
In addition, product malfunction could also lead to the need to recall from the market existing products, which may be   onproductsafety andefficacy.
Product liability is a risk in the medical devices industry, particularly in the US, the Groups largest geographic market where claims for pain and suffering and loss of earnings may involve substantial amounts.
There is a risk that patients bring product liability or related claims that could have a material adverse effect on the Groups financial position.
The potential exists for claimants to join together in a class action which could have the effect ofincreasingthe total potential liability.
In August 2003, the Group withdrew voluntarily the macrotextured versions of its OXINIUM femoral knee components from all markets due to a higher than expected revision rate.
At that time, 2,971 knee components had been implanted in patients worldwide, with about 2,471 components implanted in the US, 450 in Australia 23 and 50 in Europe.
As of 28 February 2005 approximately 26% of implants 782 out of 2,971 cases required revisionsurgeryas a result ofsomepatients notachievingadequate fixation.
As of 28 February 2005, the Group had entered into settlement agreements in respect of 537 revision surgeries.
The total amount paid out in settlements, legal costs and associated expenses was 50m.
Of this amount, 32m has been orwillbe recoveredfromthe insurer.
On 17 December 2004, the Group received notification that two insurance carriers participating in the first and second excess layers of the Groups global product liability programme had declined coverage.
While the Group intends to pursue all available options to obtain this coverage, it cannot be certain that coverage will be restored.
Consequently, the Group has recorded an exceptional charge of 80m, representing the amount currently outstanding from these insurers and an estimate of the costs associated with claims likely to arise in the future assuming that insurance coverage remains unavailable.
The current quarterly run rate of revision is 20 a month  assumptions used incalculatingthe provision.
Depending on the number and average cost of settlement, costs to the Group may be greater or less than the amount of this provision.
In the hypothetical scenario that all implants eventually need to be revised prematurely and that insurance cover continues to be unavailable, the cost to the Group of the declined insurance cover is estimated to be 190m an additional 110m over the amount provided assuming the average cost per settlement remains approximately the same and there is a standard rate of mortality.
These estimates are forward-looking statements that are subject to uncertainties, including uncertainties relating to the outcome of settlements as comparedtothe assumptions made inestimating claimamounts.
The Group maintains product liability insurance, but this insurance is subject to limits and deductibles.
There is a risk that this insurance could become unavailable at a reasonable cost or at all, or will be inadequate to cover specific product liability claims.
Insurance premiums are relatively high, particularly for coverage in the US, and there is a risk at the medical devices industry level that insurance coverage could become increasingly costly.
If Smith & Nephew or any companies it acquires do not have adequate insurance, product liability claims and costs associated with product recalls, could significantly limit Smith & Nephews available cash flow and negatively impactproductsales fromanyassociated loss ofbusiness.
 The Groups principal business units compete across a diverse range of geographic and product markets.
The markets in which each of the three business units operates each contain a number of different competitors, including specialised and international corporations.
Significant product innovations, technical advances or the intensification of price competition by competitors could adversely affect the Groups operating results.
Some of the Groups competitors focus on certain specialised products, while others are large, multinational corporations.
Some of these competitors may have greater financial, marketing and other resources than Smith & Nephew.
These competitors may be able to deliver products on more attractive terms, more aggressively market their products or invest larger amounts of capital and research and development into their businesses.
A competitive risk in the endoscopy market is the reprocessing and re-use of single use disposable devices such as .
There is a risk of further consolidation particularly in the orthopaedic industry which could adversely affect the Groups ability to compete with much larger companies due to insufficient financial resources.
If any of the Groups businesses were to lose market share or achieve lower than expected sales growth there could be a  impactonthe Groupsshare priceandits strategic options.
Failure to Make Successful Acquisitions A key element of the Groups strategy for continued growth is to make acquisitions or alliances to complement its existing businesses.
Failure to identify appropriate acquisition targets or failure to integrate them successfully wouldhave anadverse impactonthe .
Attracting and Retaining Key Personnel The Groups continued development depends on its ability to hire and retain highly skilled personnel with particular expertise.
This is critical, particularly in research and new product development and in the orthopaedics and endoscopy sales forces of which the largest are in the US.
If Smith & Nephew is unable to retain key personnel in research and new product development or if its largest sales forces suffer disruptionor upheaval, its sales  adversely affected.
24 Regulatory Approvals and Controls The medical device industry is highly regulated.
Regulatory requirements are a major factor in determining whether substances and materials can be developed into marketable products and the amount of time and expense that should be allotted to such development.
At any time the Group is awaiting a number of regulatory approvals, which if not received, could adversely affect results of operations.
Regulatory approval of new products and new materials is required in each country in which the Group operates although a single approval may be obtained for all countries within the European Union.
Regulatory approval of new products may entail a lengthy process particularly if materials are employed which have not previously been used in similar products.
Regulatory approvals inthe US, ContinentalEurope, Japan andthe UK are the most criticaltothe Groupssuccess .
The Group is required to comply with a wide range of regulatory controls over the manufacturing, testing, distribution and marketing of its products, particularly in the US, UK, Japan and Continental Europe.
Such controls have become increasingly demanding and management believes that this trend will continue.
Failure to comply with such controls could have a number of adverse consequences, including withdrawal of approval to sell a productina  .
Patent Infringement Claims Due to the technological nature of medical devices, the Group is subject to the potential for patent infringement claims.
Smith& Nephewattempts toprotect its  thirdparty patents and trademarks in those areas that might conflict with the Groups business interests.
If Smith & Nephew fails to successfully enforce its intellectual property rights, its competitive position could suffer, which could harm its operatingresults.
Claims asserted by third parties regarding infringement of their intellectual property rights, if successful, could require the Group to expend significant resources to pay damages, develop non-infringing products or to obtain licences to the products which are the subject of such litigation.
The Group is currently involved in a patent infringement suit whereby pursuant to a court-ordered injunction, the Group is prohibited from selling certain bi-polar radio frequency products.
Failure to obtain a favourable outcome in the litigation could have an adverse impactonthe .
Continual Developmentand Introduction of New Products The Group operates in the medical devices industry, which has a rapid introductionrate of new products.
In order to remain competitive, each of the Groups business units must continue to develop innovative products that satisfy customer needs and preferences or provide cost or other advantages.
Developing new products is a costly, lengthy and uncertain process.
A potential product may not be brought to market for any number of reasons, including failure to work optimally, failure to receive regulatory approval, failure to be cost-competitive, infringement of patents or other intellectual property rights and changes in consumer demand.
Furthermore, new products that are developed and marketed by the Groups competitors may affect price levels in the various markets in whichthe Groupsbusiness unitsoperate.
If  products, the Groupssales revenuecoulddecline.
There is a risk that a major disruptive technology could be introduced into one of the Groups markets and adversely affect its  plans andtargets.
Manufacturing and Supply The Groups manufacturing production is concentrated at seven main facilities in Memphis, Tennessee: Andover and Mansfield, Massachusetts: Oklahoma City, Oklahoma: La Jolla, California: and Largo, Florida in the US and Hull in the UK.
If major physical disruption took place at any of these sites, it would adversely affect the results of operations.
Physical loss and consequential loss insurance is carried to cover such risks but is subject to limits anddeductibles andmaynotbe .
Each of the three business units is reliant on certain key suppliers of raw materials, components, finished products and packaging materials.
If any of these suppliers is unable to meet the Groups needs or substantially increases its prices, Smith & Nephew would need to seek alternative suppliers.
There can be no assurance that alternative suppliers would provide the necessary raw materials on favourable or cost-effective terms.
Consequently, the Group may be forced to pay higher prices to obtain raw materials, which it may not be able to pass on to its customers in the form of increased prices for its finished products.
In addition, some of the raw materials used may become unavailable, and there can be no assurance that the Group will be able to obtain 25 suitable and cost-effective substitutes.
Any interruption of supply or price increases caused by these or other factors couldnegatively impactSmith& .
Medical DeviceCompany Valuations As a growth industry, the medical device companies currently have higher stock market valuations than other industrial companies.
If market conditions change, or other companies in its sector fail to perform, or the Group is perceived to be performing less well than the sector, then the share price rating of the Group may be adversely affected.
Political and Economic Uncertainties Because the Group has operations in 32 countries, political and economic upheaval in those countries or in the regions surrounding those countries may impact the Groups results of operation.
Political changes in a country could prevent the Group from receiving remittances of profit from a member of the Group located in that country or from selling its investments in that country.
Furthermore, legislative measures in a country could result in changes in tariffs, import quotas or taxation that could adversely affect the Groups turnover and operating profit.
Terrorist activities and ongoing global political uncertainties, including conflict in the Middle East, could adversely impactthe Group.
Other Risk Factors The Board considers that Smith & Nephew is subject to a number of other risks whichare commontomost global  reviewed as part ofits .
In the financial area these include interest rate volatility, share price volatility, challenges by taxation authorities, failures .
Adverse events in the areas of corporate social responsibility could also adversely impact Group operating results.
