C11742 Unlvr AR eng 001-023. qxd 9 3 05 4:40 AM Page 8 Chairmens statement In 2005 we expect the tough trading conditions experienced our needs until now, we believe it is time for a thorough review.
over the past 12 months to continue.
However, the changes we We expect Antony to be succeeded by an independent Nonhave made to our structure and the measures we have taken to Executive Chairman in the course of 2007. increase competitiveness will allow us to retain exibility to build the long-term health of our business in changing circumstances.
Bertrand Collomb will become Non-Executive Vice-Chairman of both parent companies in addition to his role as the Senior Introduction Independent Director.
In February 2005, when we first reported on our performance in 2004, we also announced far-reaching changes to our Patrick becomes the new Group Chief Executive and assumes full organisation and a change of roles for ourselves.
We believe it is operational responsibility for the business, accountable for all important to explain why these changes were necessary and why aspects of the companys operations and performance.
He will we are confident that, once fully implemented, they will put your lead a small Executive team comprising three Regional Presidents, business in the best possible shape to succeed in the competitive two Category Presidents and functional leaders for Finance and battles ahead.
We are dismantling the current divisional and business group structures to simplify and speed up decision making and At the end of our five-year Path to Growth period we are not substantially reduce the size of the top management team.
Despite many achievements in simplifying New Regional Presidents for Europe, The Americas and Asia Africa, the brand portfolio, in increasing margins and capital efficiency, in Middle East and Turkey AMET will be profit responsible and restoring financial exibility and in many other areas, we do not charged with implementing proven brand mixes in their region end this period of Unilevers history with the level of growth we across Foods and Home and Personal Care HPC.
This is not because our portfolio is incapable of growth.
a greatly enhanced focus on our customers.
The Category Our portfolio is strong, and is capable of generating the growth Presidents will assume responsibility for the entire brand we need, but we have not been fast enough in reacting to development process including innovation, R&D, brand toughening market conditions and increased competitive positioning and communication and category strategies.
One Unilever We are now facing up to these challenges and also putting in We expect to fund future growth largely through cost savings.
place the organisational changes required.
Some of these will come from the global One Unilever programme, which commenced in 2004.
Its goal is to eradicate What will change duplication, leverage Unilevers scale and help people focus on Starting last September we increased the level of investment our consumers, customers and the marketplace.
The latest behind our brands, through more aggressive pricing and higher changes are completely congruent with and build upon the advertising expenditure.
We intend to sustain this policy and One Unilever principles.
make our portfolio work harder in a number of ways.
We will continue to build our big brands through innovation and Path to Growth increased marketplace investment.
At the same time we will 2004 marked the final year of Path to Growth, a bold better use the whole of our brand portfolio to leverage our transformational agenda designed to bring about a step change category strength and drive market share.
We recognize that in growth and profitability.
While many of the milestones set have we must also be smarter and more disciplined in execution been met, sustained top-line growth has not been achieved.
faster roll-out of innovations and more focus on building productive relationships with our customers.
We will fund In many ways we are a stronger business than we were five much of this through increased productivity.
years ago and we have valuable assets on which we can build excellent market positions in our chosen categories and in the New organisation faster growing regions of the world: a focused brand portfolio We will reshape the organisation to support the drive for with 12 brands achieving sales in excess of 1 billion a year and increased competitiveness.
We will fide-layer the organisation nearly two-thirds of our turnover coming from brands in excess of between the Boards and the operating units, and clearly separate 0.5 billion.
Our Vitality mission unites us all.
It is a compelling responsibility for brand development and category management vision that is right for our consumer, right for our brands and on the one hand and country and customer development on the right for our business.
In all cases there will be clear single-point accountability.
However, after a promising start, including two good years For 75 years the Joint Chairmen and Chief Executive model has of growth and market share gains in 2001 and 2002, the served us well.
However, to further improve governance and initial progress was not sustained.
Although markets have organisational effectiveness, we have now decided that your been tougher than expected over the past 18 months, some business will be better served by a single Non-Executive Chairman market share has also been lost.
There were three fundamental responsible for running the Boards and a single Chief Executive reasons for this.
Firstly, we let a range of targets limit our officer responsible for running the business.
Secondly, we did not adjust our plans quickly enough Non-Executive Chairman for both Unilever N. V. and Unilever PLC to react to a more difficult business environment.
Finally, we at the Annual General Meetings in May, and he will lead a study took our eye off our competitiveness, and our execution could of Unilevers corporate structure.
Although our structure has met have been sharper.
08 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2004
