C11742 Unlvr AR eng 052-070. qxd 9 3 05 3:28 AM Page 66 Corporate governance continued In 2003 2004 the Nomination Committee and the Boards decided The Committee also met early in 2005 to consider and agree to to continue to include the Chairmen of NV and PLC as members recommend to the Boards the changes to the corporate of the Committee on the express condition that they do not governance arrangements proposed for introduction in 2005.
It participate in any discussion of their own positions.
Their advice agreed appropriate proposals for nominations for election as has proved invaluable on other appointments, given their wide Directors at the Annual General Meetings in 2005.
The knowledge of Unilever executives and the practice of Committee also considered the allocation of roles on the predominantly promoting to top positions from within the Group.
Boards in the light of those changes and taking account of the proposed composition of the Executive Team.
It supported the Following implementation of the changes in 2005, the single appointment of the Senior Independent Director as Non-Executive Chairman of NV and PLC will remain as a member Vice-Chairman.
of the Committee but not be regarded as Independent.
The Group Chief Executive will not be a member of the Nomination The Committee updated itself on succession planning issues, Committee.
notably with respect to the membership of the Audit Committee and the positions of Senior Independent Director and Chairman, Remit and authorised appropriate actions in response to them.
It The remit of the Committee was also included as part of the revisited the question, on the basis of up-to-date information, 2003 2004 review of our corporate governance arrangements.
of which of the Non-Executive Directors should be judged as Independent and agreed a recommendation for the Boards The primary role of the Committee continues to be the consideration and decision.
The Committees annual Report to recommendation to the Boards of candidates for the positions Shareholders was approved and it considered certain corporate of Director, both Executive and Non-Executive, and Chairman governance issues arising under the new requirements in the and Vice-Chairman, and this includes a responsibility to concern Netherlands.
Finally, it carried out the Committees annual review itself with succession planning within the Boards.
In addition it of its terms of reference and performance of its responsibilities now has a responsibility for the oversight of all matters relating and commenced its evaluation of its performance in 2004. to corporate governance, bringing any issues to the attention of the Boards.
Under its remit, the Committee is entitled to Combined earnings per share use the services of recruitment consultants and other external experts at the expense of the Company.
It is also to conduct Because of the Equalisation Agreement and the other a process of evaluation of its own performance each year.
arrangements between NV and PLC, we calculate combined The full remit is on the Unilever website at earnings per share for NV and PLC see note 7 on page 112. www.
com ourcompany investorcentre, as is the information used by the Committee for succession planning.
We base the calculation on the average amount of NV and PLCs ordinary share capital in issue during the year.
For the main Also on that website is The Governance of Unilever, which, calculation, we exclude treasury shares which have been amongst other matters, sets out the procedures for evaluating the purchased to satisfy employee share options.
We also calculate a Boards and individual Directors.
These are designed to enable the diluted earnings per share gure, where we include employee results of the evaluations to be provided to the Nomination share option commitments, as well as certain PLC shares which Committee when it discusses the nominations for election as may be issued in 2038 under the arrangements for the variation Directors of NV and PLC at the next Annual General Meeting.
of the Leverhulme Trust, and those treasury shares utilised for the conversion of the 0.05 preference shares.
Meetings of the Committee The Committee met twice in 2004.
It agreed to propose the The process by which we calculate earnings per share is as nomination of all current available Advisory Directors for election follows.
First, we convert the average capital of NV and PLC into as Non-Executive Directors at the 2004 Annual General Meetings.
units using the formula contained in the Equalisation Agreement: The Committee reviewed the results of the consultations with the one unit equals 10.7 NV shares or 71.4 PLC shares.
We add these Boards over the respective candidates and proceeded to together to nd the total number of units of combined share recommend the selection of Patrick Cescau for the role of PLC capital.
Then the amount of net profit in euros which is Chairman and the nomination of Kees van der Graaf to become attributable to ordinary capital is divided by this total number of Foods Director.
It also reviewed and approved the nominations units to nd the amount per combined unit.
Finally, we convert and proposed roles of the other Executive Directors.
The the combined unit back into NV and PLC ordinary shares, to show Committee considered issues relating to the succession planning the amount per one share of each.
The amount per unit is divided for the existing Executive Directors and the Non-Executive by 10.7 to nd the amount per 0.51 share, and by 71.4 to nd Directors.
Finally, at the request of the Boards, it had considered a the amount per 1.4p share.
detailed review by the Joint Secretaries of personal factors relevant to the independence of the prospective Non-Executive Despite the Equalisation Agreement, NV and PLC are independent Directors.
corporations, and are subject to different laws and regulations governing dividend payments in the Netherlands and the United 66 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2004
