C11742 Unlvr AR eng 001-023. qxd 9 3 05 4:40 AM Page 2 General information The Unilever Group Reporting currency and exchange rates Unilever N. V. NV is a public limited company registered in the Details of key exchange rates used in preparation of these Netherlands, which has listings of shares or certicates depositary accounts are given on page 153, together with Noon Buying receipts of NV on the stock exchanges in Amsterdam, New York, Rates in New York for the equivalent dates.
Basis of Discussion and Analysis Unilever PLC PLC is a public limited company registered in In parts of this document, notably the Chairmens statement England which has shares listed on the London Stock Exchange on pages 8 and 9 and the review of operations by product and, as American Depositary Receipts, on the New York Stock category and region on pages 24 to 49, discussion of Exchange.
performance is based on constant rates of exchange.
This removes the impact of currency movements and more clearly The two parent companies, NV and PLC, together with their portrays the underlying performance of the operations group companies, operate as nearly as is practicable as a single themselves.
The constant rate used is the annual average rate for entity the Unilever Group, also referred to as Unilever or the the prior year.
For each two-year period, the year-on-year trends Group.
NV and PLC and their group companies constitute a in euros are the same as those which would arise if the results single group under Netherlands and United Kingdom legislation were shown in sterling or US dollars at constant exchange rates.
for the purposes of presenting consolidated accounts.
Accordingly, the accounts of the Unilever Group are presented by Wherever used in this document, the abbreviation BEIA refers both NV and PLC as their respective consolidated accounts.
to profit measures before exceptional items and amortisation of goodwill and intangible assets.
Unilever believes that reporting Publications profit measures before exceptional items and amortisation of This publication is produced in both Dutch and English and goodwill and intangible assets BEIA provides valuable additional comprises the full Annual Report and Accounts for 2004 of NV information on underlying earnings trends to shareholders.
This document complies with Netherlands and United term BEIA is not a dened term under Netherlands, UK, or US Kingdom regulations.
It also forms the basis of the NV and PLC Generally Accepted Accounting Principles GAAP, and may not Annual Reports on Form 20-F to the Securities and Exchange therefore be comparable with similarly titled profit measurements Commission in the United States for the year ended 31 December reported by other companies.
It is not intended to be a substitute 2004, and cross references to Form 20-F are set out on page 182. for or superior to GAAP measurements of profit.
It is made available to all shareholders who request or elect to receive it, and on the website at Operating profit BEIA is a key metric used by management and www.
investors to measure the progress of Unilevers Path to Growth strategy which commenced in 1999, concluding at the end of The separate publication, Unilever Annual Review 2004, 2004.
At the beginning of the Path to Growth, Unilever containing a Summary Financial Statement with gures expressed communicated to investors its targets for the programme, in euros, with translations into pounds sterling and US dollars, is including a target based on earnings measured on a BEIA basis.
also published in Dutch and English.
It is a short form document During Path to Growth, Unilevers internal performance targets that is prepared in accordance with the United Kingdom and management information have been measured on a BEIA regulations for Summary Financial Statements.
Unilever believes that the communication and explanation Annual Review 2004 is mailed to all registered shareholders and of measures BEIA is essential in order for readers of Unilevers to other shareholders who are either entitled or have asked to financial statements to understand fully the performance of receive it, and is also made available on the website at Unilever and progress towards Path to Growth targets.
02 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2004
