C11742 Unlvr AR eng 001-023. qxd 9 3 05 4:40 AM Page 14 About Unilever continued In December 2004, we joined forces with UNICEF to tackle UN Competition Millennium Development Goal 4, which aims to reduce mortality We have a wide and diverse set of competitors in our consumer rates among children under five by two-thirds over the next goods businesses.
Many of our competitors also operate on ten years.
We will work closely with UNICEF and bring to the an international scale, but others have a narrower regional or partnership our knowledge of nutrition and hygiene.
proven ability in delivering affordable products to low-income consumers and experience of contributing to sustainable Competition is a normal part of business.
We aim to compete development in different regions of the world.
and give value to our consumers, customers and shareholders in three ways: Interest in how we manage our own operations now extends by continually developing new and improved products: to supply chain relations.
We want to work with suppliers who by sharing our innovations and concepts with our businesses have values similar to our own and work to the same standards all around the world: and as we do.
by striving to lower the cost of our sourcing, manufacturing and distribution processes while still maintaining, and As part of our commitment to this we have developed a Business improving, the quality of our products.
Partner Code, aligned to our own Code of Business Principles.
It comprises 10 principles covering business integrity, and We support efforts to create a more open competitive responsibilities relating to employees, consumers and the environment through the liberalisation of international trade.
We are working towards positive assurance of We support the fuller implementation of the Single European adherence to the Code from all first-tier suppliers by the end Market and inclusion of other European countries in the European of 2005.
The values that inspire us and govern the way we manage our Distribution and selling business are clearly set out in our Corporate Purpose and Code of Unilevers products are generally sold through its sales force and Business Principles.
They provide a framework within which our through independent brokers, agents and distributors to chain, managers can operate and be held accountable.
The Code sets wholesale, co-operative and independent grocery accounts, food out our respect for the human rights of our employees, including service distributors and institutions.
Products are distributed freedom of association and labour union membership.
Some of through distribution centres, satellite warehouses, companyour employees are members of such unions.
operated and public storage facilities, depots and other facilities.
In 2004, we completed the world-wide roll-out of a condential Exports ethics hotline, introduced as a way for our people to raise We sell our products in nearly all countries throughout the world concerns relating to our business principles.
We are carrying out and manufacture in many of them.
We export a wide range of pulse checks to ensure that employees are aware of the hotline products to countries where we do not make them.
For example, and understand its importance.
inside the European Union we make many of our products in only a few member countries, for sale in all of them.
The chosen We communicate our performance and the progress we are manufacturing conguration is generally determined by an making through the Environment and Society section of our optimised regional sourcing strategy which takes account of website and publish summary social and environmental reports.
requirements for innovation, quality, service, cost and exibility.
We are also producing a series of articles, Global Challenges: Local Actions, on how we are working with a range of external Seasonality partners to tackle issues such as nutrition, hygiene and Certain of our businesses, such as ice creams and prestige sustainable development.
For more information visit fragrances, are subject to significant seasonal uctuations in sales.
However, Unilever operates globally in many different markets and product categories.
No individual element of seasonality is likely to be material to the results of the Group as a whole.
14 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2004
