C11742 Unlvr AR eng 052-070. qxd 9 3 05 2:22 AM Page 58 Corporate governance continued Thus, the current Directors, the majority of whom are The Boards are regularly briefed on reactions to the quarterly independent Non-Executive Directors, can ensure that both NV results announcements.
They, or the relevant Board Committee, and PLC shareholders are presented with the same candidates for are briefed on any issues raised by shareholders that are relevant election as directors, because the joint holders of both the special to their responsibilities.
shares and the deferred stock are NV Elma and United Holdings Limited, which are subsidiaries of NV and PLC.
Communications with shareholders Both NV and PLC communicate with their respective shareholders The members of our Nomination Committee act as Directors of through the Annual General Meetings as well as responding to NV Elma and of United Holdings Limited.
This is to ensure that their questions and enquiries during the course of the year.
At the the nomination rights are only exercised so as to ensure the Annual General Meetings, each Chairman has given a full account implementation of the decision of the full Boards.
of the progress of the business over the last year and a review of current issues.
A summary of their addresses is published on our In addition, only persons who have offered themselves for website and copies are freely available on request.
election to the Boards of both NV and PLC are eligible to be elected as Directors of NV and PLC.
Our Chairmen, both in communications about the Annual General Meetings and at the actual meetings, have encouraged The interests of our shareholders are protected because all shareholders to attend and to ask questions.
Question and the Directors submit themselves for election every year and answer sessions form an important part of the meetings in both shareholders can remove any of them by a simple majority vote.
the Netherlands and the United Kingdom.
We are committed to Thus, as a practical matter, the Boards cannot perpetuate efforts to establish more effective ways of shareholder themselves contrary to the will of the shareholders.
We actively participate in the Shareholders Communication Channel which facilitates proxy voting in the In addition, shareholders can overrule Director nominations.
In the Netherlands and make CREST electronic proxy voting available case of NV, this can be done by a resolution adopted by at least a to institutional shareholders in the UK.
two-thirds majority of the votes cast, which majority must represent more than one half of NVs issued share capital.
If this Electronic communication is becoming an important medium for happens, a new meeting is held and a new Director can be shareholders, providing ready access to shareholder information appointed with an absolute majority of the votes cast.
In the case and reports, and for voting purposes.
NV shareholders of PLC, this would require resolutions passed at general meetings participating in the Shareholders Communication Channel will be to alter the nomination rights attached to the Deferred Shares able to appoint electronically a proxy to vote on their behalf at and to alter the Articles of Association.
The former resolution the AGM in 2005.
NV shareholders who wish to participate in the would require a two-thirds majority of those voting, so long as Shareholders Communication Channel should contact their bank that majority comprises not less than half of the issued PLC or brokers.
Shareholders of PLC in the United Kingdom can now shares.
The latter resolution would require a three-quarters choose to receive electronic notication that the Annual Review, majority of those voting.
Annual Report and Accounts and Notice of Annual General Meeting have been published on our website, instead of receiving Shareholder matters printed copies, and can also electronically appoint a proxy to vote on their behalf at the Annual General Meeting.
Registration for Relations with shareholders and other investors electronic communication by shareholders of PLC can be made at We believe it is important both to explain the business www.
com ourcompany investorcentre shareholder holder developments and financial results to investors and to understand info.
We take the views of our shareholders into account and, in Within the Executive Committee, the Financial Director has lead accordance with all applicable legislation and regulations, consult responsibility for investor relations, with the active involvement them in an appropriate way before putting major new proposals of the Chairmen.
They are supported by an Investor Relations at our Annual General Meetings.
Department which organises presentations for analysts and investors.
Such presentations are generally made available on General Meetings of shareholders our website.
Briengs on quarterly results are given via General Meetings of shareholders of NV and PLC are held at teleconference and are accessible by telephone or via our times and places decided by our Boards.
NV meetings are held in website.
For further information visit our website at Rotterdam and PLC meetings are held in London.
Resolutions are usually adopted at NV and PLC shareholder Our shareholders can, and do, raise issues directly with the meetings by an absolute majority of votes cast, unless there are relevant Executive Director or one of the Chairmen and, if other requirements under the applicable laws or the NV or PLC appropriate, a relevant Non-Executive Director or the Senior Articles of Association.
For example, there are special Independent Director.
requirements for resolutions relating to the alteration of NVs or PLCs Articles of Association or to the liquidation of NV or PLC.
58 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2004
