C11742 Unlvr AR eng 001-023. qxd 9 3 05 4:40 AM Page 16 About Unilever continued Intellectual property Unilever has businesses in many countries and from time to We have a large portfolio of patents and trademarks, and we time these are subject to investigation by competition and other conduct some of our operations under licences which are based regulatory authorities.
One such matter concerns ice cream on patents or trademarks owned or controlled by others.
We are distribution in Europe, notably the issues of outlet and cabinet not dependent on any one patent or group of patents.
In October 2003, the Court of First Instance in our best efforts to protect our brands and technology.
Luxembourg ruled in favour of the European Commissions decision banning Unilevers Irish ice cream business, HB Ice Description of our properties Cream, from seeking freezer cabinet exclusivity for their products We have interests in properties in most of the countries where in the Irish market.
HB Ice Cream has submitted an appeal against there are Unilever operations.
However, none is material in the the decision of the Court of First Instance in Luxembourg.
If context of the Group as a whole.
The properties are used unsuccessful, then freezer exclusivity in Ireland will be predominantly to house production and distribution activities unenforceable in outlets which only have HB freezers.
There is a mixture of leased and owned property consequences may apply in specic European markets with throughout the Group.
There are no environmental issues equivalent structures to those described in the decision.
affecting the properties which would have a material impact upon the Group, and there are no material encumbrances on our During 2004 the Federal Supreme Court in Brazil local acronym properties.
Any difference between the market value of properties STF announced a review of certain cases that it had previously held by the Group and the amount at which they are included in decided in favour of taxpayers.
As a result of this action we have the balance sheet is not significant.
See the schedule of principal established a provision of 169 million for the potential group companies and xed investments on page 165 to 168 and repayment of sales tax credits in the event that the cases details of tangible xed assets in note 10 on page 114. establishing precedents in our favour are reversed.
We currently have no plans to construct new facilities or expand Also in Brazil, and in common with many other businesses or improve our current facilities in a manner that is material to the operating in that country, one of our Brazilian subsidiaries Group.
received a notice of infringement from the Federal Revenue Service.
The notice alleges that a 2001 reorganisation of our local Legal and arbitration proceedings and regulatory matters corporate structure was undertaken without valid business We are not involved in any legal or arbitration proceedings and purpose.
If upheld, the notice could result in a significant tax do not have any obligations under environmental legislation claim in respect of prior years.
The 2001 reorganisation was which we expect to lead to material loss or expenditure in the comparable to that used by many companies in Brazil and we context of the Group results.
None of our Directors or Ofcers are believe that the likelihood of a successful challenge by the tax involved in any such material legal proceedings.
This view is supported by the opinion of outside counsel.
In 1999 NV issued 0.05 preference shares as an alternative to a cash dividend.
In March 2004 NV announced its intention to Government regulation convert those preference shares into ordinary NV shares in the Unilever businesses are governed, in particular, by laws and first quarter of 2005.
A number of holders of these preference regulations designed to ensure that their products may be safely shares raised objections to this and asked the Enterprise Chamber used for their intended purpose and that their labelling and of the Amsterdam Court of Appeal to conduct an inquiry.
On advertising are truthful and not misleading.
Unilever businesses 21 December 2004 the Enterprise Chamber decided to order an are further regulated by data protection and anti-trust legislation.
inquiry to be carried out.
As at 25 February 2005, this inquiry is Important regulatory bodies in respect of our businesses include ongoing.
An additional request to forbid the conversion was the European Commission and the US Food and Drug rejected by the Enterprise Chamber.
Further information is given Administration.
We have processes in place to ensure that products, ingredients, manufacturing processes, marketing materials and activities comply with the above-mentioned laws and regulations.
16 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2004
