C11742 Unlvr AR eng 052-070. qxd 9 3 05 3:27 AM Page 61 Corporate governance continued When the will trusts were varied in 1983, the interests of the Communication Channel see page 58, you will receive a proxy beneciaries of his will were also preserved.
Four classes of special form enabling you to authorise and instruct Nedamtrust to vote at shares were created in Margarine Union 1930 Limited, a the NV shareholders meeting on your behalf.
Nedamtrust is subsidiary of PLC.
One of these classes can be converted at the obliged to follow these instructions.
end of the year 2038 into 157 500 000 PLC ordinary shares of 1.4p each.
These convertible shares replicate the rights which the For shares for which Nedamtrust does not receive instructions, descendants of the first Viscount would have had under his will.
Nedamtrusts Board decides on the best way to vote the NV This class of the special shares only has a right to dividends in ordinary and preference shares it holds at shareholders meetings specified circumstances, and no dividends have yet been paid.
in such a way as it deems to be in the interests of the holders of PLC guarantees the dividend and conversion rights the Nedamtrust certicates.
Specic provisions apply in case a of the special shares.
meeting of holders of preference shares is convened.
The first Viscount wanted the trustees of the trusts he established If a change to shareholders rights is proposed, Nedamtrust will to be Directors of PLC.
On 25 February 2005 the trustees of the let shareholders know if it intends to vote, at least 14 days in charitable trusts were: advance if possible.
It will do this by advertising in the press.
Sir Michael Angus former Chairman As a holder of Nedamtrust certicates, you can exchange your Sir Michael Perry former Chairman Nedamtrust certicate at any time for the underlying ordinary or Mr N W A FitzGerald former Chairman preference share or vice versa.
Dr J I W Anderson former Director Dr A S Ganguly former Director Hitherto the majority of votes cast by ordinary and preference shareholders at NV meetings have been cast by Nedamtrust.
On 25 February 2005, in their capacity as trustees of the two charitable trusts, they held approximately 5.39% of PLCs issued Nedamtrusts NV shareholding uctuates daily its holdings on ordinary capital.
25 February 2005 were: N. V. Nederlandsch Administratieen Trustkantoor Ordinary shares of 0.51: 427 507 885 73.05% Nedamtrust 7% Cumulative Preference Shares of 453.78: 9 820 33.86% Nedamtrust is an independent trust company under the 6% Cumulative Preference Shares of 453.78: 6 0.00% Netherlands law, which has an agreement with NV to issue 4% Cumulative Preference Shares of 45.38: 23 0.00% depositary receipts against NV shares.
We do not control Nedamtrust it is a wholly owned subsidiary of N. V. Algemeen In order to further comply with the Dutch Corporate Governance Nederlands Trustkantoor ANT ANT.
Five Dutch financial Code see page 64 Nedamtrust will call a meeting of holders of institutions hold 45% of ANTs shares between them they have Nedamtrust certicates in 2005 and propose certain changes.
between 5% and 10% each, and the rest of its shares are owned Further information can be found on Unilever's website by a large number of individual shareholders.
com ourcompany investorcentre and in the notice of that meeting.
As part of its corporate objects Nedamtrust is able to: Requirements and compliance general issue depositary receipts: carry out administration for the shares which underlie the Unilever is subject to corporate governance requirements in the depositary receipts it has issued: and Netherlands, the United Kingdom and the United States.
We took exercise voting rights for these underlying shares.
the different perspectives of these various rules into account in preparing the preceding description of our Board arrangements.
The depositary receipts issued by Nedamtrust against NV shares are known as Nedamtrust certicates.
They are in bearer form, The changes we made to our corporate governance arrangements and are traded and quoted on Euronext Amsterdam and other at the NV and PLC Annual General Meetings in 2004 consisted of European stock exchanges.
Nedamtrust has issued certicates for the appointment of Non-Executive Directors to join our Executive NVs ordinary and 7% cumulative preference shares, and almost Directors on our existing single-tier boards for NV and PLC.
This all the NV shares traded and quoted in Europe are in the form of board structure is not the one most familiar to either our these certicates.
The exception is that there are no certicates shareholders in the Netherlands, where a two-tier board has been for NVs 4%, 6% and 0.05 cumulative preference shares.
customary, or our shareholders in the US, where the most senior executives draw their authority primarily from their corporate If you hold Nedamtrust certicates, you can attend or appoint a ofce rather than their appointment, if any, as a Director.
proxy at NV shareholders meetings.
Nedamtrust will Nevertheless, we believe that these changes, when added to our automatically give you a power of attorney to vote, if you attend suitably updated existing procedures, mean that NV and PLC such meetings.
If you hold Nedamtrust certicates with a bank or comply both in the letter as well as the spirit of almost all of the broker in the Netherlands and have notied the Shareholders applicable requirements.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2004 61
