C11742 Unlvr AR eng 169-174. qxd 8 3 05 11:16 PM Page 174 Further statutory information and other information Unilever PLC Employee involvement and communication Auditors Unilevers UK companies maintain formal processes to inform, consult A resolution will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting on and involve employees and their representatives.
Most of the United 11 May 2005 for the re-appointment of  LLP Kingdom sites are accredited to the Investors in People standard.
The present appointment will end at the sites also use tools such as Total Productive Maintenance which rely conclusion of the Annual General Meeting.
heavily on employee involvement, contribution and commitment.
Authority to purchase own shares A European Works Council, embracing employee and management At the Annual General Meeting of PLC held on 12 May 2004, representatives from 15 countries of Western Europe, has been authority was given pursuant to Article 64 of the PLC Articles of in existence for several years and provides a forum for discussing Association to make market purchases of PLC ordinary shares of 1.4p issues that extend across national boundaries.
each, to a maximum of 290 million shares.
This authority will expire at the Annual General Meeting on 11 May 2005, and a resolution will The directors reports of the United Kingdom group companies be proposed to renew it.
The company has not exercised this contain more details about how they have communicated with their authority during the year.
Details of shares purchased by an employee share trust and Unilever Equal opportunities and diversity group companies to satisfy options granted under PLCs employee The heads of all operating companies and units in the UK have share schemes are given in the Remuneration report on page 85 committed their businesses to achieving greater diversity.
Every and in note 30 to the consolidated accounts on pages 138 to 147.
Unilever company in the United Kingdom has an equal opportunities policy and actively pursues equality of opportunity for all employees.
Directors report of PLC For the purposes of Section 234 of the Companies Act 1985, the The company carries out an annual employee monitoring survey and Directors Report of Unilever PLC for the year ended 31 December has also conducted an equal pay audit.
The company continues to 2004 comprises this page and the information contained in the review ways in which greater diversity can be achieved in recruitment Report of the Directors on pages 2 to 89, the Remuneration report in and selection.
respect of Directors interests in shares or debentures of the Group on page 85, Dividends on page 181 and Principal group companies and A new exible working policy was introduced in 2003, offering every xed investments on pages 165 to 168. employee the opportunity to request a exible working option.
Training workshops were run for line managers to maximise understanding and commitment to the policy.
Corporate Centre Unilever PLC Charitable and other contributions PO Box 68 Unilever House Unilever collates the cost of its community involvement activities using Blackfriars the London Benchmarking Group model.
The model recommends the London EC4P 4BQ separation of charitable donations, community investment, commercial initiatives in the community and management costs Unilever PLC Registered Ofce relating to the programme of activity.
Port Sunlight Wirral During 2004 UK group companies made a total contribution of Merseyside CH62 4ZD 8.2 million, analysed as follows: Charitable donations: 1.1 million Unilever PLC Registrars Community investment: 1.9 million Lloyds TSB Registrars Commercial initiatives in the community: 4.4 million The Causeway Management costs: 0.8 million Worthing West Sussex BN99 6DA No donation or contribution was made or expenditure incurred for political purposes.
Supplier payment policies Individual operating companies are responsible for agreeing the By Order of the Board terms and conditions under which business transactions with their suppliers are conducted.
The directors reports of the United Kingdom J A A van der Bijl operating companies give information about their supplier payment S G Williams policies as required by the United Kingdom Companies Act 1985.
PLC, as a holding company, does not itself make any relevant Joint Secretaries of Unilever PLC payments in this respect.
1 March 2005 174 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2004
