C11742 Unlvr AR eng 052-070. qxd 9 3 05 2:24 AM Page 64 Corporate governance continued Audit Committee In the preceding pages we have complied with the requirement to The responsibilities and powers of the Audit Committee are set report on how we apply the Principles P and provisions pn in out on pages 56 and 90 and are fully aligned with the the Combined Code.
requirements in the UK and US.
They also encompass the most important of the duties and responsibilities referred to in the With reference to P A.
2, as already explained on page 62, the Dutch Code.
The exceptions are supervision over the nancing of principal tenet of Unilevers governance philosophy that the most the Company, tax planning and the application of information senior roles in NV and PLC are shared has hitherto found its and communication technology bpp III.
5.4, where our Audit expression in two people who each combine the roles of Committee assists the Board in fullling its oversight Chairman and Chief Executive.
arrangement has served our unique constitutional arrangements well for many years but, as already indicated, will be changed in Depositary receipts for shares 2005 by separating the two roles.
The arrangements of Nedamtrust are to a large extent compliant with the Dutch Code.
However, Nedamtrust is a As already indicated, in order to develop our arrangements public limited liability company naamloze vennootschap instead further in line with current best practice, we created in May of a foundation stichting, meaning that its directors are not 2004 the position of Senior Independent Director pn A.
3.3. appointed by co-optation, as the Dutch Code recommends, but This gives leadership to the Independent Non-Executives, who by its shareholders.
Nedamtrust does not generally hold meetings are a majority on our Boards.
In 2005 the Senior Independent of holders of depositary receipts and there are no formal rules Director will be made Vice-Chairman of NV and PLC.
relating to the influence of holders of depositary receipts on the composition of Nedamtrusts board bpp IV.
It will be appreciated that, prior to the election of Non-Executive Directors to our Boards in May 2004, our previous Board In 2005 a proposal will be submitted to the holders of arrangements, involving Executive Directors and Advisory Nedamtrust certicates that the administration of the shares Directors, met the spirit but not the letter of P A.
3. be transferred to a newly established foundation, Stichting Given that the current arrangements have only been in place for a Administratiekantoor Unilever N. V. the Foundation, whose limited period, some aspects are still evolving.
As will be seen, the directors will appoint themselves.
Nedamtrust will convene a arrangements for performance evaluation page 54 during 2004 meeting of certicate holders at which they will be asked to might not be regarded as being as extensive as P A.
More information is given in the notice recommends.
Also, there have not yet been appropriate occasions for this meeting see www.
com ourcompany for the Senior Independent Director and other Non-Executive investorcentre shareholder holderinfo.
Directors to meet major shareholders page 58 in the manner anticipated by P D. 1.
The new arrangements are intended to make the Foundation compliant with the Dutch Code.
Members of our Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees will be available to answer questions at the Annual Provision of information General Meetings of both NV and PLC.
The members attending We consider it important to comply with all applicable statutory each meeting do not necessarily include the Chairman of the regulations on the equal treatment of shareholders and provision Committee, since these meetings have hitherto taken place at of information and communication with shareholders and other about the same time in Rotterdam and London respectively parties P IV.
In the communications between us and pn D. 2.3.
We plan to change this practice in future.
our shareholders and other parties, we comply with all applicable legislation and regulations.
Requirements the United States Both NV and PLC are listed on the New York Stock Exchange and Meetings of analysts and presentations to investors must therefore comply with such of the requirements of US We have extensive procedures for handling relations with and legislation, such as the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, regulations communicating with shareholders, investors, analysts and the enacted under US securities laws and the Listing Standards of The media see description on page 58.
Whilst the important New York Stock Exchange as are applicable to foreign private presentations and meetings are conducted in accordance with issuers.
In some cases the requirements are mandatory and in bpp IV.
3.1, due to the large number of such presentations and other cases the obligation is to comply or explain.
meetings and overlap in information, some of the less important ones are not announced in advance, made accessible to everyone We have complied with the requirements concerning corporate or put on our website.
governance that were in force during 2004.
Attention is drawn in particular to the remit of the Audit Committee on page 56 and Requirements the United Kingdom the Report of the Audit Committee on page 90.
PLC is required, as a company that is incorporated in the United Kingdom and listed on the London Stock Exchange, to state how Actions already taken to ensure compliance that are not it has applied the principles and how far it has complied with the specifically disclosed elsewhere or otherwise clear from reading provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code issued in this document include: 1998, as revised in 2003 the Combined Code, appended to the United Kingdom Listing Rules.
64 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2004
