C11742 Unlvr AR eng 052-070. qxd 9 3 05 4:09 AM Page 59 Corporate governance continued For NV, the General Meeting can decide to alter or terminate the Holders of NV New York shares or PLC American Depository Equalisation Agreement at the proposal of the Board.
The Receipts of shares will receive a proxy form enabling them to necessary approval of the General Meeting is then as follows: authorise and instruct ABN AMRO N. V. or JPMorgan Chase Bank respectively to vote on their behalf at the shareholders meeting at least one half of the total issued ordinary capital must be of NV or PLC.
represented at an ordinary shareholders meeting, where the majority must vote in favour: and The proxy vote is published at the meetings and the outcome of if they would be disadvantaged or the agreement is to be the vote, including the proxy vote, is put on Unilevers website.
terminated, at least two-thirds of the total issued preference share capital must be represented at a preference shareholders Shareholder proposed resolutions meeting, where at least three-quarters of them must vote in Shareholders of NV may propose resolutions if: favour.
they individually or together hold 1% of the issued capital in For PLC, the necessary approval must be given by: the form of shares or depositary receipts: or they individually or together hold shares or depositary receipts the holders of a majority of all issued shares voting at a General worth at least 50 million.
Meeting: and the holders of the ordinary shares, either by three-quarters in They must submit these requests at least 60 days before the date writing, or by three quarters voting at a General Meeting where of the General Meeting, and the request will be honoured unless, the majority of the ordinary shares in issue are represented.
in the opinion of the Board, it is against a substantive interest of the Company.
Voting rights To be entitled to attend and vote at NV General Meetings, you Shareholders who together represent at least 10% of the issued must be a shareholder on the Record Date, which is set by the capital of NV can also requisition Extraordinary General Meetings Directors and must be not more than seven days before the to deal with specic resolutions.
In addition you must, within the time specified in the Notice calling the meeting, either: Under United Kingdom company law: if you have registered shares advise NV in writing that you shareholders who together hold shares representing at least intend to attend: or 5% of the total voting rights of PLC: or if you have bearer shares deposit your certicates at the place at least 100 shareholders who hold on average 100 each in specified in the Notice.
nominal value of PLC capital can require PLC to propose a resolution at a General Meeting.
Reference is made to Article 29 of the NV Articles of Association.
Right to hold shares You can vote in person or by proxy, and you can cast one vote for There are no limitations on the right to hold NV and PLC shares.
0.10 nominal amount you hold of NV preference shares, ordinary shares or New York registry shares.
NV Elma and Share capital matters United Holdings Limited, the holders of the special shares, and other group companies of NV which hold preference or ordinary Share capital shares, are not permitted to vote, by law.
NVs issued share capital on 31 December 2004 was made up of: To be able to vote by proxy at NV General Meetings, the written 291 503 709 split into 571 575 900 ordinary shares of power of attorney must be received by NV not later than seven 0.51 each: days before the meeting.
1 089 072 split into 2 400 ordinary shares numbered 1 to 2 400, known as special shares: and Similar arrangements apply for holders of Nedamtrust certicates 130 854 115 split into several classes of cumulative see page 61. preference shares.
The notice calling the meeting will include further information on PLCs issued share capital on 31 December 2004 was made up of: how to gain access to NV General Meetings.
40 760 420 split into 2 911 458 580 ordinary shares of To be able to vote by proxy at PLC General Meetings you must 1.4p each: and lodge your Form of Appointment of Proxy with PLCs Registrars 100 000 of deferred stock.
48 hours before the meeting, either in paper or electronic format.
You can cast one vote for each PLC ordinary 1.4p share you hold.
For NV share capital, the euro amounts quoted in this document United Holdings Limited, which owns half of the deferred stock, is are representations in euros on the basis of Article 67c of Book 2 not permitted to vote at General Meetings.
of the Civil Code in the Netherlands, rounded to two decimal places, of underlying amounts in Dutch guilders, which have not been converted into euros in NVs Articles of Association or in the Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2004 59 C11742 Unlvr AR eng 052-070. qxd 9 3 05 4:09 AM Page 60 Corporate governance continued Equalisation Agreement.
Until conversion formally takes place by Under the Equalisation Agreement as amended in 1981 the two amendment of the Articles of Association, the entitlements to companies are permitted to pay different dividends in the dividends and voting rights are based on the underlying Dutch following exceptional circumstances: guilder amounts.
if the average annual sterling euro exchange rate changed Equalisation Agreement so substantially from one year to the next that to pay equal The Equalisation Agreement provides that if one company had dividends at the current exchange rates, either NV or PLC losses, or was unable to pay its preference dividends, we would would have to pay a dividend that was unreasonable make up the loss or shortfall out of: ie.
substantially larger or smaller in its own currency than the dividend it paid in the previous year : the current profits of the other company after it has paid its the governments of the Netherlands or the United Kingdom own preference shareholders : could in some circumstances place restrictions on the then its own free reserves: and proportion of a companys profits which can be paid out as then the free reserves of the other company.
dividends: this could mean that in order to pay equal dividends one company would have to pay out an amount which would If either company could not pay its ordinary dividends, we would breach the limitations in place at the time, or that the other follow the same procedure, except that the current profits of the company would have to pay a smaller dividend.
other company would only be used after it had paid its own ordinary shareholders and if the Directors thought this more In either of these rare cases, NV and PLC could pay different appropriate, than, for example, using its own free reserves.
amounts of dividend if the Boards thought it appropriate.
The company paying less than the equalised dividend would put the So far NV and PLC have always been able to pay their own difference between the dividends into a reserve: an equalisation dividends, so we have never had to follow this procedure.
If we reserve in the case of exchange rate uctuations, or a dividend did, the payment from one company to the other would be reserve in the case of a government restriction.
The reserves subject to any United Kingdom and Netherlands tax and would be paid out to its shareholders when it became possible or exchange control laws applicable at that time.
reasonable to do so, which would ensure that the shareholders of both companies would ultimately be treated the same.
Under the Equalisation Agreement we compare the ordinary share capital of the two companies in units: a unit made up If both companies go into liquidation, NV and PLC will each use of 5.445 nominal of NVs ordinary capital carries the same any funds available for shareholders to pay the prior claims of weight as a unit made up of 1 nominal of PLCs ordinary capital.
Then they will use any surplus For every unit 5.445 you have of NV you have the same rights to pay each others preference shareholders, if necessary.
After and benets as the owner of a unit 1 of PLC.
NVs ordinary these claims have been met, they will pay out any equalisation shares currently each have a nominal value of 0.51, and PLCs or dividend reserve to their own shareholders before pooling the share capital is divided into ordinary shares of 1.4p each.
This will be distributed to the ordinary means that a 5.445 unit of NV is made up of approximately shareholders of both companies, once again on the basis that the 10.7 NV ordinary shares of 0.51 each and a 1 unit of PLC is owner of 5.445 nominal NV ordinary share capital will get the made up of approximately 71.4 PLC ordinary shares of 1.4p each.
same as the owner of 1 nominal PLC ordinary share capital.
Consequently, one NV ordinary share equates to about 6.67 If one company goes into liquidation, we will apply the same ordinary shares of PLC.
principles as if both had gone into liquidation simultaneously.
When we pay ordinary dividends we use this formula.
On the The Articles of Association of NV establish that any payment same day NV and PLC allocate funds for the dividend from their under the Equalisation Agreement will be credited or debited to parts of our current profits and free reserves.
We pay the same the profit and loss account for the financial year in question.
amount on each NV share as on 6.67 PLC shares calculated at the relevant exchange rate.
For interim dividends this exchange rate is Leverhulme Trust the average rate for the quarter before we declare the dividend.
The first Viscount Leverhulme was the founder of the company For final dividends it is the average rate for the year.
In arriving at which became PLC.
When he died in 1925, he left in his will a the equalised amount we include any tax payable by the Company large number of PLC shares in various trusts.
The High Court of in respect of the dividend, but calculate it before any tax Justice in England varied these trusts in 1983, and established two deductible by the Company from the dividend.
independent charitable trusts: In principle, issues of bonus shares and rights offerings can only the Leverhulme Trust, which awards grants for research and be made in ordinary shares.
Again we would ensure that education: and shareholders of NV and PLC received shares in equal proportions, the Leverhulme Trade Charities Trust, for the benefit of using the ratio of 5.445 NV nominal share capital to 1 PLC members of trades which the first Viscount considered to have nominal share capital.
The subscription price for one new NV particular associations with the business.
share would have to be the same, at the prevailing exchange rate, as the price for 6.67 new PLC shares.
The major assets of both these trusts are PLC ordinary shares.
60 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2004
