C11742 Unlvr AR eng 001-023. qxd 9 3 05 4:40 AM Page 23 Financial review continued Unilevers position relative to the TSR reference group Pensions investment strategy The Groups investment strategy in respect of its funded pension 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 plans is implemented within the framework of the various statutory requirements of the territories where the plans are based.
The Group has developed policy guidelines for the allocation of assets to different classes with the objective of 7 controlling risk and maintaining the right balance between risk and long-term returns in order to limit the cost to the company of the benets provided.
To achieve this, investments are well 14 diversied, such that the failure of any single investment would not have a material impact on the overall level of assets.
The plans invest the largest proportion of the assets in equities which the Group believes offer the best returns over the long term 21 commensurate with an acceptable level of risk.
The Group also The reference group, including Unilever, consists of 21 companies.
Unilevers position is keeps a proportion of assets invested in property, bonds and cash.
based on TSR over a three-year rolling period.
Most assets are managed by a number of external fund managers with a small proportion managed in-house.
significant changes Any important developments and post-balance sheet events that Total Shareholder Return have occurred since 31 December 2004 have been noted in this Total Shareholder Return TSR is a concept used to compare the Annual Report and Accounts 2004.
Otherwise, there have been performance of different companies stocks and shares over time.
no significant changes since 31 December 2004.
It combines share price appreciation and dividends paid to show the total return to the shareholder.
The absolute level of the TSR will vary with stock markets, but the relative position reects the market perception of overall performance relative to a reference group.
Unilever calculates TSR over a three-year rolling period.
This period is sensitive enough to reect changes but long enough to smooth out short-term volatility.
The return is expressed in US dollars, based on the equivalent US dollar share price for NV and PLC.
US dollars were chosen to facilitate comparison with companies in Unilevers chosen reference group.
The choice of currency affects the absolute TSR but not the relative ranking.
Unilevers TSR target is to be in the top third of a reference group of 21 international consumer goods companies on a three-year rolling basis.
At the end of 2003 we were positioned 6th, and at the end of 2004 the ranking was 13th.
In 2004, the following companies formed the peer group of comparative companies: Altria Group Kao Avon Lion Beiersdorf LOral Cadbury Schweppes Nestl Clorox Orkla Coca-Cola Pepsico Colgate Procter & Gamble Danone Reckitt Benckiser Gillette Sara Lee Heinz Shiseido Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2004 23
