C11742 Unlvr AR eng 024-051. qxd 9 3 05 2:49 AM Page 51 Risk management continued Cash and borrowings market when the share option is granted and holding these The Group generated an Ungeared Free Cash Flow of 4.9 billion shares until the share option is exercised or lapses.
Ungeared Free Cash Flow provides the also entered into a contract with a bank for the forward purchase funds to service the nancing of the business and enhance of Unilever shares, further details of which are given in note 16 shareholder return.
A material and sustained shortfall in our cash on page 121.
At the year end, 97% of all outstanding employee ow could undermine our credit rating and overall investor share options were hedged: based on Unilevers experience with confidence and could restrict the Groups ability to raise funding.
the exercise level of options we consider this position as being The Group had gross borrowings totalling 12.0 billion at the end fully hedged.
Market, interest rate and foreign exchange risks to which the Group is exposed are described below.
The analysis below presents the sensitivity of the fair value of the financial and derivative instruments the Group held at Treasury risks 31 December 2004, to the hypothetical changes described below.
Unilever Treasury manages a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in foreign exchange rates, interest rates and Interest rate sensitivity credit spreads.
Other risks managed include liquidity, country and The fair values of debt, investments and related hedging counterparty risks.
instruments are affected by movements in interest rates.
The analysis shows the sensitivity of the fair value of interest rate Unilever has an interest rate management policy aimed at sensitive instruments to a hypothetical 10% change in the interest optimising net interest cost and reducing volatility.
0.1% for each 1% of the interest rate across all achieved by modifying the interest rate exposure of debt and cash maturities as at 31 December 2004. positions through the use of interest rate swaps.
Further details on the xing levels of the projected net debt are given in note 16 Foreign exchange rate sensitivity on page 120.
The values of debt, investments and hedging instruments, denominated in currencies other than the functional currency Unilevers foreign exchange policy requires that operating of the entities holding them, are subject to exchange rate companies manage trading and financial foreign exchange movements.
The analysis shows the sensitivity of these values exposures within prescribed limits.
This is achieved primarily to a hypothetical 10% change in foreign exchange rates as at through the use of forward foreign exchange contracts.
Business 31 December 2004. groups monitor compliance with this policy.
At the end of 2004, there was no material exposure from companies holding assets Fair value changes: Sensitivity to a and liabilities other than in their functional currency.
hypothetical 10% change in rates as at 31 December Unilever conducts business in many foreign currencies but million million publishes its financial statements and measures its performance in 2004 2003 euros.
As a result, it is subject to exchange risk due to the effects Interest rate risk 160 175 that exchange rate movements have on the translation of the Foreign exchange rate risk 7 5 results and underlying net assets of its foreign subsidiaries.
Unilever aims to reduce its foreign exchange exposure in The above-mentioned interest rate sensitivity relates to financial operating companies by borrowing in the local currency, except and derivative instruments with fair values amounting to where inhibited by local regulations, lack of local liquidity or local 12 397 million at the end of 2004 2003: 16 411 million.
An exception may also be made where the For further information on fair values see note 16 on page 121. economic value of the net assets locally is considered substantially The above-mentioned foreign exchange rate risk relates to a value to exceed their book value.
From time to time, currency of financial instruments and derivatives of 68 million at the end revaluations will trigger exchange translation movements in our of 2004 2003: 46 million.
balance sheet as a result of these exceptions.
In 2004, the significant weakening of the US dollar against the euro has had Further details on derivatives, foreign exchange exposures and a negative impact on our reported operating results, but has had other related information on financial instruments are given in a positive impact on our debt and equity, when reported in euros.
Counterparty exposures are minimised by restricting dealing In addition, as a multinational group, Unilevers businesses are counterparties to a limited number of financial institutions that exposed to varying degrees of risk and uncertainty related to have secure credit ratings, by working within agreed counterparty other factors including competitive pricing, commodity, raw and limits, by obtaining collateral for outstanding positions and by packaging material pricing, consumption levels, physical risks, setting limits on the maturity of exposures.
Counterparty credit legislative, scal, tax and regulatory developments, terrorism and ratings are closely monitored and concentration of credit risk economic, political and social conditions in the environments with any single counterparty is avoided.
There was no significant where we operate.
All of these risks could materially affect the concentration of credit risks with any single counterparty as at Groups business, our turnover, operating profit, net profit, net the year end.
There may also be risks which are unknown to Unilever or which are currently believed to be immaterial.
As a result of the share option plans for employees, we are exposed to movements in our own share price.
In recent years we have hedged this risk through buying Unilever shares in the Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2004 51
