C11742 Unlvr AR eng 001-023. qxd 9 3 05 4:40 AM Page 9 Chairmens statement continued 2004 Ralph Kugler has been nominated for election as an Executive 2004 was clearly a very disappointing year for Unilever.
Underlying Director at the Annual General Meetings in May.
He is currently sales growth was 0.4%, with leading brands growth of 0.9%.
Business President Home and Personal Care Europe.
Operating margin BEIA was 15.2%, 0.6% lower than in 2003.
This reects a decline in price, slightly higher advertising and Looking to the future promotion expenditure and unrecovered overheads following We expect a tough environment in 2005.
The impact of increased commodity costs in the year continue to be constrained by a difficult retail environment in the was fully offset by procurement savings.
In spite of lower operating developed world and no let-up in the level of competitiveness we profit, earnings per share BEIA grew by 5%, boosted by lower tax face in developing and emerging markets.
Net borrowing costs were reduced by 19% in the year with both net debt and interest rates lower than last year.
Our overriding objective is to return the business to healthy The nancing costs of pensions were also lower.
The fourth quarter saw a planned step-up in restructuring costs 2005 is the 75th anniversary of the foundation of Unilever.
With with the start of the implementation of the overheads simplication the changes we have put in place, with a small and committed project, One Unilever, announced in mid-2004.
In addition, a charge leadership team, with dedicated and talented people, we are of 650 million 591 million at current exchange rates was confident that Unilever will deliver another 75 years of sustained taken for the impairment of goodwill for Slim Fast.
The weight growth and increased shareholder value through serving the management category declined signicantly in the second half of needs of our consumers and customers around the globe.
2004 reecting a declining interest by consumers in the more extreme low-carb diet.
Consumers as yet have not been attracted We remain completely committed to delivering Total Shareholder back to the more conventional weight management programmes Return in the top third of our peer group.
We will measure our such as Slim Fast: recovery will therefore take longer than expected progress by Free Cash Flow generation and an improvement in and will be from a substantially smaller base.
A 177 million the Return on Invested Capital.
We believe these are the best 169 million at current exchange rates provision was made for measures of value creation: in addition, they allow us to retain the potential repayment of certain sales tax credits in Brazil.
the exibility to build the long-term health of your business in changing circumstances.
Cash ow, however, was again strong, which together with the weaker US dollar enabled net debt to be reduced to 9.7 billion 2004 was a testing year but together we have come through it at current exchange rates.
This has enabled an increased dividend as a strong team.
We would like to thank all of our employees pay-out for 2004 and the announcement of a share buy-back around the world for their loyalty and effort.
We are fortunate programme for 2005. in having such talented and diverse people.
We know we can count on their continued support and redoubled efforts in Board changes 2005 and beyond.
At the Annual General Meetings in May four of our Directors will be retiring.
Clive Butler, Keki Dadiseth, and Andr van Heemstra have all had long and distinguished careers as Unilever executives.
Clive has been a Director since 1992 and most recently served as Corporate Development Director.
Keki joined the Boards in 2000 and has been a Divisional Director for the HPC business since 2001.
Andr has been Personnel Director since joining the Boards in 2000.
Also retiring is Claudio Gonzalez, one of our Non-Executive Directors.
We would like to thank them all for their valuable Antony Burgmans Patrick Cescau contribution during their years of service.
Chairmen of Unilever Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2004 09
