C11742 Unlvr AR eng 001-023. qxd 9 3 05 4:40 AM Page 10 About Unilever The gures quoted in the following discussion on pages 10 to 16 Spreads and cooking products are in euros, at current rates of exchange, ie.
the average or We lead the spreads and cooking products category with two key year-end rates of each period.
brand families with increasingly consistent positionings around the world.
Healthy heart brands Becel and Flora deliver strong Description of business growth, particularly with pro activ, through health benets Unilever is one of the worlds leading suppliers of fast moving enabling people to enjoy life to the full.
Family brands including consumer goods across foods, home and personal product Rama, Blue Band and Country Crock are building a positioning categories.
Unilevers portfolio includes some of the worlds best based on tasty, nutritious foods for the family.
known and most loved brands.
Beverages Business structure We lead the market in tea-based beverages with Lipton, the Our operations are currently organised into two global divisions global market leader in leaf and ready-to-drink tea.
Innovations, Foods and Home and Personal Care HPC headed by Divisional including Lipton Ice Tea Green and Lipton Aquae, target the Directors.
This structure allows the appropriate focus on foods growing market for healthy, refreshing beverages.
Our joint and home and personal care activities at both regional and global venture, the Pepsi Lipton International partnership, helps us to levels and allows us to optimise synergies across the product extend the reach of our brands through a distribution network portfolio.
complementary to our own supply chain.
Consumers increasingly demand healthier options in their food and drinks.
We respond The two divisions operations are currently organised into business with products and brands across our portfolio including Slim Fast, groups on a regional basis, with certain exceptions: the global whose range includes meal replacement drinks, soups and snack businesses of prestige, our fragrance business within HPC, and bars.
In developing and emerging markets, we meet consumers Unilever Foodsolutions within Foods.
The regional and global needs for good nutrition in affordable formats with Annapurna businesses are currently headed by Business Presidents.
These and, under AdeS, a range of tasty, nutritional, soy-based drinks.
businesses remain the driving force behind Unilever, comprising the operating companies which provide the key interface with Ice cream and frozen foods customers and consumers, allowing quick response to the needs We are the worlds leading producer of ice cream, with sales in of local markets.
Ice cream products under the Heart brand, including Cornetto, Magnum, Carte dOr and Solero, are On 10 February 2005 we announced that we will introduce a sold internationally.
Breyers, Ben & Jerrys, Klondike and Popsicle new, simpler structure in 2005.
The existing HPC and Foods are leading North American-based brands.
Ben & Jerrys is also regional business groups will be integrated into single regional sold in Europe.
managements represented by three Regional Presidents who will drive business unit performance, have profit and loss responsibility Our frozen foods business is number one in Europe, focused on and strong customer go-to-market focus.
In addition there will be the Iglo Birds Eye Findus brand family.
two Category Presidents responsible for developing category strategies and brand positioning, and driving innovation.
The new Unilever Foodsolutions structure will be effective from April 2005.
Although not a separate reporting category as its results are reported within the categories above, Unilever Foodsolutions is Full details of significant acquisitions and disposals can be found our global food service business providing solutions for on pages 20 and 21. professional chefs and caterers.
For example, it provides preprepared ingredients that save time and new ways of serving food Foods on a large scale at consistent quality.
Unilever is one of the leading food companies in the world.
Its mission is to add vitality to life by meeting everyday needs of Home and Personal Care people everywhere, through branded products that make people Unilever Home and Personal Care has some of the worlds most enjoy food, enjoy health, enjoy life.
successful brands, such as Dove, Lux, Omo and Surf.
All its brands are about looking good, feeling good and getting more out of Savoury and dressings life.
With a strong heritage in hygiene and personal care, We are the global leader in savoury and dressings, with strong combined with deep consumer insights, our brand portfolio adds brands rooted in chefmanship and taste, including Knorr, vitality to life and delivers value to our business.
Hellmanns, Calv, Wishbone, Amora and Bertolli.
Home care Our leading savoury brand, Knorr, is Unilevers biggest brand, We are market leaders in laundry products in developing and and is sold in over 100 markets.
Its product range includes emerging markets, and hold number two positions in North soups, bouillons, sauces, snacks, noodles, frozen food and meal America and most of Europe.
Our products have been developed solutions.
Our wider savoury product range is marketed around to meet the diverse range of consumer needs to clean and care the world under a variety of brand names.
Our combined for their clothes.
They include tablets for convenience, traditional dressings business is the biggest in the world.
With Bertolli, which powders and liquids for washing by hand or machine.
Tailored began as a leading Italian olive oil brand, we are building on the products, including soap bars, are available for lower income qualities associated with Italian food to extend the brand into consumers.
spreads, dressings and pasta sauces.
10 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2004
