C11742 Unlvr AR eng 052-070. qxd 9 3 05 2:23 AM Page 62 Corporate governance continued The following statements of compliance are based on Unilevers customary two-tier structure in the Netherlands, by, as far as is corporate governance arrangements in place following the possible and practicable, applying the provisions of the Dutch changes approved by our shareholders at the 2004 AGMs.
Prior to Code relating to members of a management board to our that, as you will appreciate from our description of our corporate Executive Directors and the provisions relating to members of a governance arrangements in the Annual Report and Accounts for supervisory board to our Non-Executive Directors.
Management 2003 and for previous years, our arrangements involving Advisory tasks not capable of delegation are performed collectively by the Directors complied with the spirit, but not the letter, of the Board.
Reference is made to Ps II and III and corresponding bpps.
principles relating to Non-Executive Directors.
The compliance Our compliance with the Dutch Code in these respects should be statements that follow must be similarly so qualied for the period seen in the light of our one-tier board structure.
Role of the Chairman Although these statements of compliance must cover the Our application of the provisions of the Dutch Code with regard arrangements in force during 2004, for completeness, we do to the chairman of the supervisory board to the Chairman of the mention at the relevant places the changes that will be made Board should be seen in the light of the fact that the Chairman during 2005, some of which require shareholder approval see has hitherto combined this role with that of Joint Chief Executive page 53. and that, in accordance with UK practice, we have the role of the Senior Independent Director see page 55.
We will in 2005 Further information can be found on our website separate the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive see pages www.
com ourcompany investorcentre in The 8 and 53.
Governance of Unilever, the Boards own constitutional document.
This includes the terms of reference of our Board The Dutch Code recommends that in a one-tier board the Committees, including their full responsibilities.
It will be kept chairman should not also be, or have been, responsible for the up to date with the changes in these internal constitutional day-to-day conduct of the business bpp III.
NV and PLC are arrangements that our Boards may make from time to time.
separate legal entities, each subject to their own national traditions and practices and each with responsibilities to different Requirements the Netherlands sets of shareholders.
Unilever has, since its inception, adopted the principle that it is good practice that the most senior roles within General NV and PLC are shared and not concentrated in one person.
As a For 2004, NV is required to state in its Annual Report and consequence it is a principal tenet of our governance philosophy, Accounts whether it complies with the Principles P and best which has hitherto been reected in the form of two people who practice provisions bpp of the Dutch Corporate Governance each combine the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive and who Code the Dutch Code and, if it does not comply, to explain the meet regularly for joint decision-making.
Whilst this carefully reasons for this.
balanced arrangement has served Unilever very well for many years, the Boards reviewed it during 2004 and concluded that it The preceding description of our governance arrangements and would give greater clarity to each role if they were held by the text on compliance that follows reect Unilevers governance separate people see page 8.
It was also relevant to the arrangements following the changes adopted at the Shareholder arrangements in place during 2004 that, in addition to the Meetings in May 2004.
Please refer to the preceding section.
They Chairmen, the Boards of NV and PLC have a Senior Independent also reect our Boards specic intentions for 2005 and 2006.
The Director who is appointed by the Non-Executive Directors and acts Board reserves the right, in cases where it decides such to be as their spokesperson.
In 2005 he will be made Vice-Chairman of conducive to the interests of the company and enterprise each company.
connected therewith, to depart from that which is set out in the present and previous sections in relation to our corporate Nomination Committee governance.
Further changes will be reported in future Annual The Dutch Code states that the Nomination Committee bpp Report and Accounts and, when necessary, through changes to III.
8.3 should consist of non-executive directors.
In their role as the relevant documents on our website.
As appropriate, proposals Chairmen of NV and PLC, the Chairmen are currently members for change will be put to our shareholders for approval.
However, the majority of the Nomination Committee consists of Independent Non-Executive As will be clear from the preceding description of our governance Directors.
We believe that the thorough knowledge that the two arrangements, NV complies with almost all of the principles and Chairmen have of the company and the management talent that best practice provisions of the Dutch Code.
The text that follows is available within it has proved extremely helpful for the effective sets out areas of non-compliance and certain statements that the functioning of the Nomination Committee.
Our arrangements Dutch Code invites us to give our shareholders that are not have been aligned to the UK practice applicable to PLC.
included elsewhere in this Annual Report and Accounts.
Following implementation of the changes in 2005, the single Board and Committee structures Non-Executive Chairman of NV and PLC will remain as a member As already indicated, NV has a single-tier Board, consisting of of the Committee but not be regarded as Independent.
The both Executive and, as a majority, Independent Non-Executive Group Chief Executive will not be a member of the Nomination Directors.
We achieve compliance of our Board arrangements Committee.
with the Dutch Code, which is for the most part based on the 62 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2004 C11742 Unlvr AR eng 052-070. qxd 9 3 05 2:23 AM Page 63 Corporate governance continued Severance pay Nomination of directors It is our policy to set the level of severance payments to no more The Dutch Code recommends that shareholders may resolve by than one years salary, unless the Board, at the proposal of the an absolute majority of votes to cancel the binding nature of a Remuneration Committee, nds this manifestly unreasonable nomination for the appointment of a director bpp IV.
In given circumstances or unless otherwise dictated by applicable 2004, NVs shareholders approved an alteration of the Articles of law bpp II.
Association to align the arrangements for NV and PLC.
This makes it possible for the meeting of shareholders to cancel binding During 2004, Niall FitzGerald and Charles Strauss ceased to be nominations by a majority of two-thirds of the votes cast directors.
For their severance arrangements see pages 78 and 79. representing more than one-half of the issued capital see pages 57 and 58.
Regulations for transactions in securities in other companies Risk management and control The Dutch Code recommends bpp II.
7.3 that a Reference is made to page 92, where Unilevers control director shall give periodic notice, but in any event at least once a framework is described.
This incorporates risk management, quarter, of any changes in his holding of securities in other Dutch internal control procedures and disclosure controls and listed companies to the compliance officer.
Our Share Dealing procedures, and complies with the recommendations of the Code emphasises that Directors are not allowed to deal in any Dutch Code.
The role of our corporate internal audit function is shares when they have unpublished price-sensitive information in also described on the same page.
We have an established relation to those shares.
Our Share Dealing Code furthermore Operational Controls Assessment process for assessing controls provides that Directors are required, upon request, to disclose to and correcting deficiencies.
the compliance officer their holdings and transactions in securities in other listed companies.
We believe these requirements for As stated on page 92, our Boards have carried out an annual transactions in securities in other companies constitute a wellreview of the effectiveness of the systems of risk management balanced arrangement.
and internal control during 2004, and have ensured that the necessary actions are being taken to address weaknesses or Conicts of interest deficiencies arising out of that review.
The Audit Committee has We attach special importance to avoiding conicts of interest been regularly informed of the progress of the review.
between its Directors and NV and PLC.
In the event of a potential conict of interest, the provisions of the Dutch Code In light of the above, the Board considers that the internal risk P II.
Conicts of interest are not management and control systems are appropriate for our business understood to include transactions and other activities involving and in compliance with bpp II.
1.4. other companies in the Unilever Group.
Share options Financing preference shares In line with bpp II.
2.2, the awards and grants of shares and NV issued 4%, 6% and 7% cumulative preference shares in the options to our Directors are in all material cases subject to 1930s and 1940s.
Their voting rights are based on their nominal performance criteria, as referred to on pages 73 and 74 of the value, as prescribed by Dutch law.
The Dutch Code recommends Remuneration Report.
The exception is the options over 50 NV that the voting rights on these classes of share should, in any shares granted each year to our Executive Directors under the all event when they are newly issued, be based on their economic employees share option plan in the Netherlands, as described on value rather than on their nominal value bpp IV.
The Directors participation in this plan is reduce these voting rights unilaterally.
seen as a stimulus for all employees to participate.
Anti-takeover constructions and control over the company The Dutch Code recommends that shares granted to executive With reference to bpp IV.
3.9, NV has no anti-takeover directors without a financial consideration must be retained for a constructions, in the sense of constructions that are intended period of at least five years bpp II.
In 2001 we introduced a solely, or primarily, to block future hostile public offers for its new remuneration policy with shareholder approval which shares.
Nor does it have any constructions whose specic purpose requires our Executive Directors to build and retain a personal is to prevent a bidder, after acquiring 75% of the capital, from shareholding in Unilever equal to at least 150% of their annual appointing or dismissing members of the Board and subsequently base pay.
We believe that this is in line with the spirit of the altering the Articles of Association.
public offer of a majority of the shares in a company does not under Dutch law preclude in all circumstances the continued right Bpp II.
2.5 states that neither the exercise price nor the other of the board of the company to exercise its powers.
conditions attaching to options shall be modied during the term of the options.
In addition to the exceptions recognised by that provision, we shorten the term of the options in case of termination of employment for any reason.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2004 63
