C11742 Unlvr AR eng 024-051. qxd 9 3 05 2:49 AM Page 50 Risk management The following discussion about risk management activities Customer relationships and distribution includes forward-looking statements that involve risk and Unilevers products are generally sold through its sales force and uncertainties.
The actual results could differ materially from those through independent brokers, agents and distributors to chain, projected.
See the Cautionary Statement on page 3. wholesale, co-operative and independent grocery accounts, food service distributors and institutions.
Products are distributed Unilevers system of risk management is outlined on page 92. through distribution centres, satellite warehouses,  for establishing a coherent framework for the operated and public storage facilities, depots and other facilities.
Group to manage risk resides with the Corporate Risk Committee.
Sales to large customers or sales via specialised distribution The remit of the Corporate Risk Committee is outlined on page 57. channels are significant in some of our businesses.
Particular risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to The loss of a small number of major customers or a major vary from those described in forward-looking statements within disruption of a specialised distribution centre or channel could this document, or which could impact on our ability to meet our have an adverse effect on the Groups business and results published targets have been identied.
In 2005, the most of operations.
significant risk that the business faces, and which therefore is the key focus of the risk management process in 2005, arises in Price and supply of raw materials and commodities ensuring the business moves from the Path to Growth strategy, contracts which concluded in December 2004, to the implementation Unilevers products are manufactured from a large number of of the new organisation which we expect to be effective from diverse materials.
Unilever has experience in managing April 2005.
In this context the following specic risks have been uctuations in both price and availability.
However, movements identied as areas of focus in 2005: outside the normal range may have an impact upon margins.
Our brands Some of our businesses, principally edible fats companies in We have a number of large global brands, including 12 with an Europe, may use forward contracts over a number of oils to annual turnover of greater than 1 billion.
Any adverse event hedge future requirements.
None of these contracts are entered affecting consumer confidence or continuity of supply of such a into for speculative purposes.
We purchase forward contracts in brand would have an impact on the overall business.
The carrying bean, rape, sunower, palm, coconut and palm kernel oils, almost value of intangible assets associated with many of our brands is always for physical delivery.
We may also use futures contracts to significant, and depends on the future success of those brands.
hedge future price movements: however, the amounts are not There remains a risk that events affecting one or more of our material.
The total value of open forward contracts at the end of global leading brands will potentially impair the value of the 2004 was 200 million compared with 292 million in 2003. brands.
The Group therefore continues to monitor closely the performance of our leading brands and will take appropriate In addition, our plantations businesses may use forward contracts action to mitigate any threat to brand value.
for physical delivery of palm oil and tea under strictly controlled policies and exposure limits.
Outstanding forward contracts at the Innovation end of 2004 were not material.
Our growth depends in large part on our ability to generate and implement a stream of consumer-relevant improvements to our Corporate reputation products.
The contribution of innovation is affected by the level of Unilever has a good corporate reputation and many of our funding that can be made available, the technical capability of the businesses, which operate in some 100 countries around the research and development functions, and the success of operating world, have a high prole in their region.
Unilever products management in rolling out quickly the resulting improvements.
carrying our well-known brand names are sold in over 150 countries.
Should we fail to meet high product safety, social, People environmental and ethical standards in all our operations and Unilevers performance requires it to have the right calibre of activities, Unilevers corporate reputation could be damaged, managers in place.
We must compete to obtain capable recruits leading to the rejection of our products by consumers, devaluation for the business, and then train them in the skills and of our brands and diversion of management time into rebuilding competencies that we need to deliver growth.
Examples of initiatives to manage key social and transformation programme required to implement the new environmental risks are mentioned on pages 12 and 13. organisation includes the risk of disruption to normal business operations.
This risk was inherent in the Path to Growth strategy Pensions and similar obligations that was completed in December 2004: although we experienced Pension assets and liabilities pre-tax of 13 529 million and no material disruption to the business throughout the life of the 18 758 million respectively are held on the Groups balance Path to Growth strategy, we will remain focused on avoiding such sheet as at 31 December 2004.
Movements in equity markets, disruption.
interest rates and life expectancy could materially affect the level of surpluses and deficits in these schemes, and could prompt the Economic conditions in developing countries need for the Group to make additional pension contributions in About a third of Unilevers turnover comes from the group of the future.
The key assumptions used to value our pension developing and emerging economies.
We have long experience in liabilities are set out in note 18 on page 123. these markets, which are also an important source of our growth.
These economies are more volatile than those in the developed world, and there is a risk of downturns in effective consumer demand that would reduce the sales of our products.
50 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2004
