C11742 Unlvr AR eng 071-089. qxd 9 3 05 2:05 AM Page 72 Remuneration report Remuneration Committee and Policy Remuneration Committee Where Group performance meets the overall business plan, the variable elements of the remuneration package, such as the Tasks and responsibilities annual bonus and the expected value of long-term incentive The Committee is responsible for making proposals to the Boards payments, can account for about 60% of the total package on the remuneration policy for Executive Directors.
60% of the combined sum of base salary, annual bonus and responsible for setting individual remuneration packages for long-term incentive payments, but excluding pension provision.
Executive Directors and for monitoring and approving all shareHowever, outstanding Group results can increase the variable based incentive arrangements.
The Committee meets at least elements to around 75% of the total package.
If the Group three times a year and, during 2004, it met on six occasions.
results were below target, the variable elements would reduce Apart from one meeting, every member was present at signicantly.
Closely linking the package to key performance measures Structure ensures that the Executive Directors remuneration is aligned The Committee members are all independent Non-Executive effectively with shareholders interests.
This is consistent with the Directors, chosen for their broad experience and international remuneration policy for senior executives below board level, who outlook.
During 2004 the members were: also have a significant performance-related element of pay within their remuneration package.
Bertrand Collomb Chairman of the Committee Lord Simon of Highbury Executive Directors are required to build up a significant personal Jeroen van der Veer shareholding in Unilever.
Within five years of appointment, they are expected to hold shares worth 150% of their annual base Advice and assistance salary.
This reinforces the link between the executives and other The Committee does not formally retain remuneration shareholders.
It seeks professional advice from external advisers as and when required.
During 2004, the Committee sought On a limited basis Unilever Executive Directors serve as nonadvice from Towers Perrin an independent rm of human executives on the Boards of other companies.
Unilever requires resources specialists on market data, remuneration trends and that all remuneration and fees earned from outside directorships performance-related pay.
Towers Perrin also provides general are paid directly to Unilever.
consultancy advice to Unilever group companies on employee rewards, pension, communications and other human Reward structure resource matters.
The Executive Directors total remuneration package consists of: The Committee is supplied with information by Jan van der Bijl, Base salary: who is also Joint Secretary of Unilever.
Annual performance bonus: Long-term incentives: The Chairmen of NV and PLC are invited to attend Committee Pension provision: and meetings to provide their own insights to the Committee on Other benets and allowances.
business objectives and the individual performance of their direct reports.
Naturally, the Chairmen do not attend when their own The Committee regularly reviews the reward structure to ensure remuneration is being discussed.
that it meets its objectives.
Remuneration policy Executive Directors Base salary Each Executive Director receives a base salary which is xed in Main principles the currency appropriate to the country in which the individual Unilevers objective is to attract world-class executives who can is based.
drive the business forward and achieve the highest results for shareholders.
This is essential to the successful leadership and Market reference points are agreed each year depending on effective management of Unilever as a major global company.
where the individual is based eg.
the Netherlands, the UK or To meet this objective the Committee follows three key principles, the US.
Based on those market reference points a personal validated by shareholders: salary level is set for each Executive Director to take effect from 1 January of the year concerned.
The reward policy is benchmarked regularly against arrangements for comparable companies in Europe.
This When granting pay rises, the Committee looks at a range of ensures that Executive Directors remuneration levels remain factors including individual and company performance.
Committee also uses independent expert advice to compare A comparison is made with the remuneration arrangements for Unilevers remuneration for executives of this calibre with that other senior executives within Unilever.
paid by other major international companies in Europe.
The Committee links a significant proportion of the Executive Directors total remuneration to a number of key measures of company performance.
72 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2004
