Annual Report 2004 Vodafone Group Plc 7 Business Overview Contents Mobile Telecommunications Page Business strategy Overview 7 As the worlds mobile telecommunications leader, the Groups vision is to enrich Mobile Telecommunications 7 customers lives, helping individuals, businesses and communities to be more Business strategy 7 connected in a mobile world.
Geographic operations 7 The Group has maintained a strategy of focusing on global mobile telecommunications Competition 7 and providing enhanced network coverage to allow its customers to communicate Summary of Group mobile telecommunications businesses 8 using mobile products and services.
Licences and network infrastructure 9 Global services 10 Whilst the customer base continues to grow, the Groups strategy is increasingly Business integration 10 focused on revenue growth and margin improvement from growing usage and Products and services 10 providing enhanced services to the customer base.
Marketing and distribution 12 Vodafones strategic roadmap seeks to achieve six key goals: Industry initiatives 12 delight our customers: Research and development 12 Regulation 13 build the best global Vodafone team: Non-mobile Telecommunications 16 leverage our global scale and scope: History and Development of the Company 16 expand our market boundaries: Acquisitions of businesses 16 Sales of businesses 19 be a responsible business: and, Formation of Verizon Wireless 19 provide superior returns to shareholders.
Mannesmann synergies 19 Geographic operations The Company has equity interests in 26 countries, through its subsidiary undertakings, associated undertakings and investments.
Partner network arrangements extend to a Overview further 13 countries.
Vodafone Group Plc is the worlds leading mobile telecommunications company, with a At 31 March 2004, based on the registered customers of mobile telecommunications significant presence in Europe, the United States and the Asia Pacific region through ventures in which it had ownership interests at that date, the Group had approximately the Companys subsidiary undertakings, associated undertakings and investments.
The 133.4 million customers, calculated on a proportionate basis in accordance with the Group also has arrangements to market certain of its services, through its Partner Groups percentage interest in these ventures, and 340.1 million registered venture Networks scheme, in additional territories, without the need for equity investment.
The table on the next page sets out a summary of the Companys The Group provides a wide range of mobile telecommunications services, including worldwide mobile operations at 31 March 2004 and venture customer growth in the voice and data telecommunications.
The Group also has controlling interests in certain year then ended the 2004 financial year.
The Companys ordinary shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange and the Competition Companys American Depositary Shares ADSs are listed on the New York Stock The Group faces a high degree of competition in each of its geographic markets.
The Companys ordinary shares were also listed on the Frankfurt subject to indirect competition from providers of other telecommunications services in Stock Exchange until 23 March 2004.
The Company had a total market capitalisation the domestic markets in which it operates in addition to direct competition from other of approximately 92 billion at 24 May 2004, making it the second largest company current operators of mobile telecommunications services.
Competitive pressures have in the Financial Times Stock Exchange 100 index, or FTSE 100, and the eleventh led to reductions in tariffs and other acquisition and retention initiatives and this has largest company in the world based on market capitalisation at that date.
helped to manage the level of customer churn.
The Company is a public limited company incorporated in England and Wales under The Group expects that competition will continue from existing operators as well as registered number 1833679.
Its registered office is Vodafone House, The Connection, from a number of new market entrants, including those arising following the award of Newbury, Berkshire, RG14 2FN England.
Its principal telephone number is new 3G licences.
The scope of this increased competition, and the extent of the 44 0 1635 33251. impact on the results of operations, is discussed further in Risk Factors and Legal Proceedings.
A summary of the Companys direct competitors in its markets at 31 March 2004 is also provided in the following table.
Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2004 8 Business Overview continued Summary of Group mobile telecommunications businesses at 31 March 2004 Registered Venture Venture proportionate 3 Percentage customers customer customers Registered Names of competitor 1 2 4 5 6 Country by region ownership thousands growth % thousands prepaid % network operators UK & Ireland UK 100.0 14,095 6 14,095 60 3, Orange, O2, T-Mobile Ireland 100.0 1,864 7 1,864 72 3, Meteor, O2 TOTAL 15,959 6 15,959 61 Northern Europe 2 Germany 100.0 25,012 9 25,012 51 E-Plus, O, T-Mobile Hungary 87.9 1,428 50 1,255 82 Pannon GSM, Westel Netherlands 99.9 3,403 4 3,399 57 KPN Mobile, Orange, T-Mobile, Telfort Sweden 100.0 1,438 9 1,438 34 3, SpringMobil, Tele2, Telia Belgium 25.0 4,351 2 1,088 59 BASE KPN, Mobistar Orange France 43.9 14,370 8 6,309 46 Bouygues, Orange Poland 19.6 5,740 19 1,126 54 Centertel, ERA Switzerland 25.0 3,838 6 960 37 Orange, Sunrise, Tele2 TOTAL 59,580 9 40,587 51 Southern Europe Italy 76.8 21,137 9 16,232 92 TIM, Wind, 3 Albania 99.7 528 35 527 97 AMC Greece 99.4 3,678 9 3,655 68 Cosmote, Q-Telecom, Telestet Malta 100.0 161 1 161 91 Go Mobile Portugal 100.0 3,248 5 3,248 72 Optimus, TMN Spain 100.0 9,705 7 9,705 57 Amena, Telefnica Mviles Romania 20.1 3,672 37 738 63 Orange, Cosmorom, Zapp TOTAL 42,129 10 34,266 78 Americas 8 7 United States 44.4 38,909 17 17,257 6 National operators : 9 9 AT&T Wireless, Cingular Wireless, Nextel, Sprint PCS, T-Mobile Asia Pacific Japan 69.7 14,951 7 10,427 9 au, NTT DoCoMo, Tu-ka Australia 100.0 2,486 3 2,486 55 3, Optus, Orange, Telstra New Zealand 100.0 1,607 25 1,607 79 Telecom, TelstraClear Fiji 49.0 114 25 56 92 China 3.3 150,256 21 4,913 66 China Netcom, China Telecom, China Unicom TOTAL 169,414 20 19,489 61 Middle East & Africa Egypt 67.0 2,872 27 1,924 81 Mobinil South Africa 35.0 9,725 24 3,404 85 Cell C, MTN 10 Kenya 35.0 1,529 77 535 99 Kencell TOTAL 14,126 28 5,863 86 GROUP TOTAL 340,117 15 133,421 56 Notes: 1 All controlled networks operate under the Vodafone brand.
Networks in which the Company does not have a controlling interest operate under the following brands: Belgium Proximus: France SFR: Poland Plus GSM: Switzerland Swisscom Mobile: Romania Mobifon: United States Verizon Wireless: Fiji Vodafone: China China Mobile: South Africa Vodacom: Kenya Safaricom.
2 All ownership percentages are stated as at 31 March 2004 and exclude options, warrants or other rights or obligations of the Group to increase or decrease ownership in any venture as detailed in Operating and Financial Review and Prospects Liquidity and Capital Resources Option agreements.
Ownership interests have been rounded to the nearest tenth of one percent.
3 See page 23 for a definition of a customer.
4 Venture customer growth is for the twelve month period to 31 March 2004.
5 Prepaid customer percentages are calculated on a venture basis.
6 Table excludes mobile virtual network operators MVNOs and other competitors who do not operate a mobile telecommunications network.
7 The Groups ownership interest in Verizon Wireless is 45.0%.
However, the Groups proportionate customer base has been adjusted for Verizon Wirelesss proportionate ownership of its customer base across all its network interests of approximately 98.6% at 31 March 2004.
In the absence of acquired interests, this proportionate ownership will vary slightly from period to period depending on the underlying mix of net additions across each of these networks.
8 This is not a full list of US network operators.
In the United States, in addition to the national operators shown, there are several regional and numerous local operators.
9 On 17 February 2004, Cingular Wireless announced an agreement to acquire AT&T Wireless.
This acquisition is subject to US regulatory approval.
10 The Kenyan Government has awarded a third licence but the operator had not commenced service at 25 May 2004.
Annual Report 2004 Annual Report 2004 V Vodafone Group Plc odafone Group Plc 9 9 Licences and network infrastructure The Group is dependent on the licences it holds to operate mobile telecommunications services.
Further detail on the issue and regulation of licences can be found in Regulation.
The table below summarises the significant licences held by the Groups subsidiary companies and details of their related network infrastructure: Date of commencement Country by region Licence type Licence expiration date Network type of commercial service UK & Ireland 1 UK 2G See note GSM GPRS December 1991 3G December 2021 W-CDMA February 2004 Ireland 2G December 2014 GSM GPRS March 1993 3G October 2022 W-CDMA May 2003 Northern Europe Germany 2G December 2009 GSM GPRS June 1992 3G December 2020 W-CDMA February 2004 Hungary 2G July 2014 GSM GPRS November 1999 2 Netherlands 2G February 2013 GSM GPRS September 1995 3G December 2016 W-CDMA February 2004 2 Sweden 2G December 2010 GSM GPRS September 1995 3G March 2015 W-CDMA February 2004 Southern Europe Italy 2G January 2015 GSM GPRS December 1995 3G December 2021 W-CDMA February 2004 Albania 2G June 2016 GSM August 2001 Greece 2G September 2012 GSM GPRS July 1993 3G August 2021 W-CDMA 3 Malta 2G September 2010 GSM GPRS July 1997 Portugal 2G October 2006 GSM GPRS October 1992 3G January 2016 W-CDMA February 2004 2 Spain 2G July 2022 GSM GPRS October 1995 3G April 2020 W-CDMA February 2004 Asia Pacific 4 Japan 2G See note PDC April 1994 4 3G See note W-CDMA December 2002 Australia 2G March 2015 GSM GPRS September 1993 3G October 2017 W-CDMA New Zealand 2G March 2021 GSM GPRS October 2001 3G March 2021 W-CDMA Middle East & Africa Egypt 2G May 2013 GSM GPRS November 1998 Notes: 1 Indefinite licence with a one-year notice of revocation.
2 Date relates to 1800MHz spectrum licence.
Vodafone Netherlands, Vodafone Spain and Vodafone Sweden also have separate 900MHz spectrum licences which expire in March 2010, March 2010 and December 2010, respectively.
4 Licences are issued for a five year term with a presumption of renewal where there is a continuing commercial need for spectrum.
Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2004 10 Business Overview continued Group Marketing provides leadership and coordination across the Group on a range of 3G marketing and commercial activities, including product, content, brand management The Group has secured 3G licences in all jurisdictions in which it operates through its and development, Partner Networks and global accounts.
These activities include the subsidiary undertakings and in which such licences have been awarded to date.
design and rollout of segmented service propositions to consumer and business Cumulative expenditure on 3G licences was 14.4 billion at 31 March 2004 and was customers, such as Vodafone live!, and the Groups business offerings.
funded from the Groups existing facilities.
Most of this expenditure 13.1 billion Group Technology & Business Integration leads in the selection, development and occurred during the 2001 financial year.
implementation of global technology solutions to support the terminals, service Vodafone expects to participate in additional 3G licence allocation procedures in other platforms, network and IT requirements of the Group.
It drives the benefits of scale jurisdictions in which it operates.
No assurances can be given that the Group will be and scope to deliver enhanced customer experience, increased speed to market and successful in obtaining any 3G licences for which it intends to apply or bid.
an improved strategic cost position by applying the principle of design once, deploy The construction of 3G network infrastructure has continued throughout the 2004 many times and by working closely with suppliers.
financial year, with tangible capital expenditure on 3G network infrastructure Business integration amounting to approximately 1.5 billion during the financial year.
The Group presently A new function, Business Integration, has been created within Group Technology to expects capitalised tangible fixed asset additions to be around 5.0 billion in the 2005 further leverage the scale of the Groups global footprint.
This function is expected to financial year, 35% of which is expected to be in respect of 3G network infrastructure.
improve the Groups speed to market for new products at the same time as improving This expenditure is expected to be financed through operating cash flows and existing the Groups strategic cost position.
The work of this function was initiated in October borrowing facilities.
The Groups 3G network infrastructure supply is managed by 2003 and is intended to lead the Group through a business transformation process agreements for pricing and terms with all key suppliers, including Ericsson, Nokia, spanning up to five years.
The launch of the 3G data service in February 2004 was an example of Vodafone The Service Delivery Platform, which in part delivers Vodafone live!, is one early leveraging its scale and scope.
3G commercial services in Europe, in the form of the example of the Groups develop once, deploy many times concept.
This concept Vodafone Mobile Connect 3G GPRS datacard, were able to be launched in much allows the architecture, design and development of core enabling technologies to be reduced timescales in seven countries in early 2004 through working with common undertaken only once, and rolled out to the Groups operating companies, thus saving suppliers using universal network technology.
The commercial launch of the 3G on costs of design and development in each country.
The Group continues to build its service was the result of a three year global programme of technology selection, capability to manage suppliers on a global basis and has delivered synergies through development and testing across the Group companies.
negotiating global contracts, particularly in the areas of terminals, network infrastructure and IT.
There has been continued progress in eCommerce activities with In Japan, the 3G network has been rolled out with the goal of national coverage and the Group taking an industry leading position in the effective use of e-auctions.
The the eventual replacement of the current Personal Digital Cellular PDC network.
In Group continues to leverage scale in the handset area, consolidating country Europe, the deployment of 3G has been centred on major metropolitan areas, thereby requirements and volumes for supplier negotiation.
This has provided savings and has providing a complementary service to the current 2G and 2.5G networks.
The supported Vodafones ability to shape an enhanced customer experience through the introduction of Wideband Code Division Multiple Access W-CDMA as the third specification of features and functions.
generation standard will, over time, provide roaming capabilities between Japan and These early business integration programmes provide a model for common other territories that use the W-CDMA standard.
development in other Group Technology areas, to enable the Group to take advantage Vodafone live!
with 3G was introduced to both business and consumer markets in of future opportunities to leverage the Groups scale and scope.
The number of Europe on 4 May 2004. different markets in which the Group now operates provides opportunities for extensive sharing of best practice across operating companies, ensuring reduced time 2G to market, increased customer relevance and greater competitive advantage.
The majority of the Groups controlled networks operate on a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM network on which General Packet Radio Service GPRS is Products and services also provided.
Voice services Wireless LAN Revenues from voice services make up the largest portion of the Groups turnover Four of the Groups subsidiary companies, in Germany, Italy, Portugal and Spain, now and, consequently, the Group is undertaking a wide range of activities to encourage offer a public access Wireless LAN service.
The Group views public access Wireless growth in the usage of these services.
LAN as important in offering a complete mobile data connectivity solution to its Pricing is an important factor for customers choosing a mobile phone network and is customers, and more of the Groups operating companies are expected to launch also important in encouraging usage of services whilst maximising revenues and Wireless LAN services, mainly through roaming agreements.
Two main pricing models exist in the mobile market contract and prepaid.
Relationships with contract customers are usually governed by a formal, written Global services contract and credit facilities are granted to them to enable access.
Within a prepaid A major focus of the Groups strategy is to delight its customers, delivering a superior pricing scheme, a customer pays in advance, or tops up, in order to gain access to customer experience and developing customer loyalty at all touchpoints, introducing mobile network services.
The take-up of these models in the markets in which the end to end voice and data propositions to target customer segments, and achieving Group operates varies significantly, from Japan and the US, where the vast majority of customer preference for the Vodafone brand.
customers are on contract plans, to Italy, where the market is predominantly prepaid.
To achieve this objective requires a highly focused, increasingly integrated and The Group has continued to invest in providing enhanced network services and operationally efficient business, providing the best products and services across the coverage for existing services to endeavour to ensure that customers can use their greatest number of markets.
The Group established two new central functions in July mobile phone whenever they want to, making it an integral part of their lives.
Together 2003: Group Marketing and Group Technology & Business Integration.
Annual Report 2004 Vodafone Group Plc 11 with enhanced coverage, the Group has also invested in improving the usability of Mobile Connect Card services such as voicemail, to encourage penetration of these services.
Increased The Mobile Connect Card, first launched in November 2002 and which enables usage of voicemail has been shown, in turn, to drive volume of voice calls and is a key customers to connect to e-mail and business applications from a range of access revenue enabler.
Initiatives have also been run to encourage customers to populate devices, has been enhanced to operate across both GPRS and 3G technologies with their phonebooks, which in turn drives growth in calling circles, and missed call the introduction in certain markets of the Vodafone Mobile Connect 3G GPRS datacard notification services, such as text messages telling customers that they have missed a in February 2004.
By 31 March 2004, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, Portugal, call when their phone is switched off.
Spain, Sweden and the UK had all opened their networks for commercial service.
The Groups associated network in Belgium launched the datacard on 13 May 2004.
The In addition to product and infrastructure development, a significant amount of effort Vodafone Mobile Connect 3G GPRS datacard provides customers with data speeds up has been directed at educating customers in mobile phone usage and helping to seven times faster than GPRS when used on the Groups 3G networks.
customers get the most from their mobile phone.
Several markets have also engaged in programmes to redesign their retail outlets into Experience Stores where store Other business services staff are trained to educate customers in responsible mobile phone usage, in addition During the year the Group continued to build on its business propositions.
In November to more conventional retail activities.
2003, the Group commenced the roll-out of Vodafone Wireless Office, a mobile handset solution reducing the need for fixed line phones, and Blackberry from Vodafone, which Data services delivers voice, email, SMS, browser and organiser functions in a single mobile device.
Part of the Groups strategy to expand its market boundaries involves the stimulation On 22 October 2003, the Group announced a joint initiative with Oracle to offer of demand in adjacent markets such as infotainment and IT wireless productivity.
enterprise customers integrated mobility solutions enabling mobile access to business Short Messaging Service SMS or Text Messaging systems.
All of the Groups mobile networks offer this service, which allows customers to send Roaming services and receive text messages using mobile handsets and various other devices.
The Group has introduced new pricing structures in its networks for its roaming Vodafone live!
services, with a view to encouraging the use of services when travelling abroad.
Vodafone live!, the Groups integrated messaging and multimedia content service, In November 2003, Vodafone Limited Vodafone UK launched Vodafone World, a was launched in six countries during the 2004 financial year, including the Groups new branded roaming tariff that delivers simple, transparent pricing for roaming all associated networks in France SFR and Switzerland Swisscom Mobile, bringing the over the world, with preferential rates available for roaming onto all the Groups total number of markets in which the service is available to 16 at 25 May 2004.
Now available in 13 markets, Vodafone World builds on the success of 31 March 2004, there were over 6.8 million controlled Vodafone live!
customers, with Eurocall, a European roaming service, and replaces it with a concept that is relevant to a further 0.7 million customers connected to associated company networks.
In addition, the Groups markets and partners worldwide.
By making roaming prices worldwide Vodafone K. K. Vodafone Japan had 13.0 million Vodafone live!
customers following easier to understand, Vodafone World represents an important step in the Groups the rebranding of its J-Sky service to Vodafone live!
on 1 October 2003. strategy to meet the needs of the Groups roaming customers at an affordable price The range of services available on Vodafone live!
has continued to be improved and encourage change in the roaming market.
throughout the year, with the integration of services such as real music tones, as well Vodafones Data Roaming Tariff was launched across 10 networks in October 2003 as broadening the range of handsets available.
New capabilities have also been and provides a new, simple price plan for roaming data services including Vodafone introduced such as video messaging, video streaming and Search, a new facility live!
and the Groups business services.
enabling customers to use their mobile handsets to search across an extensive portfolio of content.
The scale of the customer base together with the broader reach of On 22 December 2003, the Group and Verizon Wireless announced the introduction of Vodafone live!
has meant that the Group has increasingly been able to attract transatlantic text messaging between their respective customers.
By 31 March 2004, stronger content partners and recent agreements have involved such established this service had been launched in 11 of the Groups networks.
brands as Warner Bros. Online, UEFA Champions League Football, Sony Pictures, Sony The Group and Verizon Wireless have continued to cooperate in the development of Music Entertainment and Disney.
An agreement for the Group to licence its Mobile During the year, the range of Vodafone live!
handsets has increased from three to Connect dashboard know-how to Verizon Wireless has recently been completed, fifteen.
By focusing its handset development resources, the Group aims to offer a setting the stage for the launch of inter-standard data card products in Europe and the wider range of handsets with enhanced functionality.
The first GSM-enabled megapixel United States, in due course.
camera phone launched in the European market, the Sharp GX30, had been Partner Networks introduced into 10 controlled markets by 25 May 2004.
The Groups Partner Network strategy has become a more broadly established Vodafone live!
with 3G business concept for the delivery of the Groups mobile services in the year.
By Vodafone is the first mobile operator to bring 3G technology to both business and partnering with leading mobile operators around the world, the Group is able to market consumer markets across a number of European countries.
Vodafones 3G consumer its portfolio of global services in new territories, extend its brand reach into new service was launched in Europe on 4 May 2004 when Vodafone live!
with 3G was markets and derive additional revenue from fees and visitor roaming without buying introduced in Germany and Portugal and from 25 May 2004 in Italy and Spain.
first phase of Vodafone live!
has been enhanced with The Group has signed a further six Partner Network Agreements during the year with video telephony and video downloads as well as improved ringtones and new content.
Og Fjarskipti in Iceland, Bite in Lithuania, M1 in Singapore, MTC in Bahrain, LuxGSM Vodafone live!
with 3G will be enhanced later in the year, when a wider range of in Luxembourg and Cytamobile in Cyprus, bringing the total number of partners to handsets will become available, together with an even more extensive range of content thirteen.
With two partners in the Middle East and one in Asia Pacific, the Partner and services.
The Group is prioritising efforts to ensure timely availability of handsets and plans for handset deliveries later in 2004 and 2005 are at an advanced stage.
Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2004 12 Business Overview continued Network strategy is becoming increasingly relevant for mobile operators outside Distribution Europe.
Distribution is achieved through a wide variety of direct and third party channels, with different approaches used in the consumer and business sectors.
Mobilkom-Group, which operates in Austria, Croatia and Slovenia, will become the first Partner Network to introduce Vodafone live!
and is expected to launch services in Products and services are available directly to both consumer and business customers June 2004.
The Vodafone Mobile Connect 3G GPRS datacard has been launched in in the majority of markets.
Directly owned stores are becoming increasingly prevalent Austria and the Mobile Connect Card has been introduced in Bahrain, Croatia, in most markets.
The look and feel of these stores, particularly in Italy, Greece and the Denmark, Slovenia, Estonia and Finland.
UK, has focused more on the user experience during the year, with customers invited to try out service offerings such as Vodafone live!.
Local Internet sites offer Content standards products and services online and local sales forces are in place to discuss terms with In October 2002, a dedicated Content Standards team was established to provide business customers.
leadership in mobile content standards in order to protect customers from The extent of indirect distribution varies between markets but may include using thirdinappropriate content, contact and commercialism.
Specific emphasis is placed on party service providers, independent dealers, agencies and mass marketing.
protecting young mobile phone users.
The Group recognises that, although acceptable to an older audience, not all content and services are suitable for all ages and it has Marketing to third-party service providers includes maintaining a competitive tariff committed to exercise responsibility in ways that are consistent with its customer and structure, providing technical and other training to their staff and providing financial public values.
incentives for service providers, their dealers and sales people.
It also entails providing assistance on advertising campaigns and supporting the development of both The Content Standards team has actively supported a number of initiatives, such as specialist retail outlets and programmes with multiple retailers.
Service providers the UK mobile operators Code of Practice and the Groups age verification mechanism receive discounts on the Groups airtime rates for each tariff.
Service providers also currently being piloted in Germany.
Looking ahead, the Content Standards team will receive financial incentives from the Group related to their success in attracting new work with the operating companies to implement policies and develop an independent customers to the network.
These incentives comprise gross connection bonuses, auditing process to ensure they are maintained.
airtime growth awards and other specific incentives.
Independent dealers are used in Marketing and distribution the majority of markets, with own-branded stores, business store-within-stores and kiosks becoming increasingly frequent as channels to market.
Supermarket chains Marketing and multiple retailers are also used to achieve broad distribution of prepaid products, Brand with top-up facilities available in a wide selection of outlets such as petrol stations, newsagents and local stores.
All controlled mobile subsidiary companies operate under the Vodafone brand.
Brand marketing is designed to increase general public awareness of the Vodafone brand, or The Groups leading global customers are served by the International Accounts team, other local Group brands, and its values, products and services and embraces with a designated executive link.
marketing specifically directed at certain distribution channels.
Brand communications In the United States, Verizon Wireless sells its service directly to customers through its include sponsorships and advertising on radio, television, in general circulation own sales force and stores, telemarketing centres and the Internet, and indirectly newspapers, in magazines and in specialised publications.
through arrangements with independent retailers and agents.
Additionally, Verizon The Group has focused on driving brand preference and usage of Vodafone live!
Wireless also sells wireless capacity to resellers, which allows independent companies services, as well as core voice and text usage.
Advertisements used feature the to package and resell wireless services to end-users.
Groups key sponsorships: Ferrari, Manchester United, Michael Schumacher, Rubens Barrichello and David Beckham.
Communications materials have been adapted for use Industry initiatives in Partner Network markets.
The Vodafone speechmark icon is achieving increasing On 13 October 2003, the Group announced with Microsoft an intention to use recognition as a key visual identity symbol of the brand.
mobile SIM based authentication and billing to help create open Web services standards that will enable new business opportunities for application developers and The three year brand migration programme was completed during the year, with Italy mobile network operators and deliver new integrated services for customers across and Japan migrating to the Vodafone brand in May and October 2003, respectively.
Having established the Vodafone brand in the Groups controlled markets, the focus is now shifting and more emphasis and resources are aimed at increasing customer On 10 March 2004, the Group announced that it had signed a memorandum of satisfaction and brand preference.
In order to do this, Vodafone has put in place a understanding with other leading companies from the mobile industry to apply for framework for measuring and improving its performance on every element of a mobile Top Level Domain TLD from the Internet Corp. for Assigned Names customer experience.
In addition, the Group has put in place a segmentation and Numbers.
A mobile TLD would be a key step in bridging the world of mobility and framework that has been arrived at on a basis of extensive research.
plans and activities, both global and local, are now built around seven customer segments identified through the research.
Research and development The Group Research and Development R&D function was formed in April 2001 Local marketing from the Vodafone research and development teams in Newbury, Maastricht, Vodafone In addition to the Groups initiatives to establish a global Vodafone brand, funds are Pilotentwicklung in Munich and the Strategic Technology team in Walnut Creek, also invested in local marketing activities.
Customer database marketing is widely California.
Since then, centres of excellence in Milan, Madrid and Tokyo have been used to communicate directly with customers and, when linked with customer service, added, thereby creating an international and multicultural team for applied research in provides a strong basis for building customer relationships.
Loyalty schemes are mobile telecommunications and its applications.
beginning to be more widely used as a way of increasing customer satisfaction and reducing customer churn.
The work of the Group R&D function is divided broadly into four categories.
These categories are technical leadership and research support for the work of the Group Associated companies are generally marketed under their local brands.
Annual Report 2004 Vodafone Group Plc 13 Strategy department, research into technology that will typically start to be used in industry-specific law and regulation covering telecommunications services and general Vodafones business in three or more years time, leadership for the Groups work in competition anti-trust law applicable to all activities.
Some regulation implements international standards, and tactical development work largely on behalf of Group commitments made by Governments under the Basic Telecommunications Accord of Marketing and Group Technology and Business Integration.
Governance of Group R&D the World Trade Organisation to facilitate market entry and establish regulatory is provided by the Group R&D Steering Committee.
The Group Strategy Director chairs frameworks.
The following section describes the regulatory framework and the key this committee which, along with the Group R&D Director, consists of the chief regulatory developments in the European Union EU and selected countries in which technology officers from eight of the operating companies, together with the head of the Group has significant interests.
Many of the regulatory developments reported in products and services in Group Marketing and the heads of three functions within the following section involve on-going proceedings or consideration of potential Group Technology and Business Integration.
regulation which have not reached a conclusion.
Accordingly, the Group is unable to attach a specific level of financial risk to the Groups performance from such matters.
Group R&D focuses on applied research that is positioned between the basic research undertaken by universities and commercial product development.
Since the Group is European Union primarily a user of technology, the emphasis of the Group R&D work programme is on The Member States of the European Union Member States were expected to providing technology analysis and vision that can contribute directly to business implement the new EU Regulatory Framework for the communications sector the decisions, enabling new applications of mobile telecommunications, using new new EU Framework, which was adopted in 2002, into national law by 24 July 2003. technology for new services, and research for improving operational efficiency and Denmark, Finland, Ireland, Norway, Sweden, and the UK had completed quality of the Groups networks.
The work of the function is organised into five main implementation by that date.
Austria, Italy, Portugal, and Spain have since completed streams: applied research, strategic technology analysis, standards and industry fora, implementation.
In April 2004, the European Commission the Commission issued intellectual property development and publicity and communications.
The applied infringement proceedings against those Member States that had failed to implement research and strategic technology analysis functions are concerned with expanding the new EU Framework, being Belgium, France, Germany, Greece, Luxembourg and business boundaries, disruptive technologies, customer behaviour, service enablers, the Netherlands.
terminals and smart cards, radio technologies, network architectures, performance Those countries which joined the EU on 1 May 2004, including Hungary, Poland and and optimisation, and security and computing technologies.
Malta, were required to implement the new EU Framework before accession.
Hungary The work of Group R&D is delivered through four main programmes concerned with implemented the new EU Framework in January 2004.
However, Malta and Poland radio, IP networks, service enablement and business support.
In addition, Group R&D have not yet implemented the new EU Framework.
provides leadership for funding research into health and safety aspects of mobile telecommunications, technical support for the Groups spectrum strategy and technical The new EU Framework consists of four principal Directives outlining matters such as support for the protection of intellectual property, including the Vodafone patent the objectives to be pursued by national regulatory authorities NRAs, the way in portfolio.
which telecommunications operators are to be licensed, measures to be taken to protect consumers and ensure universal provision of certain telecommunications Much of the work of Group R&D is done in collaboration with others, both within the services and the terms and basis upon which operators interconnect and provide Group and external to it.
For example, Group R&D provides leadership for the Groups access to each other.
involvement with international standards, although many delegates and contributions The new EU Framework introduces a number of important changes to the previous are drawn from the Groups operating companies.
Group R&D provides the means to framework.
It is intended to align the techniques for defining where sector specific protect the Groups intellectual property, many of the innovations that are protected regulation may be applied and the threshold for when such regulation can be applied coming from across the operations, and Group functions infrastructure and handset with those already employed in EU competition law.
It is also intended to ensure suppliers work with Group R&D on many of its projects from providing equipment for greater consistency of approach amongst NRAs within the Member States.
All NRAs trials, through co-authoring research reports, to being a partner in some of the are required to take utmost account of the list of markets which are specified by the research and development programmes.
At the more academic end of the spectrum of Commission in a Recommendation when deciding which markets to investigate.
The applied research, Group R&D has developed relationships with a number of first such Recommendation was published by the Commission in February 2003 and universities.
These include sponsoring research students, collaboration in European includes the market for voice call termination on individual mobile networks, the research activities, funding specialised research activities and fostering working wholesale national market for international roaming and the market for access and relationships with academic chairs and readerships funded through the Vodafone call origination on mobile networks the relevant markets.
NRAs may, with the Foundation.
Commissions consent, also propose markets not included in the Recommendation.
The research and development programme provides the Group with long-term The Commission will periodically review the Recommendation.
technical policy, strategy and leadership, as well as providing technical underpinning Regulation, under the new EU Framework, can only be applied to undertakings with for the Groups public policies and government relations, and is shared with all significant market power SMP either individually or collectively in the relevant subsidiaries of the Company and Group functions.
They are able to influence the markets so identified, subject to the Commissions consent.
SMP under the new EU programme through working relationships that are designed to allow delivery of the Framework accords with the concept of dominance under existing EU competition results of the programme directly into the business units where they are needed.
This generally implies a market share of at least 40%, although other factors may The Group spent 171 million in the 2004 financial year on research and also be taken into consideration.
The SMP threshold under the previous framework development, compared with 164 million in 2003 and 110 million in 2002.
This required only a 25% share of the relevant market.
The Commission published SMP expenditure was incurred principally on developing new products and services, billing Guidelines in July 2002.
These guidelines set out principles for use by NRAs in the systems and on network development.
analysis of markets and effective competition to determine if undertakings have SMP in a relevant market under the new EU Framework.
Regulation The Groups operating companies are generally subject to regulation governing the In April 2004, the European Regulators Group ERG, comprising Member State operation of their business activities.
Such regulation generally takes the form of NRAs and the Commission, issued a common position on the application of remedies Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2004 14 Business Overview continued by NRAs on those undertakings that are found to have SMP in a relevant market certain aspects of spectrum trading, including proposals that certain mobile under the new EU Framework.
frequencies are tradable from 2007, which would enable operators to transfer rights of use on commercial terms, subject to oversight by OFCOM.
Appeal rights, under the new EU Framework, are strengthened by the introduction of a right of appeal on the merits of any NRA decision.
However, the practical A law making it an offence for drivers to use hand-held mobile phones or similar consequences of the new EU Framework for the Group will depend upon how the devices whilst driving came into force on 1 December 2003.
Commission seeks to further interpret the application of the relevant Directives, how Ireland Member States and NRAs choose to implement such guidance and how the Member Regulations implementing the new EU Framework were adopted in June 2003.
The States implement the relevant Directives into national law.
Irish NRA is currently consulting on its reviews of the relevant markets.
In its review of The UK and Irish NRAs have either concluded or are at an advanced stage with their the mobile access and call origination market, the NRA proposes and is consulting on first reviews, under the new EU Framework, to determine if undertakings have SMP in a finding that Vodafone Ireland Limited Vodafone Ireland and O2 jointly have SMP, the relevant markets, and to propose remedies that should be applied to undertakings but Meteor and 3 do not.
The NRA proposes potential remedies, including a 2G found to have SMP market reviews.
Other Member State NRAs have commenced national roaming obligation, and a range of options to impose further obligations to or are anticipated to commence their market reviews during 2004. provide network access to third parties.
In its market review of voice call termination In January 2000, the Commission commenced an investigation into the market for on individual mobile networks, the NRA has proposed that all mobile network international roaming services.
The Commission published its preliminary findings in operators have SMP.
The NRA proposed the imposition of obligations of costDecember 2000.
The Commission stated that excessive pricing and price collusion are orientation, non-discrimination, accounting separation and transparency.
The NRA is likely concerning both the level of wholesale rates and the mark-ups applied in retail also considering the use of price controls and stated that it expects Vodafone Ireland markets for international roaming services.
To date, the Commission has not published and O2 to fulfil undertakings made to reduce average mobile termination rates by 5% the results of this further review.
and 8% below inflation, calculated by reference to the Irish consumer prices index, respectively in 2004.
The NRA is expected to issue its final decisions on its market Officials of the Commission conducted unannounced inspections of the offices of reviews during 2004. mobile network operators in the UK and Germany, including Group subsidiaries, in July 2001.
The Commission said it was seeking evidence of collusion and or excessive Mobile Number Portability, which allows customers to switch network provider whilst prices, in relation to both retail and wholesale roaming charges, and the Commission retaining their existing mobile telephone number, was implemented in July 2003. has subsequently sought, or been provided with, additional information about roaming Northern Europe charges.
The Commission has yet to indicate how, when or if it may proceed in these specific matters or in relation to its general enquiries into the roaming market, but if Germany the Commission decides that there had been a breach of competition law, it would be Germany is expected to enact national law implementing the new EU Framework able to impose a fine on any operator who had committed the breach.
The NRA has commenced its market reviews, which are expected to be The wholesale national market for international roaming is a market defined for the completed during 2004.
In March 2004, the NRA announced its decision to allocate purposes of review by NRAs under the new EU Framework but at least one NRA has 450MHz spectrum for the provision of public access mobile radio PAMR services.
indicated that it will await the outcome of the Commissions investigations before Vodafone Germany is seeking leave to appeal this decision.
The ERG has proposed to consider this issue towards the end of 2004.
Hungary Hungary implemented the new EU framework in January 2004 as part of its UK & Ireland preparations for joining the EU on 1 May 2004.
United Kingdom Netherlands The new Communications Act, implementing the new EU Framework and creating a The Netherlands is expected to enact national law implementing the new EU new NRA for communications, was enacted in July 2003.
In December 2003, the Framework during 2004.
The mobile operators have reached agreement with the NRA Office of Communications OFCOM replaced the Office of Telecommunications and the Dutch National Competition Authority NCA to reduce mobile call termination Oftel.
rates between 1 January 2004 and 1 December 2005.
Vodafone Libertel N. V. Oftel conducted and concluded its review of the mobile access and call origination Vodafone Netherlands rates were reduced from 20.6 to 15.5 eurocents per minute market and found that no operator had SMP.
As a result, the existing SMP obligations on 1 January 2004 and are to be reduced to 13.5 and 11.0 eurocents per minute on on Vodafone UK including the requirement to offer indirect access were removed.
In 1 December 2004 and 1 December 2005 respectively.
December 2003, Oftel proposed that all mobile network operators had SMP in the market for wholesale voice call termination on individual mobile networks and Sweden proposed that the 2G voice call termination rate should be subject to a target average Sweden enacted national law implementing the new EU Framework in July 2003.
The charge for 2004 05 set at 5.65 pence per minute, followed by a price control for NRA has commenced its market reviews.
The NRA has proposed that each of the 2005 06 of 10.5% below inflation, calculated by reference to the UK retail prices mobile operators and MVNOs be designated as having SMP on the market for voice index RPI.
As required by Article 7 of the Framework Directive, Oftel notified the call termination on individual mobile networks.
The NRA is at an advanced stage of Commission of its proposed decision and invited comments by the Commission and assessing a Long Run Incremental Cost LRIC model to be used to set mobile call interested parties.
The Commission has commented, expressing no serious concerns termination rates.
about the notification, and has decided not to extend its investigations further.
OFCOM The NRA is also reviewing the 3G coverage achieved by the four 3G licensees by is expected to conclude its review in summer 2004.
31 December 2003 in accordance with their licence requirements.
To date, none of OFCOM has published consultancy reports on spectrum fees to be paid by operators the 3G licensees have achieved the obligation to provide coverage for at least and these reports will inform its decision making.
It is also currently consulting on 8,860,000 people by the end 2003.
Discussions between the Government, the NRA, Annual Report 2004 Vodafone Group Plc 15 and the licensees are being held on the implications of failure to achieve this Vodafone Portugal has requested the renewal of its 2G licence for a further 15 years, obligation.
which is due to expire in October 2006.
The NRA has requested expressions of interest in the allocation of a 450MHz licence Spain for the provision of PAMR services and is currently considering the nature of the Legislation implementing the new EU Framework was enacted in November 2003. award process.
Remaining regulations, implementing the new EU Framework, on SMP and universal service are expected to be completed in 2004.
The NRA has commenced its market Belgium reviews, which are expected to be completed during 2004.
Belgium is expected to enact national law implementing the new EU Framework during 2004.
The NRA has commenced its market reviews.
In December 2003, the NRA imposed price caps on average mobile termination rates of all mobile network operators.
The mobile termination rate of Vodafone Espaa S. A. France Vodafone Spain was set at 14.62 eurocents from 31 January 2004.
The Spanish France is expected to enact national law implementing the new EU Framework during NCA is conducting an investigation following a complaint of alleged price squeezing 2004. against Telefonica, Vodafone Spain and Amena, and has now issued a Statement of Objections which will be considered by the Competition Tribunal during 2004.
The NRA has commenced work to consider new price controls on mobile call Vodafone Spain is contesting this Statement of Objections.
In April 2004, the NCA termination charges for the period 2005-2007.
In December 2003, a French requested Spanish mobile operators to provide data on SMS pricing, although it has consumers association lodged a complaint with the national competition authority not yet opened an official proceeding.
alleging collusion amongst the three French mobile operators on SMS retail pricing.
The French Government has agreed to extend SFRs 2G licence until March 2021.
Albania SFR will be required to pay an annual fee of a25 million plus 1% of 2G turnover per In May 2004, the NRA designated Vodafone Albania as having SMP in the mobile year from March 2006. market, this may lead to increased regulation.
Vodafone Albania has appealed this The NRA postponed the obligation to commercially launch 3G services until decision.
In addition, the NRA intends to regulate mobile interconnection rates, 31 December 2004.
Vodafone Albania is preparing to appeal any such regulation.
Romania Poland In March 2003, the NRA determined Mobifon S. A. as having SMP in the national Legislation implementing the new EU Framework in Poland, which joined the EU on interconnection market.
From 31 December 2003 until the development of a LRIC 1 May 2004, is due for enactment during 2004. model, Mobifons mobile termination rates were reduced from 0.11 USD to 0.10 USD.
Southern Europe The completion of a LRIC model and the calculation of a LRIC-based average mobile termination rate are scheduled for July 2004.
Italy Italy enacted national law implementing the new EU Framework in September 2003.
Americas The NRA has commenced its market reviews, which are expected to be completed United States during 2004.
The Federal Communications Commission FCC, the United States NRA, has Greece investigated the level of termination rates charged by foreign mobile operators to fixed operators and has issued an Order in which it committed to undertake a Notice of Greece is expected to enact national law implementing the new EU Framework during Inquiry into foreign mobile termination rate impact on US carriers and consumers.
Vodafone-Panafon Hellenic Telecommunications Company S. A. Vodafone FCC stated that it is very concerned about the possibility that US consumers might be Greece reduced mobile termination rates for fixed to mobile calls on 5 October 2003 paying rates that are unreasonably high or discriminatory.
The inquiry is expected to from 19 eurocents and a minimum charge of 42 seconds to 17.5 eurocents and a begin within six months from April 2004 and will seek input on the status of foreign minimum charge of 33 seconds and further reduced its rates on 1 January 2004 to mobile termination rates, including actions taken by foreign regulators addressing the 17 eurocents with a minimum charge of 30 seconds.
On 1 October 2003, it reduced issue to date.
the mobile termination rate for mobile to mobile calls from 19 eurocents with a minimum charge of 42 seconds to 18 eurocents with a minimum charge of 30 From 2 February 2004, the FCC allowed certain spectrum licensees, including mobile seconds.
operators, to enter various types of leasing arrangements with third parties.
Licensees in general may, within the scope and term of their licence, lease any amount of Malta spectrum, in any geographic area, for any time period.
Legislation implementing the new EU Framework in Malta, which joined the EU on In November 2003, the FCC adopted licensing and flexible service rules for advanced 1 May 2004, is due for enactment during 2004. wireless spectrum at 1.7 GHz and 2.1 GHz, which the FCC is expected to license via Portugal auction in 2005 at the earliest.
Portugal enacted national law implementing the new EU Framework in February 2004.
From 24 November 2003, the FCC required US mobile operators to provide mobile The NRA has commenced its market reviews, which are expected to be completed number portability for customers switching their mobile operator within the same local during 2004.
In July 2003, Vodafone Portugal-Comunicaes Pessoais, S. A, service area.
Vodafone Portugal agreed to reduce its mobile termination rates by 7% per quarter, with the last reduction proposed for 1 April 2004, and did so for the three successive quarters ending January 2004.
Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2004 16 Business Overview continued South Africa Asia Pacific The Government published draft communications convergence legislation for Japan consultation, with a view to finalising new legislation in 2004.
Discussions continue on The NRA has introduced transitional measures to allow fixed network operators to set the permanent allocation of 1800 MHz spectrum to Vodacom.
An industry working retail prices for fixed to mobile calls using the fixed network operators override dial group is drafting an Information Communication Technologies Black Economic code.
Until 31 March 2004, mobile operators set retail prices for fixed-to-mobile calls Empowerment Charter the Charter to comply with Broad-Based Black Vodafone Japans current retail price is 120 per three minutes.
Fixed line operators Empowerment Act 2003 BBEE Act.
The Charter, in satisfying the objectives of the then deduct a fixed line interconnection charge and billing and collection costs.
Since BBEE Act, will set BBEE targets related to company ownership, management, 1 April 2004, a retail price of 60 per three minutes has applied to fixed-to-mobile employment and skills development, procurement, enterprise development, and calls which use a fixed operators override dial code, which is a short code which must residual investment.
The Charter is expected to be finalised in June 2004. be inserted before the telephone number being called.
Vodafone Japan will receive a mobile termination charge of approximately 40 per three minutes in respect of these Non-mobile Telecommunications calls.
Vodafone Japan will continue to set the retail price for non-override calls, which are calls where the override dial code has not been inserted.
From 1 April 2005, fixed The Groups non-mobile telecommunications businesses mainly comprise interests in operators set the retail price for override calls and mobile operators set the retail price Arcor, Cegetel and Japan Telecom, until its deconsolidation on 1 October 2003. for non-override calls.
Mobile operators will receive a mobile termination charge in Arcor is the second largest fixed line telecommunications provider in Germany.
With its respect of override calls at a level yet to be determined.
own Germany-wide voice and data network covering more than 40,000 km, Arcor The NRA is actively considering the introduction of mobile number portability.
utilises the latest technologies to offer its customers a full range of services for voice and data transfer, including complete ISDN DSL connection services.
Australia Cegetel is Frances second largest fixed line telephony operator and offers a wide The Australian Consumer and Competition Commission ACCC, the NRA, range of fixed line telephone services to residential and business customers as well as commenced a review of mobile services in March 2003.
The review examines what special corporate services ranging from network and customer relations management form of regulation, if any, should be applied to the mobile terminating and originating to Internet-Intranet hosting services.
Cegetel also owns the most extensive private access services, domestic and international roaming services and 3G mobile services.
telecommunications network in France, with 21,000km of fibre optic cable.
The ACCC has released a draft decision regarding the regulation of mobile terminating access rates that, if implemented, would see continued regulation of 2G voice termination services and the extension of that regulation to 3G voice services.
The History and Development of the Company proposed regulation would require rate decreases of 3 cents per annum local currency The Company was formed in 1984 as a subsidiary of Racal Electronics Plc.
Then each year for the next three years, representing a total reduction of 50% in real terms known as Racal Telecom Limited, approximately 20% of the Companys capital was during the period to 31 December 2006.
A final decision is expected by summer 2004. offered to the public in October 1988.
It was fully demerged from Racal Electronics Plc and became an independent company in September 1991, at which time it New Zealand changed its name to Vodafone Group Plc.
Following its merger with AirTouch The NRA made a determination regarding the calculation and allocation of costs of the Communications, Inc. AirTouch, the Company changed its name to Vodafone telecommunications universal service obligation in December 2003.
In April 2004, the AirTouch Plc in June 1999 and, following approval by the shareholders in General High Court ruled that, while it would not grant leave to appeal on this occasion, Meeting, reverted to its former name, Vodafone Group Plc, on 28 July 2000.
Vodafone New Zealand was free to take up the matter again with the NRA in the context of the 2002 03 telecommunications universal cost obligation cost calculation.
Acquisitions of businesses The Group has completed a number of business transactions over the past three The NRA announced, in April 2004, that it would investigate mobile termination rates years, the most significant of which were the acquisition of further interests in and retail prices for fixed to mobile calls.
The NRA has yet to announce details of the Vodafone Japan and Vodafone Spain.
In addition, the Group has increased its equity timeframe or process for the investigation but it is expected to conclude the interests in certain other existing Group companies through a series of transactions.
investigation and make recommendations to the Government in November 2004.
These transactions are described in more detail below and, when combined with others, most notably the merger with AirTouch, which completed on 30 June 1999, China and the acquisition of Mannesmann AG Mannesmann in April 2000, have At the end of 2003, the Ministry of Information Industry announced that the second increased the geographic footprint and substantially increased the customer base of phase of 3G external field testing would start in February 2004, with China Mobile the Groups mobile operations, particularly in Europe and Asia, and have significantly testing W-CDMA, China Unicom testing CDMA2000, and China Telecom testing both impacted the results of operations.
All carriers will also test TD-SCDMA in smaller field trials.
There has been no formal announcement of the timing or number of 3G licences to be Acquisition of additional interests in Vodafone Japan and of issued in China.
Japan Telecom Middle East and Africa Region The Groups investment in Japan at 1 April 2001, following the merger with AirTouch and subsequent transactions and agreements, comprised a 26% stake in J-Phone Egypt Communications Co. Ltd. J-Phone Communications, which had a controlling In December 2003, Vodafone Egypt and MobiNil agreed each to pay EGP1,240 million interest of approximately 50% in each of the three regional mobile over a five year period to the NRA in return for access to 1800 MHz spectrum and telecommunications companies, J-Phone East, J-Phone West and J-Phone Central, other benefits.
collectively known as the J-Phone Group.
Annual Report 2004 Vodafone Group Plc 17 On 12 April 2001, the acquisition of a 15% stake in Japan Telecom, the controlling on 27 January 2003, at which time Vodafone Spain became a wholly owned shareholder of the J-Phone Group, from West Japan Railway Company and Central subsidiary of the Group.
Japan Railway Company was completed.
On 27 April 2001, the Group completed the Acquisition of interests in China Mobile Hong Kong Limited acquisition of a further 10% stake in Japan Telecom from AT&T Corporation for a cash China Mobile consideration of $1.35 billion 0.9 billion, bringing the Groups interest in Japan In an offering that closed on 3 November 2000, the Group acquired newly issued Telecom to 25% at that time.
shares representing approximately 2.18% of China Mobiles share capital for a cash On 2 May 2001, the Company announced that it had agreed to acquire, for a cash consideration of $2.5 billion.
On 27 February 2001, the Company and China Mobile consideration of approximately 3.7 billion, BT Group plcs BTs ownership interests signed a strategic alliance agreement, setting out the principal terms for a strategic in the J-Phone Group and Japan Telecom, comprising BTs combined shareholdings of alliance and co-operation between the two parties in mobile services, technology, 20% in Japan Telecom and 20% in J-Phone Communications for 3.1 billion, and operations and management.
BTs aggregate interest of approximately 4.9% in the J-Phone operating companies On 18 June 2002, the Group invested a further $750 million in China Mobile and for a further 0.6 billion.
The transaction completed on 1 June 2001, except for the obtained the right to appoint a non-executive director to the China Mobile board.
The acquisition of BTs interests in the operating subsidiaries of J-Phone Communications, Groups stake in China Mobile increased to approximately 3.27% as a result of this which did not complete until 12 July 2001.
As a result of these transactions, the transaction.
Group had a 46% interest in J-Phone Communications, not including its indirect interest through Japan Telecom, and interests of 18.9%, 15.2% and 14.9%, Acquisition of interests in Socit Franaise du respectively, in J-Phone Communications regional mobile companies J-Phone East, Radiotlphone SFR and Cegetel S. A. S. Cegetel J-Phone West and J-Phone Central, excluding the Companys indirect interests As at 1 April 2001, the Group had a 20% direct interest in SFR and an approximate through Japan Telecoms and J-Phone Communications holdings in these companies.
15% interest in Cegetel Groupe S. A. Cegetel Group, the French On 24 August 2001, the Company announced the proposed merger of J-Phone telecommunications group and the remaining 80% shareholder in SFR, making the Communications and the J-Phone operating companies into a new company, J-Phone Groups effective interest in SFR approximately 31.9%.
The merger became effective on 1 November 2001 and, as a result, the On 16 October 2002, the Group announced that it had agreed to acquire BTs 26% Group held a 39.67% ownership interest in the new company.
interest in Cegetel Group and SBC Communications, Inc. s SBCs 15% interest in On 20 September 2001, the Company announced an agreed tender offer by its Cegetel Group for a4.0 billion cash and $2.27 billion cash, respectively.
Vivendi subsidiary, Vodafone International Holdings B. V. to acquire up to 693,368 Japan Universal S. A. Vivendi had pre-emption rights in connection with the Cegetel Group Telecom ordinary shares, representing 21.7% of the ordinary shares of Japan shares held by SBC and BT.
At the same time, the Group announced that it had made Telecom, for a cash consideration of up to 312 billion 1.8 billion.
The offer a non-binding cash offer of a6.8 billion to Vivendi for its 44% interest in Cegetel successfully completed in October 2001.
On 31 July 2002, Japan Telecom announced that it had established a wholly owned On 29 October 2002, the Board of Vivendi announced it had decided not to accept the subsidiary, Japan Telecom Co. Ltd, and that Japan Telecom was to be renamed Japan Groups offer to purchase its 44% interest in Cegetel Group and, accordingly, the offer Telecom Holdings Co. Ltd.
The existing fixed line business was transferred to Japan lapsed.
On 3 December 2002, Vivendi also announced its intention to exercise its preTelecom Co. Ltd. All of these changes took effect from 1 August 2002.
This created a emption rights to acquire BTs 26% interest in Cegetel Group.
telecommunications service group comprising two core businesses of mobile and fixed On 21 January 2003, the Company announced that its subsidiary, Vodafone Holding telecommunications, namely J-Phone Co. Ltd and Japan Telecom.
GmbH, completed the acquisition of SBCs 15% interest in Cegetel Group for a cash The Group has sold its interest in Japan Telecom, as described under Sales of consideration of $2.27 billion 1.4 billion, increasing the Groups effective interest in Businesses.
In addition, J-Phone Co. Ltd was renamed Vodafone K. K. Vodafone SFR to approximately 43.9%.
Japan on 1 October 2003 and Japan Telecom Holdings Co. Ltd. was renamed In December 2003, in order to optimise cash flows between Cegetel Group and its Vodafone Holdings K. K. on 10 December 2003. shareholders, SFR was merged into Cegetel Group and this company was renamed At 31 March 2004, the Group held, through its wholly owned subsidiary undertakings, SFR.
The fixed line businesses Cegetel S. A. and Tlcom Dveloppement, previously a 66.7% stake in Vodafone Holdings K. K. and a 39.67% stake in Vodafone Japan.
In controlled by SNCF, were merged to form Cegetel S. A. S. a company in which SFR has addition Vodafone Holdings K. K. held 45.08% of the issued share capital in Vodafone a 65% stake, giving the Group an effective interest of 28.5%.
The Groups interest in Japan, making the Groups effective interest in Vodafone Japan 69.7%.
SFR remained at approximately 43.9% as a result of this reorganisation.
Acquisition of additional interests in Vodafone Spain Other significant transactions On 2 May 2001, the Company announced that it had agreed to acquire BTs 17.8% Purchase of additional minority stakes in existing subsidiary undertakings shareholding in Vodafone Spain for a cash consideration of 1.1 billion, increasing its ownership interest in Vodafone Spain to approximately 91.6%.
The acquisition was In line with the Groups strategy of increasing its shareholding in existing operations completed on 29 June 2001, following the receipt of regulatory approval.
where it believes opportunities arise to enhance value for the Companys shareholders, the Group purchased minority stakes in certain of the Groups subsidiary On 2 April 2002, the Company acquired a further 2.2% interest in Vodafone Spain for undertakings in order to be able to more closely align the respective businesses to the 0.4 billion, following the exercise of a put option held by Torreal, S. A, increasing the Groups business.
Europolitan Vodafone AB Vodafone Sweden On 21 January 2003, the Company announced that it had acquired the remaining 6.2% interest in Vodafone Spain for approximately a2.0 billion 1.4 billion following During September 2002, the Group increased its effective interest in its then listed the exercise of a put option held by Acciona, S. A. and Tibest Cuatro, S. A. under the subsidiary Vodafone Sweden by 3.6% to 74.7% through a series of market purchases.
terms of an agreement originally made in January 2000.
The transaction completed Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2004 18 Business Overview continued A recommended cash offer for all remaining shares in Vodafone Sweden not held by granted FT a cash settled call option to cover certain of FTs obligations under its the Group was announced on 5 February 2003.
As a result of shares bought in the 4.125% Exchange Notes due 29 November 2004, which are convertible into Vodafone offer and in the market, the Company increased its effective shareholding in Vodafone Greece shares.
Exercise of this option will not change the Groups effective interest in Sweden to approximately 99.1%.
The total aggregate cash consideration paid was Vodafone Greece.
During the 2003 financial year the Group made additional market 391 million.
purchases which increased the Groups effective interest in Vodafone Greece to 64.0% at 31 March 2003.
Under compulsory acquisition procedures, on 15 March 2004, Vodafone Holdings Sweden AB obtained advanced access to an aggregate of 2,377,774 shares in On 1 December 2003, following the purchase of a 9.433% stake in Vodafone Greece Vodafone Sweden, giving the Group ownership of and title to these shares.
An arbitral from Intracom S. A. the Group announced a public offer for all remaining shares not tribunal in Sweden is currently determining the purchase price for the shares and a held by the Group.
As a result of the offer and subsequent market purchases, the decision is expected in autumn 2004.
Group increased its effective interest in Vodafone Greece to 99.4% at 31 March 2004.
The total aggregate cash consideration paid in the 2004 financial year was 815 On 31 March 2004, the Group increased its effective interest in Vodafone Sweden to million.
100% by the purchase of 1,320,000 shares which were held in treasury by Vodafone Sweden for a total consideration of SEK62 million 4 million.
Other subsidiaries On 3 May 2002, the Group completed the purchase of the 4.5% minority interest in Vodafone Swedens shares have been fide-listed from the O-list, Attract 40, of the Vodafone Australia Limited Vodafone Australia, formerly Vodafone Pacific Limited, Stockholm Exchange.
The last day of trading for Vodafone Swedens shares was for a cash consideration of 43 million, as a result of which Vodafone Australia 28 March 2003. became a wholly owned subsidiary.
Vodafone Netherlands On 23 January 2003, the Group increased its stake in V. R. A. M. Telecommunications On 27 November 2002, the Group purchased for cash an additional 7.6% interest in Limited, now called Vodafone Hungary Mobile Telecommunications Limited Vodafone Vodafone Netherlands, increasing the Groups interest from 70% to 77.6%.
Hungary, to 83.8% by purchasing RWE Com GmbH & Co OHGs 15.565% interest in In January 2003, the Company entered into discussions with the board of Vodafone Vodafone Hungary for an undisclosed cash consideration.
Options were granted to Netherlands concerning a possible tender offer to acquire the remaining shares of Antenna Hungaria RT Antenna on 23 January 2003 over certain of the shares Vodafone Netherlands not held by the Group.
A cash offer for these shares was acquired from RWE on this date, representing a maximum interest of 3.89%.
All of announced on 12 February 2003 and was declared unconditional on 28 March 2003. these options expired on 9 October 2003, unexercised.
Following a post-closing acceptance period, the Company, as a result of the offer and On 10 June 2003, the Group increased its stake in Vodafone Hungary to 87.9% by market purchases, increased its overall effective interest in Vodafone Netherlands to subscribing for Antennas share of an issue of C shares.
Antennas call options over 97.2% at 31 March 2003.
The total aggregate cash consideration paid in the 2003 5,659,500, 5,072,700 and 7,845,855 Vodafone Hungary C shares, relating to equity financial year was 486 million, with a further 110 million paid in April 2003.
As a injections in October 2001, April 2002 and June 2003, respectively, expired on result of private transactions, the Group has increased its effective interest in Vodafone 9 October 2003 unexercised.
The Group has exercised its rights under Dutch law and initiated compulsory acquisition procedures in order to acquire the On 16 May 2003, the Group increased its shareholding in Vodafone Egypt from 60.0% remaining shares, completion of which is expected during the first half of the 2005 to 67.0% for an undisclosed sum.
In December 2003, it was announced that a financial year.
Following these procedures Vodafone Netherlands will become a wholly preliminary understanding had been reached with Telecom Egypt for the proposed owned subsidiary of the Group.
Vodafone Netherlands shares have been fide-listed disposal of a 16.9% stake in Vodafone Egypt, which would reduce the Groups from the Euronext Amsterdam Stock Exchange.
Vodafone Portugal On 1 August 2003, the Group announced that it had increased its shareholding in Vodafone Malta Limited Vodafone Malta from 80% to 100% by purchasing During September 2002, the Group increased its effective interest in its then listed Maltacom Plcs 20% interest in Vodafone Malta for cash consideration of a30 million.
subsidiary Vodafone Portugal to 61.4% through market purchases.
In January 2003, the Company entered into discussions with the board of Vodafone Acquisition of remaining 50% interest in Vizzavi Portugal concerning a possible tender offer to acquire, for cash, all remaining shares On 29 August 2002, the Group acquired Vivendis 50% stake in the Vizzavi joint not held by the Group.
The offer was announced on 28 February 2003.
Following venture, which operated a mobile content business, for a cash consideration of completion of the offer, the Companys effective interest in Vodafone Portugal a143 million 91 million.
As a result of this transaction, the Group owns 100% of increased to approximately 94.4% as a result of shares purchased in the offer and in Vizzavi, with the exception of Vizzavi France, which is now wholly owned by Vivendi.
The total aggregate cash consideration paid in the 2003 financial year Vizzavi services are now provided under the Vodafone brand.
was 184 million, with a further 336 million paid in April 2003.
Having achieved an effective interest of greater than 90%, the Company implemented compulsory Acquisition of service providers by Vodafone UK acquisition procedures to acquire the remaining shares, which became effective on On 22 September 2003, the Group acquired 100% of Singlepoint 4U Limited 21 May 2003 for further consideration of 74 million, as a result of which Vodafone Singlepoint for consideration of 417 million.
In addition, as a result of a Portugal became a wholly owned subsidiary of the Group.
fide-listing of the shares recommended cash offer announced on 5 August 2003, the Group acquired 98.92% occurred on 22 May 2003. of Project Telecom plc, after the offer was declared unconditional on 19 September Vodafone Greece 2003, and subsequently acquired the remaining 1.08% in November 2003, for a total consideration of 164 million.
On 27 November 2002, the Group announced an agreement to acquire from France Telecom S. A. FT its 10.85% interest in Vodafone Greece for 216 million in cash.
Acquisition of additional interests in associated companies The transaction completed on 3 December 2002 and increased the Groups effective During December 2002, the Group completed the purchase of an additional 3.5% shareholding in Vodafone Greece from 51.88% to 62.73%.
In addition, the Company indirect equity stake in its South African associated undertaking, Vodacom Group Pty Annual Report 2004 Vodafone Group Plc 19 Limited Vodacom, for the sterling equivalent of 78 million.
The transaction Wireless International Corporation.
The transaction completed on 29 June 2001, increased the Groups effective interest in Vodacom to 35%.
following receipt of regulatory approval.
On 10 January 2003, under an agreement with Mobitelea Ventures Limited, the Group Disposal of holding in Ruhrgas AG completed the purchase of a 5% indirect equity stake in the Groups Kenyan On 30 October 2001, the Group announced that it had reached agreement with E. ON associated undertaking Safaricom Limited Safaricom for approximately $10 million AG for the sale of the Groups 23.6% stake in Bergemann GmbH, through which it 6 million, increasing the Groups effective interest in Safaricom to 35%.
held an 8.2% stake in Ruhrgas AG.
The transaction completed on 8 July 2002, realising cash proceeds of a0.9 billion.
Sales of businesses As a consequence of certain of the acquisitions described above, the Group also Disposal of Japan Telecom acquired interests in companies that were either outside the Companys core On 14 November 2003, Vodafone Holdings K. K. formerly Japan Telecom Holdings business, or in which the Company was prevented from retaining interests due to Co. Ltd. completed the disposal of its 100% interest in Japan Telecom.
The Group has undertaken a series of transactions to facilitate resulting from this transaction are 257.9 billion 1.4 billion, comprising 178.9 the orderly disposal of such interests, as described below.
billion 1.0 billion of cash, 32.5 billion 0.2 billion of transferable redeemable Disposal of Mannesmann businesses preferred equity and 46.5 billion 0.2 billion withholding tax recoverable, which is expected to be received in the 2005 financial year.
The Group ceased consolidating Following the acquisition of Mannesmann, the Group completed the sale of a number the results of Japan Telecom from 1 October 2003. of Mannesmann businesses.
The Group used the proceeds from these divestments to reduce its indebtedness.
Those completed in the three years ended 31 March 2004 Other disposals are described below.
On 24 August 2001, the Group announced that agreement had been reached to sell Disposal of interests in Atecs Mannesmann AG Atecs its 11.7% equity stake in the Korean mobile operator, Shinsegi, for an undisclosed amount to SK Telecom, Ltd.
The value of net assets disposed of represented less than In April 2000, Mannesmann reached an agreement with Siemens AG and Robert 1% of the Groups net assets at the date of disposal.
Bosch GmbH for the sale of a controlling interest in Atecs, its engineering and automotive business.
The transaction valued Atecs at approximately a9.6 billion, During the 2004 financial year the Group disposed of its interests in its associated including pension and non-trading financial liabilities to be assumed on closing.
On undertakings in Mexico, Grupo Iusacell, and India, RPG Cellular.
29 September 2000, a payment of approximately a3.1 billion 1.9 billion plus Formation of Verizon Wireless interest was made to Mannesmann in exchange for the transfer of a 50% plus two The Cellco Partnership, which operates under the name Verizon Wireless, was shares stake in Atecs, which was completed on 17 April 2001, following approval from formed from the combinations of the US mobile operations of the Company, Bell the relevant European and US regulatory authorities.
Atecs also repaid Group loans of Atlantic Corporation and GTE Corporation in 2000.
The Group owns 45% of Verizon a1.55 billion 1.0 billion in March 2001.
Wireless and designates four of the nine members of Verizon Wireless Board of On 15 January 2002, Vodafone announced that it had exercised put options to sell its Representatives, while Verizon Communications, Inc. Verizon Communications remaining stake in Atecs to Siemens AG.
The proceeds from this disposal amounted to designates the five other members.
a3.66 billion 2.2 billion, and were received on 4 March 2002.
Proceeds, in addition to those realised prior to 1 April 2001, of 0.2 billion were Disposal of Orange realised during the 2002 financial year, following the disposal of overlapping As a condition to its approval of the Companys acquisition of Mannesmann, the properties in the US, such disposals being a condition of the regulatory approval of the European Commission required the Company to dispose of its interest in Orange, transaction.
No further proceeds from the disposal of overlapping properties were which Mannesmann had acquired in 1999.
Orange became a subsidiary of the received during the 2003 and 2004 financial years.
Company as a result of the Mannesmann acquisition.
On 19 April 2001, the remaining Mannesmann synergies cash payment of a4.9 billion that was due to be received from France Telecom in Mannesmann has been integrated into the Group and the expected synergies for the March 2002, in respect of the disposal of Orange, was monetised for a4.7 billion year ended 31 March 2004 announced at the time of the acquisition have been 2.9 billion.
achieved, exceeding the target mainly as result of higher savings from capital Disposal of Arcor rail business expenditure, handset procurement and additional revenue opportunities.
On 25 January 2002, the Group announced that Arcor, the Groups German fixed line business, had agreed terms for the sale of its railway-specific business, Arcor DB Telematik GmbH Telematik, to the German rail operator Deutsche Bahn, for a1.15 billion 709 million, a1 billion of which was received on 26 March 2002.
The sale completed in April 2002 following receipt of all necessary approvals and registration in the German commercial register.
On completion, Arcor sold 49.9% of Telematiks equity to Deutsche Bahn and entered into a put call arrangement governing the remaining 50.1% equity interest, exercisable from 1 July 2002.
Deutsche Bahn exercised its option to purchase the remaining 50.1% equity interest for the remaining a0.15 billion on 1 July 2002.
ring Telekom Service GmbH tele.
ring On 8 May 2001, the Group announced that agreement had been reached to sell its 100% equity stake in the Austrian telecommunications company, tele.
