Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2004 48 Directors Report Company operates a dividend reinvestment plan, further details on which can be Review of the Groups Business found on page 128 in this Annual Report.
The Group is involved principally in the provision of mobile telecommunications services.
A review of the development of the business of the Company and its Subsequent events subsidiary, joint venture and associated undertakings is contained elsewhere in this Annual Report.
Details of the Companys principal subsidiary undertakings, associated Details of material subsequent events are included in note 33 to the Consolidated undertakings and investments can be found in note 34 to the Consolidated Financial Financial Statements included in this Annual Report.
Charitable contributions Future developments During the year ended 31 March 2004, the Company made cash charitable donations The Group is currently involved in the expansion and development of its mobile of 13.5 million to the Vodafone Group Foundation 2003: 10.0 million.
In addition, telecommunications and related businesses as described elsewhere in this Annual operating companies donated a further 7.2 million 2003: 4.2 million to local Report.
Vodafone Foundations and a further 2.0 million 2003: 2.6 million directly to a variety of causes.
These donations total 22.7 million 2003: 16.8 million and include donations of 3.0 million 2003: 3.2 million made as required by the terms Corporate governance of certain network operating licences.
The directors are committed to business integrity and professionalism.
As an essential More details regarding the activities of the Vodafone Group Foundation and local part of this commitment the Board supports high standards of corporate governance Vodafone Foundations can be found in the Groups separate Corporate Social and its statement on corporate governance is set out on pages 50 to 53 of this Annual Responsibility CSR report.
The Boards Report to Shareholders on Directors Remuneration on pages 54 to 63 of this Annual Report will be proposed for approval at the Companys AGM on 27 July 2004.
Political donations At the Annual General Meeting on 30 July 2003, the directors sought and obtained shareholders approval to enable the Company to make donations to EU Political Share capital Organisations or incur EU Political Expenditure, under the relevant provisions of the A statement of changes in the share capital of the Company is set out in note 22 to Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000 the Act.
The approval given the Consolidated Financial Statements.
restricted such expenditure to an aggregate limit of 100,000 in the period of 12 months following the date of the Annual General Meeting.
Although the Company Purchase by the Company of its own shares had, and has, no intention of changing its current policy and practice of not making political donations and will not do so without the specific endorsement of At the AGM of the Company held on 30 July 2003, shareholders gave the Company shareholders, the directors sought the approval on a precautionary basis, to avoid any permission, until the conclusion of the AGM being held on 27 July 2004, to purchase possibility of unintentionally breaching the Act.
up to 6,800,000,000 ordinary shares of the Company.
A resolution for permission for the Company to renew its authority to purchase its own shares will be proposed at the The Company has made no political donations during the year.
AGM of the Company to be held on 27 July 2004.
The directors propose, again on a precautionary basis, to seek a renewal of During the period from 1 December 2003 to 31 March 2004, the Company purchased shareholders approval at the AGM to be held on 27 July 2004.
The amount of 800 million ordinary shares at a weighted average price, excluding transaction costs, the approval will again be restricted to 100,000 for a period of twelve months of 135.3p.
The Companies Acquisition of Own Shares Treasury Shares Regulations 2003 the Regulations allow companies to hold shares acquired by way of market purchase in Creditor payment terms treasury, rather than having to cancel them.
The Regulations came into force on It is the Groups policy to agree terms of transactions, including payment terms, with 1 December 2003.
The directors may use the authority to purchase shares and hold suppliers and, provided suppliers perform in accordance with the agreed terms, it is them in treasury and subsequently sell or transfer them out of treasury as permitted the Groups normal practice that payment is made accordingly.
in accordance with the Regulations rather than cancel them, subject to institutional The number of days outstanding between receipt of invoices and date of payment, guidelines applicable at the time.
The shares purchased by the Company prior to calculated by reference to the amount owed to trade creditors at the year end as a 31 March 2004 are being held in treasury.
proportion of the amounts invoiced by suppliers during the year, was 29 days No dividends will be paid on shares whilst held in treasury and no voting rights will 2003: 24 days in aggregate for the Group.
The Company did not have any trade attach to the treasury shares.
Results and dividends Research and development The consolidated profit and loss account is set out on page 69 of this Annual Report.
The Group continues to pursue an active research and development programme for The directors have proposed a final dividend for the year of 1.0780 pence per the enhancement of mobile telecommunications.
Full details as to the Groups ordinary share, payable on 6 August 2004 to shareholders on the register of members research and development programme and activities can be found under at close of business on 4 June 2004.
An interim dividend of 0.9535 pence per Business Overview Research and Development.
ordinary share was paid during the year, producing a total for the year of 2.0315 pence per ordinary share, a total of approximately 1,378 million.
The Annual Report 2004 Vodafone Group Plc 49 Directors interests in the shares of the Company Major shareholders The Boards Report to Shareholders on Directors Remuneration details the directors The Bank of New York, as custodian of the Companys American Depositary Receipt interests in the shares of the Company.
ADR programme, held approximately 11.6% of the Companys ordinary shares of $0.10 each at 24 May 2004 as nominee.
The total number of ADRs outstanding at 24 May 2004 was 783,776,194.
At this date, 1,049 holders of record of ordinary Directors interests in contracts shares had registered addresses in the United States and in total held approximately None of the current directors had a material interest in any contract of significance to 0.005% of the ordinary shares of the Company.
As at 24 May 2004, the following which the Company or any of its subsidiary undertakings was a party during the percentage interests in the ordinary share capital of the Company, disclosable under financial year.
Part VI of the Companies Act 1985, have been notified to the directors: The Capital Group Companies, Inc. 5.60% Employees Fidelity Management & Research Company 3.56% Legal & General Investment Management 3.47% Please refer to Employees on page 64.
Barclays PLC 3.28% The directors are not aware, as at 24 May 2004, of any other interest of 3% or more Corporate social responsibility in the ordinary share capital of the Company.
The Company is not directly or indirectly A summary of the Companys CSR approach is contained on pages 20 and 21 of the owned or controlled by any foreign government or any other legal entity.
There are no Annual Review & Summary Financial Statement and on page 65 of this Annual Report.
arrangements known to the Company that could result in a change of control of the Further details are contained in the Groups CSR report.
Auditors Going concern On 1 August 2003, Deloitte and Touche, the Companys auditors, transferred its After reviewing the Groups and Companys budget for the next financial year, and business to Deloitte and Touche LLP, a limited liability partnership incorporated under other longer term plans, the directors are satisfied that, at the time of approving the the Limited Liability Partnership Act 2000.
The Companys consent has been given to financial statements, it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing treat the appointment of Deloitte and Touche as extending to Deloitte and Touche LLP the financial statements.
with effect from 1 August 2003 under the provisions of section 26 5 of the Companies Act 1989.
By Order of the Board Following a recommendation by the Audit Committee, a resolution proposing the appointment of Deloitte and Touche LLP as auditors to the Company will be put to the AGM.
Stephen Scott In their assessment of the independence of the auditors and in accordance with the Secretary US Independence Standards Board Standard No.
1, Independence Discussions with 25 May 2004 Audit Committees, the Audit Committee receives in writing details of relationships between Deloitte and Touche LLP and the Company that may have a bearing on their independence and receives confirmation that they are independent of the Company within the meaning of the securities laws administered by the US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC.
In addition, the Audit Committee pre-approves the audit fee after a review of both the level of the audit fee against other comparable companies, including those in the telecommunications industry, and the level and nature of non-audit fees, as part of its review of the adequacy and objectivity of the audit process.
In a further measure to ensure auditor independence is not compromised, policies have been adopted to provide for the pre-approval by the Audit Committee of all permitted nonaudit services by Deloitte and Touche LLP.
Should there be an immediate requirement for permitted non-audit services to be provided by Deloitte and Touche LLP which have not been pre-approved by the Audit Committee, the policies provide that the Group Audit Director will consult with the Chairman of the Audit Committee for pre-approval.
In addition to their statutory duties, Deloitte and Touche LLP are also employed where, as a result of their position as auditors, they either must, or are best placed to, perform the work in question.
This is primarily work in relation to matters such as shareholder circulars, Group borrowings, regulatory filings and business acquisitions and disposals.
Other work is awarded on the basis of competitive tender.
During the year Deloitte and Touche LLP charged 8 million 2003: 15 million for non-audit assignments.
An analysis of these fees can be found in note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
