Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2004 46 Board of Directors and Group Executive Committee Omnitel Pronto Italia S. p. A. now operating as Vodafone Italy.
Vittorio Colao is currently Directors and Senior Management a member of the Aspen Institute and non-executive director of RAS Insurance in Italy.
The business of the Company is managed by its Board of directors.
The Companys Thomas Geitner, Chief Technology Officer, aged 49, has been a member of the Board Articles of Association provide that, until otherwise determined by ordinary resolution, of directors since May 2000.
He is responsible for Group Technology & Business the number of directors will not be less than three.
Integration and will be leading the implementation of a standardised architecture for Biographical details of the directors and senior management are as follows: business processes, Information Technology and network systems.
Prior to joining the Group, he was a member of the Management Board of RWE AG.
Thomas Geitner Directors is a member of the Management Board of Vodafone Holding GmbH and Vodafone Chairman Deutschland GmbH and a member of the supervisory board of Singulus Technologies AG.
Lord MacLaurin of Knebworth, DL, aged 67, has been a member of the Board of directors since January 1997.
He is Chairman of the Nominations and Governance Ken Hydon, Financial Director, aged 59, has been a member of the Board of directors Committee and a member of the Remuneration Committee.
He is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants, the Chairman of Tesco Plc from 1985 to 1997 and has been a director of Enterprise Oil Association of Chartered Certified Accountants and the Association of Corporate Plc, Guinness Plc, National Westminster Bank Plc and Whitbread Plc.
He is a director of several subsidiaries of the Company and is a member of the Board of Representatives of the Verizon Wireless partnership in the United States.
Deputy Chairman Ken Hydon has recently been appointed a non-executive director of Reckitt Benckiser Paul Hazen, aged 62, has been a member of the Board of directors since June 1999 Plc and Tesco Plc.
He will retire from the Board on conclusion of the AGM in 2005. and became Deputy Chairman and the Boards nominated senior non-executive director in May 2000.
He is Chairman of the Audit Committee and a member of the Non-executive directors Nominations and Governance Committee.
He became a director of AirTouch in April Dr. Michael Boskin, aged 58, has been a member of the Board of directors since 1993.
In 2001, he retired as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Wells Fargo & June 1999 and is a member of the Remuneration Committee and the Audit Company and its principal subsidiary, Wells Fargo Bank, NA.
Paul Hazen is also a Committee.
He was a director of AirTouch from August 1996 to June 1999.
He has director of Safeway, Inc. Willis Group Holdings Limited, Xstrata AG and E. piphany and been a Professor of Economics at Stanford University since 1971 and was Chairman he is Chairman of Accel-KKR.
of the Presidents Council of Economic Advisers from February 1989 until January 1993.
Dr Boskin is President and CEO of Boskin & Co. an economic consulting Executive directors company, and is also a director of Exxon Mobil Corporation, First Health Group Corp. Arun Sarin, Chief Executive, aged 49, has been a member of the Board of directors and Oracle Corporation.
since June 1999 and is a member of the Nominations and Governance Committee.
He Professor Sir Alec Broers, aged 65, has been a member of the Board of directors was a director of AirTouch from July 1995 and was President and Chief Operating since January 1998 and is a member of the Audit Committee and the Nominations Officer from February 1997 to June 1999.
He was Chief Executive Officer for the and Governance Committee.
He is President of the Royal Academy of Engineering and United States and Asia Pacific region until 15 April 2000, when he became a nona former Vice-Chancellor of Cambridge University.
He spent many years with IBM and executive director.
He was appointed Chief Executive after the AGM on 30 July 2003. is a Fellow of the Royal Society, the Institute of Electrical Engineers and the Institute of Arun Sarin joined Pacific Telesis Group in San Francisco in 1984 and has served in Physics.
He is also a Foreign Associate of the US National Academy of Engineering.
many executive positions in his 20 year career in telecommunications.
He has also Professor Sir Alec Broers chairs the Vodafone Group Foundation and the Companys served as a director of The Gap, Inc.
The Charles Schwab Corporation and UK pension trustee company.
On 1 May 2004, it was announced that Her Majesty the Cisco Systems, Inc. Queen intends to make him a Life Peer in recognition of his contribution to Julian Horn-Smith, Group Chief Operating Officer, aged 55, has been a member of engineering and higher education.
the Board of directors since June 1996.
He was appointed Group Chief Operating John Buchanan, aged 61, has been a member of the Board of directors since April Officer on 1 April 2001, having been Chief Executive of Vodafones Continental Europe 2003.
He is a member of the Audit Committee and, solely for the purposes of relevant businesses and a director of several of the Groups overseas operating companies.
He legislation, is the Boards appointed financial expert on that Committee.
He retired is responsible for ensuring the operating performance of Group businesses.
Julian from the Board of BP Plc in 2002 after six years as Group Chief Financial Officer and Horn-Smith is the Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Vodafone Deutschland GmbH executive director following a wide-ranging career with the company.
He was a and is a non-executive director of Smiths Group Plc.
member of the United Kingdom Accounting Standards Board from 1997 to 2001.
He Peter Bamford, Chief Marketing Officer, aged 50, has been a member of the Board is the senior independent director of BHP Billiton Plc and a non-executive director of of directors since April 1998.
He is responsible for the full range of marketing and AstraZeneca Plc.
commercial activities including brand, product development, content management, Penny Hughes, aged 44, has been a member of the Board of directors since Partner Networks and global accounts.
He is also responsible for the Groups September 1998, and is the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
She has held operations in the UK & Ireland.
Previously, he was Chief Executive, Northern Europe, posts with The Coca-Cola Company, Next Plc and Body Shop International Plc.
She has Middle East & Africa Region.
He was Managing Director of Vodafone UK until April particular expertise in marketing and has developed experience in many human resource 2001.
Before joining Vodafone in 1997, Peter Bamford held senior positions with areas, including leadership development, motivation and retention.
Penny Hughes is a Kingfisher Plc and Tesco Plc and was a director of WH Smith Plc.
member of the advisory committee of Bridgepoint Capital Limited and is a non-executive Vittorio Colao, Chief Executive, Southern Europe, Middle East and Africa Region, aged director of Scandinaviska Enskilda Banken AB, Trinity Mirror Plc and The Gap, Inc. 42, joined the Board of directors on 1 April 2002.
He has had responsibility for the Sir David Scholey CBE, aged 68, has been a member of the Board of directors Groups businesses in Southern Europe since April 2001.
He spent the early part of his since March 1998.
He is a member of the Nominations and Governance Committee career at McKinsey & Co, where he was a Partner, before joining Omnitel Pronto Italia and the Audit Committee.
He is Chairman of Close Brothers Group Plc, a nonS.
p. A. as its Chief Operating Officer.
In 1999, he became the Chief Executive Officer of executive director of Anglo American Plc and Chubb Corporation, USA and is an Annual Report 2004 Vodafone Group Plc 47 adviser to UBS AG, Mitsubishi Corporation and IBCA-Fitch.
Sir David was formerly a Phil Williams, Group Human Resources Director, aged 53, was appointed to this director of the Bank of England and a Governor of the British Broadcasting position in the Group in 1989.
In addition to his Human Resources responsibilities, he Corporation.
He will retire from the Board on conclusion of the AGM in 2005. is the senior Vodafone nominated director on the Board of Vodacom Group Pty Limited, the Groups South African associate company.
He is also a director of several Professor Jrgen Schrempp, aged 59, has been a member of the Board of Group companies, a director of the Group Foundation and the UK pension trustee directors since May 2000 and is a member of the Nominations and Governance company.
He is a member of the Group Policy Committee.
Prior to joining the Group, Committee and Remuneration Committee.
He has been Chairman of the Board of he was Personnel Director with Costain and Burmah Castrol.
Management of DaimlerChrysler AG since 1998.
From 1995 until 1998 he was Chairman of the Board of Management of Daimler-Benz AG.
He was a member of the Supervisory Board of Mannesmann AG until May 2000.
Professor Jrgen Schrempp serves on the supervisory board of Allianz AG and is a member of the Board of directors of Richemont SA and Sasol Limited.
Luc Vandevelde, aged 53, was appointed to the Board on 1 September 2003 and is a member of the Remuneration Committee.
Chairman of Marks & Spencer Group Plc, one of the UKs leading retailers of clothing, foods, homeware and financial services, from 2000 to 2004, he was previously Chairman of Promodes, Vice Chairman of Carrefour, and he had held senior European and international roles with Kraft General Foods.
Luc Vandevelde is Executive Chairman of Change Capital Partners, a private equity fund, and is a non-executive director of Carrefour SA.
Senior Management Members of the Group Executive Committee who are not also executive directors are regarded as senior managers of the Company.
The Group Executive Committee comprises the executive directors, details of whom are shown above, and the senior managers listed below.
Tomas Isaksson was also a member of the Group Executive Committee until 1 April 2004, when he stepped down on taking up his appointment as Chief Executive of Vodafone Netherlands.
Further details of the Group Executive Committee can also be found under Corporate Governance Directors and Organisation.
Brian Clark, Chief Executive, Asia Pacific Region, aged 55, was appointed to this position, based in Japan, on 1 January 2003.
Prior to joining Vodafone he was Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of Telkom SA Limited, South Africa.
He is also a non-executive director of National Australia Bank Limited.
Alan Harper, Group Strategy Director, aged 47, joined Vodafone in 1995 as Group Commercial Director and he subsequently became Managing Director of Vodafone Limited, the UK network operating company.
He was appointed Group Strategy Director in July 2000.
Prior to joining the Group he held the post of Business Strategy Director with Mercury One2One and senior roles with Unitel and STC Telecoms.
He is also a member of the Group Operations Committee and Group Policy Committee, a member of the Vodafone D2 Supervisory Board and Chairman of the Vodafone UK Foundation.
Jrgen von Kuczkowski, Chief Executive, Northern Europe Region, aged 63, was appointed to this position on 1 July 2003.
He was previously the Chief Executive, Central Europe Region.
He joined Mannesmann Mobilfunk GmbH now Vodafone D2 GmbH in October 1990, initially as Director of Sales and Distribution, and he became Chief Executive Officer in 1994.
Stephen Scott, Group General Counsel and Company Secretary, aged 50, was appointed to this position in the Group in 1991, prior to which he was employed in the Racal Group legal department, having moved into industry in 1980 from private law practice in London.
He is a director of the Companys UK pension trustee company and insurance companies and is a member of the Group Policy Committee.
