General conditions Instruction to Valuers 44 This report and our valuations have been prepared on the basis that ATIS REAL Weatheralls Ltd there has been full disclosure of all relevant information and facts which Norfolk House, 31 St. Jamess Square, London SW1Y 4JR may affect them.
This report is private and confidential and for the sole use of The Dear Sirs, British Land Company PLC for publication in its reports and accounts.
It Valuation as at 31 March 2004 may not be disclosed to any third party without our prior written consent, nor published in any other document or circular, without our prior approval I confirm our instructions for you to prepare the valuation at 31 March 2004, in writing as to the form and context in which it shall appear.
In breach of for inclusion in our annual Report and Accounts, of all the properties owned by this condition, no responsibility can be accepted to third parties for the The British Land Company PLC and its subsidiaries.
This instruction excludes our comments or advice contained in this report.
overseas interests, which are to be valued as previously by Jones Lang LaSalle and CB Richard Ellis and our residential properties, which are to be valued by FPD Savills.
Yours faithfully For this purpose, we will make available to you all the information you may require which we will update through to 31 March.
We will also advise you of any transactions we are aware of that may have an impact on value.
Your valuation is to be undertaken in accordance with the 5th Edition of the Appraisal and Valuations Standards The Red Book published last year by The Graham Spoor BSC Hons MBA MRICS Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors.
Your valuation is for a Regulated Purpose Director Investment Valuations and you are to confirm that you have followed professional standards and for and on behalf of ATIS REALWeatheralls Ltd procedures with regard to independence and quality assurance.
Norfolk House You will conduct appropriate inspections of each of the properties and measure, in those cases where you have not been provided with floor areas as 31 St. Jamess Square agreed between the landlord and tenant at the time of rent review or the initial London SW1Y 4JR letting.
In respect of planning, your surveyors will make their own enquiries of the various planning authorities.
You will also refer to title reports and leases either in 15 April 2004 your possession or made available to you.
In accordance with established practice, you will attend meetings as required by the Companys auditors and the Audit Committee to discuss your work and conclusions.
Yours faithfully for and on behalf of The British Land Company PLC M. I. Gunston, FRICS Chief Surveyor 8 January 2004 Just tick the box The arrival of another doorstep-sized CSR questionnaire is greeted by scenes of wild elation.
Illustration by Gerald Hoffnung Valuation Certicate The British Land Company PLC
