Directors and Ofcers The British Land Company PLC 57 Robert Swannell 53 FCA Non-Executive Director John Ritblat 68 FRICS Chairman and Managing Director John Ritblat became Managing Director of Union Property Holdings London Robert Swannell became a non-executive director of The British Land Company PLC in 1999.
He is Co-Chairman of Citigroups European InvestLtd in 1969, and became Chairman and Managing Director of The British Land Company PLC in 1971 following its merger with Union.
He is also the nonment Bank.
He is a member of the Regulatory Decisions Committee of the Financial Services Authority and a member of the Industrial Development executive Chairman of Fitzhardinge PLC, which is the holding company of Colliers CRE.
He is also Deputy Chairman of the Governing Body of London Advisory Board of the Department of Trade and Industry.
Business School, a Member of the Council of The Royal Institution and a Trustee of The Wallace Collection.
He served on the Board of The British Lord Burns 60 GCB, BA Econ.
Non-Executive Director Terry Burns became a non-executive director of The British Land Company Library between 1995 and 2003 and is Vice President of the Tennis & Rackets Association and the Hon.
President of Snowsport UK formerly The British Ski PLC in July 2000, and is Chairman of the Audit Committee.
He is Chairman of Abbey National PLC and of Glas Cymru Cyfyngedig Welsh Water.
also a non-executive director of Pearson plc.
He was Permanent Secretary of HM Treasury between 1991 and 1998.
He is Chairman of the Governing Sir Derek Higgs 60 BA, FCA Deputy Chairman Sir Derek Higgs joined The British Land Company PLC as a non-executive Body of the Royal Academy of Music, and Chairman of the Trustees of the Monteverdi Choir and Orchestra.
Director in July 2000, became Deputy Chairman in March 2001 and is also Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
He is a Senior Adviser in the Graham Roberts 45 BA, FCA Finance Director UK to UBS Investment Bank.
He is also Chairman of Partnerships UK Plc, and a Deputy Chairman of Business in the Community.
His other appointments Graham Roberts joined The British Land Company PLC in January 2002 as an executive director and was appointed Finance Director in March 2002. include membership of the Financial Reporting Council and non-executive directorships of Egg plc, Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. and Allied Irish Banks, p. l. c. He is Chairman of British Land Financing Limited.
He was previously senior real estate partner at Andersen.
He is also a Pro-Chancellor of the University of Bristol and, amongst his charitable interests, has been a Trustee of The Textile Conservation Centre for Dr Christopher Gibson-Smith 58 BSc, PhD, MS nearly 25 years.
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Chris Gibson-Smith joined The British Land Company PLC as a nonJohn Weston Smith 72 MA, FCIS Chief Operating Officer John Weston Smith joined The British Land Company PLC as Secretary in executive director in January 2003.
He is the Senior Independent NonExecutive Director and Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
Formerly he 1971 from N. M. Rothschild & Sons Limited and was appointed an executive director in 1973.
He is Chief Operating Officer.
Previously he was Joint General was a Group Managing Director of BP plc.
He is Chairman of the London Stock Exchange, Chairman of National Air Traffic Services Limited and a nonManager of the Abbey National Building Society.
He is Managing Director of The British Land Corporation Limited and Chairman of British Land Developexecutive director of Lloyds TSB Group plc.
He is also a Trustee of the Institute of Public Policy Research and of Arts and Business.
ments Limited and Broadgate Estates Limited.
He is a Governor of St. Christophers School, Hampstead.
David Michels 57 Non-Executive Director Nicholas Ritblat 42 MA Executive Director David Michels was appointed a non-executive director of The British Land Company PLC in January 2003.
He is Group Chief Executive of Hilton Group Nicholas Ritblat joined The British Land Company PLC in 1987 and was appointed an executive director in 1991.
He previously worked for S. G. plc, and also a non-executive director of Hilton Hotels Corporation and was previously a non-executive director of Arcadia Group plc.
He is also President Warburg & Co. Ltds corporate and international finance divisions.
He is Deputy Chairman of British Land Financing Limited.
He sits on the of the Hilton in the Community Foundation, a Member and past Chairman of the British Hospitality Association Council and a Trustee of the Anne Management Committee of the Investment Property Forum, the IPD Index Consultative Group and the Management Board of EPRA.
Michael Cassidy 57 BA, MBA Non-Executive Director Secretary Anthony Braine LLB, FCIS Michael Cassidy was appointed a non-executive director of The British Land Company PLC in 1996.
He is a practising solicitor and was formerly Chairman Member of the Remuneration Committee of the Policy and Resources Committee of the Corporation of London.
He is also Deputy Chairman of the London Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Member of the Audit Committee Member of the Nomination Committee Chairman of Adapt Trust promoting disabled access for Arts premises, Chairman of City Universitys Development Board and Chairman of the Estates Committee of the University of the Arts, London.
Robert Bowden 61 BSc, FRICS Executive Director Robert Bowden, a former senior partner of Conrad Ritblat & Co. joined The British Land Company PLC in 1992 as head of property investment and acquisitions.
He was appointed an executive director in 1997.
He is Chairman of British Land Properties Limited.
The British Land Company PLC Directors and Ofcers
