US Dollar Private Placement 2015 18 Financing statistics Group 31 March 31 March On 3 October 2003 British Land issued US$154 million 6.30% Senior 2004 2003 Notes due 2015 as a further US private placement to institutional debt Net debt 4,866.8m 4,361.4m investors.
A cross-currency swap was simultaneously executed, Weighted average debt maturity 16.9 years 18.0 years effectively converting the issue into Sterling at a fixed rate of 5.999% Weighted average interest rate 6.38% 6.31% per annum for the term.
% of net debt at fixed capped interest rates 84% 83% % of debt ringfenced with no recourse Dividends to other Group companies assets 64% 64% The Directors propose a final dividend of 10.07 pence per share, making a total dividend of 14.5 pence, an increase of 8.2% over 2003.
This Interest cover net rents net interest 1.55x 1.61x increase is in line with our continuing policy of dividend growth.
The total Cash and available committed bank facilities, 2,149.6m 1,635.4m dividend is covered 2.4 times by profits for the year.
of which drawn 1,011.0m 899.0m Cash flow Profits after interest, tax and working capital movements, generated a At 31 March 2004 net debt is 4,866.8 million 2003: 4,361.4 million.
The joint ventures are separately financed with no recourse to British positive operating cash flow for the year of 163.1 million 2003: 95.0 million.
Property and investment disposals by the Group and cash Land 2003: guarantees totalling 12 million.
The Groups weighted average interest cost is 6.38% 2003: 6.31%.
returns from joint ventures realised cash of 281.3 million.
Property acquisitions, developments and investment expenditure by the Group At 31 March 2004 84% of debt was at fixed or capped rates of interest 2003: 83% with a weighted average debt maturity of 16.9 years amounted to 466.9 million.
Interest cover is 1.55 times net rents net interest 2003: 1.61 times.
REITS On 17 March 2004 the Government issued a consultation paper related The market value of net debt and derivatives including British Lands share of joint ventures was 499.2 million before tax relief greater than to the potential introduction of a tax transparent property vehicle REIT in the UK.
The Group is actively involved in this consultation process both their book values.
This compares to 527.3 million before tax relief last year, the reduction resulting principally from a combination of higher directly with the Government and also through industry bodies such as the BPF.
In principle the Group supports the introduction of a tax underlying market interest rates and lower credit spreads.
The Group continues to maintain a significant level of committed transparent property vehicle and believes such a vehicle would be beneficial to investors in property.
Whilst the consultation process takes undrawn bank facilities to enable it to respond rapidly to opportunities in the market and to fund developments without the need for project place the Group is seeking to be as flexible as possible in respect of its financing policy.
Changes in financing Securitisations Accessing a flexible pool of finance On 14 April 2003 the Group issued a further 50 million of Notes Securitisations securitising the rental income stream from Meadowhall.
This is in Fixed Rate Bonds Group addition to the 825 million of Notes issued in December 2001.
The Securitisations weighted average interest rate of the issues is 5.5% per annum and Floating Rate Bonds Group Debentures Group the weighted average maturity is currently 19.4 years.
Debentures JVs On 7 July 2003 the Group paid 73.5 million to redeem the US Private Placements Group outstanding Class D Fixed Floating Rate Unsecured Notes 2014 issued Convertible Bonds Group as part of the Broadgate Securitisation.
These Notes, which had a Drawn Bank Facilities Group coupon of 7.1107% and a weighted average maturity of less than two Undrawn Bank Facilities Group years, were redeemed at a premium of 1.7 million.
Drawn Bank Facilities JVs On 6 October 2003 the Group issued a further 75.5 million of 6.6bn gross finance availability Notes securitising the rental income stream of certain Sainsburys 1.0bn undrawn supermarkets raising proceeds of 84 million at an effective rate of 5.8% Floating rate bonds with related fixed rate swaps.
The weighted average interest rate of the total issue is 6.77% per annum.
The current weighted average maturity is 14.7 years.
Financial Review The British Land Company PLC Accounting issues reported net assets.
Hedge accounting whereby profits and losses 19 International Accounting Standards IAS will be applied, as required are matched with those of the underlying instrument or cash flow is for all European Union listed companies, for our financial year ending subject to restrictive tests under IAS and as a result there may be 31 March 2006.
The Group continues its preparations, which include more earnings volatility.
The European Union has yet to ratify the use changes to systems and methodologies, and will give further guidance of the International Financial Reporting Standard covering hedge on the accounting impact in due course.
accounting IAS 39 and there is uncertainty whether amendments The underlying performance of the business including cash flows may arise to IAS 39 as a result of the ratification process.
will, of course, be unaffected.
The reported results will however look Unlike UK GAAP which requires proposed final dividends to be significantly different and the accounting net asset value will be accrued, IAS only permits recognition of the liability to pay a final significantly lower than that shown under the Groups existing accounting dividend when this has been approved by the shareholders.
The five major areas identified to date where IAS differs from UK lead to an increase in net asset value.
GAAP affecting British Land are as follows: IAS will require a portion of the Groups irredeemable convertible bonds to be recognised as equity.
This will lead to an increase in net UK GAAP does not permit deferred tax to be recognised where a asset value.
business is not obliged to pay more tax at a future date.
IAS on the other hand requires provision for all taxable and deductible In preparation for IAS the Group has fully adopted Financial Reporting differences between book values for tax purposes and accounting Standard FRS 17 Retirement Benefits and chosen early adoption of book values that are not permanent timing differences.
The effect Financial Reporting Standard FRS 20 Share-based payment.
Adoption of this change will be to reduce net assets.
of these UK Accounting Standards is expected to result in substantially The most significant such difference for British Land are the base the same accounting treatment as that which will be required upon costs for tax purposes of its properties and investments, including adoption of IAS.
shares in joint ventures, and the accounting book values which The impact of the adoption of FRS 17 is to decrease profit before include material revaluation adjustments.
Tax payments will arise only tax by 1.0 million 2003: increase 1.9 million.
The Group has recorded if British Land sells those assets and the amount of tax crystallised a net pension asset of 0.1 million at 31 March 2004 2003: liability will reflect the price received at the time, the structure of the 6.0 million which represents only 0.002% of the Groups adjusted transaction, any tax benefits available such as loss relief and benefits net assets, reflecting the Groups small employee numbers and derived from the tax position of the purchaser or of the Group at that payroll costs.
None of these mitigating factors are accurately quantifiable FRS 20 requires the fair value of equity-settled share based where no transaction is in contemplation and negotiation, payments to be determined at the date of grant and for this fair value accordingly the provision to be booked under IAS will not represent to be expensed over the vesting period.
The impact of the adoption of an amount which the company expects to pay.
IAS does not permit FRS 20 is immaterial and hence no prior year adjustment is necessary.
the deferred tax provision to be discounted to present value.
The disclosures in note 7 to the financial statements show the Canary Wharf calculation of the tax payable assuming all properties and The Group is a member of the consortium which has formed Songbird investments are sold at the amount at which they are carried in the Estates PLC Songbird to acquire Canary Wharf Group PLC Canary.
balance sheet, including trading and development surpluses but On 21 May 2004 Songbird declared its offer for Canary unconditional in without regard to future events or tax planning.
all respects having received valid acceptances from, or contracted The definitions of finance and operating leases are different between to acquire, 60.9% of Canarys existing issued share capital.
British Land UK GAAP and IAS.
Most of the Groups leases will be unaffected.
In will own between 14.1% and 16.4% of Songbird assuming 100% the case of head leases on the Groups leasehold properties, IAS will acceptances the exact percentage is dependent upon the eventual require a financial liability and corresponding asset to be recognised level of acceptances by Canary shareholders and whether they accept in the balance sheet.
Currently the financial effect of head leases is any of their consideration in the form of Songbird shares.
reflected by our valuers as a reduction from their valuations.
The net On completion the investment in Songbird will be accounted for as asset effect of this change is not expected to be material.
a fixed asset investment at directors valuation in accordance with the British Land uses derivatives to manage its interest rate risk.
description of financing policy and risk management is shown on page 56.
In accordance with UK GAAP British Lands derivatives are not valued when they are hedges and any income or costs are recognised in the profit and loss account consistently with the underlying hedged transaction.
IAS requires all derivatives to be carried at their fair values in the balance sheet and, where the related Graham Roberts Finance Director debt is not carried at market value, this could reduce or increase 24 May 2004 The British Land Company PLC Financial Review
