Commercial Property Market Summary ATIS REAL Weatheralls The comments below reflect our views as at 31 March 2004 and underlie West End offices 26 our approach to the valuation of the portfolio.
They reflect conditions up Tenant demand in the West End of London has also remained low since to the valuation date only.
Rents have continued to fall but market sentiment The commentary focuses on the prime commercial property markets is that this decline has now halted.
There has even been competitive where the company has significant holdings.
bidding amongst tenants for the very limited number of top quality buildings that have been available.
There is, however, still a surplus of General secondary or average space for which demand is presently limited.
UK commercial property investments have performed well in the Yields have fallen, especially where purchasers see opportunities to year to March 2004.
Capital values for All Property increased by take advantage of rents rising in the near future.
5.5% according to IPD Investment Property Databank, an independent Similarly, properties with immediate redevelopment potential have benchmarking agency.
Most of the increase has come from yields also been much in demand.
Purchasers have had to adopt rent forecasts sharpening as demand from a wide range of investors has far reflecting record levels within their appraisals.
Institutional funds, in particular, have reviewed their portfolio Retail warehousing weightings in favour of increased exposure to property.
Many have Performance from properties in this sector has been remarkable over concluded that it represents a good compromise between the low but recent years and interest from both investors and occupiers has once predictable performance of gilts and the more volatile but higher again grown even stronger.
This is based on the continuing and potential returns of equities.
Recent indications by government ministers fundamental imbalance between demand and supply.
that REITS a new tax efficient investment vehicle are finally to be Many retailers who already trade from out of town units are looking introduced in the UK have added further to the weight of demand.
Others who have previously stayed in high Consequently, differentials between property sectors have narrowed street locations, are going out of town for the first time.
This has resulted and purchasers have tended to make less allowance for factors that in significant rent increases in many areas.
would usually warrant some discount.
On the supply side, the planning regime has remained very restrictive.
City of London offices Investors and tenants are therefore competing intensely for a finite Take-up, supply and vacancy levels in the City have all been stock of an asset that is seen as increasingly valuable.
In many cases, disappointing but within market expectations, however, there is a investors are projecting rental values in order to justify purchase prices.
general consensus that we are now at, or near, the low point of the With demand from a wide variety of sources, including cash rich occupational cycle.
As interest rates have risen, debt financed funds, low initial and reversionary yields have become common across purchasers have been replaced by UK funds and others who consider every category of out of town investment.
that rents will increase soon.
This is reflected in stronger demand for The very best prices have tended to be for parks as opposed to investments with short-term incomes, which offer redevelopment, single units, especially those with open A1 retail planning consent.
refurbishment or other asset management opportunities.
At the other Less profitable tenants can be replaced with new occupiers.
The higher extreme, long let investments with strong covenants remain popular.
rents achieved can then be applied at rent review to the remaining units.
Our valuation of Broadgate has remained broadly the same as at Buildings can be extended and reconfigured, and there are opportunities September 2003.
It provides a combination of the features referred to to generally upgrade and re-brand.
Much of the current income secured is against financially strong tenants on long-term leases incorporating upward only rent reviews.
High street shops The capital value of the Estate has therefore been maintained despite High street spending has remained unaffected by recent interest rate the fact that we have reduced our estimated rental values to an average rises or concerns over the sustainability of current prices in the UK of 37.50 per sq ft. housing market.
Retailers, however, have experienced mixed fortunes.
Profits, from which rent is paid, are under pressure in some cases.
Further corporate restructuring seems likely.
Elsewhere, demand from the more successful traders, has produced rental growth in many locations, after several years of stagnation.
Commercial Property Market Summary The British Land Company PLC The very keenest investment yields have been paid where buyers see 27 strong growth prospects.
This has produced an inward movement of around 50 basis points, to approximately 4.5% equivalent yield for prime stock.
Yields for more secondary properties have improved even more in absolute and relative terms.
Here, improvements of 100 basis points or more are not unusual.
Shopping centres These have also shown large increases in value.
The rental growth already referred to has fed through to many centres.
For investors, shopping centres combine the appeal of retail with the scope to add value through active estate management.
They have the added attraction for funds keen to spend cash, of being large lot sizes.
Yields have sharpened by around 100-150 basis points for typical town centre schemes, so that initial yields of close to 6% have become common.
A major centre such as Meadowhall is sold only rarely but is subject to the same considerations.
Department stores Department store investments have benefited from the positive investor attitude towards retail.
They typically offer long leases, low rents from which growth can be expected, strong covenants and underlying redevelopment opportunities.
Foodstores Many of these characteristics are shared by foodstores.
In addition, the restrictive planning environment, and the willingness of tenants to extend leases, all appeal to investors.
Yields for prime properties have improved to around 5.25%.
Purchasers will have been encouraged by evidence of rents increasing for top quality stores, with several reviews settled well in excess of 20 per sq ft.
In conclusion, there is strong demand for all property types from a range of buyers.
This is combined with the beginning of recovery and rental growth in a number of occupational markets.
Yours faithfully Graham Spoor BSc Hons MBA MRICS Director Investment Valuations for and on behalf of ATIS REALWeatheralls Ltd Norfolk House 31 St. Jamess Square London SW1Y 4JR The British Land Company PLC Commercial Property Market Summary
