Valuation Certicate The Directors Valuation 42 The British Land Company PLC Our valuations are on the basis of Market Value.
This is an internationally 10 Cornwall Terrace recognised basis and is defined as: Regents Park London The estimated amount for which a property should exchange on the NW1 4QP date of valuation between a willing buyer and a willing seller in an armslength transaction after proper marketing wherein the parties had each Dear Sirs, acted knowledgeably, prudently and without compulsion.
The British Land Company PLC Excluding Joint Ventures We are of the opinion that the aggregate Market Value of your interests in Valuations as at 31 March 2004 these properties, as at 31 March 2004 is: 9,153,723,225 Basis of instructions Nine billion, one hundred and fifty three million, seven hundred and In accordance with the terms of our appointment as Independent Valuers twenty three thousand, two hundred and twenty five pounds to The British Land Company PLC, we have valued the freehold and leasehold properties detailed below, as at 31 March 2004, for balance In our full report the valuations are categorised as follows: sheet purposes and inclusion in your annual accounts.
The properties Long Part freehold Short are predominantly held for investment and in some instances held for Freehold leasehold part leasehold leasehold development or in the course of development.
A Held as These valuations have been prepared in accordance with the investments 7,930,272,125 435,072,000 16,800,000 8,390,000 5th Edition of the RICS Appraisal and Valuation Standards published B Held for by the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors, the Red Book.
The development 93,304,100 23,000,000 extent of our investigations and the sources of information on which C Owner occupied 13,750,000 we have relied are as described in Section 4 Valuation Procedures and D In the course of Assumptions.
development 633,135,000 These valuations have been undertaken under the overall supervision Total value 8,656,711,225 471,822,000 16,800,000 8,390,000 of the undersigned.
Compliance and independence This aggregate figure makes no allowance for any effect that placing the In accordance with the latest RICS regulations we can confirm that: whole portfolio on the market contemporaneously may have on the Graham Spoor has supervised the regular valuation of the British overall realisation.
The Market Value of the portfolio sold as a single entity Land Main Fund portfolio since September 1999.
Weatherall Green would not necessarily be the same as the aggregate figure reported.
and Smith now ATIS REAL Weatheralls have been your valuers Included within the aggregate are a number of negative values, since 1985.
Our policy is that, even though all valuations are amounting in total to minus 922,000 nine hundred and twenty two assessed by the panel as described below, we will change the thousand pounds.
These have been deducted from the positive values authorised signatory at least every seven years, as recommended by to arrive at a net aggregate figure.
the Carsberg Committee and in the RICS response to this.
Certain properties are held on very long leases, approximately 999 As part of our Quality Assurance procedures all of the regular years at fixed peppercorn or nominal rents.
In calculating the apportionvaluations we prepare, for any client, with a capital value of 10m ments between tenure types above, we have included these in the or greater are subject to an independent review from a Valuation freehold category.
Short leasehold properties are classified as having Director with no direct involvement in that valuation exercise.
The total fees earned in our latest financial year from The British Property values may change significantly over a relatively short period.
Land Company PLC and its joint venture companies amounted Consequently our valuations are only valid on the date of valuation.
to substantially less than 5% of our company turnover.
We do not carry out any other fee earning work for British Land.
We can also confirm that we do not have any material interest in any of the properties and that we have undertaken these valuations in the capacity of Independent Valuers.
Valuation Certicate The British Land Company PLC Valuation procedure and assumptions We have, however, reflected the general condition noted during the 43 The properties were all inspected both internally and externally by us course of our valuation inspections and any defects or hazards of which between March 2003 and March 2004.
In preparing our valuations we we became aware in the course of our investigations.
Any matters that have taken into account market trends in the locality and except where were considered material to the valuation are referred to in our reports.
you have advised us to the contrary, or our other enquiries have alerted us to this, we have assumed that there has been no material change to Unless provided with information to the contrary our valuations assume: any of the properties or their surroundings that might have a material effect on value, since the time of our inspections.
i That the sites are physically capable of development or redevelopThe valuations have all been prepared by qualified and experienced ment, when appropriate, and that no special or unusual costs will be valuers and then, as part of our standard procedure, been considered incurred in providing foundations and infrastructure.
and agreed by a panel of senior Directors in the Valuation Department.
ii That there are no archaeological remains on or under land which Details of the nature and extent of the properties, the terms under could adversely impact on value.
which they are held, and of any sublettings, permitted uses and related iii That the properties are not adversely affected by any form of matters, have been supplied by you or your managing agents.
possible this information has been confirmed at our inspections.
iv That there are no abnormal risks of flooding.
We have considered title documents in our possession or made available to us.
Unless stated in our individual reports and therefore We have, however, commented on anything discovered during the course reflected in our valuations, we have assumed the interests are not of our valuation enquiries that in our opinion might impact upon value.
subject to any onerous restrictions, to the payment of any unusual We have made informal enquiries of the local planning and highway outgoings or to any charges, or rights of way or easements.
authorities and may have relied on information that is publicly published We have relied upon information supplied by you relating to tenure or available free of charge.
Any information obtained is assumed to be and related matters and have not commissioned formal legal searches.
No local searches have been instigated.
Except where stated to We have therefore assumed the information provided to be accurate, the contrary, we have assumed that there are no local authority planning up-to-date and complete.
or highway proposals that might involve the use of compulsory purchase As agreed, our valuations are based on measurements provided by powers or otherwise directly affect the property.
you and carried out in accordance with The Royal Institution of Chartered We have included in our valuations those items of plant and Surveyors Code of Measuring Practice.
In many cases the areas machinery normally considered to be part of the service installations to provided are as calculated following a rent review or letting and agreed a building and which would normally pass with the property on a sale or between the agents involved.
Where appropriate, these have been letting.
We have excluded all items of process plant and machinery and supplemented by our sample check measurements.
equipment, together with their special foundations and supports, furniture and furnishings, vehicles, stock and loose tools, and tenants Our valuations are based on the assumption: fixtures and fittings.
Although we have reflected our general understanding of a tenants i That except for any defects specifically noted in our report, the status in our valuation, we have made no detailed enquiries about the property is in good condition.
We assume that appropriate enquiries are ii That no construction materials have been used that are deleterious, made when leases were originally exchanged, or when consent was or likely to give rise to structural defects.
granted to any assignment or underletting.
iii That no hazardous materials are present.
For properties in the course of development, we have reflected iv That all relevant statutory requirements relating to use or construction the stage reached in construction and the costs remaining to be spent at have been complied with.
We have had regard to the contractual liabilities of v That any services, together with any associated computer hardware the parties involved in the development and any cost estimates that and software, are fully operational and free from impending have been prepared by the professional advisers to the project.
recently completed developments we have taken no account of any retentions, nor made allowance for any outstanding development costs, fees, or other expenditure for which there may be a liability.
The British Land Company PLC Valuation Certicate
