Ball & Young's award winning Cloud 9 range of carpet underlays offers pure luxury to underfoot comfort, extending the life and appearance of the carpet.
While Cloud 9 is only onethird of the weight of conventional underlays, it makes no compromise on quality or durability.
Annual Report 2003 5 Operating and Financial Review continued The Industrial Polymers division saw ative Quiksilver service, delivering sales increase by 4% to 382.4m expertly colour-matched polymers 365.9m.
This reflects the benefit of within 48 hours.
The thermoplastic new business, together with the impact elastomer TPE business offers superior from recovering higher raw material value-added opportunities and continIndustrial prices, net of product mix changes.
ued to grow, particularly in Sweden.
In the second half year, raw material Polymers price pressures were relentless, with Engineered thermoplastics improved tight supply conditions and high oil profitability on 2003.
This reflected prices pushing up resin costs until some growth in higher value-added applicmaterials were 40 to 60% higher than ation areas, providing tailored enginthe start of the year.
In this environment eered solutions for demanding applicthe priorities have been to achieve ations.
2004 saw the successful scalemargin recovery through sales price up of the new Malaysia facility, a increases and product reformulation, market which has benefited from 382.4m to secure greater efficiency through inbound relocation of appliance investment in automation and cost manufacturers.
By contrast, the more Sales reduction, and to increase innovation traditional polymer businesses, such as in higher added-value products.
Net of PVC and polyamide, have continued rationalisation costs of 2.9m 0.1m, to face intense competition and sevheadline operating profit declined to ere margin pressures, despite a contin- 16.8m 16.8m 23.2m, with thermoplastic uing drive to optimise efficiencies.
The sheet faring less well than plastic UK polyamide business was closed at Headline operating profit compounding.
Recovery of raw matthe year-end, transferring some buserial price increases was not fully achiness and capacity to existing sites, ieved in 2004 and complete recovery thus improving integrated economics.
will remain a priority in the early part 4.4% of 2005.
Following a successful 2003, the thermoplastic sheet business enjoyed a Headline operating margin The plastic compounding business positive start to 2004.
However, Eurodelivered a steady performance in pean demand weakness coincided 2004.
Polyurethane systems slipped with rapidly rising resin costs, reducing behind prior year, due to the timing of second half profitability.
This was most 14% major contracts, although business severe in the lower value-added matimproved steadily after a slow start to erials, such as polystyrene.
Capacity Headline return on net assets the year.
This business will benefit from was reduced through the closure of the 14m acquisition of the US UKour smallest production unit, enabling based polyurethane systems business greater critical mass to be achieved in of Synair at the end of 2004.
By contrast, rast, the liquid and industrial polymers high value-added materials were more business continued to increase profits.
resilient, with continued good performWhilst profits in Europe were constrainances achieved in graphic arts, autoed by the loss of some commodity motive and technical applications.
business, the Asia-Pacific business The UK polyolefin business continued continued to grow profitably, securing to underperform and is under review.
increased volumes across Australia, New Zealand and Malaysia, supplemProduct substitution and new applicented by the acquisition of the Atlas ation development are key drivers to adhesive business.
Exciting developments in 2004 included new medical products Specialty compounds maintained in TPE and a new range of AXPRINT year-on-year profit.
Colour masterLagoon clear packaging products in batch continued to perform well, with thin-gauge sheet.
The division is also a the French business achieving good focus for future bolt-on acquisitions in volumes and successfully defending targeted higher value-added techprofitability.
The UK business improved nologies.
performance, based around its innov- 8 For more information on British Vita visit www.
com AXPRINT Lagoon thin-gauge polypropylene sheet from Carolex Graphic Arts in France is designed for the luxury packaging market.
It can be litho printed and when a special varnish is passed over the material it becomes completely transparent, allowing perfect visibility of the product inside.
Annual Report 2003 5 Operating and Financial Review continued After a disappointing 2003, the Nonapplications, was also achieved, wovens division enjoyed a progressive despite disappointing sales in the recovery in 2004.
With the Continental profit rose to 1.5m prior year 1.1m European units now integrated under loss, despite rationalisation costs of a single business and operational Nonwovens 1.8m Nil.
Sales fell 1% to 92.9m management structure, further 94.3m in Sterling terms, with volumes improvements to performance are 5% higher and currency translation expected from exploiting greater adversely impacting by 3%.
Headline synergies and lowering costs.
operating margin before rationalisation costs improved to 3.6%.
Losses in the US business were reduced significantly during the year, in line with The Nonwovens division is being the recovery plan announced early in progressively focused towards higher 2004.
All sites were reviewed and poor value-added products in both its quality business replaced by better 92.9m European and US operations.
Net sales grew by Sales conditions in the traditional fibrefill 17% in local currency terms and submarket for furniture and bedding have stantial additional capacity remains continued to be difficult, with some to allow further expansion in 2005 06. relocation of markets into lower cost Operating costs were reduced and countries and resultant residual excess careful cost management remains 1.5m supply in Western markets.
New product development Headline operating profit egy has been to reduce the overall continues and there are exciting dependence on fibrefill business, whilst opportunities for fire retardant prodtargeting the remaining fibrefill operucts following changes to State and ations to operate at best efficiency Federal regulations.
We expect the and service levels.
In 2004, the ContinUS business to return to overall profit- 1.6% ental European fibrefill operations ability during 2005.
Headline operating margin increased profitability, with a strong performance in Belgium supplementOperating conditions in the UK remed by a significant improvement in ained difficult for nonwovens, particulresults from the French operation, arly in the fibrefill market, despite delwhere modernised capacity was ivery of further production efficiencies 6% installed in the previous two years.
By contrast, Headline return on net assets Only the small satellite operation in the medical products business contSweden saw a worsening in local inues to be successful.
Whilst the specialist yarn business, The progressive growth of hygiene which sells to the lingerie market, sufand engineered nonwoven products fered some reduction in volumes due offers higher added-value opportunto relocation of part of its customer ities.
New products continue to be base to the Indian subcontinent and introduced to these markets, including Asia, it continued to deliver robust medical cleaning wipes, delivering profits.
good volume growth in this sector.
However, the strength of the Euro The progressive recovery of profitabversus the US Dollar has restricted accility in this division is expected to contess to some export markets.
We plan inue, benefiting from volume growth to expand the range of nonwoven in higher value-added applications, product capabilities available from supported by selective investment in Vita in this growing sector.
Exciting new capacity and delivery of ongoing volume growth in technical products, cost benefits from the investment in including filtration and automotive rationalisation.
10 For more information on British Vita visit www.
com Quiet Web, the acoustic nonwoven produced by Libeltex, is used in many car interior trim parts, including those for the new Ford Focus C-MAX.
This new generation of sound absorber material offers considerable cost and weight saving compared to traditional materials.
Annual Report 2003 5 Operating and Financial Review continued the dividend is covered 1.6 times 1.7 Group profit and taxation times.
The headline profit before tax for the Group comprised 49.0m 50.7m Cash flow from Group operations and 3.6m Strong cash generation has long been 8.3m from Associates, totalling a hallmark of the Group.
Including goodwill ating cash flow was 79.7m 89.8m.
amortisation and, for 2004, profit on Total working capital and provisions disposal of businesses, profit before increased by 6.0m due to higher raw tax was 74.5m 50.7m.
material costs and the holding of additional strategic inventory of those The reduced profit from Associates materials where prices were still rising reflected the sale of the final tranche approaching the year-end.
Use of of our investment in Spartech in inventories in this way assists in manJanuary 2004 and the acquisition of aging margins whilst selling prices are our other major Associate, Vitafoam increased to customers in response to Canada, in July.
The former was sold the higher input cost.
for US$24 per share, receiving approximately $124m 67m net of expenses.
The careful management of cash and The resultant profit on disposal was investment was reflected in net capit- 28.4m.
Under the UKs substantial al expenditure of 29.1m 34.1m, shareholdings legislation, this disposal only 0.8 times depreciation 0.9 times.
was free of corporate tax.
The Group is able to maintain the condition of its asset base at a moderate The effective rate of taxation on investment level, as well as adding headline profit was 29.3% 30.8%, investment for growth.
2004 included reflecting the agreement of outstandthe majority of the 5m investment in ing tax issues on Associates.
the new Hungarian foam plant, together with commencement of work Earnings and dividends on the Slovakian plant.
Headline earnings per share reduced 3% to 19.2p 19.8p.
Basic earnings per Free cash flow measured before share was 30.6p 15.7p and diluted dividends, acquisitions and disposals earnings per share was 30.5p 15.6p.
Net cash inflow The Board is recommending payment after tax and dividends was 9.1m of a final dividend of 6.25p per Ordin- 13.5m.
ary share, payable on 9 May 2005 to shareholders on the Register at the Expenditure on acquisitions totalled close of business on 18 March 2005, 28.3m 4.5m and included Vitafoam making a total dividend for the year Canada, the polyurethane systems of 12.25p per Ordinary share 11.75p, business of Synair, and Atlas.
At headline level, 12 For more information on British Vita visit www.
Following a review of its UK quarter of 2005, when the 2003 and Overall net cash inflow before manpension provision, the Group will 2004 conversions are completed.
agement of liquid resources and reduce the value of certain future However, the assessment and develfinancing was 48.5m 10.1m.
service benefits and increase its cash opment work completed to date contribution to the principal two funds indicates that there will be a limited Balance sheet by approximately 2m.
impact on Vitas accounts other than Shareholders funds at 31 December on presentational format, with the 2004 were 370.7m 348.3m.
The Preparation for IFRS principal changes being the implemincrease over the previous year prinInternational Financial Reporting ention of new accounting for sharecipally reflected retained profits of Standards IFRS will replace UK GAAP based payments, hedge accounting, 35.5m, less 26.0m returned to sharefor Group consolidated reporting for amortisation of goodwill and treatholders through the Groups on-market the year ending 31 December 2005. ment of proposed dividends.
Headline In 2002 Vita established an internal return on net assets was 18% 20% team to manage the transition to Treasury policy with the headline return on shareholdIFRS.
This team conducted an impact The Groups treasury activities are ers funds 14% 17%.
Net borrowings assessment of IFRS on Vita and identifsubject to strict control and operate at year-end were 29.1m 54.9m, ied areas of change required in Vitas within parameters approved and representing 8% of year-end shareaccounting practice under IFRS.
Externally paid series of workstreams was established Treasury coordinates Group treasury interest at subsidiary level was covduring 2004 to develop these new activities and seeks to reduce finanered 70 times on a headline basis accounting practices for application cial risk, ensure sufficient liquidity is 19 times.
A series of internal training available to the Groups operations events were held for Vitas financial and invest surplus cash.
Pensions staff, including at the 2004 Vita Global The Group operates both defined Finance Conference and through a Corporate Treasury does not operate benefit and defined contribution series of workshops.
The Group Accas a profit centre and does not take pension schemes.
In 2004, it adopted ounting Manual was also updated to speculative financial positions.
Very in full the requirements of FRS 17 IFRS and issued in early 2005 to relevlimited use is made of derivative finRetirement Benefits and restated ant Vita finance staff.
The process of ancial instruments.
Corporate Treasury the results for 2003 accordingly.
At 31 converting the 2003 year-end balance advises operational management on December 2004, the UK schemes had sheet to IFRS is underway and the financial risks and executes all major an FRS 17 pre-tax surplus of assets over 2004 accounts will be converted for transactions in financial instruments, liabilities of 2.3m 1.0m on assets of comparison purposes following the except forward exchange contracts 253.4m 235.2m.
The overseas publication of these results under UK to hedge transactional exposures on schemes, which are often unfunded GAAP.
Group reporting systems have overseas operations, which are locally according to local practice, had a been converted to reporting under arranged.
Borrowings are managed pre-tax FRS 17 deficit of 25.7m IFRS from the interim accounts for 2005. centrally.
The FRS 17 service charge of 8.3m It is anticipated that further inform- 8.2m compares with a cash contribation on the impact of IFRS on Vita ution by the Group of 6.3m 5.9m in will be given during the second Annual Report 2004 13 Operating and Financial Review continued Risk management hedged as they arise and, where The Group has fully adopted the UK appropriate, hedges future exTurnbull risk management proposals, posures up to six months forward.
as set out in the Directors Report.
ii Interest is paid on borrowings preThe principal financial risks arising from dominantly in Euros and US Dollars the Groups operations are exchange and received on deposits predomrate risk, interest rate risk, liquidity risk inantly in Sterling.
Interest is payand counterparty risk.
Corporate able primarily at floating rates with Treasury manages these risks in acconly a small amount of long-term ordance with Group Treasury policies, borrowings at fixed interest rates.
approved by the Board, as follows: iii The Group maintains a balance of i The Groups overseas net assets committed funding arrangements, and profits are affected by exwith a range of maturities, in change rate movements.
The excess of its likely needs in the foreGroup aims to mitigate the impact seeable future.
Bilateral committed of net assets movements by mainfacilities totalled 180m 180m at taining a level of foreign currency the year-end, of which 135m borrowings and forward exchange 133m was undrawn.
These facilicontracts that match a portion of ties had a range of maturities, the overseas assets.
The majority of majority of which are between Group borrowings are maintained in three and five years.
The chart below shows the level of overseas iv Counterparty risk arises from the assets and hedges at 31 December investment of surplus cash and the 2004. use of financial instruments.
The Group restricts transactions to Currency exposures also arise on banks that have a defined minimforeign currency exports and impum credit rating and limits the indorts.
Corporate Treasury ensures ividual and aggregate exposure that these exposures are fully to each bank.
Overseas Assets and Foreign Currency Hedges m 120 110 99 100 Net Assets 90 Borrowings and Forward Contracts 80 70 60 55 50 40 38 40 30 19 20 6 10 0 Eurozone USA Rest of World Headline information is stated before goodwill amortisation and profit on disposal of businesses.
14 For more information on British Vita visit www.
