Directors Report The directors have pleasure in presentin the Company's shares are in the ing their annual report and accounts Directors Remuneration report on for the year ended 31 December pages 27 to 33.
Directors The Articles of Association require Principal activities and business review each director to retire and offer himThe Company is the holding company self for re-election by shareholders at of a Group which is engaged in the least every three years and also reqprocessing of polymers to provide a uire a minimum of one-third of the dirrange of products offering the specific ectors to retire by rotation each year.
engineered properties required by its customers in the cellular foam, plastics The director required to retire under and nonwovens markets.
The principal the three year rule is Mr Maiden.
The subsidiary undertakings and Associates directors retiring in satisfaction of the are listed on pages 58 to 59 of this rotation rule are Mr Campbell and Mr report and accounts.
The Board has evaluated the performance and effectiveness of The Chairmans Statement, the Operthe three directors and recommends ating and Financial Review and the them for re-election, and Resolutions D A CAMPBELL BA FCIPD CSR report on pages 2 to 18 report on 3, 4 and 5 will be proposed at the CHIEF EXECUTIVE David Campbell, 55, joined Vita in 1974 the Groups activities during the year, forthcoming Annual General Meeting and was appointed to the Board in January changes thereto, and other likely for their re-election.
1999, becoming Managing Director in future developments.
January 2000 and Chief Executive in November 2001.
Following a review of its composition, The dividend for shareholders the Board identified benefit in adding The directors are recommending a further corporate finance experience.
final dividend of 6.25 pence for each Consequently, Sir Mark Wrightson was Ordinary share for the year ended 31 appointed as a non-executive director December 2004, making a total for on 1 July 2004.
Under the Articles of the year of 12.25 pence.
Subject to Association, Sir Mark is required to shareholders approving this recommretire at the Annual General Meeting endation at the Annual General Meetand seek re-election by shareholders.
ing, the final dividend will be paid on The Board has evaluated his per- 9 May 2005 to shareholders on the formance and effectiveness, and register at the close of business on 18 Resolution 6 will be proposed for his March 2005. re-election, which is recommended by the Board.
The business for the Annual General Meeting Remuneration report Details of the resolutions to be propThe Directors Remuneration Report J K MAIDEN BA FCMA FINANCE DIRECTOR osed at the 2005 Annual General Regulations 2002 require that the Jez Maiden, 43, joined Vita in April 2002.
Meeting are set out in the notice callDirectors Remuneration report must He was previously Director of Finance at ing the meeting on pages 62 and 63. be put before shareholders for an the Britannia Building Society and formerly advisory vote at each Annual General Group Finance Director at Hickson International plc, at that time a UK quoted The directors Meeting.
Accordingly, Resolution 8 specialty chemical company operating The names of the present directors will be proposed for approval by in 20 countries.
and their biographical details are shareholders of the Directors given in the pages of this Directors Remuneration report.
Details of directors' interests Annual Report 2004 19 Directors Report continued Share capital the five business days prior to making At the end of the year 186,285,896 any such purchase and not less than Ordinary shares were in issue.
During 25p the nominal value of each Executive the year, a total of 1,885,453 Ordinary Ordinary share.
Directors shares were allotted on the exercise of options granted under the Group's The authority will expire on the earlier savings related share option scheme of the conclusion of the next Annual and executive share option scheme.
General Meeting of the Company and 27 July 2006.
Purchases will only Share buy-back authority be made on the London Stock At the Annual General Meeting held in Exchange.
This should not be taken to 2004 shareholders approved a Special imply that shares will be purchased at Resolution granting restricted authority any particular price or at all.
The for the Company to make market purBoard believes that it is in the best chases of its own Ordinary shares.
interests of shareholders that the Company should have the flexibility to During the year the Company purchmake market purchases of its own ased a total of 10,025,000 25p Ordinshares to continue the share buy-back ary shares representing 5.16% of the programme.
H J J VAN BEIJEREN MSc DIRECTOR issued share capital under the authHuub van Beijeren, 49, joined Vita in 1996 ority at an average price of 257.6p The Companies Acquisition of Own and was appointed to the Board in February per share totalling 25.8m in accordShares Treasury Shares Regulations 2001 with responsibility for Cellular Polymer ance with its publicly announced 2003, which came into force in operations.
From March 2004 he assumed the additional responsibility for Nonwoven share buy-back programme.
A further December 2003, now permit the operations.
1,000,000 shares were repurchased in Company to purchase its own January 2005 at a price of 267.0p per Ordinary shares and, rather than canshare representing 0.5% of the issued cel those shares, to hold them as share capital.
All shares purchased treasury shares, in which case they have subsequently been cancelled.
would carry no voting rights and no entitlement to any dividend for so long The existing authority expires at the as they are held as treasury shares.
close of the forthcoming Annual GenTreasury shares may be sold for cash, eral Meeting and Resolution 10 will be transferred for the purposes of proposed as a Special Resolution to employee share schemes, or canrenew for a further period of one year, celled.
Upon the Company making the authority for the Company to any purchase of its own shares purpurchase its own shares.
suant to the authority provided by Resolution 10, the directors would The Board is proposing that the decide whether to cancel those Company should be authorised to shares or hold them as treasury shares.
C J OCONNOR BSc FCA DIRECTOR purchase a maximum of 18,530,865 The Company does not currently hold Calvin OConnor, 52, joined the Board in Ordinary shares representing approxany of its own shares as treasury June 1996 and became Finance Director in imately 10% of the issued Ordinary shares.
From January 2002 he share capital as at 7 March 2005 at a became director with responsibility for Industrial Polymer operations.
price per share of not more than 5% The Board would consider exercising above the average of the middle this authority only if it considered it to market quotations for the Companys be in the best interests of the Company shares derived from the London to do so, and after consideration of Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the effect on earnings per share 20 For more information on British Vita visit www.
com and the benefits for longer term existing shareholders in proportion to shareholders.
their existing holdings, although this requirement may be disapplied by Non-Executive As at 7 March 2005, options over a resolution of the shareholders.
Such a Directors total of 8,284,236 Ordinary shares were disapplication is necessary so as to outstanding and not exercised.
That overcome the practical difficulties number of Ordinary shares represents relating to fractional entitlements and 4.46% of the Companys issued Ordinoffering of shares to certain overseas ary share capital at that date.
It would shareholders that arise on a rights represent 5.23% of the issued Ordinary issue.
It would also permit the issue share capital at that date if both the of a small number of shares for cash existing authority and the proposed otherwise than by way of rights.
new authority to purchase the Company's own shares had been exercised Accordingly, Resolution 11 will be in full at that date and the shares so proposed as a Special Resolution at purchased had been cancelled.
the Annual General Meeting, to renew the authority of the directors to allot Allotment authority new Ordinary shares for cash, and also The directors maintain a margin of to sell for cash any Ordinary shares D COTTERILL BA MBA authorised but unissued share capital, held by the Company as treasury NON-EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN David Cotterill, 61, was appointed to the which they may allot pursuant to an shares, in each case as if the preBoard in April 1998 and became Nonauthority granted by shareholders.
emption rights provided by the Executive Chairman in January 2004.
David Whilst there is no current intention to Companies Act 1985 did not apply.
is Chairman of the Nomination committee.
He was formerly Chief Executive of Renold make any such allotment, the directResolution 11 would restrict the numplc and executive director of Senior plc.
He is ors believe that it is in the best interests ber of new Ordinary shares which may a non-executive director of Birse Group plc.
of the Company to renew this authbe allotted for cash and the number ority.
of treasury shares which may be sold for cash to an aggregate nominal Accordingly Resolution 9 will be value of 2,316,358 representing 5% proposed as an Ordinary Resolution of the issued Ordinary share capital at the forthcoming Annual General of the Company as at 7 March 2005.
Meeting to renew the directors authority to allot Ordinary shares for People - key contributors the period up to the conclusion of the to corporate success next Annual General Meeting or, if The Groups employees are key to earlier, 27 July 2006 with the intention delivering the business strategy and to thereafter of renewing it at future enhancing shareholder value.
This authour employees skills in a safe and ority would permit the directors to healthy environment is an indispensallot shares up to an aggregate able part of the Group's commitment K G G HOPKINS BSc PhD NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR nominal value of 15,442,288 which to high standards in every aspect of Dr Keith Hopkins, 60, joined the Board as a represents approximately 33% of the its business.
Shareholders attention is non-executive director in August 2003.
He is issued Ordinary share capital of the drawn to the CSR report on pages 15 Chairman of the Audit committee.
He retired Company at 7 March 2005. to 18. as director of Croda International plc at the end of 2001 after 25 years service, which included three years as Chairman and 12 Disapplication of pre-emption rights Owning shares in the Company is years as Chief Executive.
He is currently The Companies Act 1985 requires an important way of strengthening Non-Executive Chairman of Scapa Group plc and Non-Executive Chairman of that any equity securities to be issued employees involvement in the devElementis plc.
wholly for cash must first be offered to elopment of the business and of Annual Report 2004 21 Directors Report continued bringing together their and shareSubstantial shareholdings holders interests.
The Group encourin the Company ages and helps employees to particOn 7 March 2005, the Company had Non-Executive ipate in its share schemes and it been notified of declarable interests Directors accepts its responsibility to provide in its issued Ordinary share capital as financial education to employees follows: and, in particular, to make employees aware of the risk involved in building up a large stake in a single stock.
Aviva 7.7% Henderson Global Investors 5.6% Fulfilling social and UBS Global AM 4.7% environmental responsibilities M&G IM 4.7% As described in the CSR report, the Threadneedle AM 4.1% Group seeks to manage its total Legal & General IM 3.9% impact on society as a responsible Aberforth Partners 3.6% corporate citizen.
The CSR report is Deutsche AM 3.1% an important part of the Companys integrated approach to reporting on the Groups overall performance, Creditor payment policy and practice R F BOYES FCMA NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR together with the rest of the annual The Group does not follow any specRoger Boyes, 60, joined Vita in May 2002 report and the Companys website.
ific external code or standard on payfollowing retirement as Group Finance ment practice.
Its policy is normally to Director of Halifax Group plc.
Roger is ChairCharitable donations by the Group pay suppliers according to terms of man of the British Vita Pension Fund Trustees and the British Vita SE & D Pension Fund in the year amounted to 63,490 business agreed with them on entering Trustees.
He is Chairman of the Remunerat- 57,460.
The Group does not make into binding contracts and to keep ion committee and senior independent dirany contributions to political purposes.
to the payment terms providing the ector.
He is Chairman of Heywood Williams Group plc and non-executive director and It manages its interests in public policy relevant goods or services have been Chairman of the Audit committee at Expro in the knowledge that it needs to be, supplied in accordance with the contInternational Group plc.
and be seen to be, open and racts.
The Group had approximately accountable.
66 days 59 days of creditors outstanding at the end of the financial Approach to year.
The Company had no trade technology development creditors.
The Group is committed to use innovative, cost-effective and practical The auditors solutions for providing high quality The directors will propose a resolution products.
It also continues to make at the Annual General Meeting refull use of the wide-ranging expertise, appointing  abilities and facilities within the Group.
LLP as auditors to the Company.
It recognises the importance of ensuring that it properly focuses its investBy order of the Board SIR MARK WRIGHTSON Bt ment in the development of technolM.
R. Stirzaker NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR ogy, that it has the right skills to apply Secretary Sir Mark Wrightson, 54, joined Vita in July technology to achieve sustainable 7 March 2005 2004.
He is Co-Chairman of Close Brothers competitive advantage, and that it Corporate Finance Limited, a subsidiary of Close Brothers Group plc.
He joined that continues to be alert to emerging company following its acquisition of the technological opportunities.
corporate finance division of Hill Samuel in 1996.
Called to the Bar in 1974, he joined Hill Samuel in 1977 and became a director in 1984.
He is a director of Tees Valley Urban Regeneration and was formerly Chairman of the London Investment Banking Association Corporate Finance Committee and a member of the Panel on Takeovers and Mergers.
22 For more information on British Vita visit www.
