Directors The Board, from left: Standing Paul Stobart, Kenneth Ford, Andrew Lewis-Pratt, Hans Mautner, Xavier Pullen, PY Gerbeau.
Seated David Cherry, Martin Barber, Tom Chandos, William Sunnucks, Alan Coppin.
22 Capital & Regional Tom Chandos Chairman, 52 Kenneth Ford BSc FRICS Hans Mautner Non-executive, 67 Chairman of Nomination Committee Managing Director of Shopping Chairman of Remuneration Committee Tom is the Chairman of The Television Centres, 51 Hans is President of the International Corporation plc and a non-executive Ken has been a director of Capital & Division of Simon Property Group director of Global Natural Energy plc Regional since 1997 and, as Chief SPG, the worlds largest publicly and of a number of private companies.
Executive of The Mall, is responsible traded retail real estate company.
In In addition to his board positions, for the funds shopping centre addition, Hans is Chairman of Simon he has worked in investment banking portfolio.
Ken has been involved in Global Limited, SPGs London-based and alternative investment areas such commercial property for 30 years.
SPG currently carries out its as venture capital and hedge funds.
He founded the Easter Management ownership development in Europe He is a Labour member of the House Group Scotland in 1991 prior to through two separate entities in which of Lords.
He was appointed as a joining Capital & Regional.
it has investments: Gallerie Commerciali director of the Company in 1993 and Italia and European Retail Enterprises.
Andrew Lewis-Pratt BSc ARICS Hans is Chairman of both these Managing Director of Retail Parks, 47 organisations.
Hans was appointed Martin Barber Chief Executive, 60 Andrew has been a director of as a director of the Company in 2003.
Member of Nomination Committee Capital & Regional since 1997 and, Martin was a founder director of as Chief Executive of The Junction, Paul Stobart Non-executive, 47 the Company in 1979 and has been is responsible for the funds retail park Chairman of Audit Committee and member involved in commercial property portfolio.
Andrew has over 20 years of Remuneration and Nomination Committees as a developer and investor for over experience within the retail and After qualifying as a chartered 30 years.
Martin is also co-Chairman leisure sector.
accountant with Price Waterhouse, of CenterPoint Properties Trust, a real Paul spent five years in corporate estate investment trust, listed on the PY Gerbeau finance with Hill Samuel before New York Stock Exchange and formerly Managing Director of Leisure, 39 joining Interbrand, an international a subsidiary of Capital & Regional.
PY was appointed to the Board in marketing services consultancy, 2003, and as Chief Executive of in 1988.
He joined The Sage Group William Sunnucks MA ACA X-Leisure.
He has over 15 years in 1996 as Business Development Finance Director, 48 experience in the leisure industry.
Director, becoming Managing Director, William was appointed Group Finance PYs career to date has included UK and Ireland, in 2003.
In 2001 Paul Director in October 2002.
He has Vice President of Park Operations at was appointed a non-executive director been Finance Director of a number of Disneyland Paris and Chief Executive of Planet Holdings plc.
Paul was large companies, including Securum of the Dome.
PY has an MBA from one appointed as a director of the Company International and English, Welsh and of Frances leading business schools in 2003.
He is a chartered and teaches on the MBA programme accountant and has an MBA from the at the London Business School.
Alan Coppin Non-executive, 54 London Business School.
William has Member of Audit Committee responsibility for the Groups finances, David Cherry Non-executive, 67 Alan is currently Chairman of Danoptra including funding, reporting and Member of Audit and Remuneration Committees Limited, the leading amusement financial control.
David is the former Senior Partner machine and leisure management of Donaldsons, a national firm of group backed by Electra.
His previous Xavier Pullen commercial chartered surveyors with a positions have included being Chief Deputy Chief Executive, 53 significant reputation in retail property.
Executive of Wembley plc and Historic Xavier was a founder director of the He has wide experience in the UK Royal Palaces.
In the voluntary sector, Company in 1979 and has been active property market and was head of the his current appointments include the in the property industry for over organisation for eight years.
He was Chairmanship of the Prince's 30 years.
Xavier focuses primarily on appointed as a director of the Company Foundation for the Built Environment the supervision of the Groups fund in 1997. and membership of the Advisory management business together with Forum of the Said Business School the co-ordination of all property at Oxford University.
Alan was matters and the development of appointed as a director of the Company new business initiatives.
