Directors report The directors present their report together with the There were no contracts of significance subsisting during or audited financial statements for the period ended at the end of the period in which a director of the Company 30 December 2004. was materially interested, other than as set out in note 35 to the accounts.
No director had a material interest in the Results and proposed dividends share capital of other Group companies during the period.
The consolidated profit and loss account is set out on page 38 and shows a profit on ordinary activities after taxation Share options of 20,189,000 2003: 19,381,000.
Details of outstanding share options granted to the directors under the 1988 and 1998 Share Option Schemes, are The directors recommend the payment of a final dividend disclosed in the directors remuneration report on page 28. of 9.0p per ordinary share on 20 June 2005 to members on the register at the close of business on 22 April 2005, which The Capital & Regional plc Long Term Incentive Plan together with an interim dividend of 5.0p per ordinary 2002 LTIP and The Capital & Regional plc Capital share, paid in 2004, makes a total dividend of 14.0p per Appreciation Plan 2002 CAP together the Plans share for the period.
The Company obtained shareholder approval to establish the LTIP and CAP on 18 December 2002 for the benefit Principal activities, trading review and future developments of the executive directors and key executives.
Details of the The principal activity of the Group is that of a co-investing plans and awards made under them, can be found in the property manager.
A review of the activities and prospects directors remuneration report on pages 26 to 28. of the Group is given in the Chairmans statement, the Chief and Deputy Chief Executives review, the Finance Directors In accordance with the rules of the LTIP and CAP the Plans review and the operating reviews on pages 3 to 21. are due for renewal in 2005 and the Board are recommending extension with minor changes as set out on page 30.
Directors The directors of the Company during the period were: Substantial shareholdings M Barber, T Chandos, D Cherry, A Coppin, P Duffy, K Ford, In addition to the interests of the directors, the Company PY Gerbeau, A Lewis-Pratt, H Mautner, X Pullen, P Stobart has been notified pursuant to Sections 198 to 202 of and W Sunnucks.
the Companies Act 1985, as amended, of the following notifiable interests in its issued share capital as at 8 April All directors served throughout the period, with the 2005 the latest practicable date prior to the issue of exception of P Duffy who resigned on 11 June 2004 and this report : A Coppin who was appointed on 24 September 2004.
of shares % In accordance with the Articles of Association, A Coppin, having been appointed after the last Annual General Neuberger & Berman LLC 5,533,113 8.23 F&C Asset Management 4,226,087 6.29 Meeting, will retire by rotation and, being eligible, offers Henderson Global Investors 3,462,575 5.15 himself for re-appointment.
X Pullen, A Lewis-Pratt and United Nations Pensions Fund 3,301,561 4.91 K Ford will retire from the Board by rotation and will also ABP Investments 3,117,938 4.64 offer themselves for re-election.
ING Investment Management 2,764,300 4.11 Morley Fund Management 2,752,838 4.09 UBS Global Asset Management 2,578,723 3.84 The Company maintains insurance for the directors in Legal & General Investment Management 2,357,027 3.51 respect of liabilities arising from the performance of their duties.
Directors interests Charitable donations The directors and, where relevant, their connected persons During the year the Group contributed 16,848 within the meaning of Section 346 of the Companies Act 2003: 3,700 to UK charities.
1985 are interested in 3,940,100 issued shares representing 6.15% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as Payment of suppliers detailed in the directors remuneration report on page 28.
The policy of the Company is to settle supplier invoices within the terms of trade agreed with individual suppliers.
Where no specific terms have been agreed, payment is usually made within one month of the receipt of the goods or service.
At the year end, the Company had an average of 29 days 2003: 27 days purchases outstanding.
Capital & Regional 29 Directors report Compliance with Combined Code resolution, the directors seek to renew their annual A statement on corporate governance is set out on pages authority to allot shares for cash as if the pre-emption 32 to 35. rights contained in Section 89 1 of the Companies Act 1985 did not apply up to a maximum of 5% of the Stakeholder pensions Companys issued share capital.
As a result of the Governments introduction of stakeholder pensions in April 2001, employers must provide their Authority to purchase own shares employees with access to a stakeholder pension scheme.
At the Annual General Meeting in 2004, the Company was The Company appointed consultants, who put such a granted authority to make purchases in the market of its scheme in place, and also nominated a stakeholder pension own shares, subject to specified limits.
This authority, which provider at that time.
Employees have had access to join this has not as yet been exercised, expires at the conclusion of scheme since May 2001. the Companys 2005 Annual General Meeting.
Therefore by resolution 11, it is proposed as a special resolution that this Dividend Reinvestment Plan authority in respect of the Company is renewed and also In 1999, the Company introduced a service whereby that the Company may cancel any bought-in shares shareholders can use their cash dividends to buy more immediately or hold them in treasury.
shares in the capital of the Company.
The plan was introduced for those shareholders preferring capital The authority is sought until the conclusion of the 2006 appreciation rather than income from their shareholding, Annual General Meeting, or for 15 months after the date and has been available to all shareholders from the 1999 on which the resolution is passed, whichever is the earlier.
Details of the current issued share capital are set out in note 28 to the accounts.
The directors will only exercise this The timetable for the 2004 final dividend is set out on authority if they consider that it will result in an increase page 68.
Details of the terms and conditions of the in asset value per share for the remaining shareholders and Dividend Reinvestment Plan can be obtained by contacting that it will be in the best interests of the Company to do so.
the Company Secretary at the registered office.
LTIP and CAP summary of the Plans Change of year end Save as proposed below, the principal features of the LTIP During the period the Groups year end was changed remain unaltered from those approved by shareholders in to 30 December.
The Remuneration Committee may grant awards to participants at its discretion of up to 100% of their basic Post balance sheet events salaries in any financial year.
Awards are in the form of Post balance sheet events are set out in note 37 to the accounts.
shares, which are held by trustees subject to the exercise of an award by a participant in accordance with the rules of Auditors the LTIP.
Subject to the satisfaction of the eligibility criteria Deloitte & Touche LLP have expressed their willingness to and performance conditions in relation to that award, continue in office and a resolution to re-appoint them will a participant is currently able to exercise from the third be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
anniversary of the award date up until the day before the tenth anniversary of the award date.
When a participant Special business of the Annual General Meeting exercises an award the shares held by the trustees are Directors authority to allot securities transferred to the participant.
No payment is required from Authority to allot securities, Section 80 of the Companies participants for an award.
Act 1985, requires shareholders authority for the directors to allot new shares or convertible securities, other than The principal features of the CAP also remain unaltered from shares which may be allotted under employee share those approved by shareholders in 2002.
Under resolution 9, which is proposed as an the Remuneration Committee, at its discretion, makes awards ordinary resolution, the directors seek authority to allot to participants, which entitle them to receive payments in shares having a nominal value of 2,134,653 representing aggregate of up to 30% of the performance fees received one-third of the nominal value of the Companys currently by the property management subsidiary from the funds issued share capital.
The authority will expire at the conclusion in respect of a financial year.
While awards are made of the Companys Annual General Meeting in 2006. annually, payments under the CAP are not made until the performance fees to which they relate cease to be subject to Pre-emption rights the risk of clawback.
80% of the cost of LTIP awards made Shares allotted for cash must normally first be offered to to a participant in respect of any financial year are offset shareholders in proportion to their existing shareholdings.
against the share of the performance fees awarded to such Under resolution 10, which is proposed as a special participant in that year.
If the share of the performance 30 Capital & Regional fees is less than the amount of the LTIP award to be offset Under all circumstances, vesting under the TSR portion against it, the shortfall is carried forward to be offset of the scheme will be conditional on Post Tax Return on against any subsequent award awarded to that participant Equity for the Company averaging 5% per annum or higher under the CAP.
The Remuneration Committee may also over the relevant three year performance period.
make awards under the CAP in respect of any fees payable to the property management subsidiary or any other group The Board considers that by amending the vesting rules in company following the formation of any new funds, on this way the participants will be subject to a more balanced terms which are substantially the same as those in the measure of performance but one which is still sufficiently management agreements.
Under resolution 14, which is proposed as an ordinary resolution, the directors seek authority to Extension of the Plans amend the rules relating to vesting of the LTIP award.
In accordance with the rules of the LTIP and the CAP the Remuneration Committee instructed Towers Perrin, By order of the Board independent consultants, to review the Plans.
Having undertaken this review the Board considers that it is appropriate that the Plans should be extended, with the minor amendments set out below.
In 2008 the Board expects F Desai to undertake a further review of the Plans and prior to the Company Secretary grant of any awards in respect of that year, the Company 28 April 2005 shall seek further approval by ordinary resolution of the members of the Company for an extension to the Plans.
Since establishing The Mall and The Junction Funds, their performance has exceeded expectation and CAP awards in respect of 2003 and 2004 have reflected this strong performance.
The Board believes that the retention and motivation of key executives has been assisted by the operation of these schemes: and that, in turn, the excellent results for the Company are, to a material extent, derived from the capability of the key executives.
The Board therefore believes that it is in the interest of shareholders to extend the Plans on the basis proposed below.
This extension is set out under resolutions 12 and 13 which are proposed as ordinary resolutions.
Vesting of LTIP awards The Board proposes amendments to the rules in relation to the vesting of the LTIP awards.
At present vesting depends solely upon the Companys Post Tax Return on Equity, with a differential rate of vesting between 10% and 18%.
Under the proposed rules from 2005 onwards, the vesting of 50% of an award will depend upon the Companys Post Tax Return on Equity within the same range as before and the other 50% will be linked to Total Shareholder Return TSR over the three year performance period relative to the FTSE Real Estate Index whereby: i If TSR is below the median, no shares in an award will vest: ii If TSR is above the median, 25% of the shares comprised in an award will vest: iii If TSR is in the upper quartile, 100% of the shares comprised in an award will vest: and iv If TSR is between median and upper quartile, the shares will vest pro rata.
