Chrysalis Annual Report and Accounts 2004 4 Music operational strategy Operating profit To exploit opportunities that exist in 22.9% the rapidly changing music industry, building on our position as a leading international publishing company and 4.2m UK record label, to become the all round independent music company of choice to artists and writers alike.
BLONDIE DAVID BOWIE music MARILYN MANSON MOLOKO THE ECHO LABEL Achievements in 2004 Chrysalis Music Publishing posted growth of 8% in Net Publishers Share to over 10m Almost all overseas publishing operations now trading profitably, justifying our investment strategy Chrysalis Music Publishing maintained its status as the UKs leading independent music publisher over the first three quarters of 2004, with a market share of 13% Lasgo Chrysalis significantly improved profitability, with EBITA growing by 14% on flat revenues.
During Christmas 2003, our music division published the No.
1 singles on both sides of the Atlantic.
As well as OutKasts Hey Ya!
in the US, Mad World, written by Roland Orzabal was the UK No.
1, selling in excess of half a million singles.
AR6451 Chrysalis R&A 2004 09 12 2004 Proof 8 Chrysalis Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Publishing Recording Distribution 5 The quality of earnings from our The Echo Label spent much of the 2004 Lasgo Chrysaliss success can be publishing catalogue remains high, with financial year developing a number of attributed to the diversification strategy a consistent and balanced performance albums for release in 2005.
These will it has continued to pursue, with almost from both the front and back list.
The include a new Feeder album in January, 50% of sales now derived from DVDs top ten earners for the year included Pushing The Senses, and Morcheeba and books.
This strategy has enabled contributions from OutKast, David Bowie, will release their first album on the label Lasgo to outperform its peers in what David Gray and Blondie.
has been a difficult trading environment.
CHRYSALIS MUSIC PUBLISHING MORCHEEBA MAD WORLD DAVID GRAY: A NEW DAY AT MIDNIGHT FEEDER: COMFORT IN SOUND LUCIE SILVAS N PAUL ANKA AIR STUDIOS OUTKAST: SPEAKERBOXXX THE LOVE BELOW The business of music publishing Synchronisation continues to demonstrate that it is one of the most insulated areas of the music industry: earning revenues from all aspects of music consumption including new products, ranging from karaoke to the latest ringtone.
Chrysalis music compositions have been placed in films, advertisements and video games around the world.
These have included the use of Molokos The Time Is Now by Sky Sports and Alabama 3s Woke Up This Morning for The Sopranos title track.
