GOVERNANCE The Business of the Group The principal business of the Group is the investment in, and development of, freehold and leasehold properties.
A review of the development of the Groups business during the year, its position at the year end and its prospects is set out in the Chairmans Statement, the Chief Executives Review and the Financial Review on pages 4 to 19.
Results and Dividends for the Year The Group profit and loss account is set out on page 46 and shows a profit for the year attributable to shareholders of 30.7 million.
An interim dividend of 3.5p per share was paid on 6 January 2004 amounting to 7.0 million and the directors propose a final dividend of 7.0p per share amounting to 14.1 million, making total distributions for the year of 21.1 million.
Directors Howard Perlin retired as a director on 15 July 2003, Kathleen ODonovan was appointed a director on 1 April 2003 and Charles Irby was appointed a director on 1 April 2004.
The other directors whose names appear on page 30 served as directors of the Company throughout the year to 31 March 2004.
Toby Courtauld, John Whiteley and Anthony Graham are the directors retiring by rotation at the Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, will offer themselves up for re-election.
Mr Irby will retire pursuant to Article 96 and, being eligible, will offer himself for reappointment.
As a non-executive director, Mr Irby does not have a service contract.
Directors Shareholdings At 31 March 2004 At 31 March 2003 Number of Number of Shares Shares Richard Peskin and family beneficial 3,700,000 5,260,000 trustee 1,385,000 1,385,000 Toby Courtauld 25,000 25,000 Robert Noel 37,000 37,000 John Whiteley and family 34,744 31,000 David Godwin 11,200 11,200 Anthony Graham 17,200 17,200 John Edgcumbe and family 46,000 46,000 Kathleen ODonovan 1,000 1,000 or at date of appointment.
All directors shareholdings are in ordinary shares and are beneficial, unless otherwise stated.
There have been no changes in the shareholdings of any director between 1 April 2004 and 26 May 2004.
No director had any interest in the Companys debenture stock, convertible bonds or loan notes, nor in the shares of any subsidiary undertaking, or contract other than service contracts during the year.
Significant Shareholdings As at 14 May 2004, the Company had been notified of the following beneficial or discretionary interests amounting to 3 per cent or more of the issued share capital: Number of shares % Liberty International PLC 51,855,660 25.53 Prudential plc 14,922,769 7.34 Legal & General Investment Management Limited 7,893,712 3.89 ABP Investments 7,062,651 3.48 Newton Investment Management Limited 6,551,674 3.23 UBS Global Asset Management UK limited 6,195,874 3.05 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS 32 GREAT PORTLAND ESTATES Annual Report 2004 GOVERNANCE Freehold and Leasehold Properties A valuation of the Groups investment property portfolio was carried out by CB Richard Ellis on the basis of Open Market Value at 31 March 2004 which amounted to 744.6 million.
No account has been taken of any additional value which may be attributed to the portfolio if it were to be grouped judiciously prior to sale.
Annual General Meeting The Notice of Meeting on pages 63 to 65 sets out the resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Resolutions 1 to 8 comprise ordinary business and resolutions 9 to 12 special business.
Resolution 9 will renew the authority for the directors to allot up to 67,630,140 ordinary shares, representing 33.3 per cent.
of the existing issued share capital of the Company at 26 May 2004.
The directors have no present intention of exercising the authority, if granted.
Resolution 10 will authorise the directors to allot equity securities for cash up to an aggregate nominal amount of 5,077,337 representing 5 per cent.
of the existing issued share capital of the Company at 26 May 2004 in respect of rights and other pre-emptive issues, in each case as if the pre-emption requirements of Section 89 of the Companies Act 1985 did not apply.
Resolution 11 will renew the authority enabling the Company to purchase its own shares in respect of 30,443,717 shares, representing 14.99 per cent.
of the issued share capital of the Company.
The directors intend to exercise this authority if to do so would, in their opinion, enhance shareholder value.
The Companies Acquisition of Own Shares Treasury Shares Regulations 2003 the Regulations came into force on 1 December 2003.
The Regulations as amended by The Companies Acquisition of Own Shares Treasury Shares No.
2 Regulations 2003, which came into force on 18 December 2003 allow a listed company purchasing its own shares in accordance with the Act, to hold those shares in treasury as an alternative to cancelling them.
Shares held in treasury in this manner are available for resale by the company at a later date.
Accordingly, if Resolution 11 is passed at the Annual General Meeting, the Company will have the option of holding as treasury shares, any of its own shares that it purchases pursuant to the authority conferred by this resolution.
This would give the Company the ability to sell treasury shares, providing the Company with additional flexibility in the management of its capital base.
No dividends will be paid on shares whilst held in treasury and no voting rights will attach to the treasury shares.
Whilst in treasury, the shares are treated as if cancelled.
Any shares purchased by the Company under this authority would be cancelled unless the shares are being purchased by the Company to hold and re-sell as treasury shares.
Resolution 12 will amend the Memorandum and Articles of Association to reflect new legislation and current best practice as follows: 1. to amend the Memorandum of Association to contain a general commercial and holding company objects clause: 2. to bring the Articles of Association as a whole into line with the updated legislation relating to CREST: and 3. to bring the Articles of Association as a whole into line with updated legislation in relation to treasury shares.
Various articles have been amended as a consequence of these developments to ensure that the Companys Articles of Association are consistent with the updated legislation.
The authorities granted under Resolutions 9, 10 and 11 will expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting or on 8 October 2005, whichever is the earlier.
GREAT PORTLAND ESTATES Annual Report 2004 33 GOVERNANCE Corporate Social Responsibility Great Portland Estates recognises the importance of its impact on society and the environment through its operations and interaction with its key stakeholders, including investors, employees, communities, customers and suppliers.
The Board has responsibility for the approval of policy relating to social, environmental and health and safety matters, and is determined to apply high standards to social, environmental and ethical issues in all areas in which the Group operates.
The Corporate Social Responsibility CSR Committee, chaired by the Chief Executive, Toby Courtauld, formalised the Companys CSR objectives and strategy during the year.
The Board receives an annual report from the CSR Committee, and regular reports from the Health and Safety and the Environmental Executive Committees chaired by Robert Noel.
Toby Courtauld is a member of the Policy Committee of the British Property Federation and the Company supports the initiatives set out in the Code of Practice for Commercial Leases in England and Wales.
The Company is a member of the FTSE4Good UK index, and this year, for the first time, the Company took part in the Business in the Communitys Corporate Social Responsibility survey.
The Community The Company recognises that local initiatives are important in enhancing various aspects which serve to improve and promote central London, and supports a number of groups including The Westminster Property Owners Association, London First and the New West End Company in their work to address issues such as planning, transport and security.
At Metropolis House, members of our development team meet with local interest groups, and a monthly newsletter has been developed to provide the local community with information on the progress of the project.
Following its introduction, the Disability Discrimination Act is considered as an integral part of all new schemes and refurbishments, and the Groups portfolio was audited and an action plan prepared to address, where appropriate, areas not currently compliant.
The Company has continued with its tradition of supporting staff involved in charitable activities, and charities involved in medical research, the homeless and the community, and, where practicable, allows temporarily vacant buildings to be occupied, at no cost, by charities seeking premises.
During the year, sponsorship was given to an art exhibition showcasing British artists within local venues, and, following an upgrade of the Companys computer system workstations, monitors and printers no longer required were donated to the Pasque Charity.
Employees Our employees are a key resource of our business and we seek to attract and retain the best people through competitive remuneration and benefits packages.
The Company is committed to equal opportunities, and employees are encouraged to develop their skills.
To facilitate this, each employee is regularly appraised with a view to maximising his or her potential and contribution and training is encouraged.
Meetings involving all employees are also held on a quarterly basis to keep them informed of matters affecting the Group and to act as a forum for the executive directors to answer questions.
Health and Safety Great Portland Estates is committed to managing health and safety to a consistently high standard.
All employees are given specific training, where appropriate, and the Group employs a Safety, Health and Environmental Manager, reporting directly to the Property Director, Robert Noel, to manage and review health and safety compliance.
A Health and Safety Management System is maintained for all properties managed by the Group, and includes on-site inspections by external consultants, reviews of risk assessments, and a regular update of procedures.
A Health and Safety Executive Committee, which is chaired by the Property Director, meets on a quarterly basis, and monitors performance, the achievement of key objectives, the results of safety audits and inspections, changes in legislation, the development of new procedures, and the allocation of resources to Health and Safety.
As the control of contractors is one of the significant Health and Safety risks to the business, a contractor and consultant selection scheme is in place, under which all contractors and consultants are vetted for their Health and Safety performance and procedures.
At our construction sites, we ensure that regular monitoring and review enables effective Health and Safety management on all our development projects.
All accidents, incidents and near misses occurring in areas managed by the Group are recorded and reported and appropriate action taken.
A formal investigation of all serious accidents is conducted by the Safety, Health and Environmental Manager.
During the year ended 31 March 2004, there was one reportable accident arising from the Groups undertakings.
REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS CONTINUED 34 GREAT PORTLAND ESTATES Annual Report 2004 GOVERNANCE Environment The Company is committed to effective environmental management, and regards regulatory compliance as a minimum standard.
An Environmental Policy Statement is reviewed annually by the Board and may be viewed on the Companys website, www.
Our Environmental Management System is controlled and administered by the Safety, Health and Environmental Manager, and audited by external consultants on a regular basis.
The management system consists of detailed checklists based upon legislation requirements and best practice measures, and is also used to monitor energy and water consumption.
In order to monitor our contractors compliance with environmental legislation and to ensure the energy efficiency of our plant and equipment, maintenance contractors are required to confirm that agreed environmental protection checks have been carried out.
An Environmental Executive Committee, chaired by the Property Director, meets on a quarterly basis, and reports to the Board annually.
The Committee monitors the Groups compliance with environmental legislation and best practice across the portfolio, and agrees procedures to be followed on key environmental issues.
The Groups environmental objectives and targets, and clearly allocated responsibilities, have been developed in line with the Groups key aspects and impacts identified through our Environmental Management System.
Key environmental areas for the Group include energy and water consumption, waste management, water and air pollution, ozone depletion, contractor and tenant awareness, and the environmental impact of developments and major refurbishments.
An environmental guidance note explaining the Groups environmental procedures is distributed to all tenants on an annual basis to encourage them to adopt similar standards.
A refurbishment policy is distributed to all contractors and consultants who are required to comply with its contents during refurbishment and development work.
Environmental guidance and a purchasing policy are provided to employees through the Groups Policies and Procedures Manual.
All new acquisitions are subject to an environmental audit and new developments are subject to BREEAM and a sustainability report is commissioned at the appropriate stage for all developments and major refurbishments.
Principal contractors on all developments and major refurbishments are required to be members of the Considerate Contractors Scheme.
Environmental training is included in employees induction training.
Employees are also given training on environmental issues pertinent to their work, including sustainability in construction, general environmental awareness and training on the Environmental Management System.
Paper and cardboard used at our head office is recycled.
Toner and printer cartridges and obsolete mobile phones are recycled to help Marie Curie Cancer Care.
Wherever possible, recycling schemes are implemented at properties where waste collection facilities are provided.
Charitable and Other Donations During the year the Company made donations for charitable purposes amounting to 78,700: no contributions for political purposes were made.
By order of the Board Desna Martin Secretary 26 May 2004 GREAT PORTLAND ESTATES Annual Report 2004 35
