28 COBHAM PLC Directors Report The directors submit their report and the audited financial statements of Cobham plc for the year ended 31 December 2004.
PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES AND BUSINESS REVIEW Cobhams principal activities are: the design, development and support of air refuelling equipment, auxiliary mission equipment, life support and oxygen systems, uid and air distribution components and systems, and countermeasures for the aerospace and defence markets: the design and supply of antennas, aircraft communication and navigation equipment, microwave sub-systems, radomes and composite structures for the aerospace, defence, law enforcement and national security, search and rescue and communication markets: the operation, modication and maintenance of aircraft in the aerospace and defence markets for military training, outsourced special mission ight operations, freight and passenger services and also the maintenance of large military aircraft.
A review of the business, together with an indication of likely future developments, is included in the Chairmans Statement on pages 4 and 5, the Chief Executives Review on pages 6 and 7, the Business Review on pages 8 to 20 and the Financial Review on pages 22 to 24.
DIVIDENDS An interim dividend of 9.2p per ordinary share 2003 - 8.36p was paid in December 2004.
The directors are recommending a final dividend of 21.8p per ordinary share 2003 - 19.8p payable on 4 July 2005 to ordinary shareholders on the register as at 3 June 2005, making a total ordinary dividend for the year of 31p 2003 - 28.16p.
It is proposed that the retained profit of 50.1m be transferred to the profit and loss reserve.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS The current directors are listed with short biographical notes on page 27.
They held ofce throughout the year with the exception of Marcus Beresford who was appointed on 1 March 2004.
The directors retiring by rotation at the Annual General Meeting AGM are Gordon Page, Mike Smith and Alex Hannam.
Gordon Page and Alex Hannam, being eligible, will offer themselves for re-election and further information relating to these directors is contained in the shareholder circular sent separately with this annual report.
Mike Smith, who has indicated his intention to retire from ofce at the AGM, will not seek re-election.
Gordon Page does not have a service contract.
Alex Hannam has a service contract which is terminable on twelve months notice.
DIRECTORS INTERESTS None of the directors is or was materially interested in any significant contract, during or at the end of the financial year, particulars of which are required to be disclosed by the Companies Act 1985 or the Financial Services Authoritys Listing Rules.
Details of directors share interests and of their rights to subscribe for shares are shown in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 34 to 40.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The companys statement on corporate governance is set out on pages 30 to 33.
SHARE CAPITAL Details of movements in the share capital of the company during the year are given in Note 19 of Notes to the Financial Statements.
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT The Group continues to invest in the important area of research and development.
During the year the Group expended 48.7m 2003 - 40.4m on non customer funded research and development.
The management of each of the Groups businesses is responsible for identifying and carrying out research and development programmes which are suitable having regard to particular market and product needs.
Further information on research and development appears on page 20.
MAJOR INTERESTS IN SHARES Major interests in the issued ordinary share capital of the company appearing in the register maintained in accordance with Section 211 of the Companies Act 1985 as at 10 March 2005 were as follows: PERCENTAGE AT NUMBER OF DATE OF SHARES NOTIFICATION AVIVA plc 6,214,179 5.57% Sir Michael Cobham 4,994,100 4.47% Aegon Investment Management 4,612,676 4.13% Lloyds TSB Group Plc and subsidiaries 4,486,729 4.00% Legal and General Group plc and subsidiaries 4,428,411 3.96% Other than the above interests the directors are not aware of any notiable interest in the issued ordinary share capital of the company of 3% or more.
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2004 29 EMPLOYMENT The Groups employment policies include a commitment to equal opportunities regardless of sex, race, colour, nationality or ethnic origin, disability, and other forms of discrimination.
With regard to employees who become disabled, the policy is to take all reasonable steps, including retraining, to ensure that they can remain in employment wherever practicable.
The importance of employee development and training is recognised and Group businesses are required to encourage employees to take advantage of available and relevant training programmes and opportunities for advancement.
The Group encourages employee participation and consultation at all levels and also the sharing of relevant business information.
Such an approach facilitates the development of new ideas and practices that add value to the business, promotes team member commitment and helps to focus company and employee expectations.
In-house newsletters, intranet, extranet and internet communications, company announcements and team meetings all play a part in this process.
UK employees are given the opportunity to become shareholders in the company through the Cobham Savings Related Share Option Scheme 2004.
In addition, a new share scheme, the Cobham Share Incentive Plan, is being implemented which will enable employees of UK participating companies to buy Cobham shares out of pre-tax income.
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Information in relation to the Groups commitment to corporate social responsibility including additional information in relation to employment matters is set out on page 21.
CREDITORS PAYMENT POLICY Payment is generally made by Group companies to their creditors in accordance with agreed terms of business provided that those terms have been met.
It is the policy of the parent company that all invoices are paid within 30 days following the end of the month in which the invoices are approved.
The total amount of the parent companys trade creditors falling due within one year at 31 December 2004 represents 36 days 2003 - 35 days worth as a proportion of the total amount invoiced by suppliers during the year ended on that date.
POST BALANCE SHEET EVENTS Note 33 of Notes to the Financial Statements concerning post balance sheet events contains information relating to a number of actual and potential acquisitions.
POLITICAL AND CHARITABLE GIFTS No contributions were made to political organisations.
The amount donated during the year for charitable purposes was 37,320 2003 - 36,304.
Of this sum, donations in excess of 200 were made to the value of 12,500 to local charities, 4,000 to health charities, 3,400 to rescue services and 1,650 to childrens charities.
AUDITORS A resolution to re-appoint  LLP as auditors will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The companys AGM will be held at 12 noon on Wednesday, 8 June 2005 at Painters Hall, 9 Little Trinity Lane, London EC4V 2AD.
A circular containing the notice convening this meeting, together with an explanation of the business to be conducted, is sent to shareholders separately with this annual report.
By order of the Board John Pope Secretary 10 March 2005
