Net debt m Net cash inflow from operating activities after interest and tax 251.8 Net capital expenditure 48.8 Cash inflow from Telereal 121.0 Payment of dividends 167.5 8 Purchase of own share capital 22.0 Other items 19.0 153.5 Financial stability Finance and tax of Telereals recent distributions to its owners.
The Groups debt strategy is primarily based Although Telereals liabilities exceed the book on unsecured funding and no new secured value of its assets, Telereal remains solvent and debt was added during the year.
Land Securities its lenders have no recourse to the partners.
Trillium funded the original PRIME contract with long-term amortising bank debt, secured We have identified that the adjusted earnings on the projects cash flow.
Following the Adjusted financial information per share figures presented in the financial extension of the PRIME contract to incorporate As explained on page 10, this year we refined accounts for the period to 30 September 2003 the Employment Services estate, the relevant the basis upon which we calculate adjusted required revision.
These revised figures are set project finance facility was restructured and financial information.
out in Note 9 to the Accounts on page 70. increased to 280m in May this year.
During the year, the Group launched a 1bn Euro Revenue profits no longer exclude Land Treasury management Commercial Paper programme to diversify its Securities Trilliums costs of bidding for new The Group operates a centralised Treasury funding sources and lower the cost of shortcontracts, which are now an established feature function, which is responsible for funding term borrowing.
At year-end, some 358.1m of its business.
Revenue profits are now defined activities, taxation and insurance across the was outstanding under this programme.
The as profits before tax, exceptional items and the Group.
The Treasury function operates under programme is fully underwritten with sale of fixed assets.
We exclude profits on the delegated authority from the Board and committed bank facilities.
sale of fixed assets because they are volatile.
follows policies and procedures designed to monitor, control and report on interest rate, At 31 March 2004, the Group had 1,550m of Adjusted earnings per share are based on liquidity, credit and other financial risks.
committed bank facilities, of which 800m revenue profits.
The tax associated with revenue matures in May 2005 and 600m in April profits does not include a deferred tax charge on Cash flow and net debt 2006.
Our intention is to renegotiate those capital allowances on investment properties At 31 March 2004, Group net debt stood at facilities expiring in May 2005 during the because our experience is that such allowances 2,435.8m 2003: 2,589.3m, representing course of this calendar year.
The average are not clawed back in practice.
We are now also gearing of 40.5% against 47.3% a year ago.
maturity of the Groups borrowings was 12.4 adjusting for deferred tax on capitalised interest Gearing has reduced as a result of lower debt years 2003: 13.3 years while the average cost on these properties, as this too is not clawed and the increase in net assets, largely of the Groups debt is 7.3% compared with back as Corporation Tax.
This change is being attributable to this years valuation uplift.
At the balance sheet made now because the amounts involved are date, the Groups interest rate exposure on becoming increasingly significant.
The reduction in net debt of 153.5m over the floating rate debt was fully hedged.
year is explained in the table above.
Adjusted net asset value per share now reflects the write-back of deferred tax on capitalised Gross debt was 2,677.6m 2003: 2,688.7m interest as well as that on capital allowances against which the Group had cash and shorton investment properties, for the reasons term investments of 241.8m 2003: 99.4m.
In addition, we have added back to net assets the 47.9m accounting deficit that has occurred this year as a result 34 LAND SECURITIES ANNUAL REPORT 2004 Credit rating allowances on development and refurbishment companies for accounting periods ending on The Groups credit ratings are as follows: expenditure, as well as a full deduction for or after 31 December 2005.
As a result, we will Credit rating Credit rating interest that is capitalised in the profit and loss adopt them when we report our results during Agency 2004 Outlook 2003 account.
It is likely to be more representative the year ending 31 March 2006, and our first Moodys A3 Stable A2 of our tax position for the future.
statements under IFRS will be for the half-year Standard and Poors AStable Ato 30 September 2005.
At that time, we will Fitch A flat Stable A flat Following the latest property valuation, and also restate the comparative figures for the Our ECP programme has an A2 P2 rating.
assuming that all properties are sold at the prior period.
revalued amounts, without any tax mitigation, Interest charge the Group has an estimated potential capital IFRS has the potential to confuse significantly gains tax liability in the region of 490m the accounts of property companies, Net interest payable was 256.6m for the 2003: 435m.
However, as indicated in the particularly if any leases of buildings to year 2003: 220.3m, before taking into Notes to the Accounts, it is unlikely that this tenants meet the definition of a finance lease.
account the exceptional costs incurred last amount would be payable in full, even in the This is a complex area, requiring us to review year to redeem the convertible bonds and event of a sale of all investment property the correct classification of each of our 4,000 cancel surplus interest rate swaps.
In particular, the sale of property leases.
Because of the potential for confusion, portfolios by means of the disposal of certain we are supporting work being carried out by Net interest payable, before capitalised asset owning companies could reduce this the Best Practices Committee of the European interest and exceptional charges was covered amount by up to some 75m 2003: 110m.
Public Real Estate Association and by the 2.1 times 2003: 2.4 times by Group profits British Property Federation to help ensure that before interest and tax.
Pension schemes property companies deal with these issues in a The Group operates a number of defined consistent, pragmatic but compliant manner.
These schemes are The Groups effective tax rate was 22.7% closed to new members.
At 31 March 2004, We have an active project underway to 2003: 28.1%.
The reduction reflects the the schemes had a combined deficit on an manage the transition to IFRS which has wider release of deferred tax on capital allowances FRS17 basis of 12.0m 2003: 13.0m.
The ramifications than just the presentation of our associated with properties that we sold during Group made a special contribution into its financial statements.
For example, because the year.
We do not expect to sell such principal defined benefits pension scheme IFRS will change the way in which profits are significant quantities of property in the year to during the year to 31 March 2003 and has measured and reported, performance criteria 31 March 2005, with the result that the increased the contribution rate to address in the Groups bonus and share schemes may effective tax rate is likely to rise.
However, it is possible that need to be modified so as to be consistent further special contributions may be with our new reporting.
As indicated last year the current or cash tax appropriate in the year to 31 March 2005 charge, which was 12.1%, reflected the benefit and this is under review.
When we adopt IFRS for the first time, we of various transactions during the year which will present information under both our were not expected to recur.
As expected, the International Financial Reporting Standards current and new accounting polices, together rate rose to 23.2% in the year to 31 March International Financial Reporting Standards with reconciliation statements to aid an 2004.
This rate reflects the benefits of capital IFRS are obligatory for UK quoted understanding of the principal differences.
35 LAND SECURITIES ANNUAL REPORT 2004 9 Sound management Board of directors 1.
Peter G Freeman 48 Executive Director Executive Director Non-Executive Director Joined the Group in 1971.
Appointed to the Joined the Board in November 2002.
An Joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director Board in 1987 and Chief Executive in original member of the management team in January 2002.
Past President of the British which set up Trillium.
Previously Chief the Argent Group PLC and chairman of Property Federation, Vice-Chairman of the Executive of the investment management Freeman Publishing plc.
He will retire from the Board of Management of Central and Cecil division of Insignia Richard Ellis.
Housing Trust and Chairman of the New executive of the Groups Property Outsourcing West End Company.
He will retire from the business unit.
David Rough 53 Board on 14 July 2004.
A Mark Collins 47 Joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director 2.
Andrew E Macfarlane 47 Executive Director in April 2002 and appointed Senior Executive Director Appointed to the Board in November 2002 Independent Director in November 2003.
Joined the Board as Finance Director in after joining the Group in May 2002.
Group Director Investments of Legal and October 2001.
Formerly a partner in Ernst & Previously Senior Managing Director at General Group PLC until December 2001.
A Young and, prior to joining Land Securities, GE Capital Real Estate.
Chief Executive Director of Mithras, BBA Group PLC, EMAP Chief Financial Officer of Bass Hotels and of the Groups Portfolio Management Group PLC and Xstrata Group PLC.
Resorts division now Intercontinental Hotels business unit.
Peter G Birch CBE 66 Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director 3.
Francis W Salway 46 Appointed a Director in 1997 and Chairman in in May 2003.
Previously chief executive of Executive Director July 1998.
Chief Executive of Abbey National Arcadia Group until December 2002.
Chief Joined the Group in October 2000.
Chairman of Kensington executive of Booker PLC from 1998 until 2000. an Investment Director at Standard Life Group plc.
Director of NM Rothschild & Sons Investments.
He is Chief Executive of the Limited, Dah Sing Financial Holdings Limited, 11.
Bo Lerenius 57 Groups Development business unit and Travelex plc, Sainsburys Bank plc and Senior Non-Executive Director was appointed to the Board in April 2001.
Independent Director at Trinity Mirror plc.
Agreed to join the Board as a Non-Executive Appointed Chief Operating Officer in January Director from June 2004.
Group Chief 2003 and Group Chief Executive with effect 7.
Sir Winfried Bischoff 62 Executive of Associated British Ports Holdings from 14 July 2004.
Previously Vice-Chairman of Stena Line Appointed to the Board in 1999.
Chairman and Director of new business investments at of Citigroup Europe, and a Director of the Stena AB until 1999.
McGraw-Hill Companies, USA, Eli Lilly & Company, USA and Ifil-Finanziaria di Partecipazioni SpA Italy.
36 LAND SECURITIES ANNUAL REPORT 2004 12 3 67 45 8 9 10 11 37 LAND SECURITIES ANNUAL REPORT 2004 10 Acting With so many visitors to our retail assets we have wide-ranging community responsibly programmes.
At White Rose, Leeds this includes tea dancing pictured and mall walking.
Corporate responsibility Appraisal and review of the Groups Organisational responsibilities for different CR objectives.
Confirming and adopting a set of annual As a result the committee has: CR targets, supporting the agreed objectives.
Introduced a statement of business principles In its 2003 Annual Report Land Securities Considering how the Groups policy, to define the way the Group aims to go updated shareholders on the steps taken objectives, targets and achievements should about its business.
to formalise its activity under corporate be communicated to all stakeholder groups, responsibility.
During 2004 it completed this including: members of staff: shareholders: the Revised the Groups business ethics policy, process and published its first Corporate financial community: occupiers and clients: and objectives relating to each stakeholder Responsibility CR report, the objective of suppliers and advisers: local authorities and group available on the Groups website: which is to provide stakeholders with a clear statutory bodies: the general public.
understanding of the Groups CR policies, its key objectives and the performance indicators Appraisal and review of the CR activities Set performance targets for the year to against which progress will be measured in across the Group including the introduction 31 March 2005. the future.
To ensure that its activities are in of relevant CR business panels and the role of line with best practice, we retained external CR in the management of social, economic The Group maintained its membership of advisers who have worked with the Company and environmental risks.
the FTSE4Good Index and the Dow Jones on developing the CR framework and who will Sustainability Index, in addition it achieved be monitoring future progress against objectives.
Ensuring that the business units are playing membership of the BiTC Corporate an appropriate role in achieving the Groups Responsibility Index and was included in As reported last year, the Group now has in CR objectives and targets.
the Times listing of Top 100 Companies place a CR committee, which is responsible for: that Count.
During the year the committee examined Appraisal and review of the Groups CR policy the Groups CR management structure in A full copy of the CR report will be sent out on and advising the Board of directors, through relation to: request or can be downloaded from our website.
the director with CR responsibilities, on the committees activities.
Policies, programmes, initiatives and case Employees study examples addressing CR issues.
We continued our long tradition of Demonstrating the links between strong encouraging employees to participate in financial performance and good External standards and or certification community based initiatives with the environmental and social performance, systems with which it already complies.
introduction of a Group-wide volunteering and using these to demonstrate to both programme where we now match up to shareholders and employees, as well as other Existing measurement and monitoring two days of an employees time spent on stakeholders, the business benefits of an systems and performance related voluntary activities.
38 LAND SECURITIES ANNUAL REPORT 2004 We receive more than 300 million visits by shoppers to our retail properties 39 LAND SECURITIES ANNUAL REPORT 2004 The Red Cap wardens outside our Oxford Street, New Look Education initiatives play Store, funded by us through a part in our community our participation in the New programmes.
Pictured is the West End Company White Rose Education Centre.
We gave 33 awards to employees, service A wide range of further education and training We have developed a new procurement partners and suppliers under our Values into initiatives are made available through the tendering process that establishes an approved Action awards programme which aims to personal development planning process.
supplier list for service partners and contractors.
encourage employees to embrace our core values of: The Group sets and closely monitors its targets In parallel, we are undertaking a review of our for internal promotions and maintains a existing suppliers to ensure that they deliver Integrity Respect for the Individual comprehensive succession and career the required level of H&S Management.
We have assessed staff training requirements The new statement of business principles and and an appropriate training programme has We also introduced Ideas into Action an revised business ethics policy was circulated been developed and implemented.
During the initiative aimed at encouraging all employees during the year to all employees and is being year we trained 44 members of staff to the to suggest ideas which might improve business provided to all new employees in their NEBOSH general certificate standard and practices or results.
This was launched in direct induction pack.
All employees are required to 121 were trained in IOSH Managing Safety.
response to the employees survey which abide by the provisions in the statements and highlighted the need to encourage and reward relevant managers will be required in future to We have developed and implemented staff for innovation and creativity.
The survey, verify compliance on an annual basis.
programmes to ensure that we comply with our second, once again received an above the Disability Discrimination Act and the average response rate and demonstrated upper All our employment policies are available on Control of Asbestos at Work regulations, with quartile results for employee satisfaction and our website.
extensive asbestos surveys being undertaken morale, and second quartile results for loyalty across our managed portfolios.
as compared to the benchmark used by the Health and safety external research group, ETS.
The Corporate Health and Safety H&S We are developing monitoring and inspection teams objective is to deliver a uniform and regimes to ensure the risks associated with The Group is committed to providing equal fully compliant approach to Health and Safety the Construction and Development activities opportunities to all its employees, whether across the business.
We set specific objectives all generally undertaken by contractors and full-time, part-time, temporary, seconded, and targets which underpin our work and service partners are minimised.
We also use or job applicant regardless of age, gender, demonstrate our commitment to progress.
these processes to monitor compliance with disability, marital status, sexual orientation,.
Construction Design and Management religion, race, colour, creed, ethnic origin or We are developing processes and procedures regulations.
with a view to achieving certification to the OHS18001 health and safety standard.
First We have implemented a quantifiable risk It also provides training and development it is intended to seek certification for the assessment and audit programme, with opportunities to ensure that it maximises the PRIME estate and then to seek certification regular reporting to the Board.
The statistics potential of all employees and helps them to for our activities within the BBC.
Our target is are used to identify areas of risk.
achieve their own aims and the Groups to achieve accreditation by the end of 2005. business objectives.
40 LAND SECURITIES ANNUAL REPORT 2004 The Group participates in 15 town centre management and business improvement initiatives 41 LAND SECURITIES ANNUAL REPORT 2004 11 Aware of the environment The environment In 2003 we became one of the first In 2004 05 we plan to broaden the coverage companies in the UK to be awarded the of our Environmental Management Systems UK Wildlife Trusts Business and Biodiversity EMS.
The ISO 14001 certification held by Benchmark.
This was a direct result of our Land Securities Trillium will be extended to participation in the initial benchmarking cover the additional 1,100 properties within pilot study.
Our biodiversity management the expanded PRIME Contract.
A revised We have made considerable progress over programme is currently being applied to the EMS for the Groups other activities will the last 12 months.
We were pleased to be 2000-plus sites managed by the Group.
be implemented during 2004. ranked in the Premier League amongst 177 companies in the annual Business in All our shopping centres have developed Our Corporate Environment Day is now firmly the Environment Index of environmental and implemented site-specific environment established and 2003 saw significant public engagement and first in the real estate sector.
policies and, having participated in a involvement at our shopping centres, with We were also ranked first in the Property national benchmarking survey, are actively support provided for Rainforest Concern.
We Environment Group environment survey of implementing programmes to increase also helped to organise the BBCs London the property sector, which we consider to waste recycling.
White Rose and Bon Accord Portfolio Environment Day.
shopping centres have both received Tidy City awards.
A fuller report of all of our activities, both Our achievements have also been recognised Environmental and Health and Safety is by a wide variety of external awards.
In As one of the UKs largest construction clients, contained in the Groups 2003 Corporate partnership with the DWP we jointly won the the Group has a significant opportunity to Responsibility Report.
2003 Premises and Facilities Management influence business practices.
We led, in magazine Partners In Sustainability award for conjunction with other developers and the PRIME contract.
We also collected three contractors, a project which has developed Green Apple Awards for our activities.
guidelines for procuring construction products and services based on the principles of We have bettered our reductions target in the Corporate Responsibility.
For the DWP estate, UK Emissions Trading Scheme.
In two years, we are also working closely with our principal emissions of CO2 have been cut by 4,906 suppliers to guarantee that all timber used on tonnes across our portfolio of managed the DWP estate is legally logged and acquired offices.
We have also collaborated closely with from sustainable forests.
the Carbon Trust on three projects designed to reduce emissions.
The masterplan of Ebbsfleet Valley, a 20-year regeneration project in Kent, which will create 10,000 new homes as 2 well as up to 700,000 m of commercial, retail and leisure buildings.
42 LAND SECURITIES ANNUAL REPORT 2004 Transforming a 670 hectare site into Europes premier example of a sustainable regeneration project 43 LAND SECURITIES ANNUAL REPORT 2004
