board of directors Member of the Audit Committee 1.
Sven Boinet Member of the Remuneration Committee 2.
Alan Barber 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 was an Associate at Spectrum February 2000, and was previously previous role she was Chairman Allan Leighton Strategy Consultants, where she a Director of Last Minute Network and CEO of Vivendi Universal Aged 51.
Allan was appointed specialised in pay television and Limited from October 1998.
He Publishing and has held a number Chairman of the Company in managed teams both in the UK previously served as a Vice Chairman of senior executive and consultancy October 2000 and will be leaving and Asia.
of Saison Overseas BV, the former positions, principally within media the Company on 31 December parent company of Intercontinental and publishing businesses, during 2004.
He previously served as David Howell Hotels Group, after serving as her career.
Agns is currently the President and Chief Executive Aged 55.
David was appointed Joint Managing Director of managing Partner of Act III officer of Wal-Mart Europe.
He Chief Financial officer and an InterContinental Hotels Group from Consultants, a management worked at Asda Group from June Executive Director of the Company 1994 to 1997.
He is Non-Executive consultancy rm.
Prior to this appointment Chairman of both Bristol Golf Club Group Chief Executive from 1996 to he was Group Finance Director of Ltd and Myhotels Limited, and is Sven Boinet 2000.
Allan is also the Chairman of First Choice Holidays PLC between also a Non-Executive Director of Aged 51.
Sven was appointed as a Royal Mail Group plc and British 1997 and 2001.
Previously David Green Globe Limited, London Wasps Non-Executive Director in August Home Stores Limited and a Nonwas Group Finance Director of Holdings PLC, Daniel Thwaites Plc 2003.
During the 15 years to January Executive Director of BSkyB PLC Central Transport Rental Group PLC and Pegasus Solutions Inc. 2003, he was with the Accor Group.
and Group Chief Executive of GN During that period he was a member Comtext Limited, a subsidiary of GN Brian Collie of the Executive Board and responsible Brent Hoberman Great Nordic.
Brian has been a Nonfor worldwide hotels and gaming.
Brent was the co-founder a Non-Executive Director of Nestor Executive Director of the Company was also CEO of their Leisure Division.
com and has been Healthcare Group PLC from 1999 since February 2000 and takes over He is currently a Non-Executive the Chief Executive officer of the until October 2003 and was from Allan Leighton as Chairman in Director of Geodis, Frances largest Company since inception.
Previously appointed Director of the Berkeley January 2005.
He has been Group road transport company and Pierre et Brent was a Senior Associate at Group plc in February 2004.
In Retail Director and an Executive Vacances, the largest French leisure Spectrum Strategy Consultants, November 2004, the Company Director of BAA plc since 1997, residential company.
held the business development announced that David will be responsible for all commercial responsibilities at Line One, an leaving the Company in early 2005. income at BAAs airports globally, Alan Barber internet service provider owned by and was responsible for establishing Aged 57.
Alan was appointed NonNews International, British Telecom Ian McCaig World Duty Free, the international Executive Director and Chairman of and United News & Media.
Ian was appointed a duty free subsidiary of BAA: he was the Companys Audit Committee in also part of the founding team of Director of the Company on 20 previously Retail Director at September 2004.
He previously the European auction site, QXL.
November 2003 and has been the Gatwick Airport.
Brian is also a worked at KPMG for 35 years until Chief Operating officer of the Group Non-Executive Director of Jurys May 2004, where he had been a Martha Lane Fox since August 2003.
Previously Ian Doyle Hotel Group plc.
Martha was the co-founder has held senior management time at KPMG he held a number of of lastminute.
com and was Group positions at Nokia, most recently Agns Touraine senior management and client Managing Director of the Company as a Global Vice President.
Agns was appointed positions covering a broad range of until 31 December 2003 following as a Non-Executive Director in May services including travel and retail.
which she became a Non-Executive Bob Collier 2003.
Based in France, she is a Alan is currently a Non-Executive Director.
Bob has been Vice well respected and experienced Director of Teather & Greenwood.
1998 she was Business Chairman and a Non-Executive businesswoman in both growth Development Manager at Carlton Director of the Company since and large scale businesses.
Prior to that she lastminute.
