Our heritage Our origins can be traced Since then we have pursued a wholly What we do We are specialists who How we work contracts with our clients Profit and loss the foodservice contractor Where we work we operate in strong and back to 1941 when Factory Canteens Limited client-driven strategy using sector help clients to establish a foodservice are usually based around one of four models: has control over the offer and pricing.
This growing marketplaces with a global footprint was founded to feed munitions workers who focused businesses and innovative offer or outsource an existing operation.
usually occurs where there is little or no subsidy that leaves us ideally placed to respond to were promised one hot meal a day by the foodservice branding to expand our Our global resources, allied to our local Management fee all of the operating costs from the client and the service is paid for by the the growing trend towards outsourcing being war-time British government.
Grand business through a combination of expertise and understanding of differing are paid by the foodservice contractor and customer.
adopted by a wide range of organisations.
Its ten years since we began operations Metropolitan grew the business over the organic growth and acquisitions.
cultures and market sectors, enable us recharged to the client along with an agreed in North America.
In that time we have next four decades, and re-branded it to develop tailor-made solutions for fee.
This type of arrangement is most often Concession the foodservice contractor We are unique in having a sector-focused assembled a portfolio of operating Compass Services in 1984, selling it to its our clients.
used where the client is subsidising the pays an agreed percentage of turnover for the approach to developing specialised companies that lead the market in terms of management in 1987.
In 1988 the company foodservice offer.
right to trade at the clients premises.
This type solutions to clients foodservice needs.
We innovation, client and customer satisfaction was listed on the London Stock Exchange.
Working in close partnership with our of arrangement is widely used in the travel and have a portfolio of companies that operate and financial performance.
clients, usually based in their premises Fixed cost the client pays an agreed cost leisure markets.
in specific market sectors, bringing with Gary Green and utilising their equipment and facilities, for a specified range of services.
The cost them the benefits of unrivalled experience, CEO, North America we are able to keep capital investment to may be varied for example if the number tailored solutions, focus, consistency and a minimum.
Through a series of international networks we transfer best practice, share ideas and create new offers.
N No or rt th h A Am me er riic ca a 2004 was an excellent year with like for like turnover growth of 7% and operating profit Business and Industry Providing quality Fine Dining Food is at the heart of Healthcare and Seniors The healthcare Owned and Franchised Brands We operate in seven food for employees is an essential part of what we do, often working with world foodservice market is one of the most Being able to provide multi-product solutions keeping them happy and motivated.
Eurest renowned chefs such as Albert Roux and demanding and sophisticated in which increasing from 177 million in 2003 to 190 million clearly defined market for our clients through the development of is the world leader in providing innovative and Wolfgang Puck to provide clients with the we operate.
Professionalism, the highest a unique portfolio of international, local and sectors through distinct, high quality food and service management finest possible executive dining facilities standards of food safety and hygiene and bespoke foodservice brands is a cornerstone in 2004. to customers at their place of work.
for boardrooms, hospitality suites and for a detailed understanding of the nutritional of our strategy.
In each of the key product client-facing operating major social events.
needs of those we care for have enabled us to categories such as coffee, bakery or burgers companies.
become the world leader in this market through our approach has been to develop our own Medirest and Morrison.
As a result of our international brands, Caff Ritazza or Upper unique understanding of the demands of the Crust for example or where a successful Compass in the Community ESS and healthcare sector our clients are now asking brand is already established, such as Burger Compass Group Canada are to be the lead us to take on a broader range of specialist King, acquire exclusive franchise rights for sponsors of the new Aboriginal Business services through Morrisons sister company the sectors we operate in.
Our strong culinary Hall of Fame which will become an enduring Crothall.
heritage means we are able to develop brands reminder of the renaissance of Aboriginal R that offer customers consistency, quality communities across Canada.
and value and which improve returns on foodservice.
Our clients are recognising the employee Travel and Leisure Select Service Partner Vending Vending is an integral part Education At a time when there is a Defence, Offshore and Remote Site ESS Top class An annual survey by The benefits of having a convenience store located SSP, our specialist international retail of the food and beverage operation for growing recognition of the need to promote is the worlds largest provider of integrated Awards and prizes Levy Princeton Review into the best campus food on their premises, our brand amigo offers busy concessions company, provides high quality most modern organisations.
Through the importance of nutrition and healthier eating support services to the defence, offshore in the United States saw two Bon Apptit Restaurants received the people quality convenience shopping that is food and beverage services at travel locations, Canteen Vending and Selecta we are the amongst young people, we are constantly and remote site sectors in over fifty countries, colleges in the top ten.
Wheaton College, fast, friendly and tempting.
We are also the only utilising our exceptional portfolio of local and biggest route vending company in the striving to find new ways to ensure that we often in difficult and hostile conditions.
The restaurant equivalent of Illinois came out tops, whilst Saint Olaf franchisee of Marks & Spencer Simply Food.
international foodservice brands that we either world, providing high quality and are playing our part in nourishing tomorrows full spectrum of services offered ranges from College in Minnesota ranked number nine.
SSP also operates Moto, innovative services to clients across an Oscar, The Ivy, for their healthy people.
Scolarest and Chartwells are the design and build of camp structures to the UKs leading motorway service area MSA the USA and Europe.
the most highly regarded operators in this operational support in catering, housekeeping, Morrison have been awarded the 2004 pioneering work in fusing operator, and 93 sites in continental Europe.
ESS has American Dietetic Association Foundation All Leisure, Levy Restaurants and a number established best in class partnerships with a fine dining with sports and Corporate Award for the companys of other specialist companies provide superior number of complementary businesses in order continuing support for the Foundations entertainment venues.
quality catering for prestige sporting, cultural to offer clients a full turnkey service.
work in promoting good nutrition.
The Edible Schoolyard Bon Apptit was the recipient of a William D. Littleford Award for Corporate Community Service, hosted by American Business Media, which honours companies, organisations or individuals who do well by doing good.
Bon Apptit was recognised for its project The Edible Schoolyard, at the Martin Luther King, Jr. Middle School in Berkeley, California.
Compass Group PLC 19 Core markets Developing markets Global foodservice market Market overview Market trends Total market 250 billion The global foodservice market represents a The trend by organisations to outsource b biilllliio on n significant opportunity.
With an approximate their foodservice requirements is continuing 100 value of 250 billion, only 35% or 88 billion as clients increasingly seek to reduce their is outsourced to specialist operators.
National and international maturity of the market and the business mix organisations are increasingly looking for one varies considerably across the globe with provider to meet all their needs.
Competition enormous potential in developing markets within the industry is polarised.
Barriers to in Asia Pacific, particularly China.
We have entry at a local level are low, it is relatively easy approximately a 5% share of the global to open and run a small number of contracts.
market and collectively the worlds five Barriers are much higher when moving to a largest foodservice companies have a large-scale operation however.
As a result the little over 12%, highlighting the enormous market is characterised by a large number 50 potential the foodservice sector offers.
of small operators at one end, very little in the mid market, and a few large-scale global Historically, the market has grown by operators at the other end.
between 2 and 4% a year and looking to the medium term we expect this level of growth At the same time, consumers are becoming to continue.
more discerning seeking value for money and quality, and are inclined towards informal The global trend to outsourcing foodservice eating where product range and choice are has seen the proportion of the total market important.
Branded offerings such as Upper 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 that is operated by commercial companies Crust and Caff Ritazza have an important 1 2 3 4 like ourselves grow by 6-10% a year.
role to play in meeting these requirements.
% of contract catering market outsourced 1 North America 51% 2 Europe 28% 3 Latin America and other 18% 4 Asia Pacific and Australia 30% Concession V V V five e e en n n nd d d diiiin n n ng g g g C C C Co o o on n n nt t t tr r r ra a a ac c c ct t t t % shown Increasing market share Global market 250 billion Compass 5% Major competitors 7% O Ot th he er rs s iin nc c.. s se ellf f o op pe er ra at te ed d 88% Compass Group PLC 03
