Board of Directors Executive Directors Ron Sandler Mike Norris Executive Chairman, aged 53 Chief Executive, aged 43 Ron has a degree in engineering from Mike graduated with a degree in Cambridge and a MBA from Stanford computer science and mathematics University.
His early career was with the from East Anglia University in 1983.
Boston Consulting Group, and as Chief He joined Computacenter in 1984 as Executive of Martin Bierbaum Group and a salesman in the City office.
He was Chief Executive of Lloyds he was Computacenters top national of London from 1995 until 1999, and account manager.
Following subsequently Chief Operating Officer of appointments as Regional Manager NatWest Group.
He is Chairman of Kyte for London operations in 1988 and Group, a director of Fortis Group and a General Manager of the Systems Division member of the Partnership Council of in 1992 with full national sales and lawyers Herbert Smith.
Ron joined the marketing responsibilities, he became Board of Computacenter in May 2000 and Chief Executive in December 1994 with was appointed Chairman in May 2001. responsibility for all day-to-day activities and reporting channels across Computacenter.
Tony Conophy Finance Director, aged 47 Tony has been a member of the Institute of Chartered Management Accountants since 1982.
He qualified with Semperit Ireland Ltd and then worked for five years at Cape Industries plc.
He joined Computacenter in 1987 as Financial Controller, rising in 1991 to General Manager of Finance.
In 1996 he was appointed Finance and Commercial Director of Computacenter UK Limited with responsibility for all financial, purchasing and vendor relations activities.
In March 1998 he was appointed Group Finance and Commercial Director.
22 Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Non-Executive Directors Nick Cosh Philip Hulme Aged 58 Aged 56 Nick, a chartered accountant, has Philip founded Computacenter with held a number of senior executive Peter Ogden in 1981 and worked for finance positions across a range of the Company on a full-time basis until UK companies.
He is currently a stepping down as Executive Chairman Non-Executive Director of Bradford in 2001.
He is a Director of Dealogic & Bingley plc, Hornby plc and ICAP plc Holdings plc and was previously a and is chairman of Kiln plc.
Previous Vice President and Director of the positions held include Group Finance Boston Consulting Group.
Director of JIB Group plc and of MAI plc.
Ghislain Lescuyer Peter Ogden Cliff Preddy Aged 47 Aged 57 Aged 57 Ghislain has held a number of senior Peter founded Computacenter with Philip Cliff has worked in the IT industry positions, primarily with a French focus, Hulme in 1981 and was Chairman of the for most of his professional career, across a range of European IT based Company until 1998, when he became a including many years as an Executive companies including Groupe Bull and Non-Executive Director.
He is Chairman Director of Logica plc.
He is Deputy Europeatweb a private equity firm focusing of Dealogic Holdings plc and a NonChairman of Charteris plc, and a on Internet and high technologies and Executive Director of Psion plc.
Prior to Non-Executive Director of CODASciSys was a consultant at McKinsey & Co. joining Computacenter he was a Managing plc and Acquisition Accounting Ltd.
He is Executive Vice President for Director of Morgan Stanley and Co. Broadband Access Products of Thomson SA formerly Thomson Multimedia SA.
Computacenter plc 23 Annual Report and Accounts 2004
