Directors report The Directors are responsible for preparing the accounts and Results and dividends herewith present their report and the audited accounts of the The Groups activities resulted in a profit before tax of 64.6 million Company for the year ended 31 December 2004.
The Group profit for the year available to shareholders amounted to 44.9 million 2003: 46.3 million.
Principal activities The Directors propose a final dividend for the year of 9.8 million The Company is a holding company and is a going concern.
2003: 9.2 million being payable on 31 May 2005 to those The principal activities of the group of subsidiary company shareholders on the register as at 6 May 2005.
The Company undertakings of which it is the parent, are the design, project paid an interim dividend of 4.3 million on 15 October 2004. management, implementation and support of information technology systems.
Directors The Directors who served during the year ended 31 December Review of the business 2004 are detailed below.
Brief biographical details of the Directors A detailed review of the Groups activities, the development of at the date of this report are given on pages 22 and 23. its business and an indication of future developments is included in the Chairmans statement on pages 4 and 5, the Chief Nick Cosh and Tony Conophy will retire by rotation at the Executives review on pages 6 to 9 and the Finance Directors forthcoming Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, will review on pages 10 to 13. offer themselves for re-election.
Philip Hulme and Peter Ogden, having served as Directors for more than nine years, will retire and offer themselves for re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
Directors interest in shares The interests of the Directors in the share capital of the Company at the beginning and end of the year are set out below.
At 31 December 2004 At 1 January 2004 or as at date of appointment Number of Number of Number of Number of ordinary shares ordinary shares ordinary shares ordinary shares Beneficial Non-beneficial Beneficial Non-beneficial Executive Directors RA Sandler 75,000 75,000 MJ Norris 1,271,265 1,271,265 FA Conophy 1,762,758 1,762,758 Non-Executive Directors NJ Cosh 5,000 5,000 PW Hulme 24,977,295 9,772,707 26,577,295 12,272,707 GM Lescuyer PJ Ogden 42,402,764 1,175,000 42,402,764 1,175,000 CSF Preddy 5,000 5,000 There have been no changes in the interests of the Directors in the shares of Computacenter since 31 December 2004.
Ghislain Lescuyer was appointed to the Board on 19 January 2004.
Major interests in shares In addition to the Directors interests set out above, in so far as has been notified to the Company, as at 14 February 2005 the following persons have interests in 3% or more of the existing issued ordinary share capital of the Company.
Number of Percentage of ordinary issued ordinary Shareholder shares capital Fidelity International Limited 10,830,161 5.73% 32 Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Authority to purchase own shares Corporate Social Responsibility At the 2004 Annual General Meeting a resolution was passed The Board recognises that acting in a socially responsible giving the Company authority to purchase up to 10% of its way benefits the community, our customers, shareholders and ordinary shares by market purchase.
No such purchases employees alike.
A wide variety of initiatives and measures are were made during the year.
A resolution to further extend the in place to ensure the Group continues to develop in a socially authority is to be put to the 2005 Annual General Meeting.
Creditors payment policy Environment The Company does not hold any trade creditor balances.
The Board continues its commitment to the improvement However it is the policy of the Group that each of the of the Groups environmental performance and to minimising businesses should agree appropriate terms and conditions any adverse effects that its operations may have on the with suppliers ranging from standard written terms to environment.
In support of this, the Company operates a individually negotiated contracts and that payment should comprehensive Environmental Management System EMS, be in accordance with those terms and conditions, provided which achieved accreditation to the international standard that the supplier has also complied with them.
The ISO Certificate has been successfully retained in the UK since July 2003, and the last BSI audit International Financial Reporting Standards was completed during November 2004.
During 2004, the The Group will be required to adopt International Financial Groups operation in Germany also achieved the ISO 14001 Reporting Standards IFRS when preparing its statutory accreditation and together with R D Trading Limited, this accounts for the year ended 31 December 2005. resulted in the third accredited operation within the Group.
Following the release of the Stable Platform by the International The Computacenter EMS covers the supply, configuration, Accounting Standards Board in March 2004, a study of the storage, installation, recovery and disposal of information impact of the introduction of IFRS to the Group has been technology systems and is applied at all of the Companys completed and the Board considers the Group to be well UK locations.
Information on the EMS is provided to staff and prepared for the changes.
The results of this study have the system is monitored and reviewed by the Group Health, assisted in determining the adjustments required to current UK Safety and Environment Department and the BSI.
Further GAAP in the reporting of the Groups results both in the future monitoring is performed by a number of customers who and at the point of transition to IFRS.
This has in turn facilitated regard Computacenter as a significant partner.
the identification of the reporting and disclosure requirements that the individual Group companies will need to provide, in The significant environmental aspects identified are IT waste, addition to those under UK GAAP, for the consolidation of the packaging waste, office waste, transport and energy.
The agreement of the opening adjustments is on environmental performance is monitored throughout the now to be concluded with the Companys auditors.
year, and costs and benefits measured by way of a formal, annual review.
The first set of figures that the Group will be presenting under IFRS will be those for its 2005 interim result.
It is intended that Copies of the environmental policy are available from the the 2004 results restated for IFRS accompanied by the relevant Companys website at www.
com  will be communicated to shareholders and the responsibility or upon request.
wider financial community in the first half of 2005.
The Board believes, based on the work to date, that there will be no Health and safety material changes on the reported profit for the year.
It remains the policy of the Group that each business maintains the high standards necessary to safeguard the health and safety Employee share schemes of its employees, customers and the public.
This commitment The Company operates executive share option schemes is formally contained in the Health and Safety Policy Statement and a performance-related option scheme for the benefit signed by the Chief Executive, which is available from the of employees.
During the year, options were granted under Companys website at www.
com corporatethese schemes to certain employees in respect of 1,607,222 responsibility or upon request.
The Health, Safety and ordinary shares of 5p each, options over 119,000 shares Environment Department monitors and reviews all procedures were exercised and options over 237,000 shares have lapsed.
and policies utilising the advice of external consultants and At the year-end, options over 8,566,056 2003: 7,313,065 exposure trends identified, where necessary.
shares remain outstanding under these schemes.
Employee involvement In addition, the Company continues to operate a Sharesave Computacenter is committed to involving all employees in scheme for the benefit of employees.
At the year-end, options driving the performance and development of the Group.
over 3,603,417 2003: 4,338,478 shares remain outstanding Regular team briefing processes exist in which employees are under this scheme.
encouraged to discuss matters affecting day-to-day operations of the Group.
Employee Consultative Forums exist in each During the year, the Company has remained within its country to consult staff on major issues affecting employment headroom limits for the issue of new shares for employee share and on matters of policy.
A European Forum meets when there plans as required in the rules of the plans, specifically the 5% in are trans-national issues to discuss.
10 years limit for discretionary plans and the 10% in 10 years limit for all share plans.
Computacenter plc 33 Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Directors report continued Employee opinion surveys are conducted every two years in the Community relations and charity activities UK by an external research company to seek employees views The Group supports community and charitable projects on a wide range of subjects.
Feedback is shared and action as part of its commitment to the concept of corporate social plans developed involving employees from across the business.
responsibility and encourages its employees to support such Examples of changes made as a result of previous surveys projects.
Specific charities are nominated by employees to include the introduction of job families, new employee induction receive funds raised through local and national events, which programmes and the launch of a new quality-based employee are then matched by the Group.
In 2004 the Group made reward and recognition scheme.
Equivalent employee opinion surveys are planned in 2005 for Going concern Germany and France.
The Directors confirm that they are satisfied that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in Equal opportunities business for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they The Group is committed to equal opportunities, monitoring and continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing regularly reviewing policies and practices to ensure that it meets the accounts.
No employee or potential employee receives less favourable treatment or consideration on grounds Statement of Directors responsibilities in respect of race, national or ethnic origin, gender, age, disability, sexual of the accounts orientation, or marital status.
The Group is committed to make Company law requires the Directors to prepare the accounts for full use of the talents and resources of all its employees and to each financial period that give a true and fair view of the state of provide a healthy environment that encourages good and affairs of the Company and the Group, and of the profit or loss productive working relationships within the organisation.
of the Group for that period.
In preparing these accounts, the Directors are required to: Performance and personal development The Group is committed to the development of its employees select suitable accounting policies and then apply them through a regular performance review process.
Managers are consistently: responsible for setting and reviewing personal objectives make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and aligned to corporate and functional goals, reviewing prudent: performance against behavioural standards appropriate state whether applicable accounting standards have been to job level, agreeing appropriate training and development followed, subject to any material departures being disclosed interventions, and discussing career aspirations.
The Group and explained in the accounts: Executive Committee has overall responsibility for monitoring prepare the accounts on a going concern basis unless it is management development and ensuring that the appropriate inappropriate to presume that the Group or Company will skills are available to meet the current and future management continue in its business.
Approximately 2.5% of the Groups salaries expense is spent each year on technical training and The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting skill development.
The Companys reward strategy is aligned records, which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time to the development of a performance-related culture.
the financial position of the Group and enable them to ensure that the accounts comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They Workplace are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group International human rights obligations and international and and hence taking reasonable steps for the prevention and local employment laws are met through a broad range of detection of fraud and other irregularities.
These ensure that, for example, employees are not subject to discrimination, arbitrary or unjust Auditors dismissal or unjust application of wage rates.
Appropriate Ernst & Young LLP has expressed its willingness to continue in employee benefits programmes exist across the Group.
office as auditor and a resolution approving the reappointment of Ernst & Young LLP as the Companys auditor will be Business ethics proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
An ethics policy is operated by the Group which includes a requirement for all employees to report abuses or nonconformance with the policy whistle-blowing.
This policy commits Computacenter employees to the highest standards AJ Pottinger of ethical behaviour in respect of customers, suppliers, Secretary colleagues, and other stakeholders in the business.
14 March 2005 34 Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004
