Cutting cost, raising service Challenge Computacenter focuses on improving BT needed to reduce the cost and IT service levels for BT employees and complexity of supplying and maintaining desktop PCs and laptops for its 90,000 achieving a year-on-year reduction in costs.
The communications and technology Within the first year, BT saved more than giant has a large desktop laptop estate 7 million and service levels improved by widely dispersed in the UK with 7,000 home-workers.
Managing all aspects of up to 30%.
this environment internally was making less and less sense financially.
The company was keen to find a way to reduce the costs as well as improve service levels and the overall end-user experience.
14 Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Solution Benefits Services provided To help them do more for less, BT signed a In the first year of the contract, Service Technology supply, installation, desk-side five-year agreement with Computacenter to Level Agreement performance for the national support, second line support, request provide desktop logistics and engineering repair service improved from 64% to as much management, problem management, services.
Since May 2004 this contract as 93% and BT saved more than 7 million.
management of third party providers.
has been run in partnership with HP, BTs Even within the first six months of working services management partner and a key with Computacenter, BT was able to make Computacenter vendor.
The agreement would provide improvements Services are more efficient and joined-up, in managing logistics and engineering, with improved management controls, and enable BT to benefit from industry best budgeting is simpler thanks to a transparent practice, and allow the company to build joint cost-per-user.
At the same time, BT has customer propositions with Computacenter in been able to improve flexibility of service to external opportunities.
better meet the demands of the business and its end-users.
As part of the contract, Computacenter UK committed to a guaranteed year-on-year cost BT and Computacenter are also successfully reduction, and 347 BT engineering staff and combining their expertise and experience to 90 contractors transferred to Computacenter develop innovative IT solutions and services under TUPE Transfer of Undertakings, for the external market.
Computacenter plc 15 Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Challenge Computacenter deployed a new, highly The National Blood Service NBS needed resilient IT infrastructure and single, to improve the performance of its PULSE system, which handles every aspect of consolidated data centre.
blood collection, processing, testing and issue, as well as online appointment booking.
NBS also wanted to decrease the cost and For the National Blood Service that means complexity associated with the systems improved performance of its mission-critical management, which involved a number of data centres distributed across the UK.
blood collection system and lower IT costs.
Andrew OConnor of NBS says, We knew that this was not ideal, for performance or support, so decided to examine our options for consolidating them.
The organisation looked for a partner that could take on the infrastructure deployment as an end-to-end project from specification through to implementation.
16 Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Improved service from a more resilient infrastructure Solution Benefits Services provided Working with Computacenter, The National Today, the latest generation of servers and Planning and design, installation, project Blood Service replaced its legacy IT a Storage Area Network is offering users an management, fulfilment and configuration.
infrastructure with a modern, extremely improved service.
The virtual data centre resilient equivalent and created a virtual data has reduced support costs, as engineers centre over geographically separate locations.
are no longer looking after separate centres, each with its own backup disaster recovery The implementation involved the deployment facilities.
Thirdly, thanks to the new of comprehensive backup, disaster recovery infrastructure, the NBS has the right and storage solutions, with Computacenter technology foundations for new services, managing its own resources plus those such as a donor management system.
from HP, the solution vendor, and the NBS in-house team.
Andrew comments, We now have an extremely reliable and resilient infrastructure.
As the data centre environment is missionWe are already seeing the returns we sought, critical to the blood service and patients, the and we are delivering a substantially improved entire project had to be completed without service to our customers.
All in all, I would UK any unplanned downtime or disruption to say the project has been a real success.
Computacenter plc 17 Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Better control, lighter management burden Challenge When Heidelberger Druckmaschinen, the Although the existing PC infrastructure at industrial printer manufacturer, decided to Heidelberger Druckmaschinen AG was mainly based on Windows 2000 and Office 2000, upgrade its entire worldwide PC infrastructure, the IT function lacked central control over Computacenter supplied and installed supplementary software purchasing.
The resulting wide variety of applications was both almost 6,000 ready-configured systems for difficult and costly to support.
To lower the IT its German operation.
management burden, Heidelberg decided to standardise and upgrade its systems to Windows XP.
The migration to Windows XP allowed Heidelberg to reduce the total cost of The timescales for the roll-out were tight and left little margin for error.
Almost 6,000 ownership for its desktop infrastructure systems needed to be replaced in Germany between early June and late August 2004, by 20%.
when the existing leasing contract would expire.
18 Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Solution Benefits Services provided Computacenter developed a precise The project increased the efficiency of Project management, technology schedule, prioritising and planning the administrative tasks such as updates and procurement, configuration, installation, upgrade of individual offices.
In April 2004, security patches and helped Heidelberg support, e-learning.
Heidelbergs systems were loaded with greatly reduce the operating costs of its the necessary applications and a standard infrastructure, achieving a 20% reduction configuration image at Computacenters in its total cost of ownership.
Over 12,000 pieces of hardware from PCs, to monitors The new standard systems are more reliable and other peripherals were prepared for and benefit from the additional management just-in-time delivery.
features offered by Windows XP.
Computacenter organised a three-phase To ensure users quickly became productive operation to ensure a smooth transition.
on the new systems, education was a major First, a logistics team distributed the consideration.
Employees were able to keep computers across a total of 1,700 offices track of the progress of the migration via an in 17 locations.
Then the old systems were intranet web page, which Computacenter Germany removed and the new clients installed.
helped to conceive and design.
An e-learning Finally, the outdated desktops were collected program accessed from this page also helped for disposal by Computacenters computer familiarise employees with the new system re-use and recycling specialist arm, RDC.
Computacenter plc 19 Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Reducing risk, improving performance Challenge When Caisse Nationale dAssurance Vieillesse, Clearly for an organisation like CNAV, which Frances National Social Security Pension agency, holds personal data on 15 million contributors and 10 million pensioners, data security needed an anti-virus application and partner to and protection from virus attack are of protect its national server network, it turned to paramount importance.
As data shared across its networks must meet very stringent Computacenter.
government security requirements, CNAV sought a partner that could help protect its IT infrastructure through the selection, As a result, CNAVs employees can be sure that deployment and support of an advanced and reliable anti-virus solution.
Moreover, confidential pension data relating to 25 million any such solution had to be installed and French customers is secure.
20 Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Solution Benefits Services provided Having already proved itself on other Today, CNAVs personal data on pensioners Consultancy and planning, installation, supply and support projects with CNAV, and contributors is secure from virus infection, project management, ongoing support.
Computacenter was chosen to help with the and with internal data exchange occurring whole process from the consultative phase speedily, pensioners and contributors can through to the final deployment and support rest assured that their funds and statements of a fail-safe anti-virus solution.
After extensive are fully protected and efficiently updated.
consultation, Computacenter recommended The Head of Project Deployment at the Antigen as the solution that most closely met CNAV, Grard Lecointe, confirms, CNAVs requirements.
After two trials with Computacenter was able to help us CNAVs staff, Computacenter trained all users make the right choice and install a solution and deployed Antigen on servers across all that is perfectly suited to the needs of our of the customers 21 sites within five months.
Computacenter is also contracted to provide three-year support to help CNAV maximise the security and speed of data exchange across its employee network.
France Computacenter plc 21 Annual Report and Accounts 2004
