qxd 13 12 04 9:59 am Page 14 Summary of valuers report In accordance with the provisions of Guidance We have not made any allowance for vendors To the Directors of Shaftesbury PLC Note 3 of the RICS Appraisal and Valuation sale costs nor for any tax liabilities which may In accordance with your instructions, we have Standards, in undertaking our valuation, we arise upon the disposal of any of the properties undertaken a valuation of the various commercial have lotted together certain individual or Properties.
We have made deductions to and residential freehold and long leasehold properties to form a separate property a reflect purchasers normal acquisition costs.
property interests as at 30th September 2004 Property or Properties in the manner we the date of valuation held by Shaftesbury A full explanation of the assumptions made consider to be most likely to be adopted in the PLC the Company, as referred to in our in our valuation and details of the sources of case of an actual sale.
We consider that lotting valuation report dated 22nd November 2004 information are contained within our Report.
the properties together on the basis reflected in our Report.
our valuation would allow a purchaser to We have measured certain of the properties, or capitalise on the estate management parts of properties, either on site or by scaling All properties have been subject to external advantages and opportunities available from inspections between August and November from floor plans.
The Company or its managing such comprehensive ownership.
agents have provided us with the floor areas of 2004 and a number were subject to internal inspections.
the remaining properties or parts of properties.
A high proportion of the total value of the Companys properties and Properties is accounted for by The valuations have been made in accordance with We have read the majority of the leases and properties and Properties situated in adjacent related documents provided to us in respect of the appropriate sections of the current Practice and or adjoining locations in three specific areas Statements PS, and United Kingdom Practice the commercial properties.
Where we have not of the West End of London: Carnaby Street and read leases we have relied on tenancy Statements UKPS contained within the RICS its environs, Chinatown and the adjoining area Appraisal and Valuation Standards, 5th Edition information provided by the Company.
immediately west of Wardour Street south of its the Red Book.
The valuation has been junction with Shaftesbury Avenue, and the undertaken by external valuers, qualified for the areas around Seven Dials in the western part of purpose of the valuation.. Covent Garden.
These areas are all dominated In accordance with UKPS 5.4, we are required to by retail and restaurant uses.
In our opinion, at make certain disclosures in connection with this the date of valuation, this particular unusual valuation instruction and our relationship with the confluence of ownership and use characteristics Company.
Sean Wordley is the signatory of our may cause some prospective purchasers to Report.
This is the second year that he has been regard parts of the portfolio when combined as the signatory.
DTZ Debenham Tie Leung has been having a greater value than the aggregate of the carrying out this valuation instruction for the individual values of the combined properties and Company for a continuous period since 1996.
Properties which make up those parts.
We are instructed by the Company to act as As required by the provisions of the Red Book, property and asset managers in respect of the in undertaking our valuations, we have valued properties known as Wellington House, 13 14 each property or Property separately, rather Upper St Martins Lane, 15 17 Mercer Street and than valuing the portfolio as a whole or in 140 142 Long Acre & 16 19 Upper St Martin's combinations of parts.
This is the only fee-earning relationship figure below is the aggregated value of the between DTZ Debenham Tie Leung and the separate properties or Properties within the Company other than this valuation instruction.
various categories of tenure referred to below.
All valuations were on the basis of Market Value.
We have assessed Market Value in accordance with PS 3.2 of the Red Book.
qxd 13 12 04 9:59 am Page 15 Certain properties were subject to works of repair Having regard to the foregoing, we are of the The contents of our Report are confidential to or refurbishment at 30th September 2004, or opinion that the aggregates of the Market Values, Shaftesbury PLC for the specific purpose to were subject to outstanding retentions and fees in as at 30th September 2004, of the freehold and which it refers and are for its use only.
respect of projects already completed at that date.
long leasehold property interests owned by the Consequently, and in accordance with current In these instances, the Company advised us of the Company, subject to the assumptions and practice, no responsibility is accepted to any amount of the outstanding costs.
However, we comments in our Report dated 22nd November other party in respect of the whole or any part of have been advised by the Company that accrual is 2004, were as follows:- the contents of our Report or this summary.
made in its financial statements as at 30th Before our Report or this summary, or any part September 2004, for the costs to complete these thereof, are reproduced or referred to, in any projects or settle outstanding retentions and fees.
document, circular or statement, and before Freehold properties 796,720,000 Accordingly, we have not deducted these their contents, or any part thereof, are disclosed Seven hundred and outstanding sums from our valuations.
The total orally or otherwise to a third party, the valuers ninety six million, amount of such costs is 3,439,485 and details of written approval as to the form and context of seven hundred and the individual sums are included in our Report.
such publication or disclosure must first be twenty thousand obtained.
For the avoidance of doubt such pounds As referred to above, we have lotted together approval is required whether or not DTZ certain individual properties to form a separate Long leasehold properties 33,850,000 Debenham Tie Leung are referred to by name Property or separate Properties.
In the case of Thirty three and whether or not the contents of our Report four Properties which comprise a number of million, eight or this summary are combined with others.
individual properties, the majority of such hundred and fifty properties are held freehold but certain of them thousand pounds are held on long leases.
In order to divide our Sean A Wordley MRICS Total 830,570,000 valuation of these Properties between the DTZ Debenham Tie Leung Limited Eight hundred and categories of freehold and long leasehold, we International Property Advisers thirty million, five have undertaken notional apportionments of One Curzon Street hundred and value between the freehold elements and the long London W1A 5PZ seventy thousand leasehold elements which together comprise the pounds relevant Properties.
The amounts arising from these notional apportionments of value have been A long lease is one with an unexpired term in included in the figures representing the freehold excess of 50 years.
and long leasehold categories below.
The amounts arising from the notional apportionments do not themselves represent the Market Value of the two elements.
The Company owns a number of properties on a freehold basis where it also holds long leasehold interests within the freehold and has not merged the interests.
For the purposes of the freehold long leasehold split below, we have included such properties within the freehold category.
