54 Slough Estates plc | Annual Report 2004 Directors biographies Sir Nigel Mobbs Chairman Sir Nigel Mobbs, whose grandfather was a founder of the company, joined Slough Estates in 1960.
A director since 1963, he became Chairman and Chief Executive in 1976 and Executive Chairman from 1996-1999.
He is Lord-Lieutenant for the County of Buckinghamshire.
He is non-executive chairman of Bovis Homes, a non-executive director of Howard fide Walden Estates, and Chairman of Trustees of Historic Royal Palaces.
4 2 1 3 5 1 John Heawood 3 Dick Kingston 5 Lord Blackwell Executive Director Executive Director Senior Independent Director Responsible for the UK property portfolio.
Having Amongst other business interests, he is Following degrees in Estate Management obtained a Business Studies degree a non-executive director of Standard Life.
and Rural Planning Studies from Reading whilst with British Petroleum, he qualified The Corporate Services Group Plc and University, he qualified as a Chartered as a chartered accountant with Whinney Smartstream Technologies Ltd and a Surveyor in 1977.
After six years with Murray & Co. now Ernst & Young LLP senior adviser to KPMG Corporate Fletcher King and 11 years with DTZ in London and Paris.
He also serves as a nonDebenham Thorpe dealing with provincial with Hawker Siddeley as head of financial executive Board Member of the OFT.
industrial and office property he joined control and audit, he joined Slough After many years as a partner with Slough Estates in November 1996.
Estates as Group Financial Controller McKinsey & Company, international He is aged 52. in 1987.
He was appointed a director in management consultants, he served April 1996.
He is a non-executive director as Head of the Prime Ministers Policy 2 Marshall Lees of The Mersey Docks and Harbour Unit from 1995-97, and was Director of Executive Director Group Development at NatWest Group Company.
Responsible for operations in North from 1997-2000.
He was created a Life America.
He is a graduate of the Peer in 1997 and is currently Chairman 4 Paul Orchard-Lisle CBE TD DL University of Western Ontario and Non-Executive Deputy Chairman of the Centre for Policy Studies.
Following three A chartered surveyor, he is Executive He was appointed a director in 2001. years with British American Tobacco, Chairman of the Falcon Property Trust, He is aged 52. he obtained an MBA at the London a non-executive director of Europa Business School and subsequently Capital Partners, a member of the joined Imperial Group plc.
He joined advisory board of IVG Holding AG, a Slough Estates in 1987 and was member of the Estates Committee of appointed a director in March 1998. the Wellcome Trust, and Chairman He is a director of Tipperary Corporation of the Royal Artillery Museum.
Deputy and Charterhouse Group International, Lieutenant for the County of Greater Inc.
He is a Canadian and is aged 51.
London and a past president of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors.
He has been a director of the company since 1980.
Slough Estates plc | Annual Report 2004 55 Ian Coull Chief Executive A Fellow of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors, he joined Slough Estates from J Sainsbury plc where he was the director responsible for all Real Estate.
Before joining Sainsburys in 1987 he held Board and Senior Management positions at Ladbrokes, Texas Homecare and Cavenham Foods.
He is on the London Regional Board of Royal & Sun Alliance and is currently the vice President of the British Property Federation.
He is a non-executive director of House of Fraser Plc.
7 6 9 8 10 6 Stephen L Howard 8 The Rt Hon Lord MacGregor of 10 Christopher Peacock Non-Executive Director Pulham Market OBE Non-Executive Director Chairman of Remuneration Committee.
Non-Executive Director A chartered surveyor, he was President He began his career as an attorney in Chairman of Audit Committee.
and Chief Executive Officer of Jones his native United States with a focus on Member of Parliament for South Norfolk Lang LaSalle until the beginning of 2004. corporate advisory work for multi-national from 1974 to 2001.
He became a Life He joined Jones Lang Wootton in 1972 companies.
He is on the advisory Peer in July 2001.
He served Conservative and was made a partner in 1974.
He rose councils of various private and non-profit Governments in several Cabinet to being the European Chief Executive organisations.
He was appointed a appointments, from 1985 to 1995, in 1996 and Jones Lang Woottons first director in 2001.
Chief Secretary to the Treasury, global Chief Executive in 1997.
In 1999 Agriculture, Education & Science, he became Chief Operating Officer and 7 Douglas Kramer Leader of the House and Lord President subsequently CEO of the NYSE listed Non-Executive Director of the Council and Secretary of State for company, Jones Lang LaSalle.
He was A citizen of the United States, he is Transport.
He is currently a non-executive appointed a director in January 2004.
Chairman of the Board of Draper and director of Associated British Foods PLC, He is aged 59.
Kramer Incorporated, a full service real Uniq Plc and Friends Provident, and of estate and mortgage banking company the European Supervisory Board of based in Chicago, Illinois.
Draper and DAF Trucks NV, Netherlands.
He was Member of Nomination Committee.
Kramer were partners with Slough Estates appointed a director in 1995.
director of Tipperary Corporation, an oil and gas production company of Denver, 9 Andrew Palmer Colorado in which the Group has a 61 Non-Executive Director per cent equity interest.
He also serves as A chartered accountant, he is currently Non-Executive Chairman of Slough Group Finance Director with Legal & Estates USA Inc.
He was appointed a General Plc.
Since joining Legal & director in 1981.
General in 1988 he has held a number of financial and operational roles in the asset management, insurance and international business.
He was appointed a director in January 2004.
