30 Slough Estates plc | Annual Report 2004 Case Study: Carr des Aviateurs, Paris, France Carr des Aviateurs provides the perfect working environment.
I believe that the quality and efficiency of our building will allow us to develop our business.
Jean-Pascal Chirat, Managing Director, DITAC Slough Estates plc | Annual Report 2004 31 The site Occupier and investor demand The site, just 1 km from the A1 motorway Occupier interest been encouraging and Le Bourget airport, was acquired and will grow as the Park becomes from the Baxi Group in 2003.
We expect to attract the buildings were leased back to Baxi the same quality of tenants to Carr as well as a new facility which has just des Aviateurs as we do to our schemes been delivered.
Elsewhere on the site a in the UK, Germany and elsewhere.
m. of speculative Tenants include small to medium-sized units was completed during 2004 and is industrial companies, such as Blindage already 63 per cent let.
A second phase fide France and Finimtal, as well as is currently under construction which will local subsidiaries of large international provide 7,700 sq.
m. at the entrance to the concerns, such as Stannah Lifts and Ditac.
Completion is due in May, 2005 and the first unit has already been let.
From an investment point of view, light industrial has become one of the Parc dactivit most sought-after asset classes in Paris.
Carr des Aviateurs is one of very few multiHaving been largely ignored for a decade, let industrial parks parc dactivit to be investors are now targeting this sector, launched in the Paris region in recent years resulting in significant yield compression but the Groups experience and expertise in and capital growth in the last 12 months.
this product in the UK, Germany and Belgium The value of Carr des Aviateurs has has helped ensure the Parks success.
risen accordingly, partly as a result of There is a shortage of quality industrial units the development programme and partly in the area and Carr des Aviateurs has as a result of the investment market.
been designed to take advantage of this.
m. light industrial scheme close to Le Bourget airport.
Up to five phases of multi-let units.
Combination of leaseback, pre-let and speculative units.
A new generation of parc dactivit for Paris.
m. under construction and 11 per cent pre-let.
