26 Slough Estates plc | Annual Report 2004 Case Study: Major property swap It was attractive for us to do this deal and exchange our shopping centres for core business space property.
This swap will further consolidate our position as a dominant player in UK business space.
Ian Coull, Chief Executive Slough Estates plc | Annual Report 2004 27 On 16 December 2004 Slough Estates and a 50 per cent interest in Buchanan and Land Securities jointly announced that Galleries, Glasgow.
The portfolio totalled they had completed a swap of the majority some 91,300 sq.
m. of retail space with of their respective retail and industrial a rent roll of 20.4 million.
Slough Estates acquired some The transaction was essentially an off- 304,700 sq.
m. of industrial space market asset swap with a combined value from Land Securities, with a rent roll of approximately 700 million.
The two of approximately 22 million, including portfolios were similar in value, with the a rental guarantee from Land Securities difference being met by a balancing to cover the vacant space within the payment paid to Slough Estates.
The transaction involved the transfer to The portfolio covers 23 industrial estates Land Securities of four shopping centres in London, Surrey, Berkshire, Hampshire, at The Howard Centre in Welwyn Garden Hertfordshire, Essex, Kent, Cambridgeshire, City, the Lewisham Centre in south Oxfordshire and around the Heathrow area.
London, the Bishop Centre in Taplow Left: Cardinal Park, Fareham.
Points of note The transaction was mutually beneficial in Above: Cobbett Park, Guildford.
allowing both companies to align and enhance activities in their core portfolios in an off-market asset swap.
Following the swap the percentage of business space in Slough Estates UK portfolio has increased by 6.5 per cent to 97.9 per cent on a floor area basis and by 11.8 per cent to 97.5 per cent on a value basis.
Business space in the UK now totals 22.4 million sq.
ft. with a rent roll of some 166.5 million per annum.
The portfolio swap involved virtually every division in Slough Estates together with a number of external advisors.
Following the transaction a great deal of activity is under way including the implementation of estate and environmental plans and meeting our new occupiers and gaining an understanding of their business needs.
