Slough Estates plc | Annual Report 2004 17 There are no restrictions on the transfer of Accounting Policies tax charges and add a significant liability to funds between the parent and subsidiary The Groups two defined benefit pension the Groups balance sheet.
All covenants in bank or loan schemes were actuarially valued as at agreements restricting the extent to which the 31 March and 5 April 2004, resulting in an Those leases meeting IFRSs definition of Group may borrow leave substantial headoverall past service deficit of 30 million.
finance leases will affect the profit and loss room for the Group to expand its operations.
The company is currently in discussion account to the extent that interest income with the trustees of the pension schemes will replace rental income, albeit with slightly The Groups approach to interest rate risk to determine how the deficits in both different values.
Although this is not expected is that a minimum of around 70 per cent of schemes will be financed.
However, to have much of an effect on income or net the gross debt portfolio must attract a fixed had FRS17 Retirement Benefits asset value, it has the potential to greatly rate of interest or be variable rate debt been adopted in full, net assets at confuse property companies accounts.
hedged with a derivative instrument 31 December 2004 would have been providing a maximum interest rate reduced by 28.3 million 2003 20.2 The accounting treatment of the Groups payable.
At the year end, 81 per cent of million net of deferred tax to reflect the 136 million convertible preference shares the debt portfolio was at fixed rate.
The Net pension liability calculated as will change significantly under IFRS.
Under weighted average cost of fixed rate debt specified by the standard.
IFRS the shares are considered to be a was 7.08 per cent which falls to 6.41 per form of debt with an embedded derivative cent when variable rate debt is included.
International Financial Reporting in respect of the option for shareholders to Standards IFRS convert.
The value of the shares will have A number of the Groups historic fundings We will adopt IFRS, as required, with effect to be split between a financial liability are at fixed interest rates which are high from 1 January 2005.
Our first statements shown within Creditors and an equity compared with current rates, but which under IFRS will be for the six months to element shown within Shareholders reflect market conditions at the time they 30 June 2005, when we will restate the Funds.
The apparent effect of this were completed.
FRS 13 requires the comparative figures for the corresponding accounting will be to reduce the Groups disclosure of the fair value of these period of 2004. net assets and increase finance charges.
The fair value at 31 December 2004 of the Groups borrowings IFRS will have a major impact on the The Groups defined benefit pension was some 226.5 million higher than book Groups accounts, as they will on many schemes deficits will also be included on value before tax or 158.5 million after tax.
The the balance sheet, with movement thereon areas that will be most significantly affected taken through the statement of recognised The main currency risk is translation include property valuation movements, income and expenses.
exposure, i. e. the exchange rate effect of deferred tax, classification of leases, retranslating overseas currency denominated preference shares and our defined benefit There are several other areas that will also assets back into sterling at each balance pension schemes.
be affected, but not to the same extent as sheet date.
The Groups policy is that those above.
currency assets should be substantially Surpluses or deficits arising from the hedged by maintaining liabilities normally revaluation of investment properties will be During the transition to IFRS, we will debt or currency swaps in a similar taken through the profit and loss account provide reconciliations between UK GAAP currency.
Net assets exposed to exchange rather than the Statement of Total and IFRS to help with an understanding of rate fluctuations amounted to 430 million.
Recognised Gains and Losses as at the main changes.
It is important to note A 10 per cent movement in the value of present.
This will add considerably to the that, although IFRS will significantly affect sterling against all currencies affects net volatility of the Groups results.
the presentation of the Groups financial assets per share by 9 pence or 1.6 per statements, it will not affect cash flow or cent, although experience shows that IFRS requires deferred tax to be provided the Groups strategic direction.
sterling rarely moves in the same direction for on asset revaluation movements, which against the two main overseas currencies is not required currently under UK GAAP.
Dick Kingston involved in the Groups operations.
This will increase the volatility of deferred Finance Director
