Delivering our vision By delivering our vision we are helping our customers to realise their own particular visions.
The Phase 200 development won the Industrial Agents Society Office Agents Society Award for the Best Industrial Warehouse Development.
20 Slough Estates plc | Annual Report 2004 Case Study: Bringing history to life at Farnborough Business Park We are delighted that Slough Estates has found a way to bring these important historic aviation buildings and installations back into use.
Heritage is often best served when buildings can be brought into public use and Slough has achieved this with its imaginative plans.
Dr Andrew Brown, Regional Director English Heritage Slough Estates plc | Annual Report 2004 21 Left: The magnificent mahogany bladed fan in the Slough Estates has outlined its plans for The regeneration and restoration of the Grade 1 listed low speed wind tunnel.
the Historic Core of Farnborough Business Historic Core will include a public square, Park which will bring new life to some of the size of Londons Berkeley Square, with Above: This computer enhanced image illustrates the most important buildings in British a spectacular 70 foot high, 250 foot long how Farnborough Business Park might look when fully developed.
airship hangar frame as its centrepiece.
The plans, which have now received The restoration of the historic aviation consent, cover a 25 acre cluster of wind research buildings will provide a mix tunnels and research buildings which of uses including a heritage centre, a formed the heart of the internationally management and marketing centre, a caf renowned Royal Aircraft Establishment bar, meeting rooms, a childrens nursery RAE at Farnborough.
and studio workshops and offices.
For decades these premises were The possible commercial reuse of some covered by the Official Secrets Act and of the five historic wind tunnels is being were hidden from public gaze.
Now, under investigated as part of a joint project the companys plan, the buildings and with FAST.
installations will be opened to the public for the first time.
Building work on the Historic Core restoration is now under way and is The company has worked very closely scheduled for completion in Autumn 2006. with English Heritage, Save Britains Heritage, Farnborough Air Sciences Trust FAST and the local authority, Rushmoor Borough Council, to ensure that the key buildings and installations were included in the plans.
The Historic Core of the 125 acre Farnborough Business Park contains Points of note two Grade 1 listed buildings and three The restoration is being undertaken by the other listed buildings.
The airship hangar frame, which dates from Following the acquisition of the site from approximately 1910, is being dismantled and restored prior to its installation as the the Ministry of Defence, the company centrepiece of The Square.
prepared detailed plans, via a Development Brief, a Conservation Plan and The site is the home of the Royal Flying Corp which subsequently became the Royal Air subsequently, detailed planning Force.
applications, before arriving at the plan to bring the Historic Core back to life.
