Slough Estates plc | Annual Report 2004 29 Case Study: ASICS, Neuss, Germany Slough has made a valuable contribution to the development of commercial property in Neuss and has helped us attract and retain some valuable occupiers in the Neuss area.
Herr Herbert Napp, Brgermeister Mayor of Neuss 3 2 1 Above: Activity to date The City of Neuss 1: Fleherbrcke Business Park Phase 1 and site for Phase 2.
Over the last 10 years Slough has Neuss is situated on the left side of 2: Site for ASICS.
m. of light industrial, the Rhine, just across from Dsseldorf.
warehouse and office buildings in Neuss.
It is home to 160,000 people and is an These units have been let to a range of important business location in its own international companies from Europe, right.
Companies with national or regional Asia, and North America with activities headquarters in Neuss include 3M, as diverse as administration, Research Unilever, UPS and Proctor & Gamble.
and Development, assembly, trade sales, storage and distribution.
Three of Sloughs sites in Neuss have been purchased direct from the City who Points of note Sloughs strategy in Germany has been has seen the benefit of a controlled supply to develop business parks in phases of of business accommodation available for Eight different phases totalling 70,000 sq.
m.. Once fully let, these parks companies to rent.
developed in the last 10 years.
have been sold on to institutional investors Strategy of build, let and trade.
such as Bayernfonds, Bank of Austria, Partnership International tenants from 15 different nations.
Prudential of America and IVG.
The partnership between Slough and the City of Neuss is continuing and the fruits Excellent relationship with Local Authority yields opportunities and benefits for both.
Current schemes include two phases will be seen in 2005 with the delivery of the of business park pre-sold to IVG and 21,000 sq.
m. European distribution centre Major new pre-let to ASICS.
m. European distribution for ASICS, a prestigious client for Slough and centre for ASICS, the Japanese sports valued employer for the Citys inhabitants.
