22 Slough Estates plc | Annual Report 2004 Case Study: Fiat Auto UK 240 Bath Road, Slough We are delighted that our building has received this award our building is light and modern and helps us with our drive towards ever increasing efficiency.
Jose Antonio Garvia, Managing Director Fiat Auto UK www.
com Slough Estates plc | Annual Report 2004 23 Fiat has been an occupier on the These requirements totalled 4,689 sq.
m. Slough Trading Estate since 1989 and it was decided to develop the balance when it moved into an existing office of the site, on a speculative basis, with a building at 266 Bath Road.
third office building of 2,826 sq.
m. This building, 240 Bath Road, was let to Fiat Over time, with changing business shortly after completion of construction.
needs and a requirement to accommodate Subsequently Ferrari Maserati UK, part of new technologies, the building had the Fiat group, has relocated onto the become too large and inefficient for Slough Trading Estate.
The development, which was designed Fiat wanted to change their culture and and project managed by Slough Estates for this to be reflected in the image of their in-house teams, won the British Council new headquarters.
This was linked with a for Offices award in the Workplace Building desire to reduce their business overheads category for the South of England and whilst retaining the same staffing levels.
Agreement was reached to take a surrender of Fiats existing lease and to grant a new lease on the offices at 240 Bath Road, which had recently been completed, enabling Fiat to achieve all its objectives.
Points of note Slough Estates helped Fiat to meet their 240 Bath Road formed part of a larger changing business needs and delivered an development site which was originally improved working environment for its staff.
occupied by two industrial buildings, one This brownfield site development provides of which was being used for short-term considerable asset enhancement replacing two older industrial buildings with three new storage and the other was occupied by office buildings.
The letting illustrates Slough Estates hands-on management approach and detailed knowledge Agreement was reached with Xenova to of our occupiers business needs.
relocate the company to a building on the The transaction is an example of Slough Slough Trading Estate which was more Estates flexible leasing policy.
appropriate for its business requirements.
The size and single ownership of the Slough Trading Estate gave Fiat the ability to stay The original plan to redevelop the site with on the Estate and minimised the disruption a single office building was revised to to their business.
accommodate pre-let requirements from LG Electronics and Cubist, both of whom were existing occupiers on the Estate.
Left: Front view of Fiat House, 240 Bath Rd, Slough.
Above: Ian Coull presenting the British Council for Offices award for 240 Bath Road to Jose Antonio Garvia, MD of Fiat Auto UK and Fernando Destefanis, HR Director of Fiat Auto UK.
24 Slough Estates plc | Annual Report 2004 Case study: WH Smith Whitby Road, Slough We were impressed with Slough Estates commitment to our long-term future on the Estate.
Tye Lohrenz, Senior Project Manager WH Smith Slough Estates plc | Annual Report 2004 25 Left: Tye Lohrenz centre, WH Smiths senior project manager on site with Graham Wilder, Slough Estates project manager left and Graeme Steer, Slough Estates development manager right.
Below: Interior of the new magazine and newspaper distribution facility.
When WH Smith, an occupier on the WH Smith needed to start operations Trading Estate since 1989, undertook the from the Slough area while their new reorganisation of its distribution logistics it distribution facility was under construction.
had a requirement for a new distribution A solution was provided by granting the hub covering the South-West London company a licence to occupy another area.
The building, which had specific building on the Trading Estate.
This operational layout requirements, could enabled WH Smith to move into its new not be accommodated in existing facility in an efficient and cost-effective buildings on the Slough Trading Estate.
manner and, on completion of the fitting out, to surrender the licence of the Slough Estates was aware that another temporary accommodation.
company on the Trading Estate, Georgia Pacific, wanted to assign the lease of its property on Whitby Road which had become surplus to requirements.
Points of note This transaction illustrates Slough Estates Terms were simultaneously agreed for hands-on management style, its focus on customer care and its flexible approach the surrender of Georgia Pacifics lease to leasing.
and the construction of a purpose-built distribution centre for WH Smith on part The deal was mutually beneficial for Georgia Pacific, WH Smith and Slough Estates.
The existence of the Simplified Planning Zone on the Trading Estate The single ownership of the Trading Estate provides the opportunity for occupiers to move meant that the agreement was not within the Estate, minimising the disruption to dependent upon obtaining planning their business and their staff.
Close co-operation throughout the construction programme included the undertaking of alteration work for WH Smith and the provision of early access for their fitting-out.
The new brownfield development provides a significant asset enhancement in replacing a specialist 1960s building with new, higher value property.
