32 Slough Estates plc | Annual Report 2004 Case Study: Pfizer Inc. Torrey Pines, San Diego, US The Global Research and Development Center reflects the high standards that Pfizer Inc. and Slough Estates share in the development of projects which are , resource efficient and socially responsible.
Paul Begin, Pfizer Inc. Slough Estates plc | Annual Report 2004 33 Pfizer Pharmaceuticals, and was subsequently companies that possess the expertise, In October 2004 Slough Estates USA Inc. acquired by Warner-Lambert.
During 2000 experience and resources necessary to successfully sold Pfizer, Inc. their Global Pfizer acquired Warner-Lambert and the deliver large campus developments to Research and Development Center in campus was expanded significantly.
major biotechnology and pharmaceutical Torrey Pines for $372 million.
The half-year users, and Slough has carved a niche valuation for the project was $275 million Slough first embarked on its strategy in this vibrant sector and has a long and the total development cost was to develop life science facilities in 1994, record of success.
and since then has become a premier grown by satisfying to the needs of developer serving this growing industry.
clients ranging from very small start-up The 770,000 square foot master-planned Slough has constructed approximately companies to global companies like campus consists of eight buildings which 3.1 million square feet of life science Pfizer, the worlds largest research-based were constructed by Slough between 1999 product in California, which is estimated pharmaceutical company.
The initial phase of the to be more than any developer anywhere project was leased by Agouron in the world.
There are very few property Points of note Pfizers Global Research & Development Center is an eight master planned research and development campus constructed over four years.
Located within the Torrey Pines area in the heart of San Diegos premier biotechnology community.
Project achieved LEED Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design certification for four campus buildings.
State-of-the-art facilities focussed on developing new medicines in areas of unmet medial need, including cancer, HIV, hepatitis, blindness and obesity.
Left: Pfizers Global Research and Development Center in Torrey Pines, San Diego.
Above and right: Spacious outdoor plaza areas and campus commons.
com 34 Slough Estates plc | Annual Report 2004 Case Study: Amgen Inc. Brittania Oyster Point, South San Francisco, US Slough Estates plc | Annual Report 2004 35 Left: Amgen headquarters buildings at Brittania Points of note Oyster Point in South San Francisco.
Amgen, one of the largest biotech companies in the world, acquired Tularik, Inc. in 2004 as This picture: Front view of Amgens part of $1.3 billion acquisition forming Amgen headquarters buildings.
Below right: Scientists working Contracted for over 425,000 square foot of in advanced fields of research build-to-suit development for Amgen San & development.
Amgen San Francisco anchors Slough Estates 23-acre, Britannia Oyster Point life sciences campus.
Located in the Bay Areas biotech-rich South San Francisco market, Britannia Oyster Point is a generously landscaped campus development prominently situated on the San Francisco Bay.
Amgen and development of Tularik continued to achieve rapid success South San Francisco facilities in the life sciences arena which increased In 2004, Amgen, Inc. of Thousand Oaks, its need for state-of-the-art research facilities.
California announced the purchase of Consequently, in 1998, Slough Estates South San Francisco-based biotechnology executed a build-to-suit lease for an company, Tularik, Inc. as part of an 80,000 sq.
ft. expansion to Tulariks South estimated $1.3 billion acquisition.
Since its San Francisco operations in Britannia founding in 1991, Tularik has pioneered drug Gateway.
In 2001, Tularik again contracted research and discovery activities relating to with Slough to develop a three-building, cell signalling and the control of gene 280,000 sq.
ft. campus which anchors expression.
Over the years, the three Sloughs Britannia Oyster Point life sciences Founders have expanded the scientific park in South San Francisco.
The repeat platform to three major therapeutic areas: business over the years reflects the cancer, inflammation and metabolic disease.
collaborative nature of the relationship forged Slough Estates USA and Tularik signed their between Tularik and Slough that has first build-to-suit lease in 1995 for produced high quality, efficient and flexible approximately 66,000 sq.
ft. of research research facilities.
space in Sloughs first South San Francisco life sciences project in Britannia Gateway.
Amgen is a global biotechnology company that discovers, develops, manufactures and markets important human therapeutics based on advances in cellular and molecular biology.
