Slough Estates plc | Annual Report 2004 07 Market overview We expect 2005 to be another good year for commercial property, with double-digit total returns in each sector.
Capital Economics For the past 10 years, commercial Looking ahead, the property market faces Housing market slump to constrain two key challenges.
First, will occupier UK growth property has been the star demand recover in the face of a soft patch Over the past few years, UK economic performing asset class, with in the economic recovery?
Secondly, is growth has been boosted by a stable, often double-digit returns.
commercial property now so overvalued combination of looser fiscal policy and the Chart 1 shows that in 2004 even that a fall in capital values is on the cards?
knock-on impact of low interest rates and house price increases on household the beleaguered office sector From cyclical recovery to structural spending.
However, looking ahead, both delivered higher total returns weakness of these supports are likely to be removed.
Sadly, we suspect that 2004 will turn out First, the fiscal loosening is at an end.
to be the high point of the global economic Secondly, the housing market has already recovery.
Chart 2 shows that we expect come off the boil, and we continue to US GDP growth to falter as heavily expect a 20 per cent peak to trough fall in indebted consumers rein in their spending house prices.
We think that the negative and the fiscal and monetary stimulus of the impact of the housing market slump on last few years wears off.
In the euro-zone household spending growth will in turn we also expect GDP growth to be weaker drag down overall economic growth.
than last year, with consumer demand Accordingly, we expect GDP growth continuing to be notably soft.
to fall to 2 per cent y y in 2005 and 2.2 per cent y y in 2006.
In addition, the historically unprecedented size of the US current account deficit is However, unlike the early 1990s, we do putting strong downward pressure on the not think that the economy will fall into dollar, and we expect to see a $1.50 euro by recession as the housing market slumps.
Whilst this would be good With inflation low, the Bank of Englands news for the US traded sector, it would Monetary Policy Committee will be free to choke off any export-led recovery in the cut interest rates to limit the deflationary euro-zone.
Overall, we expect euro-zone impact of falling house prices on the wider growth to fall to just 1.3 per cent y y in economy.
We expect to see interest rates 2005, and for the ECB to keep interest rates fall to 3.5 per cent by the end of 2006. on hold at 2 per cent throughout the year.
Within the euro-zone, we expect Germany to remain the main drag on growth, with France continuing to outperform.
Offices FTSE Long Cash 0 Euro-zone Japan UK USA RLT Index Allshare gifts
