com Directors' report The Directors present their annual report with the consolidated accounts of the Directors Company and its subsidiaries for the year to 31st October 2004.
The Directors of the Company at the date of this report are shown on page 29.
Mr J W Matthews will retire in accordance with the Articles of Association at Principal activities and business review the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, will offer himself The principal activities of the Group are residential housing and property for re-election.
Mr J W Matthews does not have a service agreement with the development.
The Chairman's Statement and the Operating and Financial Company.
Review on pages 5 to 19 deal with the development of the Group's business and its activities during the year.
A statement of the Directors' share interests is set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 51 to 56.
Going Concern Assumption The Directors have considered, as part of their annual budget process, the Environmental policy adequacy of the Groups banking and other facilities in relation to its profit and It is the Company's policy to assess environmental issues which may be cash flow projections.
The Directors have reasonable expectations that the applicable to its business, customers and the general public and to take such Group has adequate resources to continue trading for the foreseeable future.
measures consistent with being a responsible property development group.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Creditor payment policy The Group's policy concerning the payment of its trade creditors is as follows: Results and dividend to agree the terms of payment at the start of business with the supplier: The profit for the financial year after taxation was 57.0m 2003 51.6m.
to ensure that suppliers are aware of the terms of payment: The Directors propose that a final dividend of 8.3p per share be paid to holders to pay in accordance with its contractual and other legal obligations: and of ordinary shares which together with the interim dividend of 4.0p makes a not to alter payment terms without prior agreement of the supplier.
The Company does not have trade creditors.
Creditor days for the Companys subsidiary undertakings are shown in the financial statements of those Share capital undertakings.
Details of shares issued during the year are set out in Note 15 to the accounts.
International Financial Reporting Standards Information regarding substantial shareholdings in the Company is contained in The application of International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS will be the Shareholder Information section on page 59. required for listed companies for accounting periods commencing on or after 1st January 2005.
Crest Nicholson will, therefore, publish IFRS compliant Donations financial statements for the year to 31st October 2006.
A working group has During the year the Group made contributions to charities of 36,000 2003 been established to identify the implications of the Standards for the Company 15,000.
There were no political donations made in either year.
and initiate a programme to enable Crest Nicholson to comply fully with IFRS.
Employment policies Auditors Arrangements exist to keep all employees informed on matters of concern to A resolution for the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of the them through a variety of media including conferences, newsletters and Company is to be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
It is the policy of the Group that disabled persons shall be considered for Annual General Meeting employment, training, career development and promotion on the basis of their The resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 8th aptitudes and abilities, in common with all employees.
The services of any April 2005, together with explanatory notes, appear in the separate Notice of existing employee who becomes disabled are retained wherever possible.
Meeting to be sent to all shareholders.
Training The Group recognises that its reputation is very dependent on the quality, By Order of the Board effectiveness and skill base of its employees.
There is a commitment at Board level to ensure that its employees and management are properly inducted into the Company and given necessary training to fulfil their roles.
With ever increasing customer demands, particular emphasis is placed on customer N I Hughes service and build quality skills training.
