com Region: Crest Nicholson PLC I Category: Directors www.
com 29 Directors and advisers J W Matthews Chairman and Chairman of the Nomination Committee 01 Age 60 John Matthews, a chartered accountant, was appointed Chairman in 1996.
He is chairman of Regus Group Plc and a non-executive director of Center Parcs UK Plc, Rotork Plc and SDL Plc.
He has previously been a managing director of County NatWest and deputy chairman deputy chief executive of Beazer Plc.
J Callcutt Chief Executive 02 Age 58 John Callcutt, a solicitor, joined the Group in 1974.
He was appointed to the Board in 1985 and became Chief Executive in 1991.
He is a member of the South East England Development Agency Advisory Council, a member of the Sustainable Buildings Task Group and a member of the Editorial Advisory Board to Building.
P Callcutt Executive Director 03 Age 55 Paul Callcutt joined the Group in 1982.
He was appointed to the Board in 2000 and is Group Land Director.
He is a solicitor who practised in property and planning law prior to taking up a commercial role with Crest Nicholson.
D P Darby Finance Director 04 Age 54 Peter Darby, a chartered accountant, was appointed to the Board in August 2003.
He had previously served with the Group for 9 years in a range of finance and general management roles, rejoining the Group in 2001.
He was formerly group finance director of The Berkeley Group Plc and divisional finance director of Wimpey Homes.
R S Lidgate Independent Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 05 Age 59 Stephen Lidgate was appointed to the Board in April 2003.
He is past president of the House Builders Federation and a board member of the Construction Industry Training Board.
He was formerly chairman of John Laing Homes Plc and W L Homes LLC in the USA and a director of John Laing Plc.
He has been involved in housebuilding for thirty-five years and is a fellow of the Chartered Institute of Marketing.
R T Scholes Independent Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee 06 Age 59 Richard Scholes was appointed to the Board in July 2003.
He is a non-executive director and chairman of the audit committees of Bodycote International plc, Chaucer Holdings PLC and Marshalls PLC.
He is also a non-executive director of Keller Group PLC and is a chartered accountant.
S Stone Executive Director and Chief Operating Officer 07 Secretary: N I Hughes Age 51 Stephen Stone joined the Group in 1995 and was appointed to the Auditors: KPMG Audit Plc Board in 1999.
He is a chartered architect with over 30 years Solicitors: Linklaters experience in the construction and house building industry.
Brokers: Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein L J Wigglesworth Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Limited 08 Age 45 Merchant Bankers: UBS Warburg Lloyd Wigglesworth was appointed to the Board in 2000.
He is managing director of Entertainment UK, part of Woolworths plc.
Bankers: The Royal Bank of Scotland Group He is also a non-executive director of property consultants Lloyds TSB Bank Plc Donaldsons.
He was formerly a director of WHSmith PLC, HSBC Bank PLC where he was managing director of WHSmith News.
Barclays Bank PLC Allied Irish Banks, p. l. c. Bank of Scotland Danske Bank A S National Bank of Egypt International Limited 07 04 06 03 Brown, Shipley & Co. Limited 02 08 01 05
