Front [91299] 3 10 05 12:45 PM Page 24 Directors report The directors present their annual report and audited financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2004.
The report should be read in conjunction with information recorded on pages 2 to 23 and pages 27 to 38.
Activities of the Company and subsidiaries Croda International Plc is a holding company operating from its headquarters at Cowick Hall, Snaith, Goole, East Yorkshire, and providing central direction for a speciality chemical group with operations in the main market areas of the world.
Further details are given in the operating review on pages 5 to 13. Review of business activities A review of the activities of the two business sectors comprising the Group is given on pages 5 to 13.
An analysis of turnover and profits is shown in note 1 on page 47.
This report should be read in conjunction with the Chairmans statement and the operating and financial reviews, which include information about Group businesses, the financial performance during the year and likely developments.
Profit and appropriations 2004 2003 m m Profit attributable to the ordinary shares of the Company after providing for taxation, the interests of minority shareholders and dividends on the preference shares 26.3 29.3 Dividends paid and proposed on ordinary shares 16.3 15.5 Amount transferred to reserves 10.0 13.8 The directors recommend a final dividend of 8.4p per share.
If approved by shareholders, dividends for the year will amount to 12.5p per share 2003: 11.85p per share.
Details of dividends are shown in note 9 on page 51.
Acquisitions and disposals The table below shows the disposals made by the Group.
Further details are shown in note 30 on page 66.
Date Nature of interest 16 January 2004 Sale of Firefighting Chemicals business including the share capital of Croda Uniser SAS to Kidde Fire Protection Services Limited.
26 July 2004 Sale of rock anchor manufacturing business operated by Celtite Pty Limited to DYWIDAG Systems International Pty Limited.
No acquisitions were made by the Group during the year.
Directors The present directors of the Company are shown on pages 22 and 23.
B M Richmond and M A Ward retire by rotation but will be proposed for re-election at the Annual General Meeting AGM.
M C Buzzacott retires under Article 84 and will be proposed for election at the AGM.
Details of the directors service contracts are given in the report on the directors remuneration on pages 27 to 32.
Apart from the share option schemes and service contracts, no director had any beneficial interest in any contract to which the Company or a subsidiary was a party during the year.
A statement indicating the beneficial and non-beneficial interests of the directors in the share capital, including share options, of the Company is shown in the report on the directors remuneration on page 31.
The Companys register of directors interests, which is open to inspection at the registered office, contains full details of directors shareholdings and share options.
Front [91299] 3 10 05 12:45 PM Page 25 Community affairs We have continued to support community projects both with donations and with practical help and advice.
Many of our employees also devote much of their own time to working with local community groups and to fundraising projects for deserving causes.
Our work with schools, colleges and other educational establishments is ongoing.
Students learn how our products are used and gain direct experience of product formulation and plant processes.
The Group provides placements for university students and post-graduates.
Work experience opportunities are provided regularly for students from local schools.
These contacts not only assist young people as they make career choices but also provide valuable learning opportunities for our employees through developing their mentoring and interpersonal skills.
The new initiative in the UK to encourage local community involvement has led to a number of employees giving time to a range of projects such as supporting people who have had brain injuries, extending swimming facilities for children, raising money for patient support groups and enabling infant schools to take educational trips.
The initiative known as the 1% Club enables employees to take 1% of their working time as paid leave to do voluntary community work.
Employment policies In all Crodas operations around the world relations with employees are based on respect for the dignity and rights of the individual.
The Company upholds the principles of socially responsible business practices.
In particular, in all countries in which the Company operates, the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work 1998 is met.
Namely the Company does not participate in any form of child labour or forced compulsory labour: it maintains freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining and promotes policies and practices designed to eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation.
Policies on corporate ethics and whistleblowing are in force throughout the Group.
Group employment policies embrace local, national and international best practice worldwide.
In this way we ensure that all employees work in an environment which encourages fairness of treatment, respect for the individual and flexibility of approach.
The Group welcomes all employees solely on the basis of job suitability so that recruitment and career management are free from discrimination.
Diversity is encouraged and the benefits of different perspectives enhance working life.
The Company takes a positive approach to disability, considering all applications from disabled people fairly and in the context of job suitability.
Adaptations to the working environment are made where appropriate and the disabled are integrated into all areas of working life, both formal and social.
Those who suffer illness or injury that has a permanent impact on their physical or mental ability are supported and every effort is made to continue employment through use of flexible working arrangements, training etc.
All employees have equal access, based on ability and motivation, to training, career development and promotion.
Employees receive training and development to ensure that personal growth and business objectives are achieved successfully.
We aim to nurture and challenge so that the talents, skills and knowledge of our employees are used positively to mutual benefit.
This relies on open and comprehensive communication activities.
All divisions provide appropriate forums for two-way communication to keep everyone informed, to consult and to seek contribution.
Formal consultation committees have operated in all UK divisions since 2003 and in particular provided valuable dialogue on pension provision.
Employee participation has been further enhanced during 2004 by the introduction in the UK of a formal scheme to enable employees to submit ideas that reduce costs, improve efficiency or customer service, or increase market opportunity.
Harnessing the experience and knowledge of our employees through listening to their ideas and putting them into practice is fundamental in developing our business.
A corporate intranet has been established and is available to approximately 80% of employees worldwide.
The Company magazine, Croda Way, distributed worldwide, brings together news of the Croda family - both personal and corporate.
It provides an insight into the lives of the people working for the Group as well as reporting on Company activities around the world and commenting on full and half year results.
Our reward and benefit packages are designed to recognise the contribution of employees, whilst fitting local market conditions and complying with our fair treatment policies.
The Company operates a Save As You Earn linked share scheme in the UK and a similar scheme is available overseas.
The Company introduced a Share Incentive Plan in the UK in 2003.
All employees who have completed 12 months service are eligible to join the plan.
Front [91299] 3 10 05 12:45 PM Page 26 Directors report Purchase of own shares At the 2004 AGM the members renewed the Companys authority to purchase up to 10% of its ordinary shares.
Pursuant to this authority, during the year the Company purchased an aggregate of 1,985,284 ordinary shares of 10p each having a nominal value of 198,528 representing 1.46% of the Companys issued share capital as at 1 January 2004 for an aggregate consideration of 6,359,925 at an average cost of 320p per share.
The Company considers that these purchases are beneficial to members as they give the Company more flexibility in the control of its cost of capital.
As a result of these purchases and the purchase of a further 300,000 shares in 2005, the number of shares in respect of which the Company is now authorised to make market purchases has been reduced to 11,341,600 ordinary shares of 10p each representing approximately 8.32% of the issued share capital of the Company, including shares held in treasury.
The current authority given by members at the last AGM for the Company to purchase its own shares expires on 21 April 2005.
The Company will be seeking to renew its authority to purchase its own shares.
Shares will only be purchased if the Board believes that such purchases will improve earnings per share and be in the best interests of the shareholders generally.
Any shares purchased will be held as treasury shares.
Supplier payment policy Group policy concerning the payment of suppliers is that each operating unit agrees terms of payment at the beginning of business or makes the supplier aware of the standard payment terms, and pays in accordance with those terms or other legal obligations.
At 31 December 2004 the Group had an average of 36 days 2003: 37 days purchases outstanding in trade creditors.
The Companys trade creditors are not material.
Charitable and political donations Charitable donations made by the Group in the year amounted to 35,000 2003: 34,000.
No donation was made for political purposes 2003: Nil.
Annual General Meeting The AGM will be held at Carlton Towers, Carlton, Goole, East Yorkshire DN14 9LZ on Thursday 21 April 2005 at 12 noon.
The notice of meeting and explanation of the special business to be considered at the AGM are contained in separate circulars issued to shareholders with this annual report.
Independent auditors Our auditors,  LLP, have indicated their willingness to continue in office and, on the recommendation of the audit committee, resolutions regarding their reappointment and remuneration will be submitted to the AGM.
Substantial shareholders At 23 February 2005 the Company had been notified of the following substantial interests in its ordinary share capital Shares % Legal & General Investment Management 5,043,309 3.76 Harris Associates LLP 4,165,100 3.11 By order of the Board J R Ainger Secretary 23 February 2005 26 Directors report
