Directors report Introduction Post balance sheet event The directors present their report on the affairs On 15 March 2005, through an indirect wholly of the Group, together with the financial statements of owned subsidiary, the Company acquired the entire the Company for the year ended 31 December 2004. issued share capital of Clarity Technologies, Inc.
Clarity for a consideration of $17.1 million, Activities and business review payable in cash.
The Company will fund the CSR is a leading developer and provider of single acquisition from its existing cash resources.
Clarity is chip wireless solutions designed to support data and in the early stages of revenue generation and made an voice communications between a wide range of unaudited operating loss of $4.8 million for the year products over short range radio links.
More detailed ended 31 December 2004. information on the principal activities of CSR plc and its subsidiaries, together with a review of the Future development businesses, are set out on pages 6 to 11.
Details of It remains the Boards intention to develop the the subsidiaries and branches of the Company are Group through organic growth and selective set out on page 50. acquisition.
At the Annual General Meeting held on 18 February 2004, the shareholders approved a Directors restructuring of the Companys share capital.
Details Details of the directors of the Board who served of the changes are set forth on pages 53 and 54. during the year are contained on pages 20 and 21.
On 19 February 2004, the Company changed its Biographies of the directors in office at 31 December name from Cambridge Silicon Radio Holdings Limited 2004 are on pages 24 and 25. to CSR plc.
On 2 March 2004, the Company was listed The interests of the executive directors in the on the London Stock Exchange.
shares and options of the Company are detailed in note 7 to the accounts and in the Report of the Financial results Remuneration Committee on pages 47 and 34 The Groups consolidated profit and loss respectively.
account, set out on page 38 shows an increase to In accordance with the articles of association, $58.7 million in operating profit compared to an the directors retiring at the Annual General Meeting operating loss in 2003 of $2.4 million.
Turnover will be Mr Ron Mackintosh and Mr John Scarisbrick, increased by 274% to $253.1 million from as they have been appointed since the last meeting.
$67.6 million and basic earnings per share were Being eligible, Mr Mackintosh and Mr Scarisbrick $0.53 from $0.03 in 2003.
A detailed analysis of offer themselves for election.
Mr James Collier and the Groups performance is set out on pages 14 to 19.
Mr Glenn Collinson are retiring by rotation and, being In accordance with stated policy, no dividend will be eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
paid in respect of the year ended 31 December 2004.
26 Changing the way the world connects Employees Social responsibility The Company is conscious that its employees The Company recognises the importance of are key contributors to its success.
The Company social, environmental and ethical SEE matters and therefore encourages good employee relations across during 2004 has worked and in 2005 will continue to all of its operations and requires that this is facilitated work towards compliance with the ABI disclosure by regular meetings and scheduled briefings attended guidelines on social responsibility.
This includes the and supported by senior management.
Companys impact through its operations on the Company wide briefings are held with all staff environment, on the safety and well being of its every month.
In addition, scheduled meetings are held employees, and end users of its products as well as at team and department levels to consider commercial, those who contribute to the process of the strategic, financial and human resource issues.
Key development and manufacture of our products findings from these meetings are discussed at a through our suppliers, distributors and customers.
weekly meeting of senior management for the Groups The directors consider that the Companys operations worldwide.
These have been an important business practices already take due account of certain element in supporting the Company during its of its responsibilities for SEE matters.
has identified the resources which are key to its The Company also recognises its responsibilities business and established practices intended to to ensure the fair treatment of all of its employees in safeguard and maintain them.
A significant resource accordance with national legislation applicable to the is the Companys employees and the Company has territories within which it operates.
Equal opportunities established policies and practices which encourage for appropriate training, career development and the recruitment, retention and motivation of staff.
promotion are available to all employees regardless Key business risks pertaining to the Company, of any physical disability or their gender, religion, and of which SEE matters form part, have been race or nationality.
In particular, having regard to their identified.
These risks are reviewed on a regular basis aptitudes and abilities, the Company gives full and and account is taken of the potential impact to the fair consideration to applications for employment business and its stakeholders resulting from any such received from disabled persons.
In response to an element of this evaluation, in Pension arrangements in each of the countries January 2005, the Company was recommended for in which the Group operates are maintained in certification under OHSAS 18001.
The Company is accordance with legislative requirements, custom and also registered under the quality standard ISO 9000. practice and Company policy as appropriate.
To the extent they apply to the Companys operations, the Company is considering issues Payment of creditors connected with the safe disposal and treatment of its In the UK, the Company agrees payment terms products at the end of their working life, in accordance with its suppliers when it enters into binding purchase with the Waste from Electrical and Electronic contracts.
At 31 December 2004 the number of Equipment WEEE Directive, which is expected to creditor days outstanding for the Company was 58 come into effect in 2005.
It is recognised that the 2003 46 and for the Group was 58 2003 56. rapid growth and change in the Companys activities makes this a challenging task, however the Company Research and development will be endeavouring to work towards compliance.
The Group devotes substantial efforts to research and development, which underpin and sustain its success.
The Company is conscious of the need to ensure that adequate financial and human resources are available for research and development and these issues and future planning are considered at operational level and at each Board meeting.
All costs incurred to date have been expensed.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004 27 Directors report The Company recognises the importance of Directors responsibility statement continued ensuring that its suppliers have appropriate policies Company law in the United Kingdom requires and practices on SEE matters.
As a result, the the directors to prepare financial statements for each Company undertakes occasional audits of its principal financial year which give a true and fair view of the direct suppliers in relation primarily to environmental, state of affairs of the Company and Group as at the end but also considering social and ethical issues.
The of the financial year and of the profit or loss of the next audit is scheduled to be undertaken in April Group for that period.
In preparing those financial statements, the The Company has put in place formal processes directors are required to select suitable accounting for the identification and, where possible, the policies and then apply them consistently, make management of significant risks which are reviewed judgements and estimates that are reasonable and each quarter by senior management.
This is formally prudent and state whether applicable accounting reported on a regular basis to the Audit Committee, as standards have been followed.
a result of which the directors are aware of the potential The directors are also responsible for keeping cost and resources involved in managing these risks.
proper accounting records which disclose with The Company is also aware of the importance reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of ensuring that its products can be used in a safe of the Company and the Group and enable them to manner.
The Company considers that its products ensure that the financial statements comply with the actively facilitate the safe and convenient use of a Companies Act 1985.
They also have responsibility range of consumer products.
The Company supports for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence our customers in the drive for ever smaller and cheaper for the prevention and detection of fraud and other mobile communication devices, employing low power irregularities.
Through application of the Companys The directors, having prepared the financial technology, our customers can supply mobile phones statements, have permitted the auditors to take which facilitates compliance with the growing amount whatever steps and undertake whatever inspections of legislation worldwide concerning the safe use of they consider to be appropriate for the purpose of phones whilst driving.
enabling them to give their audit opinion.
28 Changing the way the world connects Going concern After making due enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation at the time of approving the financial statements that the Group has adequate financial resources to continue to operate for the foreseeable future and, consequently, continue to use the going concern basis for preparing the financial statements which follow.
Substantial shareholdings The following interests of 3% or more in the issued share capital of the Company appears in the register maintained under the provisions of Section 211 of the Companies Act 1985.
Disclosed holding ordinary share capital % of issued Fidelity, FMR Corp, Fidelity International Ltd 15,515,498 12.64% 3i Group plc 7,177,974 5.85% Deutsche Bank AG 5,942,521 4.84% Lansdowne Partners Ltd client funds 5,880,603 4.79% Legal & General Group Plc 4,532,875 3.69% Goldman Sachs & Co 4,291,486 3.50% Amadeus 4,239,278 3.45% Auditors Deloitte & Touche LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in office as auditors and therefore, in accordance with section 385 of the Companies Act 1985, a resolution for their reappointment will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
By order of the Board Brett Gladden Secretary 24 March 2005 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004 29
