Board of Directors John Whybrow John Hodgson James Collier Paul Goodridge, Chairman Chief Executive Officer Chief Technical Officer, Finance Director John Whybrow has served as a John Hodgson has served as Co-founder Paul Goodridge has served as non-executive director of the the Companys Chief Executive James Collier has served as the Finance Director for CSR since Company since December 2003 Officer since February 2000.
Companys Chief Technical Officer January 2002, having joined and was appointed Chairman in From April 1997 to July 1999, since CSRs establishment in the Company in 2000.
Having spent the Mr Hodgson served as senior April 1999.
Mr Collier is a cojoining CSR, Mr Goodridge was majority of his career with vice president of world wide founder of CSR.
Between 1984 head of UK finance for PA Philips Electronics, he was sales and technology centres at and April 1999, Mr Collier held Consulting.
From 1990 to 1997 appointed president & CEO VLSI Technology.
From January a number of executive and Mr Goodridge had a variety of of Philips Lighting Holdings BV, 1990 to April 1997, Mr Hodgson technical positions at Cambridge senior financial positions at Black based in Holland, in 1995, served as vice president for world Consultants Ltd, where he & Decker and Charringtons Fuels becoming executive vice wide sales and marketing and formed the microelectronics Limited.
Mr Goodridge is a president of Royal Philips corporate officer at Lucent group in 1987.
Prior to 1984, member of the Institute of Electronics BV and member of Microelectronics.
Prior to 1990, Mr Collier held a number of Chartered Accountants in the Board of Management in Mr Hodgson was a co-founder, executive and technical England and Wales.
He returned to the UK in director and executive vice positions at Schlumberger.
2002, becoming chairman of president at VTC Inc. a start up Mr Collier has a degree in physics Wolseley plc having been a semiconductor company, and from Oxford University.
Age 46. non-executive director of the prior to that held a number of company since 1997.
He is executive, sales and technical also a non-executive director of positions at various semiDixons plc.
Mr Whybrow is a conductor companies, including graduate of the Imperial College, Fairchild Semiconductor and London where he completed a Texas Instruments.
Mr Hodgson degree in Mechanical holds a B. Sc.
He also has an University.
MBA from Manchester Business School.
Remuneration Committee Audit Committee Nomination Committee 24 Changing the way the world connects Glenn Collinson Ron Mackintosh David Tucker John Scarisbrick Michael Shone Sales Director, Co-founder Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Glenn Collinson has served as Ron Mackintosh was appointed Senior Independent Director John Scarisbrick joined CSR as Michael Shone served as the CSRs Sales Director since a non-executive director of CSR David Tucker joined CSR as a a non-executive director in June Chairman of the Company until August 2002.
He is a former non-executive director in 2004.
Mr Scarisbrick worked for March 2004.
Mr Shone has a co-founder of CSR.
Between director of Gemplus SA, the January 2004.
After nineteen 25 years at Texas Instruments served as chairman of OST October 1996 and 1999, worlds largest smartcard years as an investment manager in a variety of roles, including Business Rules Limited and Iris Mr Collinson served as a manufacturer and was chief with M&G unit trusts, Mr Tucker as senior vice president Software Limited until their senior engineer and then executive of Computer Sciences retired as deputy managing responsible for TIs Application sales in 2002 and 2004 as a marketing manager at Corporations CSC European director in 1988.
He is currently Specific Products chip business, respectively.
He is currently Cambridge Consultants Ltd. business from 1992-2000. chairman of Edinburgh UK president of TI Europe and lead chairman of Flexible Prior to that, he served as a Mr Mackintosh is a director of Tracker Fund PLC and a nonthe team that created TIs DSP Management Systems Limited, design engineer and marketing software company Royalblue executive director of Rexam PLC business in Houston, Texas.
Alaric Systems Limited and manager at Texas Instruments PLC, chairman of software where he chairs the audit Prior to TI, Mr Scarisbrick Forty Two Objects Limited.
Mr Collinson holds a company Smartstream Ltd committee.
He is also a trustee worked in electronics systems From 1990 to 1998, Mr Shone B. Sc.
and chairman of Differentis, a of the Mineworkers Pension design roles at Rank Radio was chairman and chief in electronics from Durham privately owned European IT Scheme Limited.
Mr Tucker is International and Marconi Space executive officer of Anite University, and an MBA from services consultancy which he a member of the Institute of and Defence Systems in the UK.
Mr Collinson co-founded in July 2000.
Chartered Accountants in He is a non-executive director of B. Sc.
degree in Mathematics is a member of the Institute of England and Wales.
ARM Holdings plc and sits on the and is also a Chartered Engineer.
Age 41. board of three companies in the Mr Shone will stand down as a technology telecoms sector director of the Company on SonIM, Intrinsity and Ubinetics 31 March 2005.
Age 64. and is chairman of Cambridge Positioning Systems.
