Dairy Crest Annual Report 2004 29 Directors report The directors of Dairy Crest Group plc present their eighth Share capital annual report and the audited financial statements for the year The authorised and issued share capital of the Company, ended 31 March 2004. together with details of the shares issued during the year, are shown in note 20 on page 44.
So far as the Company is aware, Principal activity at 21 May 2004, no institution held an interest of 3% or more in The principal activity of the Group is the manufacture and the capital of the Company on behalf of themselves and others.
trading of milk and dairy products.
Employee involvement Review of operations The importance of good communication is recognised by the The Groups operations and future developments are dealt with Company.
There are also well-established consultation and in the Chief Executives review, Operational review and Financial negotiating arrangements with recognised trade unions.
Employment of disabled persons Results and dividends The Company considers applicants for posts compatible The consolidated profit and loss account is on page 31.
Staff who become disabled are retained profit for the year, after taxation, amounted to 35.2 million wherever practicable.
The directors recommend a final dividend of 13.4 pence per share which, together with the interim Charitable and political donations dividend of 5.5 pence per share paid on 29 January 2004, Charitable donations amounted to 0.1 million 2003 makes a total dividend for the year of 18.9 pence per share.
Small contributions, mainly of product, If approved, the final dividend will be paid on 9 August 2004 to were also made to local charities.
No contributions were made shareholders on the register on 9 July 2004. to any political party.
Fixed assets Supplier payment policy The directors are of the opinion that the current market value in Payment dates are established according to the agreed date of existing use of the Groups property interests is around delivery of goods or provision of services and the receipt of a 30 million above the value shown in the financial statements.
The Group agrees the length of payment terms with each of its suppliers as part of the overall purchasing Directors agreement.
It is the Groups policy to abide by these agreed A list of the directors at the end of the year is set out on page 19. terms of payment.
The number of days purchases in the Groups creditors at 31 March 2004 was 24 days 2003 25 days.
Mr I C Laurie retired from the Board on 17 July 2003 and left the Group on 10 August 2003.
Auditors Ernst & Young LLP have expressed their willingness to continue In accordance with the Articles of Association Mr S M D Oliver as auditors of the Company.
A resolution to reappoint Ernst & and Mr D J Dugdale retire by rotation and being eligible seek Young LLP as the Companys auditors will be put to the re-election at this years Annual General Meeting.
Mr A S N Murray was appointed to the Board as Group Finance Annual General Meeting Director on 8 September 2003.
As he was appointed during the The Annual General Meeting will be held at the Chartered year he will retire at this years Annual General Meeting in Accountants Hall, Moorgate Place, London EC2P 2BJ on accordance with the Articles of Association and will seek election.
Details of the resolutions to be proposed, including items of special business, are given in Details of the directors remuneration, service contracts letters the Notice of Annual General Meeting and Explanatory Notes of appointment in the case of the non-executive directors, which appear on pages 54 to 57. interests in shares, share options and long term incentive share plan awards are given in the Report of the Board on Directors The directors believe that the resolutions are in the best remuneration on pages 22 to 28. interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole and unanimously recommend that shareholders should vote in A brief biography of each of the directors which includes their favour of all resolutions.
membership of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration committees is shown on page 19.
By order of the Board Roger Newton, Secretary 26 May 2004
