Dairy Crest Annual Report 2004 19 Directors and Advisers Simon Oliver Drummond Hall Mark Allen David Dugdale Chairman 63 Chief Executive 54 Executive Managing Director 44 Non-Executive Director 62 Was appointed as a non-executive Was appointed in September 1991 and Was appointed in July 2002.
He joined Was appointed in January 2002.
He is director in December 1997 and became Chief Executive in July 2002.
Dairy Crest in August 1991 and is Managing Partner of Crathorne Farms in became Chairman in July 2000.
He He joined Dairy Crest from HP Bulmer responsible for the Group's cheese and North Yorkshire, a mixed dairy arable farms 670 acres of cereals in Cornwall Holdings plc where he was Managing household businesses.
He is a council and has many years experience in the Director, Cider and Beer Division.
Prior member of the Royal Association of dairy industry, notably as Chairman of to that he was Marketing Director of British Dairy Farmers and holds a Mendip Foods Limited prior to its Pepsi Cola, Northern Europe.
number of offices, including Farmer acquisition by Dairy Crest in 1995.
Director and Vice Chairman of United He is Chairman of Private Investor Oilseeds Marketing Ltd. Capital Limited.
Gerry Grimstone Howard Mann Alastair Murray Paul Lewis Non-Executive Director 54 Non-Executive Director 57 Finance Director 43 Non-Executive Director 67 Was appointed in March 1999.
He is a Was appointed in May 2003.
He has Was appointed in September 2003.
Was appointed in August 1993 and is non-executive director of Candover recently retired from McCain Foods He was Finance Director of The Body the senior non-executive director.
He Investments plc, The Standard Life Limited, Toronto, Canada having been Shop International plc from January was Deputy Chairman and previously Assurance Company, Aggregate President and Chief Executive since 1999 and was previously Finance Group Finance Director of Tate & Lyle Industries PLC and F&C Smaller 1995.
He previously held a number of Director of Dalgety Food Ingredients plc.
He is also a non-executive director Companies plc.
He is also a member of senior positions with Rank Hovis Limited.
of Federal Mogul Corporation in the Horserace Totalisator Board and of McDougall.
the RAF Strike Command Board.
He previously held a number of senior positions in investment banking at Schroders and in the UK Civil Service.
Auditors Audit Committee Members Ernst & Young LLP Nomination Committee Members Remuneration Committee Members Solicitors A Clifford Chance LLP The dates of appointment for Wedlake Bell Drummond Hall and Paul Lewis refer to the year when they were appointed to Principal Bankers the Board of Dairy Crest Limited.
They The Royal Bank of Scotland plc were appointed to Dairy Crest Group Rabobank International, London Branch plc on 4 July 1996.
Westdeutsche Landesbank Girozentrale, London Branch Registered Office Peter Thornton Roger Newton Claygate House, Executive Managing Director 38 Company Secretary 55 Littleworth Road, Esher, Surrey KT10 9PN Was appointed in April 2003.
He joined Joined in February 1992.
He is a Dairy Crest in March 1993 and is Solicitor and Chartered Secretary and Registered in England No.
3162897 responsible for the Group's spreads was previously Secretary of Nabisco and liquids businesses.
formerly with UB Ross Young's Ltd.
