EUROMONEY 25% INSTITUTIONAL INVESTOR Financial publishing Conference revenues accelerate A MIX OF ORGANIC GROWTH, Absolute Return is a leading The conference businesses had an authority for the US hedge fund excellent year with revenues up industry.
It contributed to the strong 25% helped by the acquisition of IMN.
TIGHT CONTROL OF COSTS AND performance of the high growth IMN is the world leader in events HFI business.
for the securitisation and indexation FOCUSING ON HIGH MARGIN sectors and revenues of its annual Global Asset Securitisation event in PRODUCTS LED TO FURTHER Barcelona in June grew by a third.
performances from emerging markets, particularly Eastern Padraic Fallon Europe and Asia.
In contrast, the recovery in advertising Chairman left from the key London and New York financial centres has Richard Ensor Managing Director right been slow.
The weakness in advertising meant that profits from financial publishing excluding HFI fell by 1 million.
However HFI, acquired in August 2003, has performed well ahead of Euromoney Institutional Investor expectations since acquisition.
Financial highlights Profits from business publishing increased by 0.9 million despite a fall in revenues.
Gulf, the Houston-based energy publisher, the legal publishing business, and Engel, the Turnover Operating profit pharmaceutical marketing publisher, all experienced a strong 2004: 175m 2004: 31m second half advertising recovery.
The conference businesses had an excellent year, helped by a better than expected contribution from Information Management Adjusted operating profit before amortisation and impairment of % of Group turnover Network IMN.
Excluding IMN, conference revenues increased intangible assets 25%.
Euromoney Conferences was the best performer.
2004: 8% Euromoney Seminars and Institutional Investor Memberships also had good years.
Adhesions profits increased as a result of a good contribution from the biennial Vinisud wine exhibition.
Euromoney Institutional Investor ISI revenue US$ million The results of the last three years have demonstrated the value of conference businesses, particularly ones that are predominantly sponsor-driven, as a more robust revenue stream than advertising.
This has reinforced Euromoneys strategy of 20 expanding its portfolio of market-leading annual events through a mixture of organic and acquisition growth.
IMNs performance since acquisition in February has exceeded expectations.
15 Euromoneys training businesses also had an excellent year, continuing the growth begun in 2003.
The businesses benefited 10 from continued investment in new courses and marketing to increase delegate numbers.
The financial and legal training businesses depend heavily on the performance of the global 5 and emerging market financial institutions.
Both have increased hiring and training budgets during the year which, combined with an improved travel outlook, has helped trading conditions.
The profits of many of Euromoneys publishing businesses fell due to a combination of weak advertising revenues and the Operating profits from databases and information services decline in the US dollar.
However, advertising revenues showed increased by 0.6 million.
Stronger emerging markets helped ISI, signs of recovery and there was a continued strong performance the electronic information service on emerging markets, have from the events and training businesses.
one of its best sales periods for several years.
During the year, ISI expanded its In general, Euromoneys traditional financial advertisers have service to cover a further 15 countries, bringing the total to more been slow to increase their advertising spend in spite of better than 60, with nearly 9,000 information sources now available market conditions.
Financial advertising revenues, excluding to subscribers.
Hedge Fund Intelligence HFI, fell 4%.
Institutional Investor was the only major title to increase advertising revenues over the The benefits of this investment, and the contribution from high year although Euromoney magazine saw a marked improvement growth businesses such as ISI, HFI and IMN, will form the base in the second half.
Both titles were helped by strong for stronger organic growth in 2005 and beyond.
