DMG WORLD MEDIA 12% An international business Operating profit increases DMG WORLD MEDIA HAS dmg world media is an international dmg world media reported an business, running shows and increase in its underlying operating publications in 20 countries from profit of 12% in 2004.
HAD ANOTHER RECORD its 38 offices in the US, Canada, Brazil, the UK, France, UAE, China, YEAR, BUILDING ON Australia and New Zealand.
STRONG PERFORMANCES IN PRIOR YEARS.
revenue was generated in the North American market where the Charles Sinclair continuing weakness of the US dollar had a significant adverse Chairman left effect.
Adjusting for these non-annual shows and foreign Mike Cooke Chief Executive Officer exchange, the underlying operating profit grew year on year right by 12% on a turnover which grew by 6%.
2004 was a much better year for the exhibition business overall, when compared with 2003.
Despite the conflict in Iraq, dmg world dmg world media medias business performed well in the Middle East.
However, Financial highlights the four hurricanes in Florida this September did affect a number of shows, forcing two shows to be cancelled, one show to close early and reducing visitor levels at the September Surf Expo Show.
Continued strong management, tight cost control and Turnover Operating profit the high level of commitment from its staff has meant that dmg 2004: 145m 2004: 26m world media has held some of its largest events ever this year, including both Index shows and The Big 5 in Dubai, Surf Expo January in Orlando and the Daily Mail Ideal Home Show in London.
For the second year running, Surf Expo was honoured by Adjusted operating profit before amortisation and impairment of % of Group turnover Trade Show Week as one of the 50 fastest growing shows in the intangible assets US.
The Suburban Home and Garden show in Philadelphia also 2004: 7% made the list this year.
Launches and acquisitions are an integral part of dmg world dmg world media medias growth strategy.
In 2004 there were 12 new product Growth in operating profit million launches compared with 11 in 2003.
The 2004 launches included five new home shows two in the US, and one each in the UK, Canada and Australia: a number of new shows at its Business 30 Media division including shows in South Korea, China and Morocco: and a new antiques fair in France.
In addition, dmg world 25 media completed seven fill in acquisitions five in North America and one each in the UK and New Zealand.
dmg world media is 20 planning to launch a further eight shows in the coming year.
15 dmg world media is expecting continued strong growth in its 10 underlying business, although overall profits are likely to be lower 5 due to a number of large non-annual shows and Index not reporting in 2005.
The new financial year has already started well, 0 with a successful second edition of the Autumn Ideal Home Show in London, which again beat expectations in terms of both exhibitor space sales and visitor attendance.
dmg world media is one of the worlds leading international exhibition companies.
It aims to be its customers first choice, helping them to do business together and make informed choices through its range of exhibitions and related print and new media products.
2004 was a record year, reporting an increase in operating profit of 26% over last year.
This was due in part to a number of large non-annual events taking place, including the Global Petroleum Show in Calgary, the reporting of two Index shows in Dubai Index 2004 was brought forward from October 2004 to September 2004 due to Ramadan and to a number of acquisitions.
This strong result was despite the fact that half of dmg world medias 19 Daily Mail and General Trust plc 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004
