ASSOCIATED NEWSPAPERS NEWSPAPERS ARE THE HEART OF DMGT.
CONTINUED INVESTMENT IN OUR MARKET-LEADING TITLES, EVEN IN TIMES OF CHALLENGING TRADING CONDITIONS, MEANS THAT THE POSITION OF OUR NATIONAL NEWSPAPER DIVISION HAS NEVER BEEN STRONGER.
Associated Newspapers achieved its highest ever profits Kevin Beatty even after adjusting for the extra trading week this year.
Managing Director left Lord Rothermere Chairman centre The Daily Mail and The Mail on Sunday both achieved solid Paul Dacre circulation performances, outperforming markets in overall Editor-in-Chief right decline, proving once again the value of long term investment in editorial quality together with innovative, targeted and attractive promotions.
Associated Newspapers Financial highlights The Daily Mail circulation of 2,430,000 was down 0.5% despite a 10p cover price increase on Saturday, comparing favourably to a total market decline of 2.6%, consolidating its position as the second highest selling national daily newspaper and increasing Turnover Operating profit its share of the total market by 0.42%, the highest market share 2004: 890m 2004: 90m growth of any national newspaper.
At 2,361,000, The Mail on Sunday circulation was only 0.25% down on the previous year, despite the overall Sunday Adjusted operating profit before exceptional items and amortisation % of Group turnover newspaper market declining by 1%.
It also increased its and impairment of intangible assets market share to 16.7%, which is the highest ever recorded and 2004: 42% reaffirmed its position as the second highest selling national Sunday newspaper.
At the 2004 Newspaper Awards The Mail on Sunday was awarded the print industrys top design award Newspaper Design of the Year.
The Evening Standard average daily net sale of 385,000, was Daily Mail maintains sales and gains down by 6.6%.
The overall financial performance of the title, however, showed a dramatic improvement as a result of market share in declining market.
improved advertising revenues and the effects of last years Achieves record advertising revenue.
After a difficult start to the year, classified was by the end of the year showing year on year increases.
The Mail on Sunday bucks the Sunday Metro had an excellent year.
The successful launches of two new newspaper circulation market trend and franchises in the East Midlands and South West, with Northcliffe increases market share.
Newspapers, resulted in distribution reaching one million.
This makes Metro the fourth highest circulation Monday to Friday daily newspaper.
Readership has grown to 1.9 million, of which Evening Standard circulation declines, 61% are ABC1.
The average age of a Metro reader is 31. but financial performance much Associateds total advertising revenues increased by 10.7%, with improved.
display up 10.6% and classified up 11.0% including Jobsite.
The Daily Mail produced record total advertising revenue, whilst The Mail on Sunday was up 8% year on year.
The Evening Standard The New Media division nears profit.
increased display revenues by 14.7% but classified was down 6%.
Metro increased its display revenue by 27% and classified Jobsite proves an exceptional acquisition.
New Media, Loot and Ireland on Sunday all achieved excellent year on year growth.
The press enhancement project at Harmsworth Quays was completed within budget and on schedule.
The last two presses have been installed and were operational in November 2004, whereupon the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday and the Evening 12 Daily Mail and General Trust plc Online Mail Digital media acquisitions Increased circulation Online Mail was launched in May As part of the Groups continuing Metro is now fourth highest Monday offering an outstanding news, lifestyle strategy to develop a powerful to Friday circulation national newsand entertainment service.
It attracts portfolio of digital media properties, paper, having only been launched 504,000 unique visitors a day, Jobsite and Find a Property were in the UK in 1999. creating another channel to our acquired in March and November outstanding editorial output.
Jobsite is the UKs leading multi-sector online job board and Find a Property is its largest independent property website.
Standard had access to more pagination and colour.
Harmsworth Associated Newspapers Quays continues to work closely with its key suppliers to increase Revenue by source efficiency and to improve printing quality.
During the financial year the contract for the printing of Associateds titles at Bradford ended, with the production being transferred to a site operated Advertising 53% by Northcliffe Newspapers in Stoke.
Circulation 43% Other 4% ANM, the digital division of Associated Newspapers, made significant progress during the year, having pursued a strategy of building content around the newspaper brands as well as vertical classified listings' sites.
Advertising revenue grew 30% year on year and paid for content services were launched for the first time.
Two new products were launched in the year the Daily Mail The Mail on Sunday online and Homesandproperty.
Jobsite, the UKs leading recruitment website, was acquired in March and is exceeding all expectations.
Since the year end Find a Property has been acquired which further broadens the Associated Newspapers divisions portfolio.
Growth in adjusted operating profit over 10 years millions Ireland on Sunday continued to make progress and retains its 100 position as number three in the Irish Sunday newspaper market.
90 Average weekly circulation was slightly down at 152,000, but 80 readership increased to 481,000, an 11% increase on last year.
70 Advertising revenue was up 48% and trading losses were 60 reduced by 22%.
50 40 Loot had a good year, with advertising revenue up 7.8% and 30 profit up 20%.
Circulation again proved difficult, falling 12.9%, 20 which was much in line with the market.
Significant investment 10 is being made in Loot.
com to provide buyers and sellers with 0 access to a growing online audience.
Buy and Sell, Loots equivalent in Ireland, also had a good year, increasing revenue by 18% and profit by 9%.
The new financial year has started encouragingly for Associated Associated Newspapers but with upward pressure on newsprint prices, an extremely Circulation performance vs the market trend competitive circulation market and advertising still somewhat Source: ABC October-September Daily Mail 37.5% short term, it could be a challenging year.
However, with our Index 1993 4 100 The Mail on Sunday 20.7% strong, market-leading editorial products and continued focus Other Daily Nationals -18.8% on costs, the outlook for the next twelve months is Other Sunday Nationals -25.1% cautiously optimistic.
