DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors present their Report and Accounts for the year Employees ended 3rd October, 2004.
Under the Groups general policy of decentralised management, it is the responsibility of the management in each subsidiary to Trading Results and Dividends encourage the involvement and participation of employees in The profit after taxation of the Group amounted to 67.4 million.
The methods used depend on the wide variety After charging minority interests of 5.7 million, the Group profit of the companies, but the linking to performance targets of a for the year amounted to 61.7 million.
significant portion of remuneration is one widely used means.
An interim dividend of 3.45 pence per share was paid on the Ordinary The Group gives full and fair consideration to suitable applications and A Ordinary Non-Voting shares and the Directors recommend from disabled persons for employment.
If existing employees that a final dividend of 7.55 pence per share be paid on 11th February, become disabled they will continue to be employed, wherever 2005 making 11.0 pence per share for the year 2003 10.0 pence.
practicable, in the same job or, if this is not practicable, every effort will be made to find suitable alternative employment and Activities to provide appropriate training.
The principal activities of the Group are set out in the Group at a Glance section at the front of the Annual Report.
Policy on Payment of Suppliers The Groups policy on supplier payments varies across its The analysis of turnover and operating profit for the years ended subsidiaries.
These companies have no formal code or standard 3rd October, 2004 and 28th September, 2003 are included as Notes which deals specifically with the payment of suppliers.
However, 1 and 2 to the Profit and Loss Account.
A review of the development their policy is to ensure that the terms of payment, as specified of the business of the Group during the year, of its position at the by, and agreed with the supplier at the outset, are not exceeded.
end of the year and of likely future developments in its business is given in the Operating and Financial Review on pages 10 to 24.
The Company had no trade creditors at the year end date.
Directors The Groups average payment period, calculated on the basis of Biographical details of the Directors of the Company at 1st year end trade creditors, is 57 days 2003 56 days, although December, 2004 are set out on page 28.
The Directors remained this is dependent on the year end date and cannot therefore unchanged throughout the year, with the exception of Messrs be regarded as meaningful.
Gillespie and Verey who were appointed to the Board on 4th February, 2004 and the retirement of Sir Patrick Sergeant and Mr Donations Hakkarainen on the same day.
On 1st December, 2004, Professor Charitable donations made by the Group in the year amounted Schwab, a non-executive Director since 1998, stood down to 902,000 2003 548,000.
No political donations were made from the Board, having decided not to seek re-election.
December, 2004, Mr Beatty was appointed an executive Director.
Substantial Shareholdings The number of shares of the Company and of securities of other As set out in Note 32, the Company has two classes of share Group companies, in which the Directors or their families had an capital Ordinary shares and A Ordinary Non-Voting shares.
interest at the year end, are stated in the Remuneration Report On 1st December, 2004 the following were interested in more on page 42. than 3% of the issued Ordinary shares: In accordance with the Articles of Association, the Viscount Rothermere Continuation Limited Rothermere, Messrs Hemingway, Williams, Dacre and Dunstone and other parties to an agreement which retire by rotation at the Annual General meeting on 9th February, comes within section 204 of the Companies Act 1985 63.1% 2005.
In accordance with the Companies Act, Mr Gray, who has Codan Trust Company Ltd and Codan Trustees BVI Ltd reached the age of 70 years, is also required to stand for re-election trustees of the Esmond Harmsworth 1998 Family Settlement 29.3% at the Annual General Meeting.
Ordinary shareholders will be asked to confirm the appointment of Mr Beatty.
Auditors Each of the Directors being eligible, offers himself for The Companys auditors, Deloitte & Touche LLP, have indicated re-election with special notice having been given that Mr their willingness to continue in office and, in accordance with Hemingway, who is over 70 years of age, and Mr Gray who is section 385 of the Companies Act 1985, a resolution proposing 70 years of age, will be proposed, given their continuing relevant their reappointment will be put to the Annual General Meeting.
experience and helpful contribution to the Board.
Annual General Meeting Post Balance Sheet Events The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held on On 4th October, 2004, the Company signed 300 million of new 9th February, 2005 at 9.00 a. m. at the Kensington Roof Gardens, five-year committed banking facilities.
These will replace existing 99 Kensington High Street, London W8.
Details of all resolutions facilities which were due to mature in the near future, thereby to be put as special business are set out in the enclosed circular extending the maturity of the Groups debt.
Tangible Fixed Assets and Investments By Order of the Board Changes in tangible fixed assets and investments other than associates and joint ventures during the year are set out in N D Jennings, FCA Notes 20, 23 and 24 to the balance sheets.
Secretary 1st December, 2004 Share Capital Details of allotments in share capital during the year, which arose solely from the exercise of options, are given in Note 32.
29 Daily Mail and General Trust plc
