DMG BROADCASTING: 86% TELEVISION Teletext: New Revenue Streams Teletextholidays.
co. uk TELETEXT IS BUILDING A The launch of Teletext on 4 in Sky During July the teletextholidays.
co. uk and Freeview homes expanded the website increased unique users by companys presence on digital TV 86% year-on-year with over 2 million STRONG POSITION TO GROW and paves the way for agreements visitors to the site, confirming its with other commercial broadcasters.
position as the UK's biggest travel AUDIENCES AS DIGITAL marketplace and one of the top three travel sites in the UK.
been confined to package holidays.
However, investment in the Peter Williams site continues and the company recently launched a new flights Chairman left channel which will significantly increase its addressable market Mike Stewart Managing Director right in the independent travel sector.
The channel capitalises on the growing trend for consumers to search online for great value flight deals by providing a unified search function.
This allows users to search multiple scheduled, charter and low cost airlines all at the same time, negating the need to visit numerous DMG Broadcasting: Television different web sites.
Financial highlights Teletext on analogue television available on ITV1, Channel 4 and Five continues to be popular, with over a third of the UK Turnover Operating profit adult population using the services each week.
During the year Teletext expanded its presence in digital homes with its launch 2004: 75m 2004: 15.6m of Teletext on 4.
This digital text service is now accessible to viewers by pressing the text button when watching any Channel 4 programme on Sky or Freeview platforms.
The company is actively pursuing opportunities to expand its digital distribution Adjusted operating profit before amortisation and impairment of % of Group turnover arrangements with other broadcasters.
intangible assets 2004: 4% The Teletext Holidays brand, which accounts for the majority of the companys revenue, also launched the Teletext Holidays TV channel during the year.
The channel is accessible to viewers DMG Broadcasting: Television in Sky homes and provides inspirational travel programming, Growth in monthly visitors to teletextholidays.
co. uk millions sitting alongside a digital holidays text service to offer a marketplace for the best holiday deals.
Early viewer response to the new channel has been positive.
2.0 Also during the year Teletexts mobile phone information service continued to deliver growth, increasing its distribution of 1.5 messages to its subscriber base by 20%.
1.0 In the year the company completed a detailed review of all service offerings and concluded that some were unlikely to generate the commercial returns required.
In particular the 0.5 decision was taken to close its online news service and curtail its digital cable services.
0 Independent Television News ITN, a company in which the Group retains a 20% stake, has performed in line with Teletext's revenues were broadly flat despite difficult trading expectations and the British Pathe archive, for which ITN conditions in its key market of package holidays, where the handles the sales and marketing, continues to deliver a steady industry was down by 8%.
Operating profit was held back as the revenue stream.
business continued to invest in its future, launching Teletext Holidays TV, Teletext on 4, together with further investment in In conclusion, in a difficult market DMG Broadcasting teletextholidays.
Excluding these investments, operating maintained revenue levels while continuing to invest in its core profit was up by over 10%.
As digital switchover approaches, business and develop strategic initiatives on digital television Teletext is building a strong position to continue to grow and the web.
audiences and revenues via the web and digital TV.
co. uk is routinely attracting over two million unique users and continues to maintain its position within the UKs top three travel web sites.
To date the site has 17 Daily Mail and General Trust plc 2001 2002 2003 2004
