DMG INFORMATION 49% Landmark Operating profits jump THE BUSINESS TO BUSINESS Landmark Information Group DMGIs business to business enjoyed a successful year.
Sales companies had another excellent increased by over 60% as Sitescope year, increasing their operating MARKET IS GROWING RAPIDLY was successfully integrated and profit by nearly 50%, despite the the need to consider environmental effect of a weakening US dollar.
AND THE CAREERS DIVISION factors when buying property was increasingly recognised.
All four companies in the Property Data and Analytics Group David Dutton produced favourable results.
Chairman left Martin Morgan Managing Director right Environmental Data Resources posted solid growth in an improving commercial real estate market.
Landmark Information Group successfully integrated the Sitescope business, acquired in September 2003.
The market DMG Information for home environmental reports grew rapidly, benefiting Financial highlights the combined business, although demand weakened in the final quarter.
Property & Portfolio Research performed well in its second Turnover Operating profit year under DMGI ownership.
Revenue continued its satisfactory 2004: 257m 2004: 37m growth trend and margins improved.
In April Trepp was acquired and performance exceeded expectations.
The Commercial Mortgage Backed Securities Adjusted operating profit before amortisation and impairment of % of Group turnover market served by the company remains buoyant.
intangible assets 2004: 12% Dolphin Software made progress in establishing a new range of product offerings in the area of hazardous chemical inventory management.
DMG Information Operating profit million Under new leadership Sanborn underwent a turnaround in its performance.
Bookings increased by 50% and the backlog carried into the new financial year has strengthened significantly.
Particularly successful were sales 35 into the UK government geographic information market, made 30 in conjunction with Landmark.
25 20 In November 2004, the Boston-based Lewtan Technologies was 15 acquired.
The company is a leading information provider in the asset backed securities markets.
10 5 Careers Division 0 Hobsons had its most encouraging year for some time.
The US business again grew strongly.
Academic Engine was acquired and successfully integrated into Hobsons Cincinnati operation.
DMG Information DMGI had another outstanding year, After a number of tough years in the UK, profits moved ahead growing operating profits by 54%, with rapid growth in business and in Continental Europe Hobsons maintained market leading to business and recovery in the careers division.
Business to Business Division Study Group made encouraging progress in its recovery from Risk Management Solutions continued the strong growth of the low point in its fortunes immediately following the 2001 US previous years, and margins improved further.
Once again, the UK and Australia operations did well, whilst in the US recovery continued but at a modest The new US hurricane and earthquake models introduced in pace.
During the year changes to student visa issuance 2003 have been widely adopted by customers.
Penetration of the processes and requirements had an adverse impact on student Lloyds market has been a notable achievement.
Sales of newer volumes entering the UK and Australia, but management models, in particular those dealing with terrorism and workers actions have started to improve visa approved rates.
compensation saw increasing rates of take up.
