NORTHCLIFFE NEWSPAPERS ANOTHER RECORD YEAR FOR PROFITS WITH ADVERTISING REVENUES INCREASING BY 5.9%.
CIRCULATION OF THE DAILY TITLES OUTPERFORMED THE INDUSTRY.
Northcliffe enjoyed another record year in 2004, achieving growth Lord Rothermere in adjusted operating profit of 7%.
Most publishing centres Chairman left reported progress including Aberdeen and Bristol.
Their Michael Pelosi Managing Director right performances were particularly encouraging following difficult market conditions in 2003.
Other notable performances were from titles in Nottingham, Derby, Tamworth, Devon and Hungary and from electronic publishing.
Northcliffe Newspapers In the UK, advertising revenues recorded growth of 5.9% with Financial highlights recruitment up by 10% and property improving by 11% on the back of a buoyant housing market.
However, motors advertising reflected the overall marketplace and, despite a number of initiatives, declined by 1%.
Turnover Operating profit 2004: 519m 2004: 101m Newspaper sales revenues grew by 1.5%.
A limited number of titles increased their cover prices during the year but this was partly offset by continued gentle declines in circulation, particularly by the evening titles.
Adjusted operating profit before amortisation and impairment of % of Group turnover intangible assets Much emphasis continues to be placed on a drive to stabilise 2004: 25% the circulation of the 17 evening titles.
A programme of evaluating and improving the circulation basics of distribution, canvassing, home delivery, street vending and retail has provided some positive results.
The drive to reduce bulk sales continued so as to reach our internal target of actively purchased sales of between 98% and 100% for all titles.
Northcliffes morning 11% growth in property advertising, and evening titles, which recorded declines of 1.9% and 2.5% respectively, and its weekly titles, which showed an increase of 10% growth in recruitment revenues 0.1%, outperformed the industry in the July to December 2003 and 5% increase in readership of ABC period.
During the January to June 2004 ABC period, the mornings and evenings continued this trend.
weekly titles fell below the industry average by 0.7%, despite 14 of the groups 24 weekly titles showing increases.
Two profitable Metro editions In a broader context readership has increased.
Comprehensive launched in the East Midlands and audience research has reported an increased audience reach to seven in ten adults over the course of a week for evening titles.
After 257 years, the Press & Journal, Northcliffes much respected morning title published from Aberdeen, and its only Electronic publishing moves to break daily broadsheet, launched a compact format in August for even with 1.3m unique users.
Initial results seem promising, although further research is required before extending this initiative across the week.
In June, Northcliffe launched two editions of the popular and successful free distribution morning title, Metro: one in the East Midlands: and the other in Bristol, Bath and Gloucestershire.
Both these titles are already profitable.
Northcliffe Electronic Publishing continued to grow its offering and its audience.
Registered users increased by approximately 60% over the year.
Unique users totalled in excess of 1.3 million.
14 Daily Mail and General Trust plc New format a success Revamped thisis websites New presses in Stoke and Derby After 257 years, the Press & Journal Throughout 2004 Northcliffe The recently extended Colorliner 80 changed from broadsheet to a Electronic Publishing have press at Stoke is one of the largest compact edition on Saturdays.
Initial successfully revamped and updated single press lines in the country.
At reader reactions have been very the 22 thisis websites within the full capacity it is capable of running positive and sales figures have electronic publishing portfolio.
192 pages of back to back colour.
co. uk was the first relaunch in March 2004.
The division has had its most successful trading year to date breaking even in September.
Extra services like online booking of classified advertisements Northcliffe Newspapers and letters to the Editor have all helped to enhance the benefits Turnover analysis 2004 to the users.
Breakeven was achieved in September and this performance is expected to improve in 2005.
Advertising 65% The press enhancements at Stoke and Derby were completed Circulation 19% Retail 6% ahead of schedule and on budget.
This project was part of a Other 10% wider group initiative to provide additional colour for the Daily Mail and The Mail on Sunday.
Our other major engineering project adding extra colour to Plymouths press has progressed smoothly and will be completed before the end of this year.
Titles in Devon and Cornwall, plus The Mail on Sunday, will benefit from this investment.
During 2005, Northcliffe plans to start its next major printing development so as to provide enhanced colour and publishing opportunities for titles in Lincolnshire and Humberside.
Northcliffe Newspapers Once again, the Hungarian business reported encouraging Readership build adults claiming to read a Northcliffe growth and a new profit record, assisted by the acquisition evening title within each period % reach of Avzo, a classified publication in Slovakia.
Overall, strong Source: TNS Media 2004 advertising revenues and buoyant contract printing led to profit Base: All adults 15 : 17 Northcliffe evening titles 10% circulation areas growth in excess of 30%.
We continue to seek acquisition opportunities in Hungary, Slovakia and neighbouring countries.
100 In the UK, we completed the acquisition in September of Bargain 80 Pages, a classified publication circulating in Birmingham, Coventry and The Black Country.
Bargain Pages sells in excess 60 of 45,000 copies per week.
Existing management has been 40 retained and a link with our successful East Midlands operation, Ad-Mag, promises both operational and commercial synergies.
20 We are aware of the need to listen to the views and concerns of staff.
For the first time a synchronised staff opinion survey was conducted in every centre.
Such surveys are not new, but doing them everywhere at the same time greatly increases their use because it enables appreciation of common attitudes.
They Northcliffe Newspapers also form part of a series of initiatives aimed at reducing staff Weekly penetration of evening titles by age % turnover at a time when competition for staff is ever increasing.
Not unsurprisingly, a number of deficiencies were highlighted Source: TNS Media 2004 and are currently being addressed.
We plan a follow-up survey Base: All adults 15 : 17 Northcliffe evening titles 10% circulation areas in late 2005.
85 The new financial year has continued the momentum recently 75 established.
Advertising revenues, driven by strong demand 65 for property advertising, are showing a 5% increase.
However, recent evidence of a slowdown in the housing market makes it 55 difficult to forecast the prospects for property advertising beyond the near-term.
Recent interest rate rises appear to be having 45 a calming impact on consumer expenditure and business 35 confidence.
Therefore, at this stage, we take a cautious view of prospects for 2005.
25 15 Daily Mail and General Trust plc Yesterday Within the past week Within the past 4 weeks Within the past 3 months Within the past 6 months Any last 12 months Total 15-24 25-34 35-44 45-54 55-64 65-74 75
