Directors report The Directors present their Annual Report together with the audited financial statements for the year ended 31 January 2004.
Principal activities and business review The Kesa Group is Europes third largest home equipment retailer by sales and operates across seven countries with 790 stores.
The Group offers a wide range of home equipment products across every major category of electrical goods, whilst BUT also offers a wide selection of furniture.
Kesas commercial vision is based on the three key pillars of outstanding price, service and choice a distinctive proposition that is meeting the needs of a broad customer base, creating strong brand loyalty and driving both profit and growth.
As its business concept rolls out across Europe the Groups unique offer clearly differentiates Kesa from competitive brands.
Kesa Group sales for the financial year to 31 January 2004 were more than 3.7 billion 5.4 billion {2003: 3.4 billion 5.4 billion } with operating profit of 193.4 million 278.5 million {2003: 169.5 million 268.3 million }.
Profit and dividends The retained profit for the year amounts to 60.3 million.
An interim dividend of 2.5 pence was paid to the ordinary shareholders of the Company on 12 December 2003 and the directors are recommending the payment of a final dividend of 7.5 pence on 16 July 2004, giving a total dividend for the year of 10.0 pence.
Once the final dividend is approved it will be paid to those persons on the Register of Members at the close of business on 18 June 2004.
Directors The names and biographical details of the Directors holding office at the date of this report are shown on page 16.
Particulars of directors emoluments and their interests in the shares of the Company and its subsidiaries are shown in the Report on Directors remuneration and related matters on pages 24 to 30.
There were no changes in the Directors interests in shares they held between the end of the financial year and 30 March 2004.
As this is the first Annual General Meeting since the Company adopted its Articles of Association, each of the Directors will be retiring and offering themselves for re-election.
Resolutions proposing them for re-election will be made at the Annual General Meeting.
Details of Directors service contracts are set out in the Report on Directors remuneration and related matters on page 29.
During the year, the Company maintained liability insurance for its directors and officers.
Corporate governance The Companys statement on corporate governance is set out on pages 20 to 23.
Share capital At 30 March 2004 there were 529,553,216 million Ordinary Shares of 25 pence each in issue.
Further details of the share capital are given in Note 23 to the financial statements.
Substantial shareholding As at 30 March 2004 the following interests of more than 3 per cent in the issued share capital had been notified to the Company pursuant to sections 198 to 210 of the Companies Act 1985 as amended.
Name No of Ordinary Shares % Fidelity Investments 59,310,339 11.20 Capital Group Companies 42,472,099 8.08 Artisan Partners LLP 21,197,014 4.00 Barclays Plc 16,124,473 3.04 These represent 26.32 per cent of the issued share capital of the Company at that date.
Save for the above, no person has reported any material interest of 3 per cent or more or any non-material interest exceeding 10 per cent of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company.
17 Kesa Electricals Annual Report 2003 Annual General Meeting The first Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at The New Connaught Rooms, 61-65 Great Queen Street, London WC2B 5DA at 11.00 am on Wednesday 26 May 2004.
Corporate social responsibility The Group has a code of conduct which sets out the standards of behaviour expected of everyone who works for it: in their relationships with employees, customers, suppliers, business partners, the community including the environment, government and all other stakeholders.
More information on corporate social responsibility is set out on page 15.
Donations The Groups support for charitable causes is principally through the work done by individual operating companies.
Details of the types of activity undertaken are set out in the Corporate social responsibility report on page 15.
The Group made no political donations and incurred no items of political expenditure.
Employment policies The average number of full time equivalent employees working for the Group was 23,772.
Kesa Electricals consists of a number of businesses operating in different sectors, and whilst employment practices may vary between these businesses, the Group is committed to ensuring that: All employees receive fair and equal treatment irrespective of gender, ethnic origin, age, nationality, marital status, religion, sexuality or disability.
The working environment is conducive to achievement and free from harassment and intimidation.
Disabled persons, whether registered or not, have equal opportunities when applying for vacancies, with due regard to their aptitudes and abilities.
In addition to complying with legislative requirements, procedures ensure that disabled employees are fairly treated and that their training and career development needs are carefully managed.
The assessment of training needs and the provision of appropriate training is delivered to its employees.
Health and safety Group companies are responsible for ensuring that all reasonable precautions are taken to provide and maintain working conditions for employees and visitors alike.
These should be safe, healthy and in compliance with statutory requirements and appropriate codes of practice.
The Groups companies aim to minimise the instances of occupational accidents and illnesses.
Evidence of this can to be found in the employment of health and safety advisers and in the establishment of detailed policies and statements of intent.
The Company Secretary ensures that the Board is presented with an annual review, detailing how the Group complies with the statutory requirements and appropriate codes of practice.
Employee involvement Group companies actively consult their staff on matters of concern in the context of their employment.
Continental Europe has the largest numbers of employees and there is a formal consultation process through workers councils and joint consultation committees.
Information on matters of concern to employees, including the financial and economic factors affecting the performance of the Group, is also provided through conferences, meetings, publications and electronic media.
18 Kesa Electricals Annual Report 2003 New employee share schemes Resolutions are being put forward at the Annual General Meeting to approve the adoption of two new all-employee savings plans through which Group employees would be offered the opportunity to contribute up to 10 per cent of their salary subject to an annual maximum to purchase shares in the UK in the Company tax effectively.
These plans include an Inland Revenue Approved Share Incentive Plan in the UK and a Plan DEpargne Groupe in France.
For those all-employee share plans the Company would provide an incentive to encourage share purchase, broadly similar to the 20 per cent discount under the normal UK-based savings related share option schemes.
Where it is possible to offer this opportunity in other countries such as Belgium, Holland and the Czech Republic, an appropriate local savings vehicle will be used.
The Board also believes that greater emphasis should be placed on the Companys performance culture particularly amongst the senior management group who will be leading future growth.
The introduction of a new Long-Term Incentive Plan the LTIP will be a key tool in achieving this goal.
The main terms of the LTIP and the all-employee savings plans are summarised in the Appendix to the Notice of the Annual General Meeting.
Creditor payment For all trade creditors, it is Group policy to: Agree and confirm the terms of supply at the commencement of business with that supplier.
Pay in accordance with contractual and other legal obligations.
Continually review the payment procedures and liaise with suppliers as a means of eliminating difficulties and maintaining a good working relationship.
Trade creditors of the Group as at 31 January 2004 were 42 days based on the ratio of Group trade creditors at the end of the year to the amounts invoiced during the year by trade creditors.
Auditors Resolutions concerning the re-appointment of the auditors and authorising the directors to set their remuneration will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
By Order of the Board Simon Enoch, Company Secretary 30 March 2004 Registered Office: 22 24 Ely Place London EC1N 6TE 19 Kesa Electricals Annual Report 2003
