STATEMENT ON CORPORATE AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY The Board takes account of the importance actions required to further develop the culture Additionally, an improved safety of social, ethical and environmental and organisation to meet business needs.
management system was launched on the matters to the business as part of the risk A balanced scorecard charts the delivery of Company intranet.
This has helped provide management process.
In particular, the profit, sales growth, customer satisfaction, tools for senior managers to better manage Board identifies and assesses whether there employee retention and engagement and also safety within their respective units, and to are any significant risks to the Groups short the profit performance against competitors.
promote the involvement of employees at and long-term value arising from social, These measures are then used to reward every level.
environmental and ethical matters as well as managers, linking into their bonus plans.
Health & Safety audits are conducted at each Employees interests have been further hotel by an external consultant to monitor The workplace aligned with shareholders by changes to the status of safety performance across the Group policies and practices are focussed the Executive Share Option Scheme during Group.
Their reports enable us to capture on creating a culture throughout the the year.
The refinements include a revision opportunities for improvement and to raise organisation where personal performance of the comparator group of companies health and safety standards further.
matters and employees are encouraged and the introduction of a sliding scale to develop and reach their full potential.
Grants are based on The community As a means of motivating employees and the executives personal performance and Community involvement is an important recognising successful performance, the contribution.
Employees are also invited component in the Groups value creation Group has clear organisational values which to share in the Companys success by process as the concept of a socially are reinforced by leadership skills that build participating in the SAYE schemes.
An responsible company is recognised as a teams of capable and energetic people.
Employee Co-investment Plan enables certain key factor for success.
Hotel managers Part of the human resource strategy is to employees to invest a proportion of their encourage staff to nominate 2 charities each be the leading employer in the hospitality bonus in fide Vere shares with the Company year, which will receive support at a local sector so that the Group continues to attract matching their investment, providing level and benefit from events sponsored employees of the highest calibre.
by individual hotels and their employees.
Beneficiaries this year have ranged from For the business to perform successfully, The Group offers pension provisions for all local charities, such as the Tullochan Trust employees need to understand strategic employees, through both stakeholder and and the Yorkhill Hospital for Sick Kids, to plans and commit to making fide Vere a place defined contribution schemes.
In addition, national charities including Cancer Research, where their input matters.
An employee a number of longstanding employees are Macmillan Appeal, First Steps Appeal, CALM opinion survey is used to obtain feedback members of a final salary scheme.
and the Born Free Foundation.
This year over 80% of our employees expressed The Group is a strong supporter of equal In addition to the nominated charities, hotels their views and the results benchmarked opportunities in all aspects of employment, have provided facilities for local communities very favourably against the sector.
Regular including recruitment and encouragement to organise fund raising events and communication with employees at every of employees to develop their full potential employees can be found across the Group level of the organisation, through team regardless of gender, marital status, social supporting the community in a variety of briefings and staff forums, provides updates class, age, colour, national or ethnic origin, ways.
Employee activity ranges from school on business developments.
religious belief, sexual orientation or governors, chairpersons of PTAs, church disability.
If an employee were to become conservationists, PR Officer for Friends of This year a new performance management disabled whilst an employee, and as a Stanley Park and Special Constables for process has been introduced throughout all result were unable to pursue his or her Lancashire Constabulary.
Some hotels run the hotels and leisure clubs.
All employees existing duties, every effort would be made schemes to allow qualifying staff paid time now have a Performance Contract which to offer suitable alternative employment off to support chosen charities.
outlines their personal objectives and aligns and assistance with re-training.
In their development and training needs addition the fide Vere Group Plc continues fide Vere and Village hotels are also keen to corporate goals.
The Performance to be accredited Investors in People.
supporters of young people and provide Contracts are designed to review what training and work experience under a future role employees aspire to and help Health & Safety number of recognised schemes.
Employees them achieve their career aspirations.
Ensuring the health, safety and welfare of have been singled out for recognition at a guests, employees and visitors continues to House of Lords ceremony for work with the A range of management development be of paramount importance to the Group, Shaw Trust and close liaisons have been set initiatives was launched this year to ensure and is central to each working day.
up with many local schools.
These schemes that managers can act as role models to provide children with experience in work, their teams.
These programmes will be During the year the Group reviewed its risk environmental activities and some activity extended to include additional leadership management systems, in line with the Health that gives an opportunity to lift themselves programmes for more senior managers.
& Safety Commissions Health & Safety from their circumstances and reach to The Excellerate induction programme strategy, and continues to work closely with otherwise unimaginable goals as made launched last year is now firmly embedded insurers and others to invest in reducing risks.
possible through the Tullochan Trust.
Corporate and local human resource plans both detail the STATEMENT ON CORPORATE AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY I ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2004 I 21 STATEMENT ON CORPORATE AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY continued Sporting activities are also close to the heart on in monthly Board reports.
The team The marketplace of fide Veres employees and customers, will undertake feasibility studies in the Placing consumer insight at the very heart who are often found running youth clubs, forthcoming year on higher cost areas such of the Groups cultural values and operating pier runs, charitable bike rides, leisure club as combined heat and power plants and procedures is a key part of the business plan.
rowing events and junior football teams.
The enthusiasm shown for community Changes have been made in the year involvement is in plentiful evidence and our The reduction in energy use is directly related to customer satisfaction measuring employees determination is embodied in to reduced CO emissions.
These will be systems to include a new in-room survey 2 the stamina shown by the many who have calculated and reported against.
and e-mail based surveys designed to completed charity marathon runs and even focus on targeted customer opinion.
Management of waste in the Group has been outsourced to a third party specialist.
New KPIs have been introduced to monitor Charitable donations totalled 50,000 2003: The objectives for the coming year are overall satisfaction and response targets 77,100 during the year.
No donation was to ensure the Group minimises waste to set to increase in critical market sectors.
made to any political organisation, nor was landfill by recycling wherever possible.
Customers can now complete surveys any political expenditure incurred.
Glass, cardboard and waste oil are already online and General Managers can access segregated in most of our hotels and results to proactively respond to customer The environment fluorescent tubes will be segregated going comments.
This new process is both lower The Group recognises the responsibility its forward to comply with new Hazardous in cost and provides a higher response rate businesses have towards the environment Waste Regulations.
The feasibility of recycling than the previous monitoring systems.
and is committed to good environmental plastics and other materials will also be management of our hotels and clubs with reviewed.
The Group will reduce the cost The Group purchasing policy highlights extensive flora and fauna.
fide Vere and of landfilling whatever is left, by ensuring the commercial objectives and also Village hotels are pleased to have qualified haulage is kept to a minimum.
specifies our promise to administer the for the Kempen SNS Smaller Europe SRI purchasing function in a professional Index for successive years.
Inclusion in this The fide Vere Belfry continues to participate and ethical manner, to tender business index demonstrates the Groups commitment in the Committed to Green initiative, on an ethical basis with no bias or to its social responsibilities towards the the long-term European Environmental conflict of interest and to treat all community, the environment, employees Management Programme that is designed to suppliers fairly and without prejudice.
and ultimately the shareholders returns.
mitigate the impact of our activities on the The Group is also proud to be included environment.
The Group negotiates payment arrangements in the FTSE4good index and has many and other terms and conditions with all activities designed to enhance its corporate The Carrick development its principal suppliers.
Payments to these responsibility to the environment.
The Carrick development covers a 300-acre suppliers, other than in the case of a estate of which one third is being designated dispute, are made in accordance with Energy and waste as a nature reserve.
An environmentally such negotiated arrangements, which are The Group aims to reduce energy responsible management programme has set out in contracts where appropriate.
consumption in our business and water been established for the golf course, which usage is also being monitored.
Our hotels will preserve trees and minimise the use of The number of days purchases outstanding and clubs have been issued with clear chemicals.
This programme goes as far as to creditors at 26 September 2004 efficiency guidelines, and help and advice banning the use of air spraying pesticides, was 47 2003: 46 for the Group and has been provided.
Arrangements are in permitting only hand spraying methods 45 2003: 56 for the Company.
place with various partners, which allow for limited periods of the year to prevent waste streams to be monitored with the pollution of Loch Lomond.
objective of continually decreasing the amount of packaging in our business and At The Carrick, the flooded gravel pits have improving recycling targets on the waste become a deep-water lagoon providing a that is produced.
habitat for the rich diversity of flora and fauna which will be preserved in their natural An energy team has been brought together state.
A bird and mammal survey has been and policy and procedures have been carried out to establish the specific breeding incorporated into an Energy Operations sites on the nature reserve to ensure they Manual.
The manual identifies practices that remain undisturbed.
Many species of birds must be followed and others, which are best including kingfishers, dippers and warblers practice recommendations.
For example, any frequent the area and a footpath has been low cost, short payback practices low energy established on the fringe of the nature light bulbs are mandatory wherever feasible.
reserve as a means of observing the wildlife.
Each hotel or club monitors consumption on Plans are also being developed with the a monthly basis and the data is consolidated Scottish National Heritage, the National centrally.
Targeted energy usage reduction Park Authority and the RSPB who will all be of 2% per annum is monitored and reported involved with the management of the site.
22 I fide VERE GROUP PLC I STATEMENT ON CORPORATE AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
