83 Diageo Annual Report 2004 Directorsreport The directors have pleasure in submitting their annual report for the year ended 30 June 2004.
Annual General Meeting The AGM will be held at The Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London SW1P 3EE at 2.30 pm on Wednesday, 20 October 2004.
Dividends Diageo paid an interim dividend of 10.6 pence per share on 6 April 2004.
The directors recommend a final dividend of 17.0 pence per share.
Subject to approval by members, the final dividend will be paid on 25 October 2004 to shareholders on the register on 17 September 2004.
A dividend reinvestment plan, which enables ordinary shareholders to invest their dividends in ordinary shares, is available in respect of the final dividend and the plan notice date is 4 October 2004.
Directors The directors of the company who served during the year are listed under Directors and senior managementabove.
Lord Hollick, NC Rose and PA Walker retire by rotation at the AGM in accordance with the articles and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
HT Stitzer and JR Symonds, who were appointed since the last AGM, retire in accordance with the articles and, being eligible, offer themselves for election at the AGM.
RF Chase, who was designated senior non-executive director and appointed chairman of the remuneration committee in October 2003, will retire by rotation at the AGM and will not seek a further term on the board.
On 1 September 2004, the board of directors appointed Lord Hollick as senior non-executive director and chairman of the remuneration committee, with effect from 2 September 2004.
As announced previously, JK Oates will retire after this years AGM and, subject to election by shareholders, it is proposed that Mr Symonds will succeed him as chairman of the audit committee after this years AGM.
Sir Robert Wilson retired as senior non-executive director and chairman of the remuneration committee in October 2003.
The executive director proposed for re-election will have an unexpired contract term of one year.
The non-executive directors proposed for re-election do not have service contracts.
Further details of directors contracts and their interests in the shares of the company at 30 June 2004 are given in the  report above.
Auditor The auditor, KPMG Audit Plc, is willing to continue in office and a resolution for its re-appointment as auditor of the company will be submitted to the AGM.
Purchases of own shares At the 2003 AGM, shareholders gave the company renewed authority to purchase a maximum of 310 million ordinary shares.
During the year ended 30 June 2004, Diageo purchased, and subsequently cancelled, 43 million ordinary shares nominal value 12 million, representing approximately 1% of the issued ordinary share capital at 16 August 2004, for a consideration including expenses of 306 million.
Other information Other information that in previous years has been in the directorsreport may now be found in the following sections of the annual report.
Information Location in annual report Business activities and development Chief executives review and Business description Corporate citizenship Corporate governance report Charitable and political donations Corporate governance report Employment policies Business description Premium drinks Employees Purchase of own shares Operating and financial review Liquidity and capital resources Supplier payment policies and performance Corporate governance report Shareholdings in the company Additional information for shareholders Major shareholders The directorsreport of Diageo plc for the year ended 30 June 2004 comprises this page and the sections of the annual report referred to under Other information and Directors above.
The directorsreport was approved by a duly appointed and authorised committee of the board of directors on 1 September 2004 and signed on its behalf by Susanne Bunn, the company secretary.
