10 Diageo Annual Report 2004 Business description Overview Diageo is one of the worlds leading beverage alcohol businesses with a portfolio of international brands.
Diageo was the eleventh largest publicly quoted company in the United Kingdom in terms of market capitalisation on 1 September 2004, with a market capitalisation of approximately 20.9 billion.
Diageo was formed by the merger of Grand Metropolitan Public Limited Company and Guinness PLC that became effective on 17 December 1997.
As a result of the merger, Grand Metropolitan Public Limited Company became a wholly owned subsidiary of Guinness PLC, and Guinness PLC was renamed Diageo plc.
Diageo plc is incorporated as a public limited company in England and Wales.
Diageo plcs principal executive office is located at 8 Henrietta Place, London W1G 0NB and its telephone number is 44 0 20 7927 5200.
Diageo is a major participant in the branded beverage alcohol industry and operates on an international scale.
It brings together world-class brands and a management team committed to the maximisation of shareholder value.
The management team expects to invest in global brands, expand internationally and launch innovative new products and brands.
Diageos premium drinks business is the worlds leading branded premium spirits business by volume, sales revenue and operating profit.
Diageo also brews and markets beer and produces and sells wine.
It produces and distributes a wide range of premium brands, including Smirnoff vodka, Johnnie Walker Scotch whiskies, Guinness stout, Baileys Original Irish Cream liqueur, J B Scotch whisky, Captain Morgan rum and Tanqueray gin.
Strategy In December 2002 Diageo completed its strategic transition to a focused premium drinks company.
Since announcing the planned realignment of its business focus in 2000, Diageo has exited the food business, selling Pillsbury to General Mills in October 2001 and divesting of Burger King in December 2002.
Over the same period, it enhanced its premium drinks business with the purchase of parts of the Seagram spirits and wine businesses in December 2001.
The completion of these transactions and the integration of the Seagram brands has strongly enhanced Diageos position in the premium drinks industry, and furthered its strategic objectives of building focus in its core business.
Diageos brand portfolio is essential to its strategy.
The company owns eight of the top 20 brands in the top 100 premium distilled spirits brands worldwide as defined by Impact, a publication which compiles volume statistics for the international drinks industry.
The international nature of these brands enables Diageo to operate as a global business, with local sensitivity in its markets, while remaining focused on its target of being the number one premium drinks player in every market.
Diageos position in premium drinks enables the company to attract and develop talented people with the capabilities to achieve Diageos performance goals.
Key to this success is promoting diversity and ensuring Diageo is regarded as the best place to work.
Diageos strategy is executed at three levels, market participation, product offering, and business effectiveness.
The common themes which run through each of these levels serve as crucial drivers of Diageos current and future success.
Market participation Diageo targets its geographical priorities in terms of major, key and venture markets.
The major markets are amongst the biggest premium drinks markets in the world.
They account for the majority of Diageos operating profit, and serve as the primary drivers for Diageos business.
Key markets are those where Diageo has a high relative market share and they further enhance growth, while the innovative and entrepreneurial venture markets support the long term reach of Diageos business.
Product offering At the brand level, Diageo manages its brands in terms of global priority brands, local priority brands, and category brands.
Acting as the main focus for the business, global priority brands are Diageos primary growth drivers across markets.
At the individual market level, local priority brands are those which drive growth on a significant, yet more limited geographic scale.
Category brands comprise the smaller scale brands in Diageos portfolio.
Business effectiveness Diageos size provides an opportunity for significant scale efficiencies in operations and marketing effectiveness.
Strategically, Diageo is focused on using this scale to maximise cost efficiencies, and to enable the dissemination of consumer insight across its portfolio.
Over the long term, Diageos strategy will be continually focused on driving growth and increasing shareholder value.
Diageo has completed a number of acquisitions and disposals consistent with its strategy of focusing on its premium drinks business.
Between the merger in December 1997 and 30 June 2004 the group has received approximately 8.5 billion from disposals including 4.3 billion from the sale of Pillsbury and 0.6 billion from the sale of Burger King and spent approximately 4.4 billion on acquisitions.
On 21 December 2001, Diageo and Pernod Ricard S. A. Pernod Ricard completed the acquisition of the spirits and wine businesses of The Seagram Company Ltd Seagram from Vivendi Universal SA Vivendi for $8.15 billion 5.62 billion in cash subject to certain debt, working capital and other adjustments.
Diageos share of the purchase price after adjustment was 3.7 billion.
Premium drinks Diageo is engaged in a broad range of activities within the beverage alcohol industry.
Its operations include producing, distilling, brewing, bottling, packaging, distributing, developing and marketing a range of brands in approximately 180 territories around the world.
Diageo markets a wide range of recognised beverage alcohol brands including a number of the worlds leading spirits and beer brands.
The brand ranking information below, when comparing volume information with competitors, has been sourced from data published during 2004 by Impact.
Market data information is taken from industry sources in the markets in which Diageo operates.
Sixteen of the groups owned brands were among the top 100 premium distilled spirits brands worldwide, as ranked by Impact, in calendar year 2003.
References to ready to drink products below include flavored malt beverages.
Ready to drink products are sold throughout the world, but flavored malt beverages are currently only sold in the United States and certain markets supplied by the United States.
References to Smirnoff ready to drink include Smirnoff Ice, Smirnoff Black Ice, Smirnoff Twisted V, Smirnoff Mule, Smirnoff Spin and Smirnoff Caesar Classic.
References to Smirnoff Black Ice include Smirnoff Ice Triple Black in the United States.
11 Diageo Annual Report 2004 Business description In the year ended 30 June 2004, Diageo sold 98.2 million equivalent units of spirits including ready to drink, 2.5 million equivalent units of wine and 21.4 million equivalent units of beer.
In the year ended 30 June 2004, ready to drink products contributed 7.2 million equivalent units of total premium drinks volume of which Smirnoff Ice accounted for 5.2 million equivalent units.
Volume has been measured on an equivalent units basis to nine litre cases of spirits.
An equivalent unit represents one nine litre case of spirits, which is approximately 272 servings.
A serving comprises 33ml of spirits, 165ml of wine, or 330ml of ready to drink or beer.
Therefore, to convert volume of products other than spirits to equivalent units, the following guide has been used: beer in hectolitres divide by 0.9, wine in nine litre cases divide by five and ready to drink in nine litre cases divide by 10.
The premium drinks portfolio comprises brands owned by the company as a principal, and brands the company holds under agency agreements.
The portfolio includes: Global priority brands Smirnoff vodka and Smirnoff ready to drink products Johnnie Walker Scotch whiskies Guinness stout Baileys Original Irish Cream liqueur J B Scotch whisky Captain Morgan rum Jos Cuervo tequila agency brand in North America and many European and international markets Tanqueray gin Other spirits brands include: Wine brands include: Other beer brands include: Crown Royal Canadian whisky Beaulieu Vineyard wine Harp Irish lager Buchanans fide Luxe whisky Sterling Vineyards wine Smithwicks ale Gordons gin and vodka Blossom Hill wine Malta non-alcoholic malt Windsor Premier whisky Piat DOr wine Red Stripe lager Bells Extra Special whisky Dimple Pinch whisky Seagrams 7 Crown American whiskey Old Parr whisky Seagrams VO Canadian whisky Bundaberg rum Diageos agency agreements vary depending on the particular brand, but tend to be for a fixed number of years.
There can be no assurances that Diageo will be able to prevent termination of distribution rights or rights to manufacture under licence, or renegotiate distribution rights or rights to manufacture under licence on favourable terms when they expire.
See Acquisitions and disposals termination of businesses and distribution rightsfor information in respect of Jos Cuervo and Bass Ale in the United States and Brown-Forman brands in the United Kingdom.
Diageos principal agency brand is Jos Cuervo in North America and many European and international markets.
Diageo also brews and sells other companiesbeer brands under licence, including Budweiser and Carlsberg lagers in Ireland, Heineken lager in Jamaica and Tiger beer in Malaysia.
Global priority brands Diageo has eight global priority brands that it markets worldwide.
Diageo considers these brands to have the greatest current and future earnings potential.
Each global priority brand is marketed consistently around the world, and therefore can achieve scale benefits.
The group manages and invests in these brands on a global basis.
In the year ended 30 June 2004, global priority brands contributed 59% of premium drinks total volume and achieved turnover of 5,148 million.
Figures for global priority brands include related ready to drink products, unless otherwise indicated.
Smirnoff is Diageos highest volume brand and achieved sales of 24.2 million equivalent units in the year ended 30 June 2004.
Smirnoff is ranked, by volume, as the number one premium vodka and the number two premium spirit brand in the world.
Johnnie Walker Scotch whiskies comprise Johnnie Walker Red Label, Johnnie Walker Black Label and several other brand variants.
During the year ended 30 June 2004, Johnnie Walker Red Label sold 7.5 million equivalent units and was ranked, by volume, as the number one premium Scotch whisky and the number four premium spirit brand in the world.
Johnnie Walker Black Label sold 3.8 million equivalent units and the remaining variants sold 0.4 million equivalent units in the year ended 30 June 2004.
Guinness is the groups only global priority beer brand, and for the year ended 30 June 2004 achieved volume of 11.6 million equivalent units.
Baileys, ranked the number one liqueur in the world, sold 6.6 million equivalent units in the year ended 30 June 2004.
Captain Morgan is ranked as the number two premium rum brand in the world and contributed 6.0 million equivalent units in the year ended 30 June 2004.
Other global priority brands were also ranked, by volume, among the leading premium distilled spirits brands by Impact.
These include: J B Scotch whisky comprising J B Rare, J B Select, J B Reserve and J B Jet, ranked the number two premium Scotch whisky in the world: Jos Cuervo, ranked the number one premium tequila in the world: and Tanqueray, ranked the number four premium gin brand in the world.
During the year ended 30 June 2004, J B, Jos Cuervo and Tanqueray sold 6.0 million, 4.2 million and 2.0 million equivalent units, respectively.
12 Diageo Annual Report 2004 Business description Other brands Diageo manages its other brands by category, analysing them between local priority brands and category brands.
Local priority brands represent the brands, apart from the global priority brands, that make the greatest contribution to operating profit in an individual country, rather than worldwide.
Diageo has identified 30 local priority brands.
Diageo manages and invests in these brands on a market by market basis and, unlike the global priority brands, may not have a consistent marketing strategy around the world for such brands.
For the year ended 30 June 2004, local priority brands contributed volume of 22.7 million equivalent units, representing 19% of premium drinks total volume in nine litre equivalent units, and turnover of 1,887 million.
Examples of local priority brands include Crown Royal Canadian whisky in North America, Windsor Premier whisky in South Korea, Seagrams VO whisky and Seagrams 7 Crown whiskey in North America, Cacique rum in Spain, Gordons gin in Great Britain, Bundaberg rum in Australia, Bells whisky in Great Britain, Smithwicks ale in Ireland, Budweiser and Carlsberg lagers in Ireland and Sterling Vineyards wines in North America.
The remaining brands are grouped under category brands.
Other spirits achieved volume of 20.9 million equivalent units and contributed 1,176 million to Diageos turnover in the year ended 30 June 2004.
Examples of category brands are Gordons gin all markets except Great Britain and North America in which it is reported as a local priority brand, Gordons vodka, The Classic Malt whiskies and White Horse whisky.
In the year ended 30 June 2004, Diageo sold 4.1 million equivalent units of other beers, achieving turnover of 386 million.
Approximately 65% of other beer volume was attributable to owned brands, such as Harp Irish lager all markets except Ireland, Kilkenny Irish beer, Malta non-alcoholic stout all markets except Africa and Smithwicks ale all markets except Ireland.
The remainder was attributable to beers brewed and or sold under licence, Tiger beer in Malaysia and Heineken lager in Jamaica.
In addition, Diageo produces and markets a wide selection of wines.
These include well known labels Sterling Vineyards and Beaulieu Vineyard in the United States, Blossom Hill in the United Kingdom, and Barton & Guestier and Piat DOr in Europe.
For the year ended 30 June 2004, other wine volume was 2.1 million equivalent units, contributing turnover of 294 million.
Production Diageo owns production facilities including maltings, distilleries, breweries, packaging plants, maturation warehouses, cooperages, vineyards and distribution warehouses.
Production also occurs at plants owned and operated by third parties and joint ventures at a number of locations internationally.
Approximately 75% of total production including third party production is undertaken in five Diageo production areas, namely the United Kingdom, Baileys, Guinness, Santa Vittoria and North America centres.
The majority of these production centres have several production facilities.
The locations, principal activities, products, production capacity and production volume in 2004 of these principal production centres are set out in the following table: Production Production volume in capacity 2004 Production centre Location Principal products million million United Kingdom United Kingdom Scotch whisky, gin, vodka, rum, ready to drink 58 38 Baileys Ireland Irish cream liqueur, vodka 12 8 Guinness Ireland, United Kingdom Beers, ready to drink 13 10 Santa Vittoria Italy Vodka, wine, rum, ready to drink 8 5 North America United States, Canada Vodka, gin, tequila, rum, Canadian whisky, American whiskey, flavored malt beverages, wine, ready to drink 75 34 In equivalent units.
Diageo is currently completing the restructuring of its production operations in Canada to reduce excess capacity following the acquisition of the Seagram spirits and wine businesses, and the associated enforced sale of the Malibu brand.
The facility in LaSalle, Quebec capacity of 10 million equivalent units is planned to close in the first half of year ending 30 June 2005.
Spirits are produced in distilleries located worldwide.
The principal owned distilleries are 29 whisky distilleries in Scotland, a whisky distillery in Canada and gin distilleries in the United Kingdom and the United States.
Diageo produces Smirnoff vodka internationally, Popov vodka and Gordons vodka in the United States and Baileys in the Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland.
Rum is blended and bottled in the United States, Canada, Italy and the United Kingdom and is distilled, blended and bottled in Australia and Venezuela.
All of Diageos maturing Scotch whisky is located in warehouses in Scotland.
Diageos principal wineries are in the United States, France and Argentina.
Wines are sold both in their local markets and overseas.
Diageo produces a range of ready to drink products mainly in the United Kingdom, Italy, South Africa, Australia, the United States and Canada.
13 Diageo Annual Report 2004 Business description Diageos principal brewing facilities are at the St Jamess Gate brewery in Dublin and in Kilkenny, Waterford and Dundalk in the Republic of Ireland, Park Royal in London, England and in Nigeria, Kenya, Malaysia, Jamaica and Cameroon.
Ireland is the main export centre for the Guinness brand.
In other countries, Guinness is brewed under licence arrangements.
Guinness Draught in cans and bottles, which uses an in-container system to replicate the taste of Guinness Draught, is packaged at Runcorn and Belfast in the United Kingdom.
In April 2004, Diageo announced its intention to close the Park Royal brewery in London, England and further invest in St Jamess Gate brewery in Dublin in the Republic of Ireland, to optimise utilisation and reduce ongoing costs.
The Park Royal brewery is planned to close in the summer of 2005.
Property, plant and equipment Diageo owns or leases land and buildings throughout the world.
The principal production facilities are described above.
As at 30 June 2004, Diageos land and buildings were included in the groups consolidated balance sheet under UK GAAP at a net book value of 772 million.
Diageos largest individual facility, in terms of net book value of property, is St Jamess Gate brewery in Dublin.
Approximately 98% by value of the groups properties were owned and approximately 2% are held under leases running for 50 years or longer.
Diageos properties primarily are a variety of manufacturing, distilling, brewing, bottling and administration facilities spread across the groups worldwide operations, as well as vineyards in the United States.
Approximately 58% and 19% of the book value of Diageos land and buildings comprises properties located in the United Kingdom and the United States, respectively.
Raw materials The group has a number of contracts for the forward purchasing of its raw material requirements in order to minimise the effect of raw material price fluctuations.
Long term contracts are in place for the purchase of significant raw materials including glass, other packaging, tequila, neutral spirits, cream, rum and grapes.
In addition, forward contracts are in place for the purchase of other raw materials including sugar and cereals to minimise the effects of short term price fluctuations.
Cream is the principal raw material used in the production of Irish cream liqueur and is sourced from Ireland.
Grapes are used in the production of wine and are sourced from suppliers in the United States, France and Argentina.
Other raw materials purchased in significant quantities for the production of spirits and beer are tequila, neutral spirits, molasses, rum, cereals, sugar and a number of flavours such as juniper berries, agave, chocolate and herbs.
These are sourced from suppliers around the world.
The majority of products are supplied to customers in glass bottles.
Glass is purchased from suppliers located around the world, the principal supplier being the Owens Illinois group.
On 4 February 2002, Diageo entered into a supply agreement with Casa Cuervo S. A. fide C. V. a Mexican company, for the supply of bulk tequila used to make the Jos Cuervo line of tequilas and tequila drinks in the United States.
The supply agreement will expire in June 2013.
With effect from 1 January 2002, Diageo entered into a long term supply agreement with Destilria Serralls, Inc Serralls, a Puerto Rico corporation for the supply of rum that is used to make the Captain Morgan line of rums and rum drinks in the United States.
The supply agreement will last for 10 years from 2002, with a three year notice requirement coming into effect once the original 10 year term has expired.
Marketing and distribution Diageo is committed to investing in its brands.
1,039 million was spent worldwide on marketing on premium drinks brands in the year ended 30 June 2004.
Marketing was focused on the eight global priority brands, which accounted for 68% of total marketing expenditure in the year ended 30 June 2004.
Diageo has four major markets North America, Great Britain, Ireland and Spain.
In the year ended 30 June 2004, these markets contributed 60% of premium drinks operating profit before exceptional items.
In addition, there are 15 key markets which are considered to be individually important, and these contributed 27% of premium drinks operating profit before exceptional items.
The remaining geographic markets are reported as venture markets and these accounted for 13% of premium drinks operating profit before exceptional items in the year ended 30 June 2004.
An analysis of turnover and operating profit before exceptional items by market for the year ended 30 June 2004 is as follows: Operating profit before Turnover exceptional items million million Major markets: North America 2,659 694 Great Britain 1,411 207 Ireland 961 126 Spain 454 113 5,485 1,140 Key markets 2,275 511 Venture markets 1,131 260 Total premium drinks 8,891 1,911 14 Diageo Annual Report 2004 Business description North America North America is the largest market for Diageo, and the largest premium drinks market in the world.
Throughout 2004, in North America, Diageo marketed its products through 14 business teams or clusters previously five separate spirits in market companies IMCs, Diageo Chateau & Estates Wines DC&E, Diageo-Guinness USA DG-USA, a Canadian IMC and a 50% distribution joint venture with Mot Hennessy Schieffelin & Somerset S&S.
From 1 July 2004 Diageo and Mot Hennessy have agreed to restructure their joint venture arrangements in the United States.
Diageo has moved the management of its brands into its existing North American operation, significantly simplifying the management of its full range of products and enhancing its interface with its distributors.
These brands include Johnnie Walker, Tanqueray, Tanqueray No.
TEN, Croc, J B, Buchanans, Pinch, Cardhu and The Six Classic Malts of Scotland Talisker, Lagavulin, Oban, Glenkinchie, Dalwhinnie and Cragganmore.
S&S will become a company dedicated to the brands of Mot Hennessy, Marnier Lapostolle and Ruffino.
The 14 geographic business units or clusters are managed as three hubs: major states, key states and control states.
National brand strategy and strategic accounts marketing are managed at the corporate North America level.
The clusters market the majority of Diageos spirits portfolio including Smirnoff vodka, Baileys Irish Cream liqueur, Jos Cuervo tequila, Captain Morgan rum, Crown Royal Canadian whisky, Seagrams 7 American whiskey, Seagrams VO Canadian whisky and, from 1 July 2004, the former Diageo S&S brands across the United States.
DG-USA distributes Diageos US beer portfolio Guinness stout, Harp lager, Kaliber non-alcoholic lager and Red Stripe lager as well as the groups flavored malt beverages Smirnoff Ice, Smirnoff Ice Triple Black, and Smirnoff Twisted V. DC&E markets all Diageos wine brands such as Beaulieu Vineyard and Sterling Vineyards across the United States.
The Canada IMC distributes the groups spirits, wine and beer portfolio across all Canadian territories.
Within the United States, there are two types of regulatory environments: open states and control states.
In open states, spirits companies are allowed to sell spirits, wine and beer directly to independent distributors.
In the open states within the United States, Diageo trades through a three tier distribution system, where the product is initially sold to distributors, who then sell it to on and off premise retailers.
In some states, such as Texas, Diageo sells its products on premise through a four tier system, whereby Diageo sells to large distributors, which then sell to off premise retailers, and off premise retailers with special Class B licenses sell to on premise retailers.
In most control states, Diageo markets its spirits products to state liquor control boards through the bailment warehousing system, and from there to state liquor stores.
There are variations, for example certain states control distribution but not retail sales.
Generally, wines are treated in the same way as spirits, although some states that are control states for spirits are open states for wines.
Beer distribution follows open states regulation across the entire United States.
In Canada, spirits distribution laws are similar to those of control states in the United States.
In Canada, beer distribution laws are generally similar to those for spirits.
Diageo, however, has some licences to direct-deliver keg beer to licensed accounts, which account for approximately 52% of Diageos beer business in Canada.
The completion of the Seagram acquisition provided Diageo with the scale to pursue consolidation of its distributors in a strategy called Next Generation Growth NGG.
Building on the Seagram integration, the strategy focuses on consolidating the distribution of Diageos US spirits and wine, S&S and former Seagram brands into a single distributor in each state wherever possible.
The strategy provided sufficient economies of scale to support the distributor changes, a consolidated network limiting duplication of activities between Diageo and the distributor, increased Diageo and distributor selling capabilities and employed a number of alternative approaches to optimise product distribution.
Diageo has made progress with the NGG initiative.
During the year ended 30 June 2004, Diageo consolidated its business in additional states bringing the total to 36 states plus Washington DC.
These 36 states, together with Washington DC, represent nearly 85% of Diageos US spirits and wine volume.
Across the United States, Diageos distributors and brokers have nearly 2,000 dedicated sales people focused on selling Diageos and S&Ss spirits and wines brands.
In future, Diageos focus will be on helping build the capabilities and selling tools of the  sales force and creating a more efficient and effective value chain.
When all distributors and brokers are resourced to the target level, Diageo expects to have nearly 3,000 people selling its brands.
In the year ended 30 June 2004, the states of Iowa, Montana, Wyoming, Idaho, Utah, South Dakota and North Dakota were consolidated and negotiations are underway in several additional states.
The majority of the remaining states are franchise states that will be consolidated as opportunities arise.
As part of the strategy, risk mitigation plans have been developed for each state.
These plans identify the financial, sales, marketing and operations activities that must be implemented to move Diageos business to a new distributor without significant loss of business.
While sales disruptions may occur during the distributor move process, the risk mitigation plans are expected to minimise the sales risk.
However, consolidation has given rise, and is likely to continue to give rise, to legal actions, none of which is currently expected to be material to the group.
Great Britain Diageo markets its products in Great Britain via three business units: Diageo GB spirits, beer and ready to drink, Percy Fox & Co wines and Justerini & Brooks Retail private client wines.
Products are distributed both via independent wholesalers and directly to the major grocers, convenience and specialist stores.
In the on trade for example, licensed major bars and restaurants, products are sold through the major brewers, multiple retail groups and smaller regional independent brewers and wholesalers.
Diageo has the largest brand in Great Britain, by volume, in a number of spirit categories including vodka with Smirnoff, whisky with Bells and gin with Gordons.
Smirnoff and Bells are also the top two distilled spirit brands, by volume, in the United Kingdom.
Diageos wine business in Great Britain is growing, with Blossom Hill recently becoming the largest branded wine by volume.
Ready to drink is a relatively new segment in the industry and includes Diageo products such as Smirnoff Ice and Archers Aqua.
This sector has provided significant volume and profit growth in recent years but has fallen into decline over the past 18 months.
Spiritssales in Great Britain, particularly in the off trade such as grocers and specialist stores show a seasonal spike around the Christmas period, which is particularly true of Baileys.
Other products such as Pimms are sold predominantly in the summer months.
The customer base in Great Britain has seen consolidation in recent years both in the on and off trade.
In particular, Great Britain now has only four major national grocery stores which together make up over 70% of off trade alcohol sales.
15 Diageo Annual Report 2004 Business description Ireland Ireland, comprising the Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland, is an important market for Diageo.
The Guinness, Smirnoff and Baileys brands are market leaders in their respective categories of long alcoholic drinks, vodka and cream liqueurs.
Budweiser and Carlsberg lagers, also major products in the Diageo portfolio, are brewed and sold under licence in addition to the other local priority brands of Smithwicks ale and Harp lager.
In both countries, Diageo sells and distributes directly to both the on trade and the off trade for example, retail shops and wholesalers through a telesales operation, extensive outlet rep callage and third party logistics providers.
Diageo brews and packages a range of beers in Ireland for export to the United Kingdom, the United States and other international markets.
Diageo also produces Baileys in Ireland for export to all global markets.
Spain Spain is an important Scotch whisky market for Diageo, and Diageo owns two of the top five Scotch whisky brands by volume in Spain, with J B at number one and Johnnie Walker Red Label at number five.
This is Diageos most important J B market, contributing 47% of Diageos J B total volume.
With Cacique and Pampero, Diageo Spain leads the dark rum segment, which is the fastest growing segment in Spain.
Distribution in Spain is primarily through Diageos own distribution company.
Key markets There are 15 key markets.
These are markets which make a significant contribution in their own right, but still rely on Diageos global functions to support their businesses.
Key markets are: Africa excluding North Africa, Australia New Zealand, Brazil Paraguay, Colombia, France, Germany, Greece Turkey, Japan, South Korea, Mexico, Taiwan, Thailand, Uruguay, Venezuela and Global Duty Free.
In Latin America, distribution is achieved through a mixture of Diageo companies and third party distributors.
Africa excluding North Africa is one of the longest established and largest markets for the Guinness brand, with the brewing of Guinness Foreign Extra Stout in a number of African countries either through subsidiaries or under licence.
Diageo has recently entered into a three way joint venture with Heineken and Namibia Breweries Limited in southern Africa, has a wholly owned subsidiary in Cameroon and also has majority owned subsidiaries in Nigeria, Ghana, Kenya, Uganda, Runion and the Seychelles.
In Ghana, the strategic rationale arising from the ongoing transaction which aims to amalgamate the Diageo Guinness Ghana Limited and Heineken Ghana Breweries Limited businesses is to achieve a number of commercial and operational synergy benefits.
Global Duty Free is Diageos sales and marketing organisation which targets the international duty free consumer in duty free outlets such as airport shops, airlines and ferries around the world.
The global nature of this organisation allows a co-ordinated approach to brand building initiatives and builds on shopper insights in this trade channel where consumer behaviour tends to be different from domestic markets.
In European key markets, Diageo distributes its spirits brands primarily through its own distribution companies.
However, in France, Diageo sells its spirits and wine products through a joint arrangement with Mot Hennessy, and its beer products through Interbrew.
In Thailand, Japan and Taiwan Diageo distributes its spirits and wine brands through joint arrangements with Mot Hennessy.
In Australia, Diageo has its own distribution company and also has licensed brewing arrangements with Carlton-United Breweries, while in New Zealand it operates through third party distributors and has licensed brewing arrangements with Lion Nathan.
In South Korea, Diageos own distribution company distributes the majority of Diageos brands.
The remaining brands are distributed through third party distributors.
In Japan, Guinness is distributed through an associated company of the group.
Generally the remaining markets are served by third party distribution networks monitored by regional offices.
Venture markets Venture markets comprise all other markets, including the Middle East, North Africa, Jamaica, Central America, the Caribbean and the Southern Cone, Canaries, Portugal, Belgium, Netherlands, the Nordics, Italy, Switzerland, Poland, Russia, Singapore, Indonesia, Philippines and Malaysia.
In these markets there is a focus on fewer brands and lean but flexible organisation structures are deployed whilst global best practices in areas such as consumer marketing, customer management and people development are applied.
In the European venture markets, Diageo distributes its brands primarily through its own distribution companies.
In Asia Pacific, Diageo works with a number of joint venture partners.
For Diageos spirits and wine brands, the most significant of these is Mot Hennessy with operations in Malaysia, Singapore, China and Hong Kong.
In Malaysia and Singapore, Diageos own and third party beers are brewed and distributed through Diageos business with Asia Pacific Breweries Limited.
In addition, Diageo owns a controlling interest in Desnoes & Geddes Limited, the Jamaican local brewer of Red Stripe lager.
In general, the remaining markets are served by third party distribution networks controlled by regional offices.
Seasonal impacts Christmas provides the peak period for premium drinks sales.
Historically, approximately 30% of premium drinks sales volume occurs in the last three months of each calendar year.
16 Diageo Annual Report 2004 Business description Employees Releasing the potential of every employee is one of Diageos core strategic imperatives.
The focus is on accessing the very best possible talent, from the widest possible talent pools, to provide the ideas, innovation and performance outcomes necessary to achieve the companys ambitions for itself and its stakeholders.
This is achieved by placing employees in working environments which truly inspire their performance and development.
Employee policies are designed to support these goals and to do so in a manner that is fair and equitable to all.
These policies take account of external legislation and internal codes of conduct, as well as Diageos values as an organisation.
Diageo is a multicultural community operating in an increasingly diverse business world and is committed to active inclusion and diversity practices.
A focus on talent is at the heart of Diageos organisation and people strategy, and Diageo invests in the growth and development of its people in order to contribute directly to business performance.
Regular organisation and people reviews are carried out to review progress against locally calibrated plans for implementation of the organisation and people strategy, including progress against local capability development and training plans.
The group offers people with disability the same opportunities for employment, training and career progression as other employees, having regard to each applicants particular aptitude and ability.
The compensation packages provided for employees are continuously benchmarked against other relevant employers in all markets in which Diageo operates, to ensure that  are recognised and to reflect the value of the roles they perform.
The compensation and benefits packages are designed to attract and retain talented people, whilst offering, where practicable, flexibility of choice from a range of options.
Diageo is committed to the safety and wellbeing of employees at work.
It promotes responsible drinking behaviour among all its people.
Diageo is committed to open and continuous dialogue with its employees as a way to inform and engage them in the groups strategy and business goals, as well as harnessing the ideas employees will have on improving broad areas of business performance.
Diageo is also committed to honouring its obligations to consult openly and regularly with employee representative forums and or trade unions where appropriate.
There is a strong communications culture, and Diageo attempts to foster a sense of pride in employees working for Diageo through a wide range of communication methods across the business.
Each senior manager is responsible for supporting the Diageo executive and the senior leadership community in delivering against communication and employee engagement goals.
The group has an intranet web site from which employees with access to a computer can obtain timely and accurate news and information.
Discontinued operations include employees for the quick service restaurants business prior to 13 December 2002 and packaged food prior to 30 October 2001, reflecting the periods in which the group owned those businesses.
Competition Diageo competes on the basis of consumer loyalty, quality and price.
In spirits and wine, Diageos major global competitors are Allied Domecq, Pernod Ricard, Bacardi and Brown-Forman, each of which has several brands that compete directly with Diageo brands.
Diageo believes, based on its analysis of data compiled by Impact, that Diageo and these four other major international companies account for approximately 62% of the volume of the top 100 premium distilled spirits in the world.
In addition, Diageo faces competition from local and regional companies in the countries in which it operates.
In beer, the Guinness brand competes in the overall beer market with its key competitors varying by market.
These include Heineken in Ireland and both Heineken and SAB Miller in several markets in Africa, Coors Brewing Carling in the United Kingdom and Carlsberg in Malaysia.
Diageo aims to maintain and improve its market position by enhancing the consumer appeal of its brands through consistent high investment in marketing support focused around the eight global priority brands.
Diageo makes extensive use of magazine, newspaper, point of sale and poster and billboard advertising, and uses radio, cinema and television advertising where appropriate and permitted by law.
Diageo also runs consumer promotional programmes in the on trade for example, licensed bars and restaurants.
Research and development The overall nature of the groups business does not demand substantial expenditure on research and development.
However, the group has ongoing programmes for developing new drinks products.
In the year ended 30 June 2004, the groups research and development expenditure amounted to 11 million 2003 15 million: 2002 28 million.
Research and development expenditure is written off in the year in which it is incurred.
Trademarks Diageo produces and distributes branded goods and is therefore substantially dependent on the maintenance and protection of its trademarks.
All brand names mentioned in this document are trademarks.
The group also holds numerous licences and trade secrets, as well as having substantial trade knowledge related to its products.
The group believes that its significant trademarks are registered and or otherwise protected insofar as legal protections are available in all material respects in its most important markets.
Regulations and taxes In the United States, the beverage alcohol industry is subject to strict federal and state government regulations covering virtually every aspect of its operations, including production, marketing, sales, distribution, pricing, labelling, packaging and advertising.
17 Diageo Annual Report 2004 Business description Spirits, wine and beer are subject to national import and excise duties in many markets around the world.
Most countries impose excise duties on beverage alcohol products, although the form of such taxation varies significantly from a simple application to units of alcohol by volume, to advanced systems based on imported or wholesale value of the product.
Several countries impose additional import duty on distilled spirits, often discriminating between categories such as Scotch whisky or bourbon in the rate of such tariffs.
Within the European Union, such products are subject to different rates of excise duty in each country, but within an overall European Union framework, there are minimum rates of excise duties that can be applied.
Import and excise duties can have a significant impact on the final pricing of Diageos products to consumers.
These duties have an impact on the competitive position versus other brands.
The group devotes resources to encouraging the equitable taxation treatment of all beverage alcohol categories and to reducing government-imposed barriers to fair trading.
Advertising, marketing and sales of alcohol are subject to various restrictions in markets around the world.
These range from a complete prohibition of alcohol in certain countries and cultures, through the prohibition of the import of spirits, wine and beer, to restrictions on the advertising style, media and messages used.
In a number of countries, television is a prohibited medium for spirits brands, through regulation, and in other countries, television advertising, while permitted, is carefully regulated.
Spirits, wine and beer are also regulated in distribution.
In many countries, alcohol may only be sold through licensed outlets, both on and off premise, varying from government or state operated monopoly outlets for example, Canada, Norway, and certain US states to the common system of licensed on premise outlets for example, licensed bars and restaurants which prevails in much of the western world for example, most US states and the European Union.
In about one-third of the states in the United States, price changes must be filed or published 30 days to three months, depending on the state, before they become effective.
Labelling of beverage alcohol products is also regulated in many markets, varying from health warning labels to importer identification, alcohol strength and other consumer information.
Specific warning statements related to the risks of drinking beverage alcohol products are required to be included on all beverage alcohol products sold in the United States.
Following the end of the voluntary restrictions on television advertising of spirits in the United States, Diageo and other spirits companies have been advertising products on the air on local cable television stations.
Expressions of political concern signify the uncertain future of beverage alcohol products advertising on network television in the United States.
Further requirements for warning statements and any prohibitions on advertising and marketing could have an adverse impact on sales of the group.
In addition, indications that regulatory bodies in the United States may change standards regarding the alcohol content and proper categorisation of flavored malt beverages such as Smirnoff Ice could have an adverse impact on the sales of the group.
Regulatory decisions and changes in the legal and regulatory environment could increase Diageos costs and liabilities or impact its business activities.
Business services Diageo has committed to re-engineer its key business activities with customers, consumers, suppliers and the processes that summarise and report financial performance.
In that regard, global processes are being designed, built and implemented across a number of markets and global supply.
A new business service centre in Budapest, Hungary opened in April 2002 and now performs various process tasks for Great Britain, Ireland, Canaries, Switzerland, Benelux, Global Duty Free and Guinness supply.
Additional markets and supply entities are scheduled to transfer to Budapest during the next few years.
Associates Diageos principal associate in the premium drinks segment is Mot Hennessy.
It also owns shares in a number of other associates.
In the year ended 30 June 2004, premium drinks share of profits of associates before interest, exceptional items and tax was 193 million, of which Mot Hennessy accounted for 176 million.
Mot Hennessy Diageo owns 34% of Mot Hennessy, the spirits and wine subsidiary of LVMH Mot Hennessy-Louis Vuitton SA LVMH.
LVMH is based in France and is listed on the Paris Stock Exchange.
Mot Hennessy is also based in France and is a producer and exporter of a number of brands in its main business areas of champagne and cognac.
Its principal products include champagne brands, Mot & Chandon including Dom Prignon, Veuve Clicquot and Mercier, all of which are included in the top 10 champagne brands worldwide by volume, and Hennessy which is the top cognac brand worldwide by volume.
Since 1987, a number of joint distribution arrangements have been established with LVMH, principally covering distribution of Diageos premium brands of Scotch whisky and gin and Mot Hennessys premium champagne and cognac brands in the Asia Pacific region and France.
Diageo and LVMH have each undertaken not to engage in any champagne or cognac activities competing with those of Mot Hennessy.
The arrangements also contain certain provisions for the protection of Diageo as a minority shareholder in Mot Hennessy.
The operations of Mot Hennessy in France and the United States were conducted during the year ended 30 June 2004 through a partnership in which Diageo has a 34% interest.
As a partner, Diageo pays any tax due on the results of the partnership to the tax authorities.
Acquisitions and disposals termination of businesses and distribution rights Diageo has made a number of strategic acquisitions and disposals of brands, distribution rights and equity interests in premium drinks businesses.
Seagram On 21 December 2001, Diageo and Pernod Ricard completed the acquisition of the Seagram spirits and wine businesses from Vivendi for $8.15 billion 5.62 billion in cash, subject to certain debt, working capital and other adjustments.
Diageos share of the purchase price after adjustments was 3.7 billion.
The transaction was structured such that each of Diageo and Pernod Ricard acquired certain businesses and related assets for integration into their respective global premium drinks businesses, with other businesses and related assets being acquired and held jointly pending their disposal.
The spirits and wine businesses comprised a number of separate legal entities and assets which were acquired by either Diageo, Pernod Ricard, or both parties jointly, but the effect was that the purchase consideration was funded in the overall proportions of 60.9% and 39.1% between Diageo and Pernod Ricard, respectively.
18 Diageo Annual Report 2004 Business description Diageo has accounted for the transaction as an acquisition, reflecting profits and losses arising from those businesses and related assets acquired for its own use, consolidated from the acquisition date.
For those businesses and assets acquired and or held jointly pending their disposal disposal assets, Diageo and Pernod Ricard shared the net proceeds of disposal in the proportion 60.9% and 39.1% respectively.
The disposals of these businesses were substantially completed within 12 months of the original acquisition.
The sales of the largest disposal assets were achieved in the year ended 30 June 2002.
These included the UK based off-licence chain Oddbins to the Castel Frres Group of France: the Four Roses bourbon business to Kirin Brewery Co, Ltd of Japan: the Mumm Sekt sparkling wine business to Rotkppchen Sektkellerei GmbH & Co KG of Germany: the Seagrams Mixers business to The Coca-Cola Company: the Sandeman port and sherry business to Sograp Holding SGPS SA of Portugal: and the Mumm Cuve Napa sparkling wine business to Allied Domecq.
In the year ended 30 June 2003, a number of smaller disposals were made, including Maschio sparkling wines and OVD, Woods and VAT 19 rums.
Diageos share of net cash proceeds received totalled 268 million and was accounted for in the two years ended 30 June 2003.
Other In September 2002, Diageo announced that it would relinquish its 1998 US Importation and Distribution Agreement rights for Bass Ale to Bassparent company, Interbrew, effective 30 June 2003 for a consideration of $105 million 69 million.
Under the 1998 agreement, Diageo had the right to continue selling and marketing the brand in the United States until July 2016.
The consideration included $10 million as a contribution to inventory management costs during the year ended 30 June 2003, and this element of the consideration has been accounted for as operating income.
The balance of the consideration, net of provisions and legal expenses, of 57 million has been accounted for as an exceptional operating item in the year ended 30 June 2003.
In December 2002, East African Breweries Limited EABL, a Diageo subsidiary, acquired 20% of the issued share capital of Tanzania Breweries Limited from SABMiller Africa in exchange for 20% of the issued share capital of Kenya Breweries Limited.
EABL also disposed its entire holding of shares in Kibo Breweries Limited and acquired Castle Brewing Kenya Limited.
Diageos distribution rights in relation to certain Brown-Forman brands, including Jack Daniels and Southern Comfort in the United Kingdom, terminated on 1 August 2002.
In the year ended 30 June 2002, these brands contributed 14 million to operating profit.
On 15 August 2003 it was announced that Diageo and Brown-Forman had resolved their dispute over the termination of these rights.
Diageo subsequently received 9 million as settlement.
In May 2002, Diageo completed the disposal of the Malibu brand to Allied Domecq for a consideration of 554 million.
The disposal of Malibu was a condition for obtaining regulatory clearance for the acquisition of the Seagram spirits and wine businesses.
In May 2002, Diageo disposed of the Glen Ellen and MG Vallejo wines to a company managed by The Wine Group, Inc. for a consideration of $83 million 53 million.
On 5 February 2002, Diageo and Jos Cuervo SA Jos Cuervo agreed to terminate their litigation in respect of a change of control issue which Jos Cuervo claimed arose as a result of the merger of GrandMet and Guinness, and new arrangements were formalised for the distribution rights for the Jos Cuervo brand in the United States.
These arrangements now extend to 2013.
The settlement in favour of Jos Cuervo included the return of Diageos 45% equity stake it held in Jos Cuervo and a net cash payment of 85 million.
Diageo and Jos Cuervo also agreed to terminate Jos Cuervos distribution of certain Diageo brands in Mexico and for Jos Cuervo to transfer to Diageo its 49% interest in the Smirnoff trademark in Mexico.
The settlement resulted in a charge before taxes of 220 million to exceptional items in the profit and loss account for the year ended 30 June 2002, and a reduction in operating profit of 8 million in the period ended 30 June 2002.
Further, effective 1 October 2002, the distribution rights to Jos Cuervo 1800 were transferred to a third party.
Jos Cuervo 1800 contributed 13 million to operating profit in the year ended 30 June 2002.
In September 2001, Diageo disposed of its Croft and Delaforce port and sherry businesses to a consortium of Gonzalez Byass S. A. and Taylor Fonseca S. A. for a consideration of 182 million 50 million.
In July 2001, Diageo disposed of its Guinness World Records business to Gullane Entertainment plc for 50 million.
Other businesses General Mills, Inc Following the disposal of Pillsbury and a subsequent sale of shares in General Mills, the group holds an equity stake of 79 million ordinary shares 21% in General Mills.
The following business description is based on publicly available information about General Mills filed with the SEC.
General Mills is a global consumer foods company based in the United States.
General Mills owns a number of brand names and its primary objective is to build the equity of these brands with strong consumer directed advertising and innovative merchandising.
The principal businesses owned by General Mills are Big G ready-to-eat cereals, Betty Crocker dessert, baking, dinner mix and snack products, Yoplait and Colombo yoghurt and former Pillsbury brands such as Pillsburys refrigerated dough and other dough based goods, Old El Paso Mexican foods, Progresso soups, Green Giant vegetables and a foodservice business.
During the year ended 30 June 2004, the equity stake contributed 258 million to share of profits of associates before exceptional items, 7 million to exceptional items, 59 million to interest expense and 66 million to tax expense.
During the year ended 30 June 2004 the group received dividends of 50 million from General Mills.
General Mills has options to purchase 29 million of Diageos holding of General Mills ordinary shares for $51.56 per share until 28 October 2005, subject to certain limitations.
On 23 June 2004, General Mills filed a registration statement with the SEC that included 49,907,680 shares of General Mills owned by Diageo.
Diageo currently cannot sell its shares in a publicly marketed offering until the SEC declares the registration statement effective, which it has not yet done.
General Mills has informed Diageo that, at this time, the registration statement remains under review as a result of the SECs investigation of General Mills.
Diageo remains committed to selling its stake in General Mills subject to the receipt of any required regulatory approval and market conditions.
19 Diageo Annual Report 2004 Business description On 23 June 2004, Paul Walsh, CEO of Diageo plc, and John M Keenan, a Diageo plc designated representative, resigned from the General Mills board.
In addition, Diageo and General Mills amended the stockholders agreement to permanently eliminate Diageos right to board representation.
As a result, Diageo ceased to equity account for its share of the results of General Mills from that date and will, in the year ending 30 June 2005, only recognise the dividends received from General Mills in its profit and loss account.
In the year ended 30 June 2004 dividends amounting to 50 million were received from General Mills.
Discontinued operations Quick service restaurants Diageo completed the disposal of Burger King on 13 December 2002.
See Operating and financial review Off-balance sheet arrangements.
Burger King is a leading company in the worldwide quick service restaurant industry.
In the year ended 30 June 2003, Burger King contributed turnover of 479 million and operating profit of 53 million to Diageo.
Packaged food Diageo completed the disposal of Pillsbury to General Mills on 31 October 2001.
Pillsbury contributed turnover of 1,455 million and operating profit before exceptional items of 177 million in the year ended 30 June 2002.
As a division of Diageo, Pillsbury produced and distributed leading food brands including Pillsburys refrigerated dough and other dough based goods, Old El Paso Mexican foods, Progresso soups, Green Giant vegetables and Hagen-Dazs ice cream, and, in addition, operated a foodservice business.
In connection with the disposal of Pillsbury, Diageo has guaranteed the debt of a third party up to an amount of $200 million 110 million.
Risk factors Diageo faces competition that may reduce its market share and margins Diageo faces competition from several international companies as well as local and regional companies in the countries in which it operates.
Diageo competes with drinks companies across a wide range of consumer drinking occasions.
Within a number of categories, consolidation or realignment is taking place.
Consolidation is also taking place amongst Diageos customers in many countries.
Increased competition and unanticipated actions by competitors or customers could lead to downward pressure on prices and or a decline in Diageos market share in any of these categories, which would adversely affect Diageos results and hinder its growth potential.
Diageo may not be able to derive the expected benefits from its strategy to focus on premium drinks or its change and cost-saving programmes designed to enhance earnings On 17 July 2000, Diageo announced the integration of its spirits, wine and beer businesses to create a premium drinks business as part of an integrated strategy to be a focused premium drinks company.
In line with this strategy, Diageo acquired certain of the Seagram spirits and wine businesses on 21 December 2001.
There can be no assurance that Diageos strategic focus on premium drinks will result in better opportunities for growth and improved margins.
It is possible that the pursuit of this strategic focus on premium drinks could give rise to further acquisitions.
There can be no guarantee that any such acquisition would deliver the benefits intended.
Systems change programmes may not deliver the benefits intended and systems failures could lead to business disruption Certain change programmes have been undertaken especially in the United States, Ireland and Great Britain designed to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of end-to-end operating, administrative and financial systems and processes.
This includes moving transaction processing from a number of markets to shared service centres.
There can be no certainty that these programmes will deliver the expected benefits.
There is likely to be disruption caused to production processes and possibly to administrative and financial systems as further changes to such processes are effected.
They could also lead to adverse customer or consumer reaction.
Any failure of information systems could adversely impact Diageos ability to operate.
As with all large systems, Diageos information systems could be penetrated by outside parties intent on extracting information, corrupting information or disrupting business processes.
Such unauthorised access could disrupt Diageos business and or lead to loss of assets.
Regulatory decisions and changes in the legal and regulatory environment could increase Diageos costs and liabilities or limit its business activities Diageos operations are subject to extensive regulatory requirements regarding production, product liability, distribution, marketing, labelling, advertising and labour and environmental issues.
Changes in laws, regulations or governmental policy, could cause Diageo to incur material additional costs or liabilities that could adversely affect its business.
In particular, governmental bodies in countries where Diageo operates may impose new labelling, product or production requirements, limitations on the advertising activities used to market beverage alcohol, restrictions on retail outlets or other restrictions on marketing and distribution.
Regulatory authorities under whose laws Diageo operates may also have enforcement power that can subject the group to actions such as product recall, seizure of products or other sanctions, which could have an adverse effect on its sales or damage its reputation.
In addition, beverage alcohol products are the subject of national import and excise duties in most countries around the world.
An increase in import or excise duties could have a significant adverse effect on Diageos sales revenue or margin, both through reducing overall consumption and by encouraging consumers to switch to lower-taxed categories of beverage alcohol.
Companies in the beverage alcohol industry are, from time to time, exposed to class action or other litigation relating to alcohol advertising, alcohol abuse problems or health consequences from the misuse of alcohol.
If such litigation resulted in fines, damages or reputational damage to Diageo or its brands, Diageos business could be materially adversely affected.
US regulatory authorities are considering possible changes to the regulation of flavored malt beverages.
Discussions are taking place in respect of possible rule changes related to the alcohol content in flavored malt beverages.
Revised rules could result in changes in the methods by which Diageo currently produces flavored malt beverages and therefore increase the costs of production and or distribution of these products.
In addition, possible regulatory changes could impose adverse federal tax consequences on the import and sale of flavored malt beverages.
Flavored malt beverages form a component of Diageos growth strategy within the United States and it is possible that the implementation of any regulatory changes by the US authorities could have an adverse effect on Diageos future profitability.
20 Diageo Annual Report 2004 Business description Diageos reported after tax income is calculated based on extensive tax and accounting requirements in each of its relevant jurisdictions of operation.
Changes in tax law including tax rates, accounting policies and accounting standards could materially reduce Diageos reported after tax income.
Demand for Diageos products may be adversely affected by changes in consumer preferences and tastes Diageos portfolio includes certain of the worlds leading beverage alcohol brands as well as brands of local prominence.
Maintaining Diageos competitive position depends on its continued ability to offer products that have a strong appeal to consumers.
Consumer preferences may shift due to a variety of factors, including changes in demographic and social trends, changes in travel, vacation or leisure activity patterns and a downturn in economic conditions, which may reduce consumerswillingness to purchase premium branded products.
In addition, concerns about health effects due to negative publicity regarding alcohol consumption, negative dietary effects, regulatory action or any litigation or customer complaints against companies in the industry may have an adverse effect on Diageos profitability.
The competitive position of Diageos brands could also be affected adversely by any failure to achieve consistent, reliable quality in the product or service levels to customers.
In addition, both the launch and ongoing success of new products is inherently uncertain especially as to their appeal to consumers: the failure to launch a new product successfully can give rise to inventory write offs and other costs and can affect consumer perception of an existing brand.
Growth in Diageos business has been based on both the launch of new products and the growth of existing products.
Product innovation remains a significant aspect of Diageos plans for growth.
There can be no assurance as to Diageos continuing ability to develop and launch successful new products or variants of existing products or as to the profitable lifespan of newly or recently developed products.
Any significant changes in consumer preferences and failure to anticipate and react to such changes could result in reduced demand for Diageos products and erosion of its competitive and financial position.
If the social acceptability of Diageos products declines, or if the litigation directed at the beverage alcohol industry were to succeed, Diageos sales volume could decrease and the business could be materially adversely affected In recent years, there has been increased social and political attention directed to the beverage alcohol industry.
Diageo believes that this attention is the result of public concern over problems related to alcohol abuse, including drink driving, underage drinking and health consequences from the misuse of alcohol.
If, as a result, the general social acceptability of beverage alcohol were to decline significantly, sales of Diageos products could materially decrease.
Five putative class actions have been filed against Diageo, Diageo North America, Inc, Paddington, Ltd and a large group of other beverage alcohol manufacturers and importers.
Four of the actions are now pending in US federal district courts two in Ohio, one in North Carolina and one in the District of Columbia.
The fifth action is pending in Colorado state court.
In each action, plaintiffs allege that defendants have intentionally targeted the marketing of certain beverage alcohol brands to minors.
The named plaintiffs seek to pursue their claims on behalf of two classes of plaintiffs i parents or guardians of underage drinkers who bought alcohol beverages during the period from 1982 to the present and ii all parents and guardians of children currently under age 21.
Plaintiffs allege several causes of action, including violations of state consumer protection laws, unjust enrichment, negligence and civil conspiracy.
The complaints seek money damages including fines, punitive damages and disgorgement of profits and injunctions against the alleged targeting of minors in advertising.
Diageo North America and the other US defendants have moved to dismiss the complaints in Ohio, North Carolina and Colorado.
Plaintiffs have not yet responded to these motions.
Diageo and other foreign defendants did not join in these motions because of outstanding objections to personal jurisdiction.
In the District of Columbia case, the Beer Institute Inc. moved to dismiss the complaint on 23 December 2003.
Briefing has been completed, but the court has not yet ruled.
Diageo, Diageo North America and the other defendants must respond to the complaint within 30 days of the issuance of a decision on the Beer Institutes motion to dismiss.
Diageo intends to strenuously defend these putative class actions.
Diageos operating results may be adversely affected by increased costs or shortages of raw materials or labour or disruption to production facilities The raw materials which Diageo uses for the production of its beverage products are largely commodities that are subject to price volatility caused by changes in global supply and demand, weather conditions, agricultural uncertainty or governmental controls.
If commodity price changes result in unexpected increases in raw materials cost or the cost of packaging materials, Diageo may not be able to increase its prices to offset these increased costs without suffering reduced volume, revenue and operating income.
Diageo may be adversely affected by shortages of such raw materials or packaging materials.
Similarly, Diageos operating results could be adversely affected by labour or skill shortages or increased labour costs due to increased competition for employees, higher employee turnover or increased employee benefit costs.
Diageos success is dependent on the capability of its employees.
There is no guarantee that Diageo will continue to be able to recruit, retain and develop the capabilities that it requires to deliver its strategy, for example in relation to sales, marketing and innovation capability within markets or in its senior management.
Diageo would be affected if there were a catastrophic failure of its major production facilities.
See Business description Premium drinks Productionfor details of Diageos principal production areas.
In addition, the maintenance and development of information systems may result in systems failures which may adversely affect business operations.
Diageo has a substantial inventory of aged product categories, principally Scotch whisky and Canadian whisky, which mature over periods of up to 30 years.
As at 30 June 2004, the historical cost of Diageos maturing inventory amounted to 1,499 million.
The maturing inventory is stored primarily in Scotland, and the loss through contamination, fire or other natural disaster of all or a portion of the stock of any one of those aged product categories could result in a significant reduction in supply of those products, and consequently, Diageo would not be able to meet consumer demand for these products as it arises.
In addition, there can be no assurance that insurance proceeds would cover the replacement value of Diageos maturing inventory or other assets were such assets to be lost due to contamination, fire or natural disasters or destruction resulting from negligence or the acts of third parties.
21 Diageo Annual Report 2004 Business description Diageos business may be adversely impacted by unfavourable economic conditions or political or other developments and risks in the countries in which it operates Diageos business is dependent on general economic conditions in the United States, Great Britain and other important markets.
A significant deterioration in these conditions, including a reduction in consumer spending levels, could have a material adverse effect on Diageos business and results of operations.
In addition, Diageo may be adversely affected by political and economic developments in any of the countries where Diageo has distribution networks, production facilities or marketing companies.
Diageos operations are also subject to a variety of other risks and uncertainties related to trading in numerous foreign countries, including political or economic upheaval and the imposition of any import, investment or currency restrictions, including tariffs and import quotas or any restrictions on the repatriation of earnings and capital.
Current examples of such potential upheaval are currency restrictions and potential further disruption to movement of goods into and out of Venezuela, affecting both imports of goods principally Scotch whisky into Venezuela and export of rum Cacique, especially to Spain, unrest in the Middle East, and the impact on tourism and travel of both terrorist threats and ongoing fears of global pandemics, such as SARS.
These disruptions can affect Diageos ability to import or export products and to repatriate funds, as well as affecting the levels of consumer demand for example in duty free outlets at airports or in on trade premises in affected regions and therefore Diageos levels of sales or profitability.
Part of Diageos growth strategy includes expanding its business in certain countries where consumer spending in general, and spending on Diageos products in particular has not historically been as great but where there are prospects for growth.
There is no guarantee that this strategy will be successful and some of the markets represent a higher risk in terms of their changing regulatory environments and higher degree of uncertainty over levels of consumer spending.
Diageo may also be adversely affected by movements in the value of, and returns from, the investments held by its pension funds.
Diageo may be adversely affected by fluctuations in exchange rates.
The results of operations of Diageo are accounted for in pounds sterling.
Approximately 30% of sales in the year ended 30 June 2004 were in US dollars, approximately 25% were in sterling and approximately 22% were in euros.
Movements in exchange rates used to translate foreign currencies into pounds sterling may have a significant impact on Diageos reported results of operations from year to year.
Diageo may also be adversely impacted by fluctuations in interest rates, mainly through an increased interest expense.
To partly delay any adverse impact from interest rate movements, the profile of fixed rate to floating rate net borrowings is maintained according to the duration measure that is equivalent to an approximate 50% fixed and 50% floating amortising profile.
See Operating and financial review Risk management.
Diageos premium drinks operations may be adversely affected by failure to renegotiate distribution and manufacturing rights on favourable terms Diageos premium drinks business has a number of distribution agreements for brands owned by it or by other companies.
These agreements vary depending on the particular brand, but tend to be for a fixed number of years.
There can be no assurance that Diageo will be able to renegotiate distribution rights on favourable terms when they expire or that agreements will not be terminated.
Failure to renew distribution agreements on favourable terms could have an adverse impact on Diageos revenues and operating income.
In addition, Diageos sales may be adversely affected by any disputes with distributors of its products.
Diageo may not be able to protect its intellectual property rights Given the importance of brand recognition to its business, Diageo has invested considerable effort in protecting its intellectual property rights, including trademark registration and domain names.
Diageos patents cover some of its process technology, including some aspects of its bottle marking technology.
Diageo also uses security measures and agreements to protect its confidential information.
However, Diageo cannot be certain that the steps it has taken will be sufficient or that third parties will not infringe on or misappropriate its intellectual property rights.
Moreover, some of the countries in which Diageo operates offer less intellectual property protection than Europe or North America.
Given the attractiveness of Diageos brands to consumers, it is not uncommon for counterfeit products to be manufactured.
Diageo cannot be certain that the steps it takes to prevent, detect and eliminate counterfeit products will be effective in preventing material loss of profits or erosion of brand equity resulting from lower quality or even dangerous counterfeit product reaching the market.
If Diageo is unable to protect its intellectual property rights against infringement or misappropriation, this could materially harm its future financial results and ability to develop its business.
Diageo remains exposed to factors affecting the US food industry While Diageos strategy is to focus on premium drinks, it remains exposed to factors affecting the US food industry through its equity interest in General Mills and its residual exposure to Burger King.
Following the disposal of Pillsbury to General Mills, Diageo now holds approximately 21% of General Millsoutstanding share capital.
The market value of this interest may be affected adversely by a variety of factors, including the performance of General Mills and the extent to which that performance meets , economic conditions in the United States, including the US financial markets, and the dilution of Diageos holding as a result of future issues of shares by General Mills.
On 15 October 2003, General Mills announced that it had received a formal request from the US Securities and Exchange Commission the SEC concerning its sales practices and related accounting.
General Mills stated that the SEC had advised the company that it had not reached any conclusions related to the information request.
See Business description other businesses.
In connection with the disposal of Burger King, Diageo retained $213 million 117 million of subordinated debt, with a 10 year maturity, from the entity owning Burger King.
In addition, Diageo has guaranteed up to $850 million 467 million of borrowings of the Burger King company.
These loans have a term of five years although Diageo and Burger King have structured their arrangements to encourage refinancing by Burger King on a non-guaranteed basis prior to the end of the five years.
There are no assurances, however, that such refinancing will occur or that no liability will arise with respect to the financing of the Burger King disposal.
Both General Mills and Burger King may also be subject to factors affecting the food industry generally, including increased competition, changes in consumer preferences and concerns over obesity and the potential for related litigation or regulation.
These factors could also affect Diageos ability over time to reduce its equity interest in, or affect the price it receives for, General Mills shares.
They could also result in Diageo not fully recovering the book value of its subordinated debt due from Burger King and or having to make payments under the guarantee of Burger Kings debt.
22 Diageo Annual Report 2004 Business description It may be difficult to effect service of US process and enforce US legal process against the directors of Diageo Diageo is a public limited company incorporated under the laws of England and Wales.
The majority of Diageos directors and officers, and some of the experts named in this document, reside outside of the United States, principally in the United Kingdom.
A substantial portion of Diageos assets, and the assets of such persons are located outside of the United States.
Therefore, it may not be possible to effect service of process within the United States upon Diageo or these persons in order to enforce judgements of US courts against Diageo or these persons based on the civil liability provisions of the US Federal Securities laws.
There is doubt as to the enforceability in England and Wales, in original actions or in actions for enforcement of judgements of US courts, of civil liabilities solely based on the US Federal Securities laws.
Cautionary statement concerning forward-looking statements This document contains statements with respect to the financial condition, results of operations and business of Diageo and certain of the plans and objectives of Diageo with respect to these items.
These forward-looking statements are made pursuant to the Safe Harbor provisions of the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
In particular, all statements that express forecasts, expectations and projections with respect to future matters, including trends in results of operations, margins, growth rates, overall market trends, the impact of interest or exchange rates, the availability of financing to Diageo and parties or consortia who have purchased Diageos assets, actions of parties or consortia who have purchased Diageos assets, anticipated cost savings or synergy and the completion of Diageos strategic transactions, are forward-looking statements.
By their nature, forward-looking statements involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to events and depend on circumstances that will occur in the future.
There are a number of factors that could cause actual results and developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements, including factors that are outside Diageos control.
These factors include, but are not limited to: increased competitive product and pricing pressures and unanticipated actions by competitors that could impact Diageos market share, increase expenses and hinder growth potential: the effects of business combinations, partnerships, acquisitions or disposals, existing or future, and the ability to realise expected synergy and or costs savings: Diageos ability to complete future acquisitions and disposals: legal and regulatory developments, including changes in regulations regarding consumption of, or advertising for, beverage alcohol, changes in accounting standards, taxation requirements, such as the impact of excise tax increases with respect to the premium drinks business and environmental laws: developments in the alcohol advertising class actions and any similar proceedings: changes in the food industry in the United States, including increased competition and changes in consumer preferences: changes in consumer preferences and tastes, demographic trends or perceptions about health related issues: changes in the cost of raw materials and labour costs: changes in economic conditions in countries in which Diageo operates, including changes in levels of consumer spending: levels of marketing, promotional and innovation expenditure by Diageo and its competitors: renewal of distribution rights on favourable terms when they expire: termination of existing distribution rights in respect of agency brands: technological, developments that may affect the distribution of products or impede Diageos ability to protect its intellectual property rights: and changes in financial and equity markets, including significant interest rate and foreign currency rate fluctuations, which may affect Diageos access to or increase the cost of financing or which may affect Diageos financial results.
All oral and written forward-looking statements made on or after the date of this document and attributable to Diageo are expressly qualified in their entirety by the above factors and the Risk factorscontained in this document for the year ended 30 June 2004.
Any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of Diageo speak only as of the date they are made.
Diageo does not undertake to update forward-looking statements to reflect any changes in Diageos expectations with regard thereto or any changes in events, conditions circumstances on which any such statement is based.
The reader should, however, consult any additional disclosures that Diageo may make in documents it files with the SEC.
Past performance cannot be relied upon as a guide to future performance.
