12 board of directors and executives Directors Jeremy John Ord 47 Stephen Michael Joubert 46 David Brian Sherriffs 41 Chairman Group Executive Global Solutions Groups Chief Financial Officer Jeremy Ord was appointed as Chairman Stephen Joubert was appointed to the David Sherriffs was appointed as Chief of Dimension Data Holdings plc at the Board of Dimension Data Holdings plc at Financial Officer on 1 March 2004, and time of its listing in London and the time of its listing in London and was appointed to the Board of Dimension Johannesburg in 2000.
He held the Johannesburg in 2000.
Prior to that Data Holdings plc on 9 June 2004.
He is a combined role of Chairman and Chief appointment he served as a director of Chartered Accountant SA who joined the Executive Officer until 1 March 2004, Dimension Data Holdings Ltd from 1998.
Group in 1997 as a member of the when Brett Dawson was appointed as He joined the Company in 1996 as Group finance team, primarily involved in Chief Executive Officer.
Jeremy Ord Financial Director in Network Services.
In 2000, David previously served as Executive Chairman Before that, he was a partner at was appointed Vice President of Business of Dimension Data Holdings Ltd from  for a number of Development for Europe and relocated to 1987, as the Groups Managing Director years.
He graduated from the University of Germany.
From 2003, David served as and in other senior positions since the the Witwatersrand and is a Chartered Group Executive Operations and was Groups 1983 inception.
responsible for business case assessments relating to strategic projects.
Brett William Dawson 40 Patrick Keith Quarmby 50 Prior to joining the Dimension Data Group, Chief Executive Officer Director: Corporate Finance David served in various financial, Brett Dawson was appointed as Chief Patrick Quarmby was appointed to the corporate finance and strategy roles for Executive Officer of the Group and to the Board of Dimension Data Holdings plc at Anglo American plc, including Executive Board of Dimension Data Holdings plc on the time of its listing in London and Assistant to the Chairman.
Prior to this appointment Johannesburg in 2000.
Prior to that his MPhil in Management Studies at the he had served as Dimension Datas Chief appointment he served on the Board of University of Oxford.
He joined Dimension Data Holdings Ltd from 1996. the Group in 1997 as Financial Director of Previously he worked as a tax partner at the Groups joint venture, OmniLink.
He Ernst & Young South Africa and was a was instrumental in growing the business, director of Standard Bank in London and which exceeded all business plan Hong Kong.
He was appointed as objectives and claimed a dominant market Chairman of Datacraft Asia in July 2002. share in the South African market.
He graduated from the University of Cape Following the merger of OmniLink and Town and is a Chartered Accountant Internet Solutions, Brett was appointed SA.
He is a non-executive director of CEO of Internet Solutions.
In September Unitrans Ltd. 2001 he relocated to take on the role of CFO of Dimension Data North America, where he focussed on integrating acquisitions in that territory.
Prior to joining Dimension Data, Brett was responsible for corporate strategy and planning at National Brands Ltd and held corporate finance positions at Anglovaal Ltd and KPMG.
He graduated from the University of the Witwatersrand and is a Chartered Accountant SA.
DIMENSION DATA 13 board of directors and executives Non-Executive Directors Gordon Herbert Waddell 67 Josua Dillie Malherbe 48 Roderick Rory Michael Scott 45 Senior independent non-executive director Dillie Malherbe was appointed to the Rory Scott was appointed to the Board of Gordon Waddell was appointed to the Board in 2003 and as a member of the Dimension Data Holdings plc as a nonBoard of Dimension Data Holdings plc as Remuneration Committee on executive director at the time of its listing a non-executive director at the time of its 15 September 2004.
He is the Chief in London and Johannesburg in 2000.
He listing in London and Johannesburg in Executive Officer of VenFin Ltd.
He also had previously served as a non-executive 2000.
Mr Waddell is the non-executive serves on the board of Vodacom Group director on the Board of Dimension Data chairman of Mersey Docks and Harbour Pty Ltd, GenuOne Incorporated and Holdings Ltd, and before that served as Company.
He was appointed senior nonMidiTV Pty Ltd e-tv.
He graduated from the Group Financial Director from 1987 to executive director in September 2002 and the Universities of Stellenbosch and Cape 1991.
He is presently Managing Director is a member of the Audit Committee, Town and is a qualified Chartered of the Scottish Knitwear Group SA Pty Remuneration Committee and Nomination Accountant SA.
He is a qualified Chartered Committee.
Mr Waddell graduated from Accountant SA and serves as chairman Cambridge University and has an MBA Moses Modidima Moss Ngoasheng of the Audit and Remuneration from Stanford University.
Given the length of time that Moss Ngoasheng was appointed to the has elapsed since his service as an Rupert George Maxwell Lothian Barclay Board in September 2002.
He also serves executive director, the Company considers 47 as a non-executive director on the board him to be fully independent.
Rupert Barclay joined the Board of of Dimension Data South Africa Pty Dimension Data Holdings plc as an Ltd.
He is executive chairman of Peter Dorian Dorian Wharton-Hood independent non-executive director with investment company Safika Holdings Pty 65 effect from 9 June 2004.
Mr Barclay is a Ltd, and was previously economic advisor Dorian Wharton-Hood was appointed to partner of Cairneagle Associates LLP and to South African President Thabo Mbeki.
the Board of Dimension Data Holdings plc is a non-executive director of Lowland He also serves as a non-executive director as a non-executive director at the time of Investment Company plc.
He has of The Industrial Development its listing in London and Johannesburg in previously served in an executive capacity Corporation and New Africa Capital Ltd. 2000.
He previously served as a nonas CFO of Lombard Risk Management Mr Ngoasheng graduated from the executive director of Dimension Data plc, Director of Group Strategy University of South Africa and has an Holdings Ltd from 1998.
He was viceDevelopment at Reuters plc and Director MPhil from Sussex University.
Safika chairman of Liberty Life for eight years.
of Group Strategy at Allied Domecq plc.
Holdings Pty Limited, amongst its other He was chairman of the Life Offices Rupert Barclay was appointed to the Audit activities, has formed a minority part of Association of SA on three occasions and Committee on 15 September 2004.
He is the consortium involved in the BEE president of the Insurance Institute of SA.
a graduate of Cambridge University, has transaction with Dimension Data South He was also a member of the Council of an MBA from INSEAD and is a Chartered Africa during the period under review.
The the SA Foundation and a director of Accountant.
Company has reviewed this involvement, Business Against Crime.
In 1998 he was and considers that Moss should continue chairman of the Governing Body of to be considered as fully independent.
Business SA of which he is now a trustee.
He is a member of the Nomination Committee and the Treasury Committee.
He graduated from Stellenbosch University.
ANNUAL REPORT 2004 14 board of directors and executives Executive Committee Group Operations Brett Dawson Chief Executive Officer Chairman of the Executive Committee Dave Sherriffs Chief Financial Officer Patrick Quarmby Director: Corporate Finance Regional CEOs Russell Bolan CEO UK Bob Cagnazzi CEO USA Allan Cawood CEO Africa Ulrich Max Mueller CEO Europe Steve Nola CEO Australia Bill Padfield CEO Asia Functional Heads Alan Burgess Chief Information Officer Marilyn Chaplin Group Executive Human Resources Adam Craker Group Executive Sales Connie fide Lange Group Executive Marketing Scott Gibson Group Executive Finance Steve Joubert Group Executive Global Solutions Groups Scott Petty Group Executive Services Ettienne Reinecke Chief Technology Officer Bruce Watson Group Executive Cisco Alliance DIMENSION DATA
