28 directors report The Directors of Dimension Data present their annual report and audited financial statements for the year ending 30 September 2004.
Principal activities Dividends data sources and applications.
The Group Dimension Data Holdings plc is a The Board has reviewed and maintains its has continued its investment in achieving specialist IT services and solution provider policy that available cash generated by alignment across all regions, facilitating that helps clients plan, build and support the Group will be utilised to fund working the leverage of intellectual property across their IT infrastructures.
Dimension Data capital requirements and to continue the regions and adoption of best practices.
applies its expertise in networking, rollout of strategy.
It accordingly will not security, operating environments, storage declare a dividend for the current financial The Group continued its investment in its and contact centre technologies to create period 2003: US$ nil, but will continue to managed services offerings including customised client solutions.
review this policy on an annual basis, or investment to achieve operational as necessary.
Multiple Network Operations The Directors Report should be read in Centres across all regions have been conjunction with the Chairmans Research and development consolidated into six Global Support Statement, the Chief Executive Officers Dimension Data has aligned its research Centres, creating significant leverage for Report and the Financial Review, which and development investments with its core the Group.
The Group has also invested in provide information about the Groups strategy of solutions and services a partner programme in a number of businesses, their financial performance offerings in its areas of focus.
Continued countries where it does not have a direct during the year, and likely future engagement with key partners and clients service reach in order to service large developments.
has resulted in Dimension Data investing multinational customers.
in a number of consultative and managed Results services.
These services assist Dimension The Group also invested in a project to For the year ended 30 September 2004, Data in implementing solutions for clients create an e-procurement facility for its total turnover including associates was that meet their specific objectives.
Customers have the ability to US$2,484.0 million, compared with addition, Dimension Data continues to access Dimension Data offerings via their US$2,100.3 million for the previous year, invest to achieve the full life cycle of core e-procurement service or directly via representing an increase of 18%.
Total services around each of its core solution the Internet.
This is in the process of operating profit before goodwill areas.
The full life cycle of services span being implemented in all regions.
amortisation, impairment and exceptional the Plan, Build and Support strategy that items was US$33.0 million compared with underpin each of its offerings.
Acquisitions a loss of US$9.0 million for the previous No material acquisitions were made year.
Basic earnings per share before The technology market has undergone during the year.
goodwill amortisation, impairment and significant changes in the last 12 months exceptional items amounted to 0.9 US and convergence has become a reality for Disposals cents 2003: loss 2.7 US cents.
This has resulted We have disposed of several businesses in vendor consolidation and increased during the year, as disclosed in Note 26. integration between previously disparate technology areas, fuelling the need for enhanced solutions and service offerings.
We have worked with enterprise clients and service providers to create solutions that integrate networking, telephony, video, DIMENSION DATA 29 directors report Directors The current Directors are listed on pages 12 and 13.
Details of the members of the Board, who served throughout the year, except as listed, are given below: Name Position Appointed Date Resigned where relevant Jeremy Ord Chairman May 2000 Joint Chairman and CEO to 1 March 2004 Brett Dawson Chief Executive Officer March 2004 Stephen Joubert Group Executive Global Solutions Groups July 2000 Patrick Quarmby Director: Corporate Finance July 2000 Malcolm Rutherford Chief Financial Officer May 2000 Resigned as CFO on 1 March 2004.
Resigned from Board on 11 May 2004 David Sherriffs Chief Financial Officer June 2004 Gordon Waddell Senior independent non-executive director July 2000 Rupert Barclay Independent non-executive director June 2004 David Frankel Non-executive director July 2000 16 November 2004 Dillie Malherbe Non-executive director November 2003 Robert Mansfield Independent non-executive director July 2000 17 November 2003 Moss Ngoasheng Independent non-executive director September 2002 Rory Scott Independent non-executive director July 2000 Dorian Wharton-Hood Independent non-executive director July 2000 At the forthcoming Annual General Governance Report.
Details of Directors consultation with employees.
Meeting, Jeremy Ord, Moss Ngoasheng service contracts and remuneration are and Gordon Waddell retire by rotation and set out in the Remuneration Report.
Dimension Data operates a share option offer themselves for re-election in Details of the Directors' interests in any scheme and offers performance-related accordance with the Articles of Group company can also be found in the bonus payments in order to encourage the Association.
The Companys Articles of Remuneration Report.
participation of employees in the success Association provide that every director of the Group.
Details of the long term appointed to the Board during the year Corporate Governance incentives appear in the Remuneration shall automatically retire and seek election A report on Corporate Governance and Report and the outstanding options at the next general meeting following compliance with the Combined Code is appear in Note 23 to the annual financial appointment.
Accordingly, shareholders set out on pages 31 to 34. statements on pages 76 to 78.
Following will be asked to elect Rupert Barclay as a consultation with major shareholders, the non-executive director, and David Sherriffs Employee involvement Company has called an Extraordinary as an executive director.
The Dimension Data Group seeks to General Meeting EGM for 2 December engage all employees in a shared 2004, seeking approval for the introduction Biographical details of those directors commitment to the success of its of two new long term incentive schemes.
seeking re-election and election are set business, and keeps them informed It is intended that these schemes will out on pages 12 and 13. regarding the business environment and continue to encourage the widespread matters of concern to them.
The participation of employees in the success Directors memberships of Board Corporate Social Responsibility Report of the Group, whilst addressing investor Committees are set out in the Corporate contains details of communication and concerns relating to dilution.
ANNUAL REPORT 2004 30 directors report The Group has a policy that all employees Issued share capital Corporate responsibility are entitled to equal opportunities within As at 30 September 2004, the Companys Dimension Datas position on the its companies globally.
Disabled persons issued share capital was 50,000 deferred environment and on charitable donations applying for employment are given fair shares of 1 each and 1,342,437,229 is detailed in the Corporate Social consideration.
Employees who become ordinary shares of 1 US cent each.
Responsibility Report set out on pages 36 disabled whilst employed will be retrained to 38.
Direct charitable donations made to wherever possible so that they can remain Details of interests of 3% or more in the UK residents or charities totalled employed within the Group.
Details of the issued ordinary share capital of the US$17,000 2003: nil.
Donations to average number of employees are Company are shown in Shareholder overseas charities are detailed in the contained in Note 6 to the annual financial Information on page 51.
The Company made no political donations Creditor payment policy in the year under review 2003: nil.
Authorised share capital Dimension Data Holdings plc is a holding The authorised share capital of the company and, as such, had no trade Auditors Company is made up of 50,000, divided creditors at the year end.
It is therefore Resolutions to reappoint Deloitte & Touche into 50,000 deferred shares of 1 each, not applicable to provide statistics for the LLP as the Groups auditors and and US$30 million, divided into 3 billion Company as required by the Companies authorising the Directors to determine ordinary shares of 1 US cent each.
Group operating companies have no their remuneration will be proposed at the fixed payment policies but agree in forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The holders of the deferred shares have advance the best possible terms with their no right to receive notice of any general suppliers and the Group is committed to Company Secretary meeting of the Company, nor the right to honouring those terms.
The UK company secretary is Mrs JM attend, speak or vote at such general Duck and the South African company meetings.
The deferred shares have no Post balance sheet event secretary is Mrs ML Taylor details on rights to dividends and on a return of There were no other subsequent events, page 92. assets in a winding-up, entitle the holder other than disclosed in Note 33. to the repayment of the amounts paid on Annual General Meeting the deferred shares after repayment of the Going concern The notice convening the Annual General capital paid up on the ordinary shares After making due enquiry, the Directors Meeting, together with the proxy form and plus the payment of US$10 million per consider that, as at the date of the notes explaining the various resolutions, ordinary share.
approval of the financial statements, the will be mailed to shareholders in due Group has adequate resources to course.
continue to operate for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to By Order of the Board adopt the going concern basis in Mrs JM Duck preparing their financial statements.
