DIRECTORS AND COMPANY SECRETARY # Antony Hichens Tony Thorne Gavin Morris Jean-Paul Loison Bob Beeston Appointed to the Board on Appointed to the Board on Chairman Group Chief Executive Group Finance Director 9 December 2003.
He is 5 December 2000 as a nonAppointed to the Board on Appointed to the Board on Appointed to the Board on Divisional Chief Executive of Executive Director.
He is 29 June 1999 as a non- 1 January 2001 as Chief 5 November 2002 as Group the Kaysersberg Packaging Chairman of the Remuneration Executive Director, became Operating officer and became Finance Director.
He was division of the Group, with Committee and is the Senior Chairman of the Board on Group Chief Executive on previously Chief Financial responsibility for the Groups Independent Director.
He is 8 September 1999 and is 5 December 2001.
He was officer of Citex Group and continental European Paper also Chairman of Cookson Chairman of the Nomination previously President of SCA prior to that held Chief and Corrugated Packaging Group plc and was previously Committee.
He is a Member Packagings Corrugated Financial officer positions at operations.
He joined Chief Executive of FKI plc.
of the Takeover Panel, a Business Division and prior to Philips Lighting Holding BV, Kaysersberg Packaging S. A. S. Age 62.
Director of WaterRower UK that held senior management Ionica Group plc, Alfred in 1970 and held various Limited and is also a nonpositions in Shell.
McAlpine Plc and Norcros Plc.
senior management positions Executive Director of Candover Age 50. before becoming Divisional Investments PLC and The JP Morgan Fleming Income and Chief Executive in 1993.
Previously, he held the positions of a Managing Director and Chief Financial officer of Consolidated Gold Fields, Chairman of Caradon plc and Chairman of Lasmo plc.
# # # Christopher Bunker Peter Johnson Richard Marton Daniel Piette Carolyn Cattermole Appointed to the Board on Appointed to the Board on Appointed to the Board on Appointed to the Board on Appointed Company Secretary 9 December 2003 as a non- 8 December 1999 as a 13 March 2000 as a non- 1 October 1993 as a nonon 20 November 2000.
He recently non-Executive Director and Executive Director.
He is was previously Company retired as Finance Director of is Chairman of the Audit previously Chief Executive Group Executive Vice-President Secretary of Courtaulds the Water Division of RWE AG Committee.
He is Chief and then non-Executive and a member of the Textiles plc and prior to that and was previously Group Executive of George Wimpey Director of Britax International Executive Committee of LVMH was a senior legal adviser Finance Director of Thames Plc and a Member of the plc.
Corporation, Chairman and with Courtaulds plc having Water Plc.
Prior to that he Council for Industry and Chief Executive officer of LV qualied as a solicitor with was Group Finance Director Higher Education and was Capital and President of Norton Rose.
Age 43. of Tarmac Plc, Commercial previously Chief Executive L Capital.
Director of GKN Aerospace of The Rugby Group PLC.
and Defence and Finance Age 56.
Director of Westland Group Plc.
He is a non-Executive Director of John Mowlem Plc and of Travis Perkins plc.
Member of General Purposes Committee Member of Nomination Committee Member of Remuneration Committee # Member of Audit Committee 22 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2004
