DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors submit their Annual Report shares.
Pursuant to the Companys employee Research and development and the audited financial statements for the share option schemes, 1,207,282 ordinary The Group recognises the importance financial year ended 30 April 2004. shares of 10p each were issued during the of continuing to invest in research and year.
9,480 shares pursuant to the Companys development.
It is Group policy to develop Principal activities and business review employee share option schemes were issued new product specifications commensurate The Company acts as the holding company between 30 April 2004 and 23 June 2004 with environmental needs and packaging of a group, which, during 2003 04, was inclusive.
Under the rules of the Companys solutions required by customers.
Research is engaged in the production of corrugated share option schemes and following Inland also conducted into ways to improve product and plastic packaging and of paper, primarily Revenue approval, adjustments were made quality and to find more cost efficient methods from recycled waste, and the distribution of office products.
A full review of the to the option price and to the number of of production and distribution.
Research and activities during the financial year ended ordinary shares under option for all options development is conducted within divisional 30 April 2004 and future developments is outstanding as at the date of the rights issue.
operations and expenditure is not significant.
given in the Chairmans Statement, Chief The Company has not utilised its authority Directors Executives Review and in the Operating to make market purchases of shares granted The biographies of the present Directors are and Financial Reviews on pages 4 to 21. to it at the 2003 Annual General Meeting on page 22.
All the present Directors served The principal subsidiary undertakings are but will be seeking to renew such authority throughout the year except as follows: listed in note 32 on page 62. at this years meeting.
Mr C J Bunker was appointed as a nonResults for the year Substantial shareholders Executive Director and Mr J-P Loison was The financial results are shown on pages 38 At 23 June 2004, the Company has been appointed as an Executive Director of the to 62.
Other than informed of the following notifiable interests Dividends as previously disclosed in this Report and in its issued ordinary share capital: An interim dividend of 2.8p net per ordinary in respect of existing service agreements, Ordinary share was paid on 9 March 2004 and the shares held % no Director, either during or at the end of the Directors recommend a final dividend financial year, has been materially interested Deutsche Bank AG 47,139,699 12.17% of 5.6p net per ordinary share, making in any significant contract or arrangement Henderson Global a total dividend to be paid for the year of in relation to the Groups business.
Re-election of Directors Newton The final dividend of 5.6p per ordinary share, Management Ltd 24,301,501 6.27% The Articles of Association require that all together with the restated interim dividend Directors who are subject to retirement by of 2.6p, maintains the total dividend for the Standard Life rotation retire every three years, but they are year, restated for the rights issue, at 8.2p.
Investments 17,350,266 4.48% eligible to submit themselves for re-election Subject to approval of shareholders at the Legal & General by the shareholders.
The Directors retiring by Annual General Meeting to be held on Investment 10 September 2004, the final dividend will be rotation at the Annual General Meeting on Management Ltd 13,147,225 3.39% paid on 21 September 2004 to shareholders 10 September 2004 are Mr A D Thorne, on the register at the close of business on Mr R G Beeston and Mr D R Piette but, Acquisitions and disposals 20 August 2004.
The dividends per ordinary being eligible, they offer themselves for On 3 March 2004 the Group announced share stated above are those actually paid re-election at the Meeting.
Mr Bunker and its intention to acquire LINPAC Containers or to be paid.
Neither the interim or prior Mr Loison having been appointed to the Group, a UK manufacturer of corrugated year dividend per ordinary share figures have Board since the last Annual General Meeting packaging.
The acquisition was subject to been restated for the bonus element inherent and in accordance with the Articles, retire the approval of shareholders, which was in the rights issue, details of which are given from office at the Meeting and, being eligible, given at the EGM on 22 March 2004.
Historic dividends per share have been offer themselves for election.
Mr Loison has net cost of the acquisition was 167 million restated in the five year summary on page 63. a service contract with the Company.
This is including all fees for the transaction.
in addition to his employment contract with Share capital In October 2003 the Group acquired the 64,540,651 new ordinary shares were issued Kaysersberg Packaging S. A. S. a wholly business and certain assets and liabilities owned French subsidiary of the Company.
following the one-for-five rights issue of the Macfarlane Group Plc corrugated The contract with the Company is terminable announced on 4 March 2004.
These shares were fully subscribed, resulting in total packaging operations at Dundee, Govan by the Company giving 12 months notice.
One of these plants and The contract with Kaysersberg Packaging proceeds on issue of 70.4 million net of expenses.
These new shares ranked equally a DS Smith Packaging sheet plant were S. A. S. is also terminable by that company subsequently sold in March 2004. giving 12 months notice.
in all respects with the existing ordinary DS Smith Plc DS Smith Plc Annual Repor Annual Report 2004 t 2004 35 35 DIRECTORS REPORT Directors interests in shares Pension fund Auditor The investment of the Groups pension fund Resolutions to re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc The interests of the Directors and their as auditor of the Company and to authorise immediate families in the ordinary shares of assets is managed on a discretionary basis by the Directors to determine their remuneration 10p each of the Company, including options Deutsche Asset Management Limited, Schroder will be put to the Annual General Meeting.
Investment Management Limited and Alliance granted but not yet exercised under the Bernstein Institutional Investment Management, Executive Share Option Schemes, were as By Order of the Board such assets being held independently from the shown in the tables on pages 32 and 33.
The professional advisors to the fund There were no changes in the interests of Secretary are independent of the Group.
The Trustee of the Directors or their immediate families 23 June 2004 the pension scheme sends an Annual Report in the issued ordinary share capital of the to members of the scheme.
The Trustee Company between 30 April 2004 and Company has an Investment Sub-Committee 23 June 2004 inclusive.
which was established in line with guidelines Employee involvement and communications from the Myners Report.
The Group is committed to effective employee Health and safety communications to promote the understanding The Group recognises its responsibilities and and involvement of all its employees in the continues to promote all aspects of health Groups business objectives and performance.
and safety in the interests of its employees Communications and personnel policies have and members of the public.
A Health and Directors responsibilities for preparation been developed to reflect the philosophy of Safety Policy Statement has been approved of financial statements operating management.
Information is by the Board.
The Group provides financial As required by Company law, the Directors regularly communicated by briefings and support to the British Occupational Health are responsible for the preparation of newsletters.
The Group operates a European Research Foundation, an organisation which financial statements for each financial year Works Council, with representatives drawn deploys funds for research into the problems which give a true and fair view of the state from across the entire workforce in the of occupational ill-health.
of affairs of the Company and the Group EU countries in which the Group operates.
and of the profit or loss for that period.
Meetings are held to provide an exchange Payment to suppliers In preparing those financial statements, of transnational information and consultation Although the Company does not follow any the Directors are required to: formal code or standard on payment practice, with employees.
At each meeting, presentations are made on the Groups business strategy, the Company agrees terms and conditions in select suitable accounting policies and financial results, health and safety and the UK with each supplier, which include then apply them consistently: terms of payment.
The Company pays each environmental performance.
Business make judgements and estimates that supplier accordingly, subject to all the terms decisions concerning capital investment, are reasonable and prudent: and conditions of the order being satisfied by employment and training take into account such supplier.
The aggregate amount owed the Groups public and local responsibilities.
state whether applicable accounting by the Company to trade creditors at 30 April The Group is a member of Business in the standards have been followed, subject 2004 was equivalent to 27 days of purchases to any material departures disclosed and Community and supports the involvement of invoiced by suppliers during the year.
explained in the financial statements: and its operations in local community activities.
Charitable and political donations prepare the financial statements on Equal opportunities The Group contributed 109,000 112,000 the going concern basis unless it is The Group wholeheartedly supports to charities in the UK.
No payments were inappropriate to presume that the the principle and achievement of equal made to political parties.
Donations were Group will continue in business.
opportunities in employment and its policies made by operating divisions to support their are designed to provide such equality The Directors are responsible for keeping local communities and industries.
The Group irrespective of sex, religion, race, marital proper accounting records which disclose with also supported a number of other charities status, nationality or age.
Every possible step reasonable accuracy at any time the financial across a range of causes.
will be taken to ensure that individuals are position of the Company and enable them to treated equally and fairly.
Depending upon ensure that the financial statements comply Annual General Meeting their skills and abilities, the Group applies the with the Companies Act 1985.
They have The notice of the Annual General Meeting same criteria to disabled persons as it does to general responsibility for taking such steps as of the Company to be held on 10 September other employees and, if necessary, retraining are reasonably open to them to safeguard the 2004, together with explanations of the is offered to any of its employees who assets of the Group and to prevent and detect Resolutions to be proposed, appears at the develop a disability during such employment.
back of this Annual Report.
36 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2004
