Directors Report Results and Dividends The profit for the financial year after taxation was 18.8 million 2003 27.3 million.
An interim dividend of 2.25 pence per ordinary share was paid on 19 November 2004 and the Directors now recommend a final dividend of 3.57 pence per ordinary share payable on 20 May 2005, making a total for the year of 5.82 pence per ordinary share 2003 5.65 pence.
The total cost of these dividends amounts to 15.5 million 2003 15.1million.
The balance of the retained profit for the financial year of 3.3 million 2003 12.2 million has been transferred to reserves.
Share Capital Details of the changes in issued share capital during the year are shown in Note 20 to the accounts.
Principal Activities The principal activities of the Group, significant changes in those activities and an indication of likely future developments are described in the Chairmans Statement on pages 8 to 10 and in the Operating and Financial Review on pages 14 to 25.
Principal subsidiary undertakings are listed in Note 25 to the accounts.
Going Concern The Directors, having made all the relevant enquiries, consider that the Group and the Company have the adequate resources at their disposal to continue their operations for the foreseeable future, and that it is therefore appropriate to prepare the accounts on a going concern basis.
Directors The Directors of the Company and their biographical details are set out on pages 32 and 33.
Mr P G Rogerson, Mr N H Northridge and Mr F A B Shepherd retire by rotation at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
The Nomination Committee has considered the contribution and commitment of the Directors that are required to offer themselves for re-election and has confirmed to the Board that their performance continued to be effective and, therefore, the Company should support their re-election.
Mr Rogerson was Deputy Chairman between 1997 and 2002 and has been Chairman since 2002: Mr Northridge has been the Senior Independent Non-executive Director since 2002 and Mr Shepherd has been an Executive Director since 1997.
Mr H J Molenaar took up the position of Director of Business Development with the Company on 1 January 2005 and he stepped down from the Board of Aggreko plc on that date.
All of the Directors have service agreements or letters of appointment and the details of their terms are set out in the Remuneration Report on page 48.
No other contract with the Company, or any subsidiary undertaking of the Company, in which any Director was materially interested subsisted during or at the end of the financial year.
A statement of Directors interests in the share capital of the Company at the end of the financial year is given on pages 53 and 54.
Donations During the year the Group contributed 26,915 2003 37,596 in terms of cash, employees time, and other services to a range of charitable, community and arts organisations.
Of this total 9,519 2003 20,428 was donated to registered UK charities.
No political donations were made during the year 2003 Nil.
34 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Employees The Group continues to operate team briefings throughout its business to keep employees informed of developments and plans, both in their own operations and in the Group as a whole.
Employees have access to the Aggreko Resource Centre, an Intranet based system, which provides them with a wide range of information on the activities of the Group around the world.
The annual and interim results are publicised extensively throughout the business and are made available to all employees.
The Aggreko Savings-related Share Option Scheme Sharesave was launched in 1998 and currently more than a third of employees with over six months service participate in this scheme.
A substantial number of employees have shareholdings built up through Sharesave and other schemes.
The Groups policies for recruitment, training, career development, and promotion of employees are based on the suitability of the individual and give those who are disabled equal treatment with the able bodied.
Where appropriate, employees disabled after joining the Group are given suitable training for alternative employment with the Group or elsewhere.
Supplier Payment Policy It is the Groups policy to settle the terms and conditions of payment with suppliers when agreeing each transaction, to ensure that suppliers are made aware of these terms and, in practice, providing the supplier meets its contractual obligations, to abide by them.
In overall terms, the Group had approximately 42 days credit outstanding as at the balance sheet date.
Annual General Meeting The Companys Annual General Meeting will be held on Wednesday 27 April 2005 at the Hilton Hotel, 1 William Street, Glasgow and the notice of this meeting is set out on pages 78 to 80.
Special Business Allotment for Cash Resolution 8 proposes as a special resolution to disapply the statutory pre-emption rights of shareholders on allotment of equity securities for cash up to a limit of a total of shares with a nominal value of 2,680,000, being approximately 5% of the current issued share capital.
The resolution also disapplies these rights to the extent necessary to facilitate rights issues.
The authority under this resolution would expire on the date of the Annual General Meeting in 2006 or on 26 July 2006, whichever is the earlier.
This resolution is on the same basis as approved last year and the Directors intend to seek renewal of this power at subsequent Annual General Meetings.
Purchase of Own Shares The final item of special business is the Directors recommendation that shareholders renew the authority of the Company to purchase its own ordinary shares as permitted under Article 7 of its Articles of Association.
Accordingly, Resolution 9 will be proposed as a special resolution seeking authority to make such purchases in the market.
The Directors will only use such authority when they consider it to be in the best interests of shareholders generally and an improvement in earnings per share would result.
The Board is taking the power to hold shares in treasury: accordingly, any ordinary shares purchased under this authority will either be cancelled and the number of ordinary shares on issue reduced or held in treasury.
Resolution 9 specifies the maximum number of ordinary shares which may be purchased representing approximately 10% of the Companys existing issued ordinary share capital and the minimum and maximum prices at which they may be bought, reflecting the requirements of the Companies Act 1985 and of the Financial Services Authority, as set out in the Listing Rules.
The Directors intend to seek renewal of this power at subsequent Annual General Meetings.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 35 Directors Report continued Treasury Shares Amendments to the Companies Act which came into force on 1 December 2003 allow companies acquiring their own shares to hold these shares in treasury for re-sale.
Resolutions 8 and 9 would provide the Directors with the authority they need to use treasury shares to give the company more flexibility in managing its share capital.
The Directors have no immediate intention of using such authority and would do so only when they consider it to be in the best interests of shareholders generally.
The Directors intend that any buy back of shares into treasury and re-sale of shares from treasury will operate within the following limits: No more than 10% of the Companys issued shares will be held in treasury at any time: and Treasury shares will not be sold at a discount of more than 10% to the middle market price of shares at time of sale.
Notifiable Interests As at 15 February 2005 the Company had received notifications of the following share holdings in excess of 3% of the issued ordinary share capital: Name of Shareholder Number of Shares % Deutsche Bank AG, Frankfurt 27,177,236 10.13 A E H Salvesen 14,553,159 5.43 J O Hambro Capital Management Limited 9,476,995 3.53 Legal & General Investment Management Limited 9,406,264 3.51 Wellington Management Company, LLP 8,393,300 3.13 including direct and indirect subsidiary company interests including immediate family and trustee interests The Directors are not aware of any other material interests amounting to 3% or more in the share capital of the Company.
Auditors A resolution re-appointing  LLP as the Companys auditors will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
By order of the Board A Paul Allen Secretary 3 March 2005 36 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004
