Aggrekos market-place The market Examples of lower-value, frequent events on Customers come to Aggreko when they need which we might work are: power, temperature control or oil-free air.
They might need it very quickly, for example when An oil refinery needs additional cooling during a power transformer fails in the local electricity the summer to maintain production efficiency grid, or they may need it for such a short period of time that it is not economically viable to A glass manufacturer suffers a breakdown purchase a permanent installation, for example, in its plant and needs power and oil-free-air a major sporting event might need additional compressors whilst its own equipment is being power and cooling for only a few days.
repaired The nature of Aggrekos business means it is A rock festival needs additional power to event-driven our customers turn to us when support broadcast and lighting something unusual happens.
Events range from the very large and infrequent for instance, Demand is created by events which differ in value and frequency illustrative in 1999 and 2000 there was a large increase in demand as businesses feared power problems Value per occurrence associated with the new millennium to the 1,000s Construction small and recurrent, such as local power failures.
Factory breakdown maintenance Examples of high-value, infrequent events 10,000s Utility breakdown maintenance or situations we have worked on include: Entertainment Post-war reconstruction Telecoms roll-out Afghanistan, Iraq, Kosovo 100,000s Storms Utility augmentation Hydro power shortage 1,000,000s Sri Lanka, Venezuela, Ghana War Power crisis Major Sporting Events 10,000,000s Y2k Salt Lake City Winter Olympics, 2002 World Cup Occurrences per year 1 10s 100s 1,000s 10,000s 100,000s Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 11 Aggrekos market-place continued What is driving market growth?
Growth in Aggrekos Local business in driven by These factors also impact our power projects four main factors.
However, two factors in particular are driving the growth in the power utilities market.
Area or sector GDP growth as production grows, so does demand for energy.
GDP growth in excess of grid capacity: in many developing countries around the world, Propensity to rent how inclined people are to the economies are growing faster than the rent rather than buy.
This is driven by issues such power utilities can bring extra capacity on line.
as tax treatment of capital assets and the growing acceptance of outsourcing.
Growing affluence in some of these countries means that people are becoming ever-more Price this is linked to the first two, but is also dependent on power and increasingly intolerant dependent on rental equipment availability: of power failures.
if there is a surplus, prices will decline.
Events high-value low-frequency events change the size of a market, although only temporarily.
For example, the Californian power crisis in 2001-2 led to dramatic growth in the market in the US, which then fell back once the crisis was over.
We estimate that the market for the short-term Our two different business models rental of power, temperature control and oil-free There are two types of business within our air is worth about 1.1 billion worldwide and will market.
One deals with small events which can grow at an estimated 2% above GDP.
So if GDP occur regularly and the other with large-scale grows at 3% on average, our market should grow events which occur infrequently.
These two at 5% and be worth 1.4 billion by 2008. businesses require different skills, equipment and logistics.
Accordingly, Aggreko has developed The total market is worth 1.1 billion in 2003, two different business models.
and is growing by an average of 5% Our Local business focuses on the smaller, 1,110 2003 more frequently occurring, events.
Although 2008 1,366 most of this business has a leadtime of more than 12 hours, about 25% of its revenues come CAGR 5% from responding to emergencies.
It is therefore Source: Aggreko, Bain projections essential to have the capability to deploy equipment and people to the customers site Local power Temperature control Oil-free air Power projects within a matter of hours.
This business operates from over 100 service centres in North America, South America, Europe, the Middle East, Singapore and Australia.
These service centres look after customers who are typically within a radius of 150 miles and they offer the complete range of our products and services.
This Local business accounted for 78% of our revenues in 2004, amounting to some 253.2 million.
12 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Our International Power Projects business Our market share concentrates on very large contracts, some We estimate that in 2003 our worldwide share of which can be worth over 10 million.
of the market for rental power, temperature Most contracts in this business are worth over control and oil-free air was approximately 23%, 1 million.
The biggest customers are power comprising 24% in the Local business and 20% utilities, however we also serve armed forces, in International Power Projects.
In the Local oil companies and mines.
We use standardised business, Aggreko is the market leader in the equipment: 1 megawatt containerised units European Union, North America, the Middle assembled in our own facility in Scotland.
These are designed specifically to be easily transportable, reliable and robust.
Because these power projects can arise anywhere in the world and the required response time is days or weeks rather than hours, we concentrate our fleet in five hubs in South America, Africa, Europe, the Middle East and Asia.
From each hub large amounts of equipment can be shipped or flown rapidly to wherever it is needed.
In 2004, our International Power Projects business generated revenues of 70.4 million, or 22% of Aggrekos total turnover.
Revenue by customer segment % 1 Utilities 19.5 7 1 2 Manufacturing 18.8 3 Services & Military 19.7 6 4 Construction 11.3 5 Oil & Gas 10.0 5 2 6 Entertainment 6.2 7 Other 14.5 4 3 Source: Aggreko internal reports Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 13
