Board of Directors Philip Rogerson 60 Chairman Philip Rogerson is Chairman of Viridian Group plc and THUS Group plc, Deputy Chairman of Carillion plc, a Non-executive Director of Davis Service Group plc and Northgate plc.
Until February 1998 he was Deputy Chairman of BG plc formerly British Gas plc having been a Director since 1992.
He joined the Board of Aggreko plc in September 1997 and was appointed as Chairman in April 2002.
Rupert Soames 45 Group Chief Executive Rupert Soames joined the Board as Group Chief Executive on 1 July 2003.
He was formerly with Misys PLC, where he was Chief Executive of the Banking and Securities Division.
Before joining Misys, Rupert was with GEC plc for 15 years, working in a number of their subsidiaries: in the last 4 years of his service with GEC he was responsible for the UK, African and Asian operations of Avery Berkel.
He is a Non-executive Director of Baggeridge Brick PLC.
Derek Shepherd 62 Managing Director International Derek Shepherd, a Chartered Engineer, left his position as Managing Director of Taylor Woodrow Nigeria to become International Managing Director of Gammon HK in Hong Kong and joined Aggreko in 1988 as Managing Director of the UK business.
He was appointed Director of Aggreko Europe in 1991 and became Managing Director in the following year.
He joined the Board of Aggreko plc in September 1997.
In March 1999 he was given responsibility for Aggreko International Power Projects together with the Companys activities in the Middle East, Australia, Asia, Africa and South America.
He is based in Dubai, United Arab Emirates.
Angus Cockburn 41 Finance Director Angus Cockburn, a Chartered Accountant, joined Aggreko in May 2000 as Finance Director.
He was previously Managing Director of Pringle of Scotland, a division of Dawson International PLC, having joined that company in 1997 from PepsiCo Inc. At PepsiCo he spent five years in various positions, latterly as Regional Finance Director for Central Europe based in Budapest.
He has worked with KPMG both in the UK and in the USA and has an MBA from the IMD Business School in Switzerland.
Hendrik Jan Molenaar 40 Managing Director Europe Hendrik Jan Molenaar, a Dutch national, joined Aggreko in 1992 as European Business Development Manager, having gained an MBA from Nijenrode University in the Netherlands.
In 1995 he was appointed General Manager Middle East and headed up the rapid development of the Companys business in the United Arab Emirates, Oman and Saudi Arabia before returning to Europe in early 1999 to take responsibility for the UK operations.
In November 1999, he was appointed European Operations Director and in February 2001 he became European Managing Director and was appointed an Executive Director of Aggreko plc.
On 1 January 2005 he took up the position of Director of Business Development with the Company and stepped down from the Board of Aggreko plc on that date.
George Walker 47 President Aggreko North America George Walker, a United States citizen, joined Aggreko in 1987 when the Company initially entered the temperature control business through the acquisition of Mobile Air-Conditioning Inc. where he was Controller and then Vice-President.
A graduate of the University of Texas, he became a Vice-President of Aggreko Inc. in 1988 and was appointed Executive Vice-President in 1997.
In January 2001 he became President of Aggreko North America and was appointed an Executive Director of Aggreko plc.
32 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Philip Rogerson Rupert Soames Angus Cockburn Derek Shepherd Hendrik Jan Molenaar George Walker Nigel Northridge Andrew Salvesen Roy McGlone Nigel Northridge 49 Senior Independent Non-executive Director Nigel Northridge was appointed as Chief Executive of Gallaher Group Plc in January 2000, having started his career with that business in 1976 as a trainee manager.
Over his 28 years with Gallaher he has held a wide range of senior positions including Divisional Director Iberia, General Manager Europe and, prior to taking up his present position, Group Sales and Marketing Director.
He is also a Non-executive Director of Paddy Power plc.
He joined the Board of Aggreko plc on 14 February 2002.
Andrew Salvesen 57 Non-executive Director Andrew Salvesen was appointed to the Board of Aggreko plc in September 1997.
Previous to that, he had more than 20 years experience with the Christian Salvesen group, including being the Managing Director of Christian Salvesens former Oilfield Technology operations and was a Non-executive Director of Christian Salvesen PLC between 1989 and September 1997.
He is a Non-executive Director of Smedvig ASA, Chairman of Roxar AS, Chairman of Eurohostel Limited, and Deputy Chairman of the National Trust for Scotland.
Roy McGlone 51 Non-executive Director Roy McGlone joined the Board in September 2002.
He is Chief Executive of BBA Group plc, having previously held the position of Group Finance Director.
A Chartered Accountant, he qualified with Price Waterhouse and subsequently held positions with Meggitt plc and BICC plc.
Company Secretary Paul Allen 56 Paul Allen, a Chartered Accountant, was Divisional Accountant of the Industrial Services division of Christian Salvesen PLC at the time of its acquisition of Aggreko in 1984.
In 1986, following the acquisition of the North American business, he became Financial Controller of Aggreko North America.
He returned to the UK in 1993 and became Head of Finance for Aggreko in 1994.
He was appointed Company Secretary in September 1997.
Board Committees Membership Audit Remuneration Nomination Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 33
