Dumbarton Shanghai Doncaster Singapore Newcastle Africa Manchester Tunis Fareham Lagos Plymouth Asia Pacific Great Yarmouth Darwin Port Talbot Newcastle London Townsville Bristol Kalgoorlie Bedford Karratha Nuneaton Sydney Pontefract Brisbane Middle East Melbourne Abu Dhabi Perth Jebel Ali Auckland Dubai Fiji Sharjah South America Bahrain Macae Kuwait Montevideo Qatar Caracas Doha North America Jeddah Mobile Al Khobar Baton Rouge Yanbu Lake Charles Asia Houston Bangalore Beaumont Philipppines San Antonio Sri Lanka Corpus Christi Dallas San Francisco Oklahoma City Las Vegas New Iberia Phoenix New Orleans Hollywood San Antonio Tampa Corpus Christi Chickasha Oklahoma City San Juan Puerto Rico McAllen Toronto Canada Bridgeport Sarnia Canada Boston Montreal Canada Linden Baltimore Chicago Detroit Cleveland St. Louis Kansas City Memphis Nashville Charleston Cincinnati Calvert City Decatur Jacksonville Atlanta Fayetteville Richmond A full list of our locations is available on Denver Los Angeles www.
com ourcompany locations Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 5 HOW People Aggreko has over 2,000 employees around the world, and they are united by a unique culture.
This culture is hard to describe, but phrases such as customer focused, can-do, completely dependable capture some of the ethos of Aggreko employees.
It has grown up over many years, and derives from the fact that very often Aggreko is helping people and businesses to recover from, or to avoid, emergencies or disruption.
Be it the failure of the power supply to a hospital, or the provision of cooling to a pharmaceutical manufacturer, customers are dependent on Aggreko people to keep things running, often under very difficult circumstances.
Our people are highly skilled at what they do, and many of them have years of experience, be it in sales, engineering, field service or commercial functions.
They are used to reacting quickly, getting the job done professionally and safely, and they always respond well in a crisis.
Equipment Many rental businesses provide standard products to their customers.
The car or hammer-drill you rent is the same as you can buy.
Aggrekos equipment is different: manufacturers of generators, temperature control equipment and compressors generally design their products to be installed in a location and stay there for their useful lives.
But for our business, this equipment has to be designed so that it can be lifted and transported thousands of times in its life.
It has to be able to work in extreme conditions the same generator might be working in 30C on an oil rig in Russia one week, and in 45C in the Saudi Arabian desert the next.
Designing and building equipment that can do this whilst remaining safe and compliant with environmental and safety regulations is a key skill of Aggreko.
And, not only do we have industry-leading equipment, we also have a great deal of it 600m worth at original cost.
6 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 POWER KTA50G3 Equipment Category Power Equipment Type 1250kVA containerised generator Application Temporary power supply Features & Benefits Standard ISO container for ease of transportation Containment base to prevent fuel spillage Low noise, broad ambient operating range Synchronising & load sharing capability as standard Multiple unit operation with short set-up time TEMPERATURE CONTROL WCC400 Equipment Category Temperature control Equipment Type 400kW fluid chiller Application Process cooling, comfort cooling Features & Benefits Portability & stackability Easy & quick set-up Low temperature capability Integrated ruggedly constructed frame Low noise OIL-FREE AIR HPCD 1165 350 Equipment Category Air Equipment Type High pressure oil flooded air compressor Application Generation of high pressure industrial air Features & Benefits Diesel driven, standalone capability Containment base to prevent fuel spillage Site towable for ease of placement Multiple unit operation Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 7
