Directors From top left: Sir Colin Chandler, Ray Webster, Chris Walton.
From bottom left: Dawn Airey, Colin Day, Amir Eilon, Tony IIIsley, and Diederik Karsten.
Sir Colin Chandler Non-Executive Chairman Colin 64 joined easyJet in April 2002 and was appointed Chairman in November 2002.
He is currently NonExecutive Deputy Chairman of Smiths Group plc, having been a non-executive director of TI Group since 1992.
Colin has been variously Managing Director, Chief Executive and then Chairman of Vickers plc.
Earlier he was seconded from British Aerospace to the role of Head of Defence Export Services, Ministry of Defence.
He was Chairman of Racal Electronics plc.
He is Chairman of TI Automotive Limited, Chairman of Automotive Technik Limited and Pro-Chancellor of Cranfield University.
Ray Webster Chief Executive Prior to joining easyJet in March 1996, Ray 58 had 27 years of experience in the airline industry at Air New Zealand.
In his career with Air New Zealand he held various positions within the engineering business unit, formed their cargo business unit and had responsibility for marketing, sales and operations within the Americas market.
His last role at Air New Zealand was as General Manager of Strategic Planning, where he was responsible for the identification, evaluation and implementation of corporate development options, including the concept development, planning and implementation of a start up value based low-cost airline serving short-haul routes within the Australasian market.
Annual report and accounts 2004 37 Directors continued Chris Walton Finance Director and CFO Chris 47 joined easyJet in 1999.
Chris is also a director of easyJet Switzerland S. A. owned 49% by easyJet plc.
He has 18 years of experience in the airline and logistics industries working in senior finance and commercial capacities for Qantas Airways, Air New Zealand, Australia Post and Australian Airlines.
At various times, his roles in these companies have included responsibility for sales and marketing, strategic planning and the negotiation of strategic alliances.
Earlier in his career, he worked in non-financial roles in the mining and energy sectors, and in the Australian Senate.
His financial experience includes a corporate trade sale, an IPO, corporate reconstructions, M&A transactions and cross border financings.
Chris is a member of the Regional Economic Advisory Panel South East & Anglia of the Bank of England.
Dawn Airey Independent Non-Executive Director Dawn 43 joined easyJet in April 2004.
As Managing Director, Sky Networks, Dawn is responsible for 79 wholly owned channels, including Sky One, Sky News, Sky Movies and Sky Media the ad sales department.
Prior to joining Sky in January 2003, Dawn was Chief Executive of Channel five 2000-2002 : Director of Programmes, Channel Five 1996-2000 : Controller of Arts and Entertainment at Channel 4 1994-1996 and Controller of Network Childrens and Daytime Programmes at ITV 1993-1994.
Dawn has worked in television for 19 years and began her career at Central TV as a management trainee.
She is Vice President of the Royal Television Society, the Executive Chair of the Media Guardian Edinburgh International Television Festival and a trustee of the Media Trust.
Dawn is a member of the board of the International Emmy Awards, a governor of the Banff Television Festival and an honorary committee member of the Monte Carlo Television Festival.
Colin Day Independent Non-Executive Director Colin 49 joined easyJet in September 2000 and is Chairman of the Audit Committee.
He is currently Chief Financial Officer for Reckitt Benckiser Plc, the worlds largest household cleaning products company.
Before that Colin was Group Finance Director of Aegis Plc, Europes leading media buying and planning company.
Prior to joining Aegis, Colin spent six years in a number of divisional finance director positions with ABB, latterly as Group Finance Director of ABB Instrumentation.
Much of his earlier career was spent in various finance positions with fide La Rue Group.
Colin was previously a non-executive director of Bell Group Plc and Vero Group.
Amir Eilon Non-Executive Director Amir 55 spent the major part of his career working for investment banks specialising in particular in global capital markets.
Before joining easyJet in March 1999, Amir was at Credit Suisse First Boston private equity group where he had joint responsibility for western Europe within its international group.
Prior to that, Amir was at Barclays fide Zoette Wedd for eight years where he was Head of Global Capital Markets.
Since then Amir has established his own consultancy group in Eilon & Associates.
Amir is also a non-executive director of Flamingo Holdings and Tidal Electric.
Tony Illsley Independent Senior Non-Executive Director Tony 48 joined the Board of easyJet plc in September 2000 and is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
He was formerly Chief Executive Officer of Telewest plc prior to the merger with Flextech plc.
Prior to this, he was with PepsiCo as President of Walkers Snack Foods and before this he was President of Pepsi-Cola Asia Pacific.
He is also a non-executive director of Capital Radio plc, and non-executive chairman of Lionhead Studios plc, Leisure Link Group Limited and Power Paper Limited.
Diederik Karsten Independent Non-Executive Director Diederik 47 joined easyJet in May 2001 and is currently Chief Executive Officer of UPC The Netherlands, the countrys leading cable TV company.
From February 2000 to November 2001, he was Chief Executive Officer of KPN Mobile N. V. Previously he was Director of the business unit Mobile Telephony and Director of The Mobile Net, parts of KPN Telecom.
Prior to joining KPN in 1996, Diederik held various management and marketing positions at Pepsi Co, including Vice President of Sales and Marketing at Snacks Ventures Europe and Sales and Marketing Director Pepsi Cola, Germany.
Before that, Diederik held various marketing positions at Procter & Gamble.
Diederik is also a non-executive director of BGN B. V. Bookstores Group, The Netherlands.
