ElectroAR 10-11 rev tp 4 6 04 8:28 am Page 10 Our Groupwide Processes Our Groupwide Processes are the foundations upon which the businesses are based.
They provide operational expertise in product purchasing and selection, catalogue management, information services and supply chain support.
Our suppliers We work with suppliers to maximise the effectiveness of our product portfolio and marketing opportunities while minimising the overall costs to the business of ensuring that products are available for our customers.
Our processes allow us to operate efficiently We have implemented ethical audits for direct suppliers in on a worldwide basis developing economies to ensure that we do not knowingly Our supply chain process continues to ensure that trade with suppliers involved in unethical practices we have stock availability of over 99% ElectroAR 10-11 rev tp 4 6 04 8:28 am Page 11 Electrocomponents plc 11 Our processes Product Management: identifies and selects products to be sold by the Group and purchases them in the most effective manner.
Supply Chain: is responsible for the logistics of product supply, including management of all stocks.
The team works to maximise stockholding efficiencies and the local businesses ability to meet customer order demand.
Facilities: develops our warehousing capacity and properties internationally, providing the integrated logistics requirement for the Group together with the Supply Chain.
Media Publishing: provides the central expertise for design, production and effectiveness of all media.
e-Commerce: is responsible for developing and co-ordinating business-to-business e-Commerce across the Group.
Information Systems: is responsible for the integrity of our systems and for all hardware, software and systems development, and innovation.
Human Resources: supports the recruitment, development, motivation, and retention of senior employees, in order to ensure the availability of skills to meet business needs.
Finance: provides guidance and support for forecasting, measuring and reporting business Belden Wire & Cables link with performance, and includes tax, treasury and operational audit.
RS Components stretches far beyond Legal and Company Secretarial: provides expertise and control to ensure conformance to the conventional manufacturer international and local laws and regulations.
Our suppliers Its a five-year-old partnership built Suppliers acknowledge the key role that Electrocomponents plays as a demand creator for their on two-way communication and a products and as the critical channel for accessing customers internationally.
willingness to align business strategies We have developed a systematic approach to managing our supplier relationships by for growth.
As a sophisticated adopting best practice and by exploiting our international sourcing capabilities.
Portfolio Management: Managing a range of over 300,000 products requires experience and distributor of Beldens industrial and market knowledge to ensure that we have the optimal offer for our customers.
Our suppliers media cabling, RS Components places represent the leading brands and sources in the business-to-business market and provide orders through electronic data invaluable help by working with our product teams to select ranges that build demand.
interchange and products are delivered Supplier Management: With over 3,000 suppliers across the Group we have analysed and segmented our supplier base to ensure resource is aligned to the potential of the supplier.
labelled and packaged to specific Supplier management is about building partnerships with suppliers embracing all elements requirements.
that are important to mutual profitability.
Belden has put together a dedicated Co-operation: We work together on marketing and promotional developments with many key account management team that is suppliers to expand our mutual markets.
Demand Creation: Electrocomponents suppliers recognise the Group strengths of our global focused on addressing critical areas customer reach, marketing capability, leading edge channels to market, technical support and such as service levels, product sales, high service.
marketing support and target markets.
Our supplier relationships are also critical to Supply Chain where we manage the process from order to receipt of stock.
We have established recognised leadership in our logistics capabilities.
Suppliers Product Supply Chain Operating Customers Management Facilities companies Media Publishing e-Commerce Information Systems Human Resources Finance Legal and Company Secretarial
