ElectroAR 12-13 rev tp 4 6 04 8:33 am Page 12 Our strategy: The Prize Our goal is simple: to lead the high service segment of every distribution market in which we operate.
To achieve this we have developed strategies in four key areas: Products and services: Electronic trading: Market development: and Groupwide Processes.
Recent actions Do great things our profile in the UK is being raised by the The introduction of the same day despatch offer in Shanghai launch of a marketing campaign including media advertising, means that customers in that area are able to benefit from a strategically placed billboards and the search for Britains dramatically improved level of service Hero at Work 2004 Users of our PurchasingManager application continue to grow strongly.
There are now 800 users, an increase of 433% over last year ElectroAR 12-13 rev tp 4 6 04 8:33 am Page 13 Electrocomponents plc 13 Our opportunity for profitable growth is huge.
The realisation of this potential is known internally as The Prize.
In order to achieve this we focus on four key areas: 1.
Developing new products and services The experience gained from creating the high service distribution business in the UK is embedded in our strategy.
We are also taking our best practices from our other businesses to continually develop and extend the range of services and products we offer.
By diversifying into new product areas we add new customers and by deepening our knowledge of customer needs we are able to extend our services and increase customer loyalty.
Opportunities in e-Commerce We see e-Commerce as a means of offering customers ever higher service levels.
Business-tobusiness Internet trading is a major focus for us: our initiatives include providing trading websites in all our markets, e-Purchasing capabilities and establishing marketing agreements with recognised portals.
PurchasingManager is a recently established internally developed service, free to larger account customers, which combines ease of purchasing for end users with tight controls for their managers.
Because of their confidence in our brands, content, and fulfilment record, customers are using this channel in rapidly growing numbers.
Developing our markets worldwide RS technical helpline.
The proven effectiveness of our business model has opened up many opportunities for high Now nothing can hold you back.
service distribution in new geographical markets.
By sharing best practice we are confident that Got a problem?
There are over 60 engineers and technical experts at RS waiting to help you solve it.
They know every inch of our 135,000 product range, and they can pinpoint the exact part you need to do a great job.
Even if you set them a our businesses can reach the same size, relative to their local economies, as RS has achieved in complete mystery, they guarantee to crack it within four hours.
Theres also a UKAS accredited calibration service, not to mention the scores of data sheets and technical gems on our website.
So therell be less time scratching your head, and more time spreading your wings.
RS, and Do great things are trademarks of RS Components Ltd. 01536 444400. rswww.
com the UK and with similar levels of profitability.
Considerable opportunity remains in the UK itself, RS is a UKAS accredited laboratory 0310 though the market is more developed.
UK: The RS UK business is generating growth by further development of its customer base.
We A press advertisement from RS UKs estimate that this penetration is low even in the manufacturing sector and very low in services.
high profile Do great things marketing Continental Europe: The combined economies of France, Germany, Italy and the smaller programme.
countries present us with an opportunity several times larger than the UK, so our strategy is to Do great things is about our view Europe as a market with many common products and services.
North America: We gained a leading position in this well developed market in 1999 through the customers and about our role in helping acquisition of Allied Electronics.
Electrocomponents has invested to improve the levels of service them to do a great job by providing offered by Allied, while other initiatives are under way to mutually share the experiences across world class services, free technical help businesses.
In this market we see opportunities for growth through market consolidation as we and a great product range.
Using RS displace smaller competitors, and by some product expansion.
Japan: Before we rolled out our RS model into Japan in 1999, the concept of small order high saves our customers time and money.
service distribution did not exist.
Customers are proving very receptive, which confirms our view that this market has excellent growth potential.
RS has no significant competitors in Japan.
Asia: We are creating the high service distribution market across Asia with Singapore as our regional hub.
The launch of our Same Day Offer in Shanghai has enhanced our Chinese offer.
Groupwide Processes By leveraging off our infrastructure and common processes we have been able to expand globally and accelerate the development of all our businesses.
We can enter new markets with unmatched levels of service and confidence and at much lower cost than our competitors, and we can disseminate best practice around the Group quickly.
Our business opportunity The largest Information Systems projects remain the Europe Sell more and Asia Enterprise Business System EBS projects.
EBS was penetration of business breadth of purchase implemented in South Asia in March 2003 followed by France in June 2003 and Australasia in October 2003 Existing Acquire more customers customers Number of businesses with small volume industrial product need Sales growth % of product supplied
