EC brings together businessto-business magazines, trade exhibitions, conferences and information products in its key markets retail, construction, the public sector, healthcare and media.
Led by Chief Executive Derek Carter and grew strongly with nearly 7,000 visitors and over 2 his team, the divisions portfolio is in great 10,000 m sold.
shape and starting to benefit from an advertising upturn.
An expanding exhibition The conference unit more than doubled the and conference programme has contributed number of conferences run across the year to the divisions strong growth this year.
to 168 and grew overall revenues by more than 50%.
All this contributed to underlying Trade Magazines exhibitions and events growth of 6%.
Emaps trade magazines provide their readers Not included in the underlying gure are with an important source of information, Distrirama and Stockorama in Paris, now contacts and jobs.
They are distributed largely also rebranded TradeExpo, which had a very on the basis of paid-for subscriptions, and successful first year under Emaps ownership, therefore provide a steady revenue stream.
and a number of other new shows including Circulation revenues for Emaps B2B Glass Processing & Technology at the NEC business accounted for 19% of total B2B and Le Show in Amsterdam.
Including these revenue in the period and increased by 3%, non-underlying exhibitions and events with a 53rd issue in the year helping to boost increases growth to 18%.
revenues for the weekly titles.
Acquisitions and New Launches This year has seen a marked and progressive During the year Emap acquired the outstanding improvement in B2B display advertising, up 50% of Pure Womenswear, a leading fashion 10% on an underlying basis after two years of trade show, for 1 million.
Titles delivering healthy double digit Emap agreed to acquire the outstanding 50% revenue growth include Construction News, of Interbuild, the UKs largest construction Broadcast, MEED, Retail Week and Drapers.
The deal will complete This increase compares well with the total in July 2004 and the next show will be in business and professional magazine display April 2006. market which is estimated to be down 3% over the same period Advertising Association In May 2004 Emap also acquired ABI, March 2004 and underlines Emaps strong a sales leads information business serving position in attractive B2B markets.
the construction market, from Candover and Cinven for 14 million.
This business has After a at first half, recruitment advertising annual revenues of 5 million and profits of also recovered well during the second half and 1 million and will be managed by Emaps nished up 2% for the year on an underlying existing construction leads business basis.
Key titles for recruitment are Nursing Emap Glenigan.
Times, which saw a small year-on-year decline in line with the overall nursing recruitment New products and events planned for the market, and Health Service Journal, which coming year include jlee, the French equivalent grew recruitment revenues strongly once of Glee, in Paris: TradeExpo in London: again.
Most of the key titles across the Plastics Design & Moulding at Telford: MEED B2B portfolio also performed well.
Information, a new construction leads service for the Middle East: and the continued growth Exhibitions and Conferences of Emaps conference business.
ECs core UK exhibitions Spring Fair, Autumn Fair and Glee all achieved good revenue growth this year.
The division is also establishing an exhibitions business in Europe, and here Stocklots in Cologne, recently rebranded TradeExpo, 16 Emap Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Review emap communications I love my job because I enjoy running a news team that I love working at Emap because Emap is all about people and breaks scoop after scoop and leaves the national press I love the variety at Emap Retail and working as part of a brilliant products.
I am part of a fantastic, hard-working team, struggling to keep up.
Health is one of the hottest political close-knit team who are passionate about the product, which operating on a level and scale in exhibition that no one in the stories out there, and our team is always first with the makes facing new challenges so much more enjoyable.
UK or Europe probably can match.
Danielle Wright, Marketing Manager, Emap Retail Kerr Sprott, Group Operations Director, Emap Communications Laura Donnelly, News Editor, HSJ 14% 168 28% 82 36% 58 62% 22 Key EC products Emap Communications key products have strong market positions and are at the heart of the business communities they serve.
Our key ten products in 2003 04: Product Type Sector 1 Nursing Times Magazine Healthcare 2 Spring Fair Exhibition Retail 3 Health Service Journal Magazine Healthcare 4 Yours Magazine Maturity 5 Construction News Magazine Construction 6 Autumn Fair Exhibition Retail 7 Glenigan Information Construction 8 Local Government Chronicle Magazine Public Sector 9 TradeExpo Paris Exhibition European Retail 10 New Civil Engineer Magazine Construction B2B paid-for magazines The B2B magazine sector is dominated by free publications.
However, Emap has championed the move to paid-for magazines.
Percentage of circulation paid for Note: All gures relate to those titles with ABC or BPA audits magazine circulation measurement.
Non-audited titles are not included.
Emap Reed CMPi Haymarket Communications Business Information Business Publications Source: ABC 2003 BPA 2003 Key EC exhibitions Emap runs some of the UKs and Europes largest trade exhibitions.
2 Exhibition M Spring Fair 116,764 Glee 59,357 Autumn Fair 53,201 Interbuild 42,000 TradeExpo Paris 26,263 Source: Emap Communications Growth of EC conferences The EC conference business continues to grow, building on the strength of the magazine brands and high-level business relationships across the country.
The number of EC conferences run across the year has more than doubled.
Number of conferences 2000 01 2001 02 2002 03 2003 04 Source: Emap Communications Review Emap Annual Report and Accounts 2004 19 1 3 5 5 6 7 12 13 16 17 23 30 30 Number of EC conferences 2003 04 by market sector Building PSM Polymers Media Recycling Rail Travel Services Retail Middle East Construction Fashion Healthcare Telecoms Source: Emap Communications PSM, Public Sector Management Key EC conferences 2003 04 ECs leading magazine titles provide editors who know the hot topics and best speakers, readers who are potential delegates and advertising sales teams that deliver sponsorship.
Our key conferences in 2003 04 were: Conference Retail Week Conference MEED Qatar Therapy Weekly Moving and Handling Drapers Summit 2003 LARAC 2003 Materials Recycling Weekly Source: Emap Communications Key EC awards Emap runs some of the biggest awards events in the UK, totalling nearly 30 across the year.
Award Sector Retail Week Awards Retail Drapers Awards Retail Business Travel World Awards Travel Heating & Ventilation Awards Construction Broadcast Awards Media Source: Emap Communications Further information Revenue by market can be found on: 30% Retail 9% Media emap.
com 14% International Other 13% Healthcare ppa.
co. uk 14% Public Sector adassoc.
uk Revenue by source 35% Events & Exhibitions 23% Display Advertising 19% Circulation information products subscription 23% Recruitment Advertising
