B Bo oa ar rd d o of f d diir re ec ct to or rs s a an nd d Board of directors and s se en niio or r m ma an na ag ge em me en nt t senior management Emap Executive Board The primary objective of the Executive Board is to ensure strategic and operational alignment across the Group.
This enables timely decision-making, risk assessment and resource allocation.
The Board, which meets every two weeks, consists of the Executive Directors, Tom Moloney and Gary Hughes: the Divisional Chief Executives, Paul Keenan, Arnaud fide Puyfontaine and Derek Carter and Nick Folland, Company Secretary and Group Legal Director.
Following restructuring at Performance it is also attended by Performance Group Managing Director Dee Ford who is responsible for radio.
Tom Moloney Adam Broadbent Group Chief Executive 45 Chairman 67 Joined Emap in 1981.
Appointed Joined Board in November 1997.
Group Managing Director of Emap Appointed Chairman May 2001.
Appointed as Previously a Director of Schroders plc Chief Executive, Consumer Magazines where he was latterly Group Managing UK and joined Board in 1995.
Joined Director Investment Banking based in Emap USA in April 1999 as Chief New York.
Currently a Non-Executive Operating officer and appointed Director of Capital One Bank Europe President and Chief Executive officer plc, REL Consultancy Group Limited in October 1999.
Appointed as Group and the Academy of Ancient Music.
Chief Operating officer in May 2001 Chairman of the Nomination and promoted to Group Chief Committee.
A. R. N. Executive on 23 January 2003.
T. Gary Hughes BA FCA Group Finance Director 42 Joined Emap as Group Finance Director in October 2000.
Before this he was Group Finance Director of SMG plc, Deputy Finance Director of Forte plc, and held a number of senior management positions at Guinness plc, including Head of Mergers and Acquisitions.
He has considerable international experience, in particular in the US, South America and Continental Europe.
T. Andrew Harrison BA MBA Karen Jones BA Non-Executive Director 47 Non-Executive Director 47 Joined Board in March 2002.
CEO of Spirit Executive of RAC plc, previously Lex Group Limited, a managed pub Service PLC, since 1996.
Prior to that company of 2,500 pubs with brands he was a Director of Courtaulds such as 241 and Chef & Brewer.
Spirit Textiles plc having worked for the acquired Scottish & Newcastle Retail Courtaulds Group since 1986. in November 2003.
Co-founded the Chairman of the Audit and Treasury Pelican Group of restaurants, which Committees.
A. R. N. T. she then sold to Whitbread, staying on as Managing Director for a further two years.
Board member of Royal National Theatre Enterprises Limited.
A. R. N. 28 Emap Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Board of directors and senior management Board of directors and senior management Emap Annual Report and Accounts 2004 29 David Rough BSc FCII Pierre Danon Senior Independent Non-Executive Director 48 Non-Executive Director 53 Joined Board in April 2004.
Currently Joined Board in February 2002. a Director of BT Group plc.
In 2000, Previously a Director of Legal & he was appointed to head up the General Group plc.
Currently he is a newly formed retail division of BT Non-Executive Director of BBA Group Group before becoming its first Chief plc, Land Securities plc, Xstrata plc Executive officer in 2001.
Prior to this, and Mithras Investment Trust plc.
Pierre worked for Xerox for 19 years Chairman of the Remuneration and became Senior Vice President of Committee.
A. R. N. T. Xerox Corporation before becoming President of Xerox Europe.
Previously a Non-Executive Director of Hays plc.
Derek Carter Chief Executive, Emap Communications 54 Joined Emap in 1978.
In 1989 became Managing Director of Emap Maclaren and in 1997 was appointed Chief Executive of Emap Communications, which brings together the Groups business magazines, trade exhibitions, conferences and information products.
Chairman of the Periodical Publishers Association PPA 200102 and a director since 1997.
Arnaud fide Puyfontaine ESCP MBA Paul Keenan Prsident Directeur Gnral, Chief Executive, Emap France 40 Emap Consumer Media 40 Joined Emap France in 1995 as After five years at Emap Communications publishing director of Tl Poche and joined the Consumer Division in 1997 Studio Magazine.
Was involved in the as Acting Managing Director of Emap acquisition of Tl Star and then Elan and in 1998 moved across to become Managing Director of Emap Emap Metro as Managing Director.
Star, the company created after the Appointed Chief Executive of Emap acquisition.
Appointed Directeur Digital in April 2000.
In September Gnral in 1998 and became Prsident 2001, appointed Chief Executive of Directeur Gnral a year later.
Also currently a Board Member of the Periodical Publishers Association PPA.
not pictured Dee Ford not pictured Nick Folland Group Managing Director, Company Secretary Emap Performance 43 and Group Legal Director 38 Joined Emap in 1994 as Managing Director Joined Emap in 2001.
Previously he was of Rock FM, became Yorkshire regional Head of Legal and Company Secretary Managing Director before being promoted at 365 Corporation plc and prior to that a to Managing Director of Emap Radio.
Took Senior Legal Adviser of Cable & Wireless up her current role in 1999.
Qualied with Linklaters and Paines for introducing non-radio brands across in 1993 and worked with them in London, radio platforms, including Smash Hits!
Radio Show and achieved Media Week Brand of the Year awards for Kiss 100 Key to Committees and Kerrang!.
Member of the Audit Committee R. Member of the Remuneration Committee N. Member of the Nomination Committee T. Member of the Treasury Committee
