Board of directors Executive directors Eric Nicoli 53 Martin Bandier 62 Chairman Chairman and Chief Executive Officer EMI Music Publishing Eric Nicoli was appointed to the Board in1993 as a Non-executive Director, Martin Bandier was appointed to becoming executive Chairman in July the Board in April 1998.
Until 30 April 1999, he was Group EMI Music Publishing as its Vice Chief Executive of United Biscuits Chairman in 1989 upon the acquisition Holdings plc UB, which he joined of SBK Entertainment World Inc. from Rowntree Mackintosh in 1980.
SBK, in which he was a founding He was appointed to the UB Board partner.
He was appointed CEO in 1989 as Chief Executive, European of EMI Music Publishing in 1991 Operations and became Chief becoming, in addition, Chairman Executive of UB in 1991. in 1992.
Mr Nicoli is: Non-executive Chairman Mr Bandier entered the music of The Tussauds Group Ltd: Chairman publishing business in 1975 as a of The PerCent Club, The EMI Group founding partner of the Entertainment Archive Trust and of the Trustees of Music Company and the Entertainment the Music Sound Foundation shortly Television Company and, together with to be incorporated as the EMI Music his partners, created SBK in 1986.
Sound Foundation : and a director of Caldicott Trust Ltd. Mr Bandier is a director of the National Music Publishers Association, the BMI Foundation, the Songwriters Hall Alain Levy 57 of Fame, the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and the Syracuse University Board EMI Music of Trustees.
He is also a member of the National Academy of Recording Alain Levy joined EMI and was Arts and Sciences.
appointed to the Board on 15 October 2001.
Roger Faxon 55 Mr Levy joined CBS International Chief Financial Officer CFO now Sony Music in 1972 and, after 12 years, moved to PolyGram now Roger Faxon was appointed CFO Universal Music Group, where he and joined the EMI Board on 5 February became President and CEO in 1991.
He joined EMI in 1994, initially In both companies he held various as Senior Vice President, Business posts involving manufacturing, Development & Strategy, EMI Music logistics, marketing and management.
and, in April 1999, became Executive Mr Levy remained with PolyGram Vice President and Chief Financial until it was sold to Seagram in 1998.
Mr Levy is a director of David Linley Prior to 1994, Mr Faxon held finance, & Co. Ltd and Ilchester Investments operations and general management Ltd.
He also sits on the advisory positions.
These posts included five board of Schroder Ventures in the years with Sothebys, latterly as US and on the European advisory Managing Director, Sothebys Europe board of Wharton Business School.
and, previously, as Chief Operating Officer, Sothebys North and South America.
This followed 10 years in the motion picture industry with LUCASFILM Ltd, The Mount Company and, finally, Columbia Pictures Entertainment.
Earlier, Mr Faxon spent six years on the staff of the US Congress.
21 Non-executive directors John Gildersleeve 59 Peter Georgescu 65 Deputy Chairman and Peter Georgescu joined the Board Senior Independent in 2002.
Non-executive Director Mr Georgescu is Chairman Emeritus John Gildersleeve joined the Board of Young & Rubicam Inc. a network on 28 February 2004 when he also of commercial communications became Deputy Chairman and Senior companies, having served as that Independent Non-executive Director.
companys Chairman and CEO from 1994 until January 2000.
His career Mr Gildersleeve was the Commercial spans 39 years, with top management and Trading Director of Tesco plc until experience both in the US and Europe.
He joined Tesco in Mr Georgescu emigrated to the 1965 and became an executive director US from Romania in 1954.
He is also Non-executive educated at Exeter Academy, received Chairman of Gallaher Group plc and his BA with cum laude honours from a non-executive director of The Princeton and has an MBA from Carphone Warehouse Group PLC.
Previously, Mr Gildersleeve was a nonexecutive director of Vodafone Group Mr Georgescu is a director of Levi PLC and Lloyds TSB Group Plc.
Strauss & Co. International Flavors & Fragrances Inc. and Toys R Us, Inc.
He is also Vice Chairman of the Sly Bailey 42 directors of New York Presbyterian Sly Bailey joined the Board on 2 April Hospital, serves on the board of 2004. directors of the New York Philharmonic and WNET Channel 13, and is Mrs Bailey is Chief Executive of Trinity a member of the Council on Foreign Mirror plc, the UKs largest newspaper Relations.
Between 1989 and 2003, Mrs Bailey held various executive posts with the IPC Media Group, becoming Chief David Londoner 67 Executive of IPC Media plc in 1999.
She David Londoner joined the Board led the sale of IPC to AOL Time Warner on 13 May 2003. in 2001.
From 1984 until 1989, Mrs Bailey worked in sales management Mr Londoner, who is a Chartered for The Independent and The Guardian Financial Analyst, is the General Partner newspapers.
of The North River Company, L. P. a family investment partnership.
He Mrs Bailey is a non-executive director has been in the securities business his of The Press Association Ltd. entire professional life and spent most of his career at Schroder & Co. Inc. joining a predecessor firm, Wertheim Dr Harald Einsmann 70 & Co. in 1972 and leaving when it was Harald Einsmann joined the Board sold in 2000. in 1992 and will be retiring as a Director at the conclusion of the 2004 Annual Mr Londoner is a director of Meredith General Meeting.
He retired as Corporation and FindWhat.
Executive Vice President and a member He is also a trustee of the American of Procter & Gambles Main Board Museum of the Moving Image.
Dr Einsmann is a non-executive director Kathleen ODonovan 47 of Tesco plc, British American Tobacco Kathleen ODonovan joined the Board plc and European Mediaxchange Ltd. in1997 and has chaired the Audit He is also a member of the board of Committee since 1999.
Stora-Enso OY of Finland and the Executive Chairman of Findus A.
B. Ms ODonovan was, until December of Sweden: both companies are 2002, Finance Director of Invensys plc.
members of the Swedish Wallenberg She is a member of the Court of the Group.
Bank of England, and a non-executive director of Prudential plc and Great Portland Estates PLC.
