23 Enodis annual report accounts 2004 Human resources review 01 Bob Eimers Executive Vice President, 01 Global Human Resources During FY04, strategic business Organisational capability issues.
We believe this sort of Working on the right priorities initiatives were undertaken learn and do mentality helps Competing in a variety of To make sure that all of our which not only contributed to achieve immediate returns product categories across people are working on the improved financial performance, on our training investment.
widely diverse geographic right things, our leadership will but also better positioned the Furthermore, we have markets is no easy task.
strive for frequent, clear and Group for continued success in supplemented these efforts The complexity and challenges consistent communication of the future.
Underpinning these with the interim assistance inherent in todays business direction.
Individual goals will be accomplishments were the of various outside experts.
milieu require organisational aligned with our business plans.
concerted efforts of our people By contracting with recognised capabilities which are Explicit accountabilities will be in our businesses around technical specialists for commensurate.
For that reason, assigned with commensurate the globe.
extended periods, we have we continue to fine tune our authority levels.
Performance been able to drive our most Leadership stability relatively flat management feedback from management important initiatives toward structure to achieve will continue to be encouraged In FY04, for the first time since fruition more rapidly.
responsiveness and agility as so that employee efforts can the Group became known as critical business threats and Next steps be appropriately guided and Enodis in 2000, there were no opportunities arise.
changes made to the senior Entering FY05, we expect management teams interface management team reporting to intensified competition in our The right skills and attitudes with our operating companies the CEO.
To prevail, we have to market and distribute food Finally, we will foster a culture continuity of purpose and committed to continuing those equipment products to end where people have both the intent.
This newly achieved human resource strategies users in over 100 markets right skills and the right attitudes stability is also reflective of our which have recently proven around the world.
This can be satisfaction with the quality of most successful for us.
leadership teams in charge of achieved by providing training to our senior team and our past such areas as Manufacturing, The right people support our key initiatives and efforts to improve our Supply Chain, Finance, in the right positions compensation plans based recruitment and selection Marketing, Service, Human on a pay for performance processes.
Consistent with a To make sure that we have Resources, Engineering and mentality.
The foundation of our core belief that quality of people the right people in the right Information Technology have culture will continue to be the can provide a distinct positions, our human resources been chartered to drive strategic values of integrity, teamwork competitive advantage, we have will be deployed based on initiatives across the Enodis and shared accomplishment.
taken a number of concrete alignment with position companies and across actions to upgrade our talent requirements and our strategic geographic boundaries.
base over the past few years.
Furthermore, targeted This level of integration and Furthermore, our growing recruitment will be employed teamwork is required to experience with performance when we have opportunities to Robert Eimers generate optimal solutions management and succession fill human resource gaps with Executive Vice President, for our customers needs.
planning has sharpened our higher quality talent.
Inherent in Global Human Resources skills in supporting that effort.
Focused training this effort will be a planned and incremental evolution of the To support those efforts, we organisation structure consistent have introduced focused with our strategic intent.
training for many of our people in solution selling, lean manufacturing, enterprise resource planning, project management and value engineering.
In each case, the skill-building has been immediately directed toward real and pressing business
