25 Enodis annual report accounts 2004 Directors report 1 Principal activities, business, operating and financial reviews Michael Arrowsmith and Joseph Ross, having been appointed Directors since the last Annual General Meeting, will retire at the The principal activities of the Group consist of the manufacture next Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, offer themselves and sale of commercial food equipment through its Global for reappointment in accordance with Article 95 of the Companys Food Service Equipment and Food Retail Equipment groups.
The Groups turnover, operating profit and total assets less current liabilities are shown by business sector in note 1 to the The Board believes that these four Directors should be re-elected accounts.
A review of the business and future development plans, for the following reasons: examples of customer solutions together with operating and a Peter Brooks joined the Board in May 1998 and was appointed financial reviews, are contained on pages 3 to 23 which constitute Chairman on 17 January 2000.
As described on page 27 the Board an integral part of this report.
evaluated his performance and in the light of that evaluation, the 2 Results and dividends Directors other than the Chairman determined that it was in the best interests of the Company that he should continue in that The profit of the Group before taxation amounted to 25.3m role.
It is of course essential for the Chairman to be a Director 2003: 15.9m.
Having adjusted for goodwill amortisation and of the Company.
exceptional items, profit before taxation was 41.2m 2003: 38.9m.
The Directors do not recommend the payment of a b Robert Eimers was appointed to the Enodis plc Board on final dividend 2003: nil.
No interim dividend 2003: nil has been 23 May 2002.
He is Executive Vice President of Global Human paid in respect of the period.
Reference should be made to the Resources and has had similar responsibilities in three major Chairmans statement for information on future dividend policy.
His significant experience in the field qualifies him as a suitable member of the Board.
The Group places 3 Research and development considerable importance on its people, and the Board considers During the period the Group incurred expenditure on research and that it is therefore appropriate for the human resources function development of 14.3m 2003: 13.2m.
The Groups major to be represented at Board level.
research and development facility, the Enodis Technology Center c Michael Arrowsmith was appointed to the Board by ETC at New Port Richey near Tampa, Florida, provides a the Directors on 11 February 2004.
He is Chairman of the central resource for the Groups research and development Audit Committee.
He is a member of the Governing Council of activity.
Many of the Groups operating companies also have Cranfield University and until August 2004 was Chief Executive development facilities.
of the logistics and supply chain management company, 4 Share capital Tibbett & Britten Group plc, which he joined in 1999.
As a recent CEO, and former CFO, of an international distribution company, he a Details of movements of the Companys ordinary shares during is well qualified to make a major contribution to the Board.
the period are provided in note 20 to the accounts.
d Joseph Ross was appointed to the Board by the Directors b During the period, the Company did not exercise the authority on 11 March 2004.
Until November 2003 he was Chairman and granted by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting held on CEO of a safety products and signalling equipment manufacturer, 11 February 2004 for the Company to purchase up to 40 million Federal Signal Corporation by whom he had been employed since ordinary shares.
He is currently a Director of 5 Board of Directors Quanex Corporation.
His experience as a CEO of a major US corporation and of the corporate law framework in the US greatly The current Directors of the Company, their ages and the dates benefits the Board in its deliberations.
of their appointment are shown on page 24.
Peter Brooks, David McCulloch, Michael Cronk, David Wrench, Robert Eimers The interests of the Directors in the share capital and other and Waldemar Schmidt held office throughout the period.
securities of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings are Michael Arrowsmith and Joseph Ross, Directors at the end of the shown on pages 33 and 34. period, were appointed on 11 February 2004 and 11 March 2004 respectively.
Eryl Morris, a Director at the beginning of the period, left the Board on 11 February 2004.
Peter Brooks and Robert Eimers will retire at the next Annual General Meeting by rotation in accordance with Article 97 of the Articles of Association of the Company and, being eligible, offer themselves for reappointment in accordance with Article 98 of the Articles of Association of the Company.
26 Enodis annual report accounts 2004 Directors report 6 Substantial shareholdings 12 Environmental policies of the Groups operating businesses The following shareholdings are disclosed as having been notified to the Company in accordance with Sections 198 to 208 of the The Board looks to each of its operating companies to develop Companies Act 1985 as at 22 November 2004: its own programme and policies to address environmental matters.
Generally speaking, the Groups production processes Percentage Ordinary shares of issued are of limited environmental impact and the Board considers Shareholder of 50p each share capital this approach to environmental matters to be the most Harris Associates L. P. 50,541,360 12.60% practical, also bearing in mind the wide range of locations Fidelity International Limited 44,869,697 11.19% and scale of its operations.
Barclays Plc 43,469,855 10.84% The following are examples of initiatives to reduce environmental Arnhold & S. Bleichroeder Inc 36,000,000 8.98% concerns undertaken or commenced in the period ended Aviva plc 32,162,657 8.02% 2 October 2004: The Capital Group Companies Inc 16,352,128 4.08% Legal & General Investment Recycling drywaste Scotsman Beverage Systems SBS in the Management Ltd 12,131,815 3.02% UK worked with one of its large clients to ensure that up to 96% of all materials are recycled from older refrigeration systems.
7 Charitable and political donations Units that were previously sent to a scrap yard are collected by SBS who work with a local environment firm to reclaim the gas The Group made charitable donations of 107,000 during the and recycle.
SBS recycles approximately 8,000 units per year.
Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries Jackson implemented a compulsory recycling programme made any donation for political purposes in either 2004 or 2003. throughout its plant and offices for used batteries, electronic equipment and light bulbs.
8 Auditors Hazardous materials Scotsman Ice now generates no hazardous Resolutions to reappoint Deloitte & Touche LLP as the Groups waste, thereby eliminating costly removal and destruction.
auditors and to authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration will be proposed at the next Annual General Meeting.
Convotherm utilises a cleaning agent that is classified as non-hazardous.
9 Disabled employees Frymaster has discontinued the use of an aerosol coating solution Applications for employment from disabled persons are considered for their cold rolled pots and now use pneumatic applications on their merits and regard is paid only to the ability of an applicant instead of aerosol cleaning agents.
to carry out satisfactorily the functions required.
The same policy is adopted when considering career development and promotion, Liquid waste Garland Canada has introduced a drainage system to while in the field of training, a distinction would be made only in their property which expedites the removal of waste water.
order to meet the particular requirements of the disabled person.
Jackson has made modifications to its wastewater treatment If an employee became disabled while in employment, all due plant and has constructed wetlands that will improve the quality consideration would be given to continued employment whether of the water.
in the same or in an alternative capacity and training would be Energy conservation Delfields recently introduced refrigeration given where necessary.
and freezer models qualify for the US Government backed 10 Employee consultation energy star rating, which means that these units utilise less energy and are thereby more environmentally friendly.
The Group places great value on the involvement of its employees and has reinforced its previous practice of consulting and keeping 13 Annual General Meeting them informed on matters affecting them as employees and on The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at the various factors affecting the performance of the Group.
This is The Westbury Mayfair, Bond Street, Mayfair, London W1S 2YF on achieved in many Group companies through newsletters, formal 16 February 2005 at 11.30 a. m. A separate Circular to shareholders, and informal meetings.
A weekly update from the Chief Executive containing the Notice of the Annual General Meeting and requisite is widely disseminated throughout the Group.
information on the resolutions to be proposed as special business 11 Creditor payment policy at the Meeting, accompanies this Report and Accounts.
The terms of payment to most suppliers are agreed, and abided By order of the Board by, on an ongoing basis by each Group company.
Trade creditors at 2 October 2004 represented, on average, nil days purchases 2003: nil days for the Company and 70 days purchases 2003: 65 days for the Group.
