03 Enodis annual report accounts 2004 Customer solutions innovative customer solutions will bethe engine for our growth as we continue to spread our brands global ly 04 Enodis annual report accounts 2004 Customer solutions faster simpler smaller tastier 01 02 05 Enodis annual report accounts 2004 Customer solutions 03 04 01 02 03 04 Fast, hot sandwiches improve Around-the-clock room Convenience stores KFC Rice Bowl project results in-store and enhance service with Merrychef expand hot food menu Merrychef won a finger lickin drive-through sales Hungry international guests Convenience stores in the US good contract from KFC, Toasted sandwiches have check in at all hours to Londons are looking to expand hot food to supply more than 600 heavy become a must for many Park Lane Sheraton, but aftersales and for new ways to duty 1925 microcook ovens leading food chains, but can hours, guests have only had improve efficiency.
hot sandwiches be served in limited room service menus.
Tough requirements often The ovens were installed to drive-through service times?
It is not practical to have chefs include convenient storage, coincide with the launch of on duty around-the-clock.
Enodis has created a highfast preparation, consistent the KFC Rice Bowl project.
capacity hot sandwich work Chef Andrew Bennett refused quality and a self-service This was another example of station that puts ingredients to accept these limitations.
merchandising unit, all without the close partnership Merrychef within reach of a single He prepared dishes from the specialised personnel.
By integrating a hotels fine dining restaurant, Enodis has supplied an working together from the Delfield refrigerated preparation challenging Merrychef to equipment package combining food development process at station utilising LiquiTec demonstrate how fine Accelerated Cooking Merrychefs kitchens to a high technology with a Lincoln food could be prepared in Technology and MenuKey profile national launch.
Dual-Technology Finisher which Merrychef ovens and served programming in Merrychef can quickly toast a sandwich around-the-clock without Merrychefs HD1925 is now ovens, holding and preparation with impingement and chefs, while meeting his specified for all KFC-A&W in Delfield undercounter infrared cooking, the exacting requirements.
and KFC-Long John Silver refrigerators and branded hot  multibrand sites across Europe, The proof was in the pudding, food merchandising in a completion cycle is now making it a firm favourite with or more precisely, in the pastrycounter-top unit from under 60 seconds, exceeding parent company Yum!
topped chicken, consume en Merco Savory.
The result is rigorous North American crote and other fine-dining an easy-to-use, reliable, fast drive-through requirements.
Late night guests cooking platform producing ordered up the specialities, consistent high quality food creating new food sales and without specialised labour.
06 Enodis annual report accounts 2004 Customer solutions 01 01 The Disappearing Door, 02 Convotherm 3 Advanced Closed System Garland supplies custom international launch with its wide variety of island suite at Le Toqu!
in Crisp & Tasty fide-moisturising Montreal, Canada The international launch of the levels, and Press & Go new Convotherm 3 oven in Le Toqu!
is the new home technology for programming September 2004 was aimed at of the world-renowned of frequently-used recipes chefs from around the world.
Canadian chef Normand are among the long list of The world premier included a Laprise and his partner proprietary features and special event in Dusseldorf, Christine.
The equipment technologies that make Germany, where chefs from centrepiece is the new Garland our 3 ovens versatile, every continent prepared custom island suite.
This is productive and easy-to-use.
exquisite dishes for invited Normands office, palette and industry and culinary studio.
It has to sustain the trendsetters.
The next day, the harmony that he wants to premier continued with a public create with his food, the launch at the Hogatec trade ambience of the restaurant, show.
The Convotherm 3 and his team.
Everything was includes 28 models of done to Normands exacting combi-ovens suitable for use standards.
Enodis brands in in virtually every type of the Le Toqu!
Garland, Cleveland, Jackson, Merco and Dean.
07 Enodis annual report accounts 2004 Customer solutions better qu ick er fresher healthier 02 08 Enodis annual report accounts 2004 Customer solutions holding cooking toasting displaying refrigerating 01 02 09 Enodis annual report accounts 2004 Customer solutions 01 02 03 Convenience store operator Kysor Warren merchandisers SBS expands product line discovers Cold Nuggets When a prominent customer in Scotsman Beverage Systems To drive demand for beverages, Canada needed an affordable, SBS in the UK is one of a US convenience store attractive, reliable, energy Europes leading suppliers of C-store chain expanded efficient, easy-to-install and drink cooling and dispense its beverage selection.
Significant Testing customer preferences, they approached Kysor Warren.
investment in its design, the stores offered both cubed Through a focused customer engineering and manufacturing ice and Scotsman Nugget Ice.
support programme and by facilities, coupled with demonstrating their ability exceptional technical expertise, The chain monitored results, to listen, respond and deliver, has enabled the company to and a clear pattern emerged: the company advanced in the work closely with international more than three out of four rigorous selection process.
brewers and soft drink customers selected Scotsman After proving design, production manufacturers to develop Nugget Ice with their and support capabilities, a highly successful product beverages.
Customers said Kysor Warren sealed the deal range.
Technological innovations they enjoyed their beverages with custom-designed units include Ecocirc, which improves and the ice itself when and impeccably coordinated reliability by 50% and lowers selecting Scotsman Nugget planning that allowed this operating costs for the life of the Ice.
Many customers said they customer to continue serving product, and MaxIce, which came to the C-store specifically shoppers during unit installation.
increases a coolers for the ice!
The operator added For major renovations, performance by up to 60%.
Scotsman Nugget Ice to more Kysor Warren now supplies locations, began a marketing nearly all of refrigerated display campaign promoting the ice, cases for produce, meat, and customers responded.
beverages, frozen, dairy, fish, The return on investment for and food-to-go takeout areas.
the operator is typically less than six months.
03 10 Enodis annual report accounts 2004 Customer solutions 01 02 11 Enodis annual report accounts 2004 Customer solutions testing creating in venti ng customising 01 02 03 Integrated work station Vent Master provides air Convotherm 3 designed means fasta pasta purification system to for worldwide manufacture Auberge St. Antoine When a North American chain Design for worldwide wanted to add pasta to its The Auberge Saint-Antoine is a manufacturing is more than menu, space constraints made unique hotel-museum located in a catch-phrase for the it difficult.
Enodis created an Quebec City on one of North Convotherm 3 oven.
innovative solution: integrating a Americas richest archeological Working collaboratively, Delfield storage and warming sites and composed of a series Convotherm engaged key station with fast induction of restored historical buildings customers, top suppliers and cooking from Garland.
worldwide technical support In their last development to design the new 3 oven Enodis demonstrated how phase, the property owners family to meet the needs of pasta could be prepared, held sought the addition of a high a world market.
Convotherm in cold storage and warmed end restaurant in response to developed an international immediately prior to service in the wishes of its customers for strategy for production of the a hot water bath built into the a more complete experience.
ovens built on a reliable, proven, Delfield refrigerator.
custom-built a refrigerated unit The structure of the 200 year Already available in Europe, to house the Garland induction old building housing the manufacturing implementation units, perfect for fast-cooking restaurant and its location is planned for North America to the sauces and meat toppings.
close to the air intake for the complete worldwide availability The result was a compact, Quebec Museum of Civilization in 2005. integrated work-station presented multiple equipment for refrigerating, holding, and ventilation challenges that assembling, warming and fast could have derailed the project.
cooking tasty pasta dishes -- Vent Master custom-designed perfect in a small kitchen.
03 a total air purification solution with Reactocell hoods that utilised engineered airflow and ultra-violet light to eliminate ventilation concerns.
Garland Canada completed the custom solution using Delfield, Frymaster, Garland, Ice-o-Matic and Jackson products in this unique culinary location.
12 Enodis annual report accounts 2004 Customer solutions delivering reaching supporting serving 01 02 13 Enodis annual report accounts 2004 Customer solutions 03 01 02 03 Frymaster, from Delfield manufacturing Garland in UK Shreveport to Shanghai in Thailand Viscounts three-year old plant Frymaster has been exporting Delfield, based in Mt.
Pleasant, in Sheffield, UK, is undergoing fryers to chains around the Michigan, US, will continue significant restructuring so world for many years from to internationalise its brand that they will be able to build its plants in Shreveport, by manufacturing reach-in European style Garland Louisiana, US.
Responding refrigerators at Welbilt Thailand, medium duty ranges for the to customer requests to Ltd. an Enodis joint venture.
Garland manufacture locally in China, Delfield products from this is a global brand of heavy and Scotsman China is working facility will be distributed in medium duty ranges and grills.
with Frymaster to prepare the ASEAN region and the The new Euro style Garland its Shanghai plant to start Middle East.
range line will be introduced manufacturing fryers in during FY05.
In addition, Delfield display early 2005. cases are currently manufactured for a major global chain at the Viscount factory in Sheffield, UK.
