Directors Report The directors present their report and accounts for the year ended 30 September 2004.
Accounts and dividends The Group profit for the year, after taxation, amounted to 147.5m 2003 124.5m and is dealt with as shown in the Group Profit and Loss Account.
The directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 8.4 pence 2003 5.7 pence after restating for the sub-division of shares on 23 January 2004 per ordinary share to be paid on 24 January 2005 to members on the register on 31 December 2004.
When added to the interim dividend of 3.6 pence 2003 2.85 pence after restating for the sub-division of shares on 23 January 2004, this produces a total dividend for the year of 12.0 pence 2003 8.55 pence after restating for sub-division of shares per ordinary share.
Principal activities and review of the business The principal activities of the Group continued to be the sale of beers and cider and the collection of rents from its estate of licensed premises.
A review of the years activities is given in the Chairmans Statement, Chief Executives Review and the Finance Directors Report on pages 4 to 12.
Taken together, these are intended to constitute an Operating and Financial Review.
Employment policies The Group is committed to equal opportunities and the creation of an entirely non-discriminatory working environment.
The aim of the policy is to ensure that no job applicant or employee receives less favourable treatment regardless of, amongst other matters, gender, marital status, race, age or disability.
The Group gives full consideration to applications for employment from disabled persons where the requirements of the job can be adequately fulfilled by a handicapped or disabled person.
Where existing employees become disabled, it is the Groups policy wherever practicable to provide continuing employment under normal terms and conditions and to provide training and career development and promotion to disabled employees wherever appropriate.
Employee involvement The Group believes that effective training is essential to the maintenance and improvement of the Groups success and individual performance.
The Group is committed to providing all employees with relevant training to meet the business needs of the Group and to improve individual employee skills.
During the year, the policy of providing employees with information about the Group has been continued through the newsletter The Innsider.
Regular meetings are held between local management and employees to allow a free flow of information and ideas.
In addition, an annual conference is held to which all employees are invited and provides an opportunity for employees to be made aware of key objectives and strategy.
Employees are encouraged to invest in the Group through participation in savings-related share options schemes.
Employees enter into a savings contract for either five or seven years at the end of which they are entitled to purchase shares at a discount of 20% to the market price of the shares at the time of the issue of the options.
Directors and their interests The directors at the date of this report are listed on pages 2 to 3.
All directors served throughout the year other than Mr D A Harding who was appointed on 6 November 2003 and Mrs S E Murray who was appointed on 3 November 2004.
In accordance with the Articles of Association of the Company, Mr G E Tuppen, Mr D C George and Mr A J Stewart retire from the Board at the Annual General Meeting by rotation and offer themselves for reappointment.
Having been appointed since the last Annual General Meeting, the reappointment of Mrs S E Murray is also being proposed.
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2004 13 Directors Report The interests of the directors in the share capital of the Company, other than with respect to options to acquire ordinary shares which are detailed in the Directors Remuneration Report, were as follows: Ordinary Shares of 30 September 30 September 5 pence each 2004 2003 H V Reid Beneficial 122,500 122,500 G E Tuppen Beneficial 886,744 920,000 as Trustee 197,300 176,800 D C George Beneficial 911,182 852,000 as Trustee 114,000 114,000 G W Harrison Beneficial 452,000 538,804 W S Townsend Beneficial 82,684 38,056 M F Garner Beneficial 32,746 32,746 A J Stewart Beneficial 14,000 14,000 D A Harding Beneficial The executive directors, along with other employees, have been granted options over the shares of the Company.
Details of these interests are disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report.
There have been no changes in the interests of directors between the balance sheet date and the date of approval of the accounts.
Notifiable interests in shares As at 30 November 2004 the Company had been notified of the following material holdings of 3% or more of the Companys issued share capital: Number of Percentage of Ordinary Shares Issued Share Capital FMR Corp Fidelity International Limited 28,215,565 8.1 Deutsche Bank AG 17,949,203 5.1 Prudential plc 14,463,405 4.1 Legal and General Group plc 13,968,759 4.0 Scottish Widows Investment Partnership Limited 13,884,276 4.0 Landsdowne Partnership Limited Partnership 11,756,654 3.4 Purchase of own shares During the year, the Group purchased 4,405,000 of its own shares to satisfy awards under the Enterprise Inns Incentive Plans and other share option schemes.
These shares were purchased for a consideration of 24.1 million net of expenses and had a nominal value of 0.2 million.
The total number of shares held by the Group at 30 September 2004 was 6,332,846, representing 1.8% of the total called up share capital at that date.
The maximum number of shares held during the year ended 30 September 2004 was 6,522,484 on 9 September 2004 for a period of seven days, representing 1.9% of total called up share capital at that time.
During the year, 601,190 shares with a nominal value of 30,060 were disposed of by the Group by way of the exercise of share options under the share schemes.
A total of 523,162 shares were disposed of through the short-term and long-term incentive schemes for consideration of 7.
A total of 78,028 shares were disposed of through the Quest Trust for consideration of 77,508.
Authority for the Group to purchase its own shares was still in force at 30 September 2004.
14 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2004 Directors Report Creditors payment policy and practice The Group agrees terms and conditions for its business transactions with suppliers.
Payment is then made in accordance with these terms, subject to the terms and conditions being met by the supplier.
At the year end the Group had an average of 31 days purchases outstanding in trade creditors.
Environment Enterprise Inns recognises its responsibility to achieve good environmental practice and to continue to strive for improvement in its environmental impact.
Our approach is to work towards continuous improvement through education, communication and direct action where applicable.
At pub level, we work closely with licensees, suppliers and contractors to promote the efficient and effective use of resources, and seek to provide business solutions which enable a responsible approach to the environment.
The Company promotes a utilities management service to licensees, which includes the option to purchase renewable, or green, electricity, and provides advice in the efficient usage of energy.
The Company also promotes a glass recycling service to licensees.
Prior to the recent publication of the Governments White Paper on Health, the Company has played a leading role in the development and publication of industry proposals to reduce the incidence of smoking in pubs, which included: By the end of 2005, no smoking at the bar or back-of-house areas and a minimum of 50% of restaurant dining area floor space to be non-smoking.
Reducing trading floor space area for customers who smoke from a maximum of 65% by December 2005 to a maximum of 20% by December 2009.
The Company is committed to continue to promote and implement these proposals with licensees and, through its membership of the British Beer and Pubs Association, the Company will continue to play an active part during the forthcoming period of consultation with the Department of Health.
The Company proactively promotes the inclusion of appropriate ventilation facilities within all pub developments.
Enterprise Inns also operates a no smoking policy within its head office.
All executive directors are responsible for the promotion of good practice in environmental matters, and report to the Board accordingly.
In health and safety matters, the Company has reporting systems and procedures in place to ensure that all health and safety risks are properly addressed.
A cross-functional risk management group meets regularly to develop policy, share best practice and raise awareness throughout the organisation and its customer base.
The group reports to the Company Secretary, who is responsible for regular reporting to the Board.
Social responsibility Enterprise Inns believes that the interests of responsible, entrepreneurial pub businesses are substantially aligned with the interests of local communities and consumers, whether pub-goers or not.
In this regard, the Company seeks to ensure that its pubs provide a friendly, safe and controlled environment, and that its business support activities promote the positive contributions that pubs make to their local communities.
The Company has prepared for the implementation of the Licensing Act 2003 and is working intensively with licensees throughout 2005 to ensure that appropriate opportunities for licensees and consumers are realised.
The Company is an associate member of the Portman Group, the industry-funded body established to promote sensible drinking, help prevent misuse of alcohol, encourage responsible marketing and foster a balanced understanding of alcohol-related issues.
The Company is a signatory to the Portman Groups Code of Practice, and works proactively with drinks suppliers to ensure that they adhere to a responsible advertising, pricing, packaging and promotions regime.
The Company actively promotes the Portman Groups Proof of Age Card scheme to all licensees and provides materials to all new licensees to enable them to operate the scheme in their premises.
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2004 15 Directors Report Through its membership of the British Beer and Pubs Association, the Company has actively participated in discussions with Government in the preparation of its National Alcohol Harm Reduction Strategy.
The Company also participates in a number of partnerships with local authorities to develop and implement local policies and strategies which are designed to address the potential consequences of alcohol misuse whilst not penalising the majority of responsible licensees and their customers.
The Company has widely communicated the Disability Discrimination Act 2004 to all licensees and seeks to ensure that appropriate and reasonable actions have been implemented, where relevant, in the Companys licensed premises.
The Chief Executive is responsible for the development and application of the Companys approach to social responsibility matters.
Statement of directors responsibilities Company law requires the directors to prepare accounts for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing those accounts, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the accounts: prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
The directors confirm that the accounts comply with the above requirements.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and to enable them to ensure that the accounts comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Recent developments The Company will be seeking shareholder approval at the Annual General Meeting on 20 January 2005, amongst other matters, for: The approval and adoption of the Enterprise Inns 2004 Annual Bonus Plan and Long Term Incentive Plan.
The approval and adoption of the Enterprise Inns new employee share schemes.
Further details can be found in the Notice of Meeting and Explanatory notes on pages 70 to 75 and the letter from the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee to shareholders dated 30 November 2004.
In addition and in accordance with best practice and investor guidelines, the Company is offering all shareholders an electronic proxy appointment facility.
Details of this can be found on the form of proxy enclosed with this document.
Auditors A resolution to reappoint Ernst & Young LLP as the Groups auditor will be put to the members at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
On behalf of the Board D C George Secretary 30 November 2004 16 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2004
