DIRECTORS REPOR T The directors submit their annual report and group Articles of Association, all directors submit themselves accounts for the year ended September 30 2004. for re-election at least every three years.
Accordingly, Sir Patrick Sergeant, Mr PM Fallon, Mr E Bounous, Principal activities and business review Mr SM Brady, Mr G Mueller, The Viscount Rothermere Euromoney Institutional Investor is a leading and Mr JP Williams will retire at the forthcoming international business to business publisher, focused annual general meeting and, being eligible, will offer primarily on international finance.
It publishes more themselves for re-election.
than 100 magazines, newsletters and journals as well Also, as required by the Articles of Association, as surveys, directories, books and maps.
The group also Sir Patrick Sergeant, being over the age of 70, runs conferences, seminars and training courses and is will retire at the forthcoming annual general a provider of electronic business information through meeting and, being eligible, will offer himself its capital market databases and emerging markets for re-election.
A review of operations and business developments is given in the operating and Mr GB Strahan has notified the company that he financial review on pages 6 to 11. will retire as a director on December 16, 2004 and Mr JD Bolsover has notified the company that he Group results and dividends will retire as a director at the forthcoming AGM.
The group profit for the year attributable to shareholders amounted to 16.0 million 2003: 4.1 million.
The Details of the interests of the directors in the ordinary directors recommend a final dividend of 10.00 pence per shares of the company and of options held by the ordinary share 2003: 9.75 pence, payable on February directors to subscribe for ordinary shares in the 4 2005 to shareholders on the register on December 3 company are set out in the Directors Remuneration 2004.
This, together with the interim dividend of Report on pages 21 to 33.
5.00 pence per ordinary share 2003: 5.00 pence which was declared on May 27 2004 and paid on July 8 2004, Significant shareholdings brings the total dividend payable to 15.00 pence per At November 22 2004, being the latest practical date ordinary share 2003: 14.75 pence.
before approval of the accounts, notification had been received of the following interests of 3% or more in Directors and their interests the companys ordinary share capital: The directors who served during the year are listed on pages 14 and 15.
Mr JC Gonzalez was appointed as a Number % DMG Investment director on November 23 2004 and, according to the Holdings Limited 62,147,624 70.6 Articles of Association, a director appointed during Amvescap PLC 3,476,270 4.0 the year must retire at the first available AGM and, being eligible, offers himself for re-election.
Banque Internationale Luxembourg SA has issued international depositary receipts in bearer form in In addition, following best practice under corporate respect of a total of 1,370,800 shares 1.6% governance and in accordance with the companys registered in its name.
12 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Authority to purchase own shares of the business through involvement in the groups The companys authority to purchase up to 10% of its profit sharing schemes and in the savings related own shares expires at the conclusion of the companys share option scheme.
A resolution to renew this authority for a further period will be put to Supplier payment policy shareholders at this meeting.
Each Euromoney Institutional Investor business agrees payment terms with its suppliers on an individual Political and charitable contributions basis and it is group policy to make payments in During the year the group made charitable accordance with these terms.
There days of purchases in creditors at September 30 2004 were no political contributions in either year.
Disabled employees Auditors It is the groups policy to give full and fair consideration A resolution to re-appoint Deloitte & Touche LLP as the to applications for employment from people who company's auditor will be proposed at the forthcoming are disabled: to continue, wherever possible, the Annual General Meeting.
employment of, and to arrange appropriate training for, employees who become disabled: and to provide Annual general meeting opportunities for the career development, training and The companys annual general meeting will be held promotion of disabled employees.
Employee involvement By order of the board The group recognizes the importance of good communication in relationships with its staff.
This is pursued in a number of ways, including training and regular meetings between management and staff, which seek to achieve common awareness on the part of all employees of the financial and economic Colin Jones circumstances affecting the groups performance.
Many employees participate directly in the success Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004 13
