Exel 001 031 Bk Prf 10 3 2005 3:18 pm Page 24 Airweight grew by 18% with demand across the region very strong, particularly in Hong Kong, which in November exported a record 10,000 tonnes in the month.
The integration of Fujitsu Logistics has strengthened operations in Japan and contract logistics across the region grew rapidly.
CK Lee, Chief Executive, Asia Pacific CK joined Ocean Group as Commercial Director in 1997, and became Regional Chief Executive South and East Asia in 1999.
He was appointed to his current position in July 2000 and has overall responsibility for Exels operations throughout Asia Pacific, ensuring our capabilities match the requirements of our customers.
Americas continued Asia Pacific Contract logistics in freight management in 2004 and Regional developments The Asia Pacific contract logistics growing the Bodenor operations A review of 2004 for the Asia Pacific business continued to grow very in Chile and the Tibbett & Britten region is inevitably overshadowed rapidly in 2004 from a relatively business in Argentina.
Restoring the by the tsunami disaster that struck small base, with revenue at constant profitability of the Tibbett & Britten the region on 26 December 2004. exchange rates up to 246m Mexico operations is the single biggest We have been extremely fortunate 2003: 101m an increase of 144%.
financial improvement to be made that the direct impact on our business This increase was, however, dominated in 2005. and employees has been very limited, by the acquisition of Fujitsu Logistics it has however had a deep impact which more than doubled the size Early in 2005 we announced that on some of the countries we operate of the Asia contract logistics business we had exercised an option to acquire in.
Employee fundraising initiatives when it was acquired in June 2004.
This will allow us have been matched pound for pound Even after adjusting for this, organic to offer a primary packaging service by the Exel Foundation.
Exel also revenue growth was 27.0% for the to our existing customers, and offer provided humanitarian and financial year.
Margins of 3.0% were higher a broader range of logistics services assistance in support of the than last year 2003: 2.8%.
Operating to Power Packaging customers.
profit at constant exchange rates increased to 7.3m 2003: 2.8m, Across all our businesses we will 2004 has seen some notable events with organic profit growth up 32.1%.
seek opportunities to further in the continuing rapid growth of the Fujitsu Logistics performed very well penetrate our sector business base region.
We were delighted to be able in its first seven months in Exel.
with our seafreight and intermodal to bring Fujistu Logistics into the Exel After Fujitsu Logistics, the largest truck brokerage businesses.
This is a very important move contract logistics businesses in addition, we will be looking at the in developing our Japanese business, Asia Pacific are in Australia and opportunities to leverage our scale and in one step made Fujitsu New Zealand, which increased particularly in areas of procurement, Exels biggest technology customer.
their revenue by 34% and operating and we will continue to invest in Encouragingly this business has profit by slightly more.
Performance the quality of our people, whose already won its first non-Fujitsu in Australia was also boosted by dedication and motivation drive customer.
Elsewhere in the region the opening of two new facilities the business forward.
we have continued to expand our in Sydney and one in Perth.
service logistics business, opened new facilities in Sydney, Australia and Singapore.
We were also honoured to receive Singapores Distinguished Partner in Progress 2004 Award, Singapores highest corporate recognition.
As always, our success is based upon our people, and 200 of our managers successfully completed our Young Leaders Programme.
Exel plc 24 Annual Report 2004 Exel 001 031 Bk Prf 15 3 2005 5:05 pm Page 25 Split of revenue 25% 34% Contract Hong 50% logistics Kong & China 19% Asia Pacific Seafreight revenue Japan increased 50% over prior year.
21% Other 13% Singapore 75% 5% 8% Freight Malaysia Australia management Paul Graham, Chief Operating Officer, Robert Yang, Chief Operating Officer, Contract Logistics, Asia Pacific Freight Management, Asia Pacific Paul joined Exel in 2001 as Managing Director, Supply Chain Robert is responsible for our freight Services Group, Asia Pacific, responsible for growing the management operations across the Companys regional supply chain and logistics services Asia Pacific region and spearheading the operations.
Currently, Paul manages the strategic growth continued expansion of the Companys of our ground-based logistics business across Asia Pacific freight services to both new and existing and is also responsible for the development of Exels customers.
In addition, he has direct business in the South Asia region.
responsibility for the entire South East Asia region which comprises Brunei, Malaysia and Singapore.
02 Freight management Airweight in 2004 grew by 18%.
Areas of key focus At constant exchange rates, freight Demand across the region was very Clearly the growth of China will management turnover increased strong, particularly in Exel Hong Kong, continue to be a key opportunity for by 26.4% to 748m 2003: 592m, which in November 2004 broke all the region going forward.
However, all of which was organic growth.
previous records by exporting 10,000 we are pursuing a balanced growth This was driven by exceptional tonnes in the month, with even agenda across many different growth across all of the key freight stronger year-on-year growth out of countries in the region.
We hold products: airfreight, seafreight China.
Americas was the destination strong positions in a number of and consolidation services.
which recorded the highest growth countries and services that will benefit rate of 25%, closely followed by from future growth.
For example, in Freight management operating profit intra-Asia traffic which was up 23%.
India we have built a market leading margin declined by 0.8% to 4.5% Exports to Europe were up 14%.
position in supporting the growth 2003: 5.3%.
The reduction was of mobile phone networks, and in 1.3% year-on-year in the first half, Our smaller seafreight business Indonesia, where from starting the but this narrowed in the second half grew even more strongly than business in 2003, we now have to 0.4%.
Approximately 0.7% of airfreight, with revenues increasing 800 employees.
Continuing the the reduction in the first half was by 50% over the prior year.
Seafreight good work that has started on the due to under recovery of airfreight consolidation services grew slightly integration of Fujitsu Logistics will be fuel surcharges.
In the second half more modestly at 27%, however, important in 2005, as will building of the year, airfreight fuel surcharges this did include the start of on our airfreight procurement were recovered in full.
The other consolidation services to Europe and programme to drive improved significant margin pressure that included expanding the service not margins in our airfreight business.
existed throughout the year was only in its traditional base Yantian, caused by tight capacity in both the China, but also in Shanghai, China.
The very high levels of growth that we and the market experienced, resulted in capacity constraints and increased our costs, which were difficult to pass on fully to customers.
At constant exchange rates operating profit for the year increased to 33.5m 2003: 31.1m, an increase of 7.7%, of which 2.6% was attributable to Unique, the freight forwarding business acquired as part of the Tibbett & Britten acquisition.
Exel plc Annual Report 2004 25 Performance
