Exel 001 031 Bk Prf 10 3 2005 3:18 pm Page 2 Market sector specialisms and skills Consumer Retail Technology Turnover Contract logistics 31% Contract logistics 32% Contract logistics 11% Total logistics Freight management 21% Freight management 9% Freight management 35% Pressure for greater The retail supply chain is This sector delivers some of responsiveness and flexibility becoming ever more important our most innovative solutions, in the supply chain is changing as retailers strive to satisfy the supporting global sourcing and the dynamics between increasing demands of supply chain management.
Exel works locally technology market environment Rising fuel and raw material and internationally with many is demanding: the pace of prices, a tightening types of retailers, including change in the supply chain transportation market and designer fashion and luxury and the speed at which new global sourcing are increasing goods, high street fashion, products are introduced are 27% Consumer costs and complexity.
These department stores, DIY creating new challenges in 23% Retail trends provide opportunities and electronics as well as the movement of goods.
Our 20% Technology to work with our customers hypermarkets, supermarkets, customers require lower costs 9% Automotive to develop efficient, flexible and drinks and convenience and continuous improvement in 6% Healthcare 4% Chemical integrated consumer solutions store companies.
order to maintain their leadership 7% Industrial based on our global best position in the marketplace.
We can help them to Our portfolio of services help them by using our global facilitate smaller, more frequent spans the entire supply chain scale, supply chain knowledge, Contract logistics consignments, toughen inventory from international logistics analytical skills and proactive regimes and enhance their management and distribution approach to identify alternatives information sharing.
to stores, in-store logistics and and solutions.
The continued Our campus and shared-user increase in global sourcing Our industry insight and models capitalise on similar represents a significant customer understanding means distribution channels to minimise opportunity for growth.
We are we are well-placed to recognise labour and transportation able to offer our customers a the opportunities.
We work costs and increase equipment true end-to-end capability with closely with our customers, utilisation.
Our managed the potential to maximise the often along side their 31% Consumer transportation solution enhances cost benefits whilst delivering management teams, to identify 32% Retail this value proposition.
Secondary a highly responsive and agile potential savings and service 11% Technology packaging services provide supply chain.
We are helping 10% Automotive growth opportunities and the many of them to migrate 7% Healthcare recent acquisition of Power The acquisition of Tibbett & from traditional manufacturing 5% Chemical Packaging creates an additional Britten makes Exel one of areas to the emerging markets 3% Industrial capability in contract food the leading service providers of Eastern Europe, China and 1% Other manufacturing.
Integrated to the fashion industry.
We are also into distribution centres, these combination of Tibbett & creating and delivering costFreight management services streamline fulfilment, Brittens fashion expertise with efficient service parts and reverse reduce cost, enhance visibility Exels scale and global freight logistics solutions to meet the and control and improve supply management capability should growing demand for service chain flexibility.
deliver significant value to excellence in the aftermarket our customers in 2005. supply chain.
Customers include Customers include Customers include Burtons Foods, Coca-Cola, Arcadia, Bhs, Carrefour, House Agilent, EMC, Ericsson, 21% Consumer General Mills, Heineken, of Fraser, Marks & Spencer, Honeywell, HP, IKON, Lanier, 9% Retail Hershey Foods, P&G, Matahari, Morrisons, Pier 1 Lucent, Motorola, ON Semi, Ricoh, 35% Technology Reckitt Benckiser, Unilever.
Imports, Sainsburys, Selfridges Sony, Sun, Texas Instruments, 8% Automotive & Co, Somerfield, Tesco, Xerox.
3% Chemical 12% Industrial 7% Other For more on our sector specialisms visit http: www.
com exel home industries Exel plc 02 Annual Report 2004 Exel 001 031 Bk Prf 10 3 2005 3:18 pm Page 3 Exel has expertise in seven key market sectors, each of which will deliver opportunities for growth over the next few years.
Our customers appreciate that they work with specialists in both the supply chain and their particular marketplace.
The market knowledge of our people continues to be a source of competitive advantage.
Automotive Healthcare Chemical Industrial Contract logistics 10% Contract logistics 7% Contract logistics 5% Contract logistics 3% Freight management 8% Freight management 5% Freight management 3% Freight management 12% The automotive industry is Exels healthcare business is the Exels solutions for chemical Exels industrial business focuses the worlds single largest supplier of choice of many of customers create value by on certain sub-sectors including manufacturing activity.
the leading manufacturers in promoting safety, driving utilities, transport infrastructure, The business environment the sector.
Our global presence efficiencies, improving service paper and packaging, is challenging and dynamic.
fits our customers requirements, levels and optimising inventory.
construction, building products, Traditional markets mature particularly as the market In an environment of increasing industrial equipment and capital and the enormous potential consolidates.
Larger companies competition and pricing pressure, goods manufacturers.
We work of emerging markets and lower require regional warehousing we are helping manufacturers with major conglomerates and 01 cost supply sources are realised.
with both dedicated and of plastics, resins, specialty smaller regional manufacturers The supply chain is seen as a shared-user options, as well chemicals and lubricants to who face similar challenges.
source of competitive advantage as onward delivery to hospitals reduce costs, increase service and growth in logistics and pharmacies.
Exel also offers levels, reduce time to market Our innovative solutions include outsourcing remains strong.
immense knowledge of the for specialty products and lessen international cross-dock and stringent market regulations.
operational liability through consolidation centres, track-andExels strategy for automotive is As most healthcare products effective safety programmes.
trace tools to deliver inventory founded on further deepening are small and require specialist visibility, global multi-modal our enviable customer warehousing and handling, our We use analytical tools to logistics services and integrated relationships.
The tailored flexible shared-user operations integrate the strategic objectives freight management and automotive solutions that we are highly cost-effective.
of our customers into the design contract logistics services.
have created include inbound to of the supply chain.
This improves manufacturing services, finished We expect Central and Eastern employee productivity, equipment The guaranteed supply of vehicle services, after-sale services Europe and India to become and facility utilisation rates, inbound raw materials into including tyres and fullykey markets for our expanding safety levels, order fill rates, manufacturing plants and integrated international services.
Customers on-time delivery and decreases outbound finished goods These offerings are built on are also keen to combine inventory levels.
to end customers is critical.
the ability of Exel to repeatedly warehousing with transport Exel meets this requirement deliver truly differentiated options, as many healthcare Our best practice solutions by providing just-in-time delivery solutions to support the local, goods need to be transported encompass: in-plant operations, of materials, sub-assembly pan-regional and global in  including packaging, blending, and kitting.
Our reverse logistics needs of our customers.
We are further yard management and expertise ensures the smooth adding value by introducing distribution: order fulfilment, return of materials or packaging.
services such as clinical trials including warehousing, support, hospital logistics distribution and value-added In this market, improving and small parcel deliveries.
services: transportation efficiency, increasing flexibility management, including and reducing cost in the supply optimisation, rating, chain are vital.
Exel meets these routing, dispatch, tracing challenges head on, delivering and freight payment.
value from one end of the industrial supply chain to the other.
Customers include Customers include Customers include Customers include BMW, Continental Tire, AstraZeneca, Bayer, Asda, BP Lubricants, Dow, Alcan, Alstom, Centrica British DaimlerChrysler, Ford Motor GlaxoSmithKline, Johnson & Du Pont, Eastman, ExxonMobil, Gas, Dal-Tile, Everest, GE, Company, General Motors, Johnson, NHS, Novartis, Pall, INEOS, Morrisons Safeway, International Paper, Network Rail, Goodyear, Visteon, Volkswagen.
Pfizer, Roche, Smith & Nephew, Muehlstein, Rhodia, Rohm Owens Corning, PPG, Sealed Air, Tyco Healthcare.
Exel plc Annual Report 2004 03 Exel explained
