Exel 001 031 Bk Prf 15 3 2005 5:09 pm Page 30 Board of Directors Non-executive Nigel Rich CBE Sir William Wells Jean-Claude Guez Directors Chairman Senior Independent Director Jean-Claude Guez was appointed to the Appointed non-executive Chairman Appointed to the Board of Exel plc in May Board of Ocean Group plc in February of Exel plc in October 2002 and to the 2000 and as Senior Independent Director 2000.
Until September 2003, he was Board of Ocean Group plc in 1997, in October 2002, Sir William is a a part-time Senior Management Advisor Nigel Rich spent 20 years in Asia Pacific non-executive Director of NPI Holdings for Accenture formerly Andersen and was Managing Director of Jardine Limited, Pearl Group Limited, Pearl Consulting, which he joined in 1966.
Matheson Holdings Limited from 1989 to Assurance plc, National Provident Life He served as a consultant for 33 years 1994.
Between 1994 and 1996, he was Limited and HHG plc, Chairman of the and was a Partner from 1979 to 1999 Group Chief Executive of Trafalgar House NHS Appointments Commission and and became Managing Director of its plc.
He is non-executive Chairman of of the UK Department of Healths Travel Industry Services in Europe in 1991.
Hamptons Group Limited and Co-Chairman Commercial Advisory Board.
He is also a Partner in Rocket Ventures, a of the Philippine British Business Council, group of information technology venture non-executive Director of CP Ships Limited, capital funds, and a non-executive Director Pacific Assets Trust plc and Matheson of Eurostar Group Limited and Invensys & Co Limited.
Executive John Allan CBE John Coghlan John Pattullo Directors Chief Executive Deputy Chief Executive and Chief Executive, Europe, Appointed Chief Executive of Ocean Group Finance Director Middle East & Africa Group plc in September 1994 and has John Coghlan joined Ocean Group plc Appointed to the Board of Exel plc been instrumental in the creation of the as Finance Director in October 1995 on 1 March 2005.
He joins Exel from global leader in supply chain management and became Deputy Chief Executive on P&G, a global manufacturer of branded following the merger.
John Allan was a completion of the merger in 2000 and consumer goods.
He has had extensive Board Director of BET plc between 1987 Group Finance Director in July 2001. supply chain experience through various and 1994 with key responsibilities for He spent eight years at Arthur Andersen logistics, manufacturing and purchasing Business Services Europe and as Group & Company and then joined Tomkins plc roles.
In the 1980s, he headed P&Gs Marketing Director.
He is a non-executive for a further eight years where he became supply chain operations in the UK and Director of PHS Group plc and a member DirectorFinancial Services.
He is a nonsince then has held a variety of regional of the CBIs Presidents Committee, the executive Director of Yell Group plc.
and global supply chain roles working International Advisory Committee of the Age 46. in several countries, including Belgium Singapore Economic Development Board, and Japan, and more recently as Vice the University of Edinburgh Campaign President, Product Supply for P&Gs Board and President of the Freight Global Beauty Care division.
He was awarded the CBE in the New Years Honours list in recognition of his services to the freight industry.
Exel plc 30 Annual Report 2004 Exel 001 031 Bk Prf 10 3 2005 3:18 pm Page 31 John McDonough was appointed a Director on John Coghlan, Jean-Claude Guez and Nigel Board and Committees Nomination Executive Board 1 February 2004.
Ian Smith resigned from the Rich retire from the Board by rotation under Details of the Board Committee John Allan Chairman Board on 13 August 2004.
John Pattullo was provisions of the Articles of Association and, and Committee Nigel Rich Chairman John Coghlan appointed to the Board on 1 March 2005.
John being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
functions can be John Allan Bruce Edwards Pattullo, being appointed since the last AGM, found in the corporate Sir William Wells Mick Fountain retires from the Board under provisions of the Exel plc was formed following the merger in governance report Clifford Herbertson Articles of Association and, being eligible, offers May 2000 of Ocean Group plc now Exel plc on pages 33 to 37.
Remuneration CK Lee himself for re-election.
and former Exel plc previously NFC plc.
Committee John Pattullo Audit Committee Sir William Wells Siegfried Putzer Dennis Millard Chairman Nigel Underwood Chairman Jean-Claude Guez Paul Venables For the biographies of the Directors and senior management visit John McDonough John McDonough http: www.
com exel home media biographies Fritz Ternofsky Company Secretary Doug Evans Non-executive John McDonough Dennis Millard Fritz Ternofsky Directors Appointed to the Board of Exel plc on Appointed to the Board of Exel plc on Appointed to the Board of Exel plc in 03 1 February 2004, John McDonough is 25 September 2003, Dennis Millard has May 2000, Fritz Ternofskys background an experienced international businessman been Group Finance Director of Cookson is in the field of commercial operations.
and is currently Group Chief Executive Group plc, a materials technology group, He was an executive Director of Compass of Carillion plc.
Previous appointments include Group plc responsible for UK and Vice President, Integrated Facilities non-executive Director and Chairman of Scandinavia and a Board Director from Management, Europe, Middle East and the Audit Committee for ARC International 1987 to 1999.
He is currently a member Africa of Johnson Controls Inc.
He is a plc and Finance Director of Medeva plc.
of the Supervisory Board of Compass Director of Eastbourne Harbour Company Age 56.
He is non-executive Limited, Sovereign Harbour Waterfront Director of Kew Green Hotel Limited and Holdings Limited, Everprime Limited Close Income and Growth Venture Capital and Churchward plc.
He is also a member Trust plc and Senior Independent Director of the CBIs Public Services Strategy Board.
of Punch Taverns plc and of Care UK plc.
Executive Bruce Edwards Mick Fountain, Chief Executive, David Riddle Directors Chief Executive, Americas Global Freight Management Chief Executive, Cory Environmental Joined former Exel plc in 1986 and Appointed a Director of Exel plc in March Joined Ocean Group plc in 1971 and was appointed Chief Executive Officer for 2001, Mick Fountain has spent his career was appointed to the Board in 1994.
He was in the logistics field, including the last He previously held a number of positions appointed to the Board of Exel plc in 18 years with Exel following the acquisition at Ocean Group plc including Group May 2000 and has overseen the Companys of Jardine Air Cargo in 1986.
He heads Strategic Planner, Director, Marine Division expansion into Canada and Latin America Exels global freight management group and Managing Director, Cory Towage and rapidly moved the Company to being which develops the global aspects of Limited before joining Cory Environmental the leading supply chain provider in the the air and seafreight network.
He is a non-executive Director Americas.
Before joining Exel, he spent member of the industry-related bodies, of Environmental Services Association eight years at Space Center Inc, a US-based Cargo Network Services, the Council Limited, the waste management trade logistics company, and he is currently of Logistics Management and the association.
Age 59. a Member of the Council of Logistics International Air Cargo Association, Management, the Warehousing Education and Chairman of Cargo 2000.
He is and Research Council and the Columbus also a non-executive Director of Safety Port Authority Commission.
Exel plc Annual Report 2004 31 Governance
