Exel 001 031 Bk Prf 10 3 2005 3:18 pm Page 22 The Americas contract logistics business continued to grow strongly across every sector with revenue exceeding 1bn for the first time.
In 2004, we have successfully managed the demands of some large integration projects, whilst maintaining strong underlying growth.
Bill Meahl, Chief Executive, Contract Logistics, Americas Since joining a company which was subsequently acquired by Exel in 1982, Bill has held several senior managerial positions across the Americas business.
Bill is responsible for the development of our worldwide consumer business and positioning this sector to support the global needs of our customers.
He also oversees the operations of our consumer, retail and healthcare sectors in the Americas.
Americas our customers supply chain costs, a margin for this segment of 4.7%, Regional developments and have been actively leading an Exel with operating profit at constant 2004 has been both an exciting and global team looking into the benefits exchange rates increasing to 49.5m challenging year for the Americas.
that can be achieved from radio 2003: 39.2m, and organic profit We have managed to successfully frequency identification RFID growth up 16.1%.
juggle the competing demands of tags.
Centres of Excellence in some large integration projects, whilst Pennsylvania, USA and Alberta, The automotive sector built on maintaining strong underlying growth Canada have been established growth in 2003 delivering a very in our contract logistics business.
to facilitate the real-world testing strong performance in 2004 with The integration projects have varied of this technology.
revenue increasing by 28% in the from the relatively small but important year.
This growth was driven acquisition of Bodenor in Chile Contract logistics by building on an already strong through to the large scale integration The Americas contract logistics relationship with Goodyear, with of the Tibbett & Britten acquisition.
business continued to grow strongly several new operations starting up We have been delighted with the across every sector with revenue in 2004 and the first full year effect quality of the Unidocks operations exceeding 1bn for the first time.
Four new and its integration into Exels Brazilian At constant exchange rates revenue distribution centres were started business.
It has been a great addition of 1,060m was up 43% 2003: for Continental Tire in the US to our global healthcare practice 743m, with organic revenue and Mexico, including the overall and it recently won the inaugural up 15.2%.
operation of their transportation Febrafarma Pharmaceutical Excellence network and management of their Award.
We also made reasonable Excluding the impact of Tibbett & North American outbound supply progress in the second half of 2004 Britten, margins remained steady chain from distribution centre integrating our underperforming at 5.4%.
The incremental Tibbett to customer.
Business with US domestic expedited heavy & Britten business had a margin DaimlerChrysler further expanded to freight business into our international of 1.6%, which improved from include an international lead logistics business and centralising the a margin of less than 0.1% for programme and outbound delivery management of our international the 2003 Tibbett & Britten Americas services from multiple plant locations.
The margin for this business was held back by a lack New business with The Home Excellent operational performance of profitability in the operations Depot and Party City in the US remains the key to success in the in Mexico which need better site and Carrefour in Brazil drove strong Americas and in 2004 we continued utilisation to drive up revenue and growth in the retail sector.
The to win awards from our customers.
In addition, following combination of the good momentum We were named the Global Supplier the acquisition, business with two in the Exel business, combined with of the Year for Logistics at major customers was terminated by the strong retail customer base in DaimlerChrysler for performance mutual agreement.
Former Tibbett Tibbett & Britten, creates a strong in quality, system cost, technology, & Britten operations have now sector going forward.
Growth in the and delivery and we were also been fully integrated into the Exel consumer sector was more modest, awarded a Supplier Excellence organisation, whilst maintaining despite wins with Clorox and SC Award by Texas Instruments Product consistent service delivery.
Together Johnson and several new contracts Distribution Center.
We continue to the existing Exel and the former with P&G.
Working in both sectors, look for ways to innovate and reduce Tibbett & Britten operations produced Exel Direct, our home delivery service, Exel plc 22 Annual Report 2004 Exel 001 031 Bk Prf 15 3 2005 5:02 pm Page 23 Split of revenue 57% 83% Contract USA 16.1% logistics Americas organic underlying contract logistics operating profit growth.
7% 43% Central and Freight South America 10% management Canada Patrick Moebel, Chief Executive, Dan Avramovich, President of Exels Freight Management, Americas Network Services With his extensive expertise and experience Dan has nine years experience with Exel.
in the areas of sales, operations and As President of Exels network services, general management, Patrick is responsible his current responsibilities include Exel for leading Exel in pursuit of market Direct, our big-ticket product fulfilment leadership and supports its freight business, and our transportation services management business in the Americas.
business covering our roadfreight markets across the Americas.
02 continued to build on its industry continued to downsize the domestic Exels consolidation services remain leading platform with over four business which contracted by 20%.
attractive to the retail sector, and our million home deliveries in 2004. non vessel owning common carrier The service has expanded in the International airweight for the region NVOCC services grew at a rate of last three years, and now covers a grew by 23%.
Intra-Americas traffic 16%, underpinned by a significant much greater part of the customers experienced the highest growth rate contract with Lexmark.
supply chain from the initial order, up 42%.
This was largely driven by through warehousing and primary traffic into and out of Latin America.
Within our intermodal and truck transportation to the last mile Exports to Asia were also up strongly, brokerage business, Exels agency delivery into the home.
Exports to Europe business grew by 17%, whilst grew much more modestly, only up company managed operations grew The technology sector was relatively 5% for the year as a whole, although by 8%.
Robust growth was derived quiet in 2003 for new business wins this did improve towards the end from existing customers with several which was reflected in a low level of the year with December 2004 accounts, including Coors, Ethan Allen of contract start-ups at the beginning having a particularly strong month, and Mitsubishi doubling revenues.
However, start-ups in the US, up 19% over the prior year.
Additionally, revenues across our Mexico and Brazil in the second half The growth was particularly strong top 50 brokerage accounts grew of 2004 have created momentum among our large multinational by 24%.
Across the business, growth moving into 2005.
in truck operations was 22% and chemical exceeded the years intermodal growth was 17% which expectations with new business with Operating profit margins declined account for approximately 85% ExxonMobil and International Paper.
to 0.1% 2003: 0.3%, with one-off of the business between them.
costs incurred in integrating the Overall the operating profit margin Freight management US domestic expedited business improved slightly from 1.1% to 1.3%, At constant exchange rates, freight into the international business but suffered from tight rail and truck management turnover increased of 2m in the year charged within capacity and still remains below what by 10.5% to 800m 2003: 723m, operating profit.
all of which was organic growth.
The largest part of this growth came In total the operating profit Areas of key focus from the intermodal truck brokerage performance for all freight The focus for 2005 will be to complete business, which grew 10% in the management entities at constant the integration of Tibbett & Britten, year and accounted for 50% of the exchange rates declined to 0.4m which is complete in the US and revenue of this segment.
The loss of 1.2m in Canada, but does require more America business, whilst still relatively the first half 2003: profit 1.9m was work in Mexico, and complete small, grew very strongly particularly followed by a profit in the second the back office consolidation of in Brazil and Mexico where revenue half of 1.6m 2003: profit 0.6m, the freight management businesses grew by over 50% in each case.
showing evidence of the impact of in the Americas.
This year was also the first year the cost saving initiatives.
The We will continue to develop our newly integrated US international Seafreight revenues increased 21% seafreight product and in particular freight and domestic business grew over prior year, and now account inbound consolidation services from overall by 7%.
The international for almost 10% of the overall freight Asia.
Latin America will continue to business grew by 20%, and we management Americas segment.
grow rapidly, building on the growth Exel plc Annual Report 2004 23 Performance
