Exel 001 031 Bk Prf 10 3 2005 3:18 pm Page 4 To view Exels latest results presentation visit http: www.
com exel home investors  A passionate commitment to innovation and to our customers remains at the heart of our business.
Our customer focus is central to our business strategy.
Identifying the needs of our customers has allowed us to deliver value and grow our business.
This will continue in the future.
The next step Future emphasis In response, we have decided to Exel is about to enter a new phase Over the next three years, we are consolidate and centralise how John Allan CBE of development.
Over the past four going to focus on delivering value we buy air cargo space around the Chief Executive years, we have worked hard to to our customers, shareholders and world.
In future, we will do more create a platform for growth by employees by extracting the best business with fewer carriers through strengthening our customer base, from what we have.
We intend our Global Capacity Management increasing our market share and to grow organically.
To achieve this, GCM initiative.
This management building a much larger global we will concentrate our efforts of our global capacity requirements footprint.
As a result, Exel is now in three key areas.
should enable us to reduce our costs, the clear global leader in providing increase flexibility and get freight supply chain management services.
It will be In 2004, we acquired a number implemented in all regions in 2005.
The outlook for mediumto longof businesses which are at various term growth in our business is stages of integration.
They include The Exel Way is enabling us to positive.
The global supply chain Fujitsu Logistics in Japan, Bodenor standardise how we do business market is relatively fragmented in Chile, Power Packaging, which we throughout the supply chain and and expanding by 5-6% each year.
completed at the beginning of 2005, develop more multi-region platforms Our revenue of over 6 billion and of course, Tibbett & Britten.
like GCM to exploit our regional represents a market share of barely strength and global scale.
Most importantly, we work Performance regional coverage means that we with more than three-quarters of In such a competitive marketplace, will be better able to support our the worlds largest 250 non-financial it is essential that we use our scale, customers locally, regionally and companies and still have a long size and global footprint to our globally and our ability to grow way to go in terms of business advantage.
Thats what strategic with these companies gives us potential with almost every one initiatives such as our global a significant advantage over other of these customers.
procurement of air capacity and the local and regional competitors.
Exel Way, a global set of operational Providing more services and taking Strategic direction tools and processes, are expected on more supply chain activities will Our strategy remains the same: to do.
further broaden and deepen our to be the preferred supply chain customer relationships.
partner to our customers and to Changes in our markets of operation deliver value across the supply chain including the more demanding Above all, by continuing to to these customers.
We believe that regulatory environment, imbalance implement new business flawlessly, with the acquisition of Tibbett & on cargo routes, pricing pressure while maintaining our focus on Britten we have established the and the higher service expectations cost containment and reduction, platform for this value to be realised.
of customers have impacted all we will achieve organic growth freight forwarders.
Exel plc 04 Annual Report 2004 Exel 001 031 Bk Prf 10 3 2005 3:18 pm Page 5 01 At any given time we have a small Strategy for growth building on strong foundations handful of business units that are Over the past four years, Exel has developed a customer-focused strategy not performing as we would like and the combined capabilities of this strategy have resulted in successful and we work hard to address this.
Our strategy is based around four key cornerstones, all of which are underpinned by our core focus our customers.
We are becoming increasingly proficient in building IT solutions global coverage local strength that differentiate Exel from our Exel is developing networks with the capability to deliver global services, competitors.
We are both a logistics leveraging local knowledge and attaining leading market positions and technology service provider for across all geographies.
a number of our customers through applications such as Supply Chain 2 Integrator SCI, our global tracking integrated capability breadth of solutions tool.
Providing the technology Exel invests in resources to design and implement truly integrated solutions, that underpins many of our expanding its freight management and contract logistics portfolio to customers supply chain processes give complete flexibility.
increases our long-term business potential with these companies.
skilled people supply chain expertise Exel aims to be the employer of choice in the supply chain industry, Generating cash remains a priority.
attracting and retaining high quality individuals, further enhancing We have had another excellent year our supply chain expertise.
in terms of free cash flow and want that to continue year after year.
consistent processes operational excellence Growth Exel offers market-leading operational excellence, productivity and Our current rate of organic revenue efficiency through consistent and robust processes and investment growth is very satisfactory.
We think in resources and IT.
we are moving faster than most of our major competitors and are on customer focus course to deliver sustained revenue Exel cultivates strategic partnerships, working closely with customers to gains over the next few years.
create cost-effective solutions that add genuine value to their businesses.
We will continue to develop and execute growth plans for and with For more information about Exels strategy visit our customers and maintain our http: www.
com exel home aboutus strategy commitment to developing markets, many of which are growing faster than the developed world in terms of gross domestic product.
Exel plc Annual Report 2004 05 Exel explained Exel 001 031 Bk Prf 10 3 2005 3:18 pm Page 6 Our people, our customers and our markets provide us with opportunities to grow and strengthen our business.
This provides stability within our Ian Smith stepped down from the We have exited a small number of business and ensures our operations Board following his resignation as unsatisfactory contracts and identified Nigel Rich CBE continue to run smoothly.
In 2004, we Chief Executive, Europe, Middle East some exciting new business Chairman made a series of key appointments to & Africa to take up a position in a opportunities as part of this process.
strengthen a number of our businesses non-competing company.
Ian Smith and ensure continued excellence joined Ocean Group in 1998 and Our markets in various management functions.
was appointed to the Exel Board We believe that our underlying in 2001.
We would like to thank markets will continue to grow.
Acquisitions still have a role to play him for his significant contribution Almost half of the new business in our growth, but in the future to the Group over the years.
that we won in 2004 came from we will target strategic bolt-on companies outsourcing for the first acquisitions to achieve market entry We are pleased to announce that time.
In airfreight, Boeing has forecast or create critical mass in developing John Pattullo was appointed a Director compound annual growth of more markets, extend our value-added and as Chief Executive, Europe, Middle than 6% per annum over the next services portfolio and strengthen East & Africa on 1 March 2005.
20 years and the fastest-growing our market position in areas such John Pattullo joins Exel from P&G trade route is intra-Asia, where Exel is as seafreight.
where he gained extensive experience well positioned.
We are also a growing of supply chain operations at force within the seafreight arena.
Our people regional and global levels.
At Exel, we recognise that our people Regionally, Asia Pacific offers the are one of our most important assets.
Our customers best long-term potential.
To develop We aim to be the employer of choice Exel has a good balance of customers the market, we are using the Exel in the supply chain industry, attracting by region and market sector.
Way to help our businesses become and retaining high quality individuals Throughout 2004, we continued more competitive.
In EMEA, strong to ensure we continually enhance our to win new business and add market growth is projected from supply chain expertise.
or extend contracts from major outsourcing, new logistics demands customers.
The case studies in this and EU expansion.
In the US, The introduction of skilled people report show how we are delivering there is a great outlook due to the from Tibbett & Britten has increased value across the supply chain for anticipated increase in outsourcing our global talent pool.
We look three well-known companies.
by companies from outside of the to build talent throughout our Fortune 100. business and run a number of Customers have responded well to training programmes to develop the the acquisition of Tibbett & Britten, next generation of business leaders.
which provided us with the opportunity to review contract There were a number of changes arrangements with some customers.
Exel plc 06 Annual Report 2004 Exel 001 031 Bk Prf 10 3 2005 3:18 pm Page 7 01 We will roll out higher margin Our values value-added services to more We are in the process of introducing a set of shared corporate values of our markets over the next few across the whole of Exel.
years to seize the opportunities that are there.
We have increased Our chosen values are: the range of services that we can putting the customer first at all times provide and will continue to do so.
valuing teamwork as a means to attain our objectives For instance, we are very interested striving for consistency and excellence in all our operations in taking on more steps in the creating an environment of trust and mutual respect manufacturing and packaging relentlessly pursuing results.
process providing pre-shipping activities for our customers.
There are good reasons for having shared values across our business.
While the threat of terrorism has By believing in the same things and behaving in the same manner, added complexity to our marketplace, we can ensure that our customers enjoy a consistent quality of experience trends such as globalisation, in every location.
We want to attract, recruit and retain the most talented the outsourcing of supply chain people to give Exel a distinct competitive edge in the marketplace: management and demand for a clear and strong company culture will support this goal.
greater supply chain efficiency are creating opportunities.
The growth Many people have been involved in the creation of our values and is there for Exel to realise and we we believe they reflect the way we already do business, as well as being intend to do so.
They act as a mental check list for decision making and operating on a daily basis.
From such high-quality materials by which we mean our people, processes, coverage and customers, Our purpose in formalising and communicating the values to our people since we intend to remain an assetis to embed them into the fabric of our organisation.
To do so, we will light operation we expect to build be encouraging our teams across the globe to discuss what each value a substantial business.
We are very means to them in their local environment it is vital that our people are excited about the next phase of involved in their interpretation and understand how to apply them.
Exels development and hope you are too.
Having a strong sense of who we are and how we operate will not only enhance the customer experience, it will aid the integration of businesses Nigel Rich CBE John Allan CBE that we have acquired, by fostering a shared sense of purpose.
Chairman Chief Executive 3 March 2005 Our strategy is clear.
The Exel Way ensures we have a common set of operational tools and processes.
Our values will affect the way we go about delivering value and create a positive working environment to be proud of.
Exel plc Annual Report 2004 07 Exel explained
