Exel 001 031 Bk Prf 10 3 2005 3:18 pm Page 20 Across EMEA, we have focused on strengthening our operational base and regional footprint.
Tibbett & Britten brought with it operations in 13 countries where Exel previously had no contract logistics presence, including Austria, Poland, Romania and Slovakia.
Graham Inglis, President Healthcare Worldwide and Chief Executive, Africa Graham joined Exel in 1995 and has held his current role in healthcare since the merger with Ocean in 2000.
Graham is also the Chief Executive for our contract logistics and freight management business in Africa and has recently taken over as Chairman of our UK & Ireland Board.
Europe, Middle East and Africa in France.
To some extent this has and distribution service.
In addition, EMEA been offset by the 2003 acquisitions, revenue was boosted by new or Regional developments Cappelletti, Pharma Logistics and expanded contracts with Argos, The acquisition of Tibbett & Britten Power UK, performing well.
Burton Foods, House of Fraser, and was clearly the major event in the Mothercare.
It has significantly increased the Contract logistics growth was largely driven by the scale and coverage of the European At constant exchange rates revenue acquisition at the end of 2003 of business.
The integration of Tibbett of 2,475m was up 39% 2003: Cappelletti.
Consumer in France & Britten has progressed rapidly and 1,784m.
After adjusting for continued to make a loss but the is largely complete in the UK & Ireland, acquisitions, organic revenue growth integration and rationalisation of but with work still to be done in was 5.3% with growth of 6.2% Tibbett & Britten operations together mainland Europe.
It brought with in the UK and Ireland and 2.2% with Exels existing operations is it operations in 13 countries where in mainland Europe, Middle East expected to improve this performance.
Exel previously had no contract and Africa.
logistics presence, including Austria, The automotive sector had a good Poland, Romania and Slovakia and Overall margins decreased to 2.0% year.
We were re-appointed as Fords gives us the footprint to continue 2003: 2.3%, of which 0.2% was lead logistics partner, increased the expanding our operations into Eastern due to the Tradeteam performance.
scope of business with Saab in Europe.
On the freight forwarding Sweden and expanded aftermarket side, we have also made progress Operating profit at constant exchange operations with VW in Germany.
on this strategic objective starting rates increased to 50.2m 2003: new operations in the year in the 41.4m, although once the impact Tradeteam had a very difficult year Czech Republic and Poland, both of acquisitions is eliminated, operating with profits down by 8m.
There have of which made profit contributions profit declined by 12.5m, largely been continuing operational issues in their first year.
due to the issues in Tradeteam, in integrating the Interbrew contract, technology and consumer France.
resulting in the expected level Despite the complexity of the of efficiencies not being achieved.
integration, we have continued Revenue grew strongly in the In addition, the market itself has to maintain a high standard of consumer and retail sectors in the been difficult due to the continuing operations, being voted by our peers UK and in the future will benefit reduction in the volumes of keg beer as the clear UK market leader in greatly from the increased presence being sold in pubs.
Whilst this has logistics published by Analytiqa in the fashion market brought by been compensated for, to a certain and also receiving awards for our Tibbett & Britten.
The growth in 2004 extent, by increased sales of premium work with United Utilities, Unilever included the first full year of a fivebottled beers and wine, the changed and Lufthansa.
year contract with Marks & Spencer product mix places different demands to manage seven of their general on the distribution network, which A very strong freight management merchandise warehouses.
In July has resulted in higher than anticipated performance and a good underlying 2004, Nisa-Today, the UKs largest costs.
A new management team has contract logistics performance buying consortium for independent been appointed to tackle the issues has however been overshadowed by retail and wholesale companies which will take some time to resolve.
a very poor Tradeteam performance awarded Exel a five-year, 150m We expect that the results for this and weak performances from contract to provide a complete business will be lower in 2005 technology in Benelux and consumer  supply than 2004.
Exel plc 20 Annual Report 2004 Exel 001 031 Bk Prf 15 3 2005 5:01 pm Page 21 Split of revenue 74% 61% Contract UK &, 72 000 logistics Ireland EMEA now has over 72,000 36% employees.
Mainland Europe 26% Freight 3% management Middle East & Africa Leigh Pomlett, Chief Executive, Sjoerd van Loon, Chief Executive, Contract Logistics, Mainland EMEA Global Freight Management and Leigh joined Exels Graduate Trainee Programme in 1980 and Technology, EMEA has held a number of positions in the Company since this time.
Sjoerd joined Exel in July 2001 and has Leigh was appointed Managing Director of our automotive overall responsibility for the Companys sector in Europe in 1995 and became President, Automotive, freight management business across Worldwide, in 1999.
Leigh was appointed to his current EMEA.
In addition to his freight role in 2004. management responsibilities across the region, Sjoerd also manages our EMEA technology business.
02 In the technology market we profitability and margins.
At constant EMEAs business covers 80 countries experienced particularly tough pressure exchange rates, operating profit for and over 72,000 employees.
on margins and suffered from reduced the year increased 79% to 24.4m The challenge is to ensure that volumes in some locations.
the good underlying performance the costs of re-platforming warehouse continues and that we leverage management systems in Belgium and International airweight for the region the scale advantage that we now the Netherlands held back the grew by 16%.
The strongest growth clearly possess.
results, which overall were behind rate was for exports to Asia which last years good performance.
were up 29% overall, with significant increases in freight to China, India Healthcare grew strongly in the year, and Indonesia.
Intra-EMEA traffic with good first full year performances was up 13%, with particularly strong from both Pharma Logistics Italy, increases from mainland Europe into Belgium and the Netherlands and Hungary, the Middle East and South Transbeynak Turkey.
Exports to America grew much 12 months, Pharma Logistics has more modestly, only up 3% for the won eight new contracts including year as a whole, although some Becton Dickinson, DePuy J&J, momentum was gained in both Hollister, ZLB-Behring, in the medical directions towards the end of the device sector, and Lundbeck and year.
Overall, particularly strong AstraZeneca in the pharmaceutical export growth was seen in Germany, sector.
Elsewhere, the sector Italy, Sweden and the UK.
performed well with renewals with Janssen Cilag in the UK and Bayer Seafreight revenue increased 12% in Turkey and Tyco in France.
Particularly strong end of 2004, we announced the seafreight performances were seen acquisition of SODILOG, a Portuguese in Germany, the Netherlands, healthcare logistics provider, Turkey and the UK.
and expect this to strengthen our healthcare activity during 2005.
Areas of key focus 2005 will be focused on making Freight management sure that we obtain the full benefits At constant exchange rates, freight of the Tibbett & Britten integration, management revenue increased in the UK where the integration by 13.5% to 885m 2003: 779m, is complete and also in mainland which was virtually all organic growth.
Europe where there is still work Margins improved strongly to 2.8% to be done.
EMEA did not suffer will quickly turn to extracting the same capacity constraints that revenue benefits.
Tradeteam will were present in Asia and consequently also remain a key area of attention, there was less pressure on gross reducing costs in the merged margins.
In addition, cost reductions network whilst delivering a high in Belgium and France improved standard of operational performance.
Exel plc Annual Report 2004 21 Performance
