Exel 001 031 Bk Prf 10 3 2005 3:18 pm Page 8 Communicating around the world how technology innovations help Motorolas supply chain.
Led by our Global Customer Development GCD team, Exel provides supply chain solutions to all of Motorolas business 1 units, the worlds number two handset provider, from 14 different locations around the world.
Managing 1.2m sq ft of storage space for Motorola, we move over 12m kgs of freight for the customer annually and are its largest global provider of external facilities.
Speaking volumes By using the very latest technology Solution Results we ensure the timely and safe Our response was to introduce our Perhaps the most durable benefit delivery of the right quantities of leading-edge track-and-trace tool, that Exel has provided to Motorola, Technology 2 handsets and other products to Supply Chain Integrator SCI, into by introducing more effective Partnering Motorolas customers around the almost all Motorola divisions, with management of customer orders Motorola globe.
With our help, they get what one of the early adopters being the and product supplies, is time.
around the world they want, when they want it, in Mobile Devices Business.
The strength of our relationship a dynamic market where products, and consistent quality of our 2 such as mobile phone handsets, SCI is a monitoring system that performance means that Motorola often have a very short shelf life.
gives real-time updates on product is able to give more time to its core movements.
By providing a dynamic business operations and strategic Challenge flow of information, it simplifies direction.
Our highly-experienced Motorola had been a customer of the management of complex and global team has shown leadership both NFC and Ocean Group prior rapidly-changing supply chains, by delivering business benefits to to the merger and creation of Exel in giving an instant and complete the customer.
2000, and wanted to experience the view of all stock and its status at benefits of integrated, global supply every stage of the supply chain, chain services without delay.
At this no matter where the location.
time Motorola began to extend its supply chain by moving the As the system flags up any problems manufacturing of its products out in the movement of products as of the US into new centres.
they occur, our teams are able to intervene immediately and maintain Motorola wanted to maintain control a continuous flow of products, of its largest international operation allowing Exel to deliver goods and also to improve product security to Motorolas customers and their globally, minimise service issues and plants when they are needed.
Motorola asked our GCD team for solutions By managing, planning and moving which would increase the visibility stock according to market demand, of its supply chain.
we have helped Motorola to improve order fulfilment, reduce waste and minimise related costs.
For more on the technology sector visit 1 Motorola is now the number two provider, based http: www.
com exel home industries technology upon the 3% share increase achieved during the Exel plc last quarter of 2004.
08 Annual Report 2004 Exel 001 031 Bk Prf 10 3 2005 3:18 pm Page 9 Around the world, we have helped Motorola ensure the timely and safe delivery of handsets.
01 Exel plc Annual Report 2004 09 Exel explained Exel 001 031 Bk Prf 10 3 2005 3:18 pm Page 10 From factory floor to shop door for House of Fraser Exels partnership with a leading retailer of designer brands in the UK began with a simple consultancy project in 2001 and grew rapidly, taking in new geographies.
Fashioning change We now provide an extensive range Solution Results of services around the world covering To improve the NDCs productivity and Exels solutions for House of Fraser House of Frasers entire supply chain.
efficiency, we introduced operations have moved the company further These include the management of management best practices for retailers.
towards its goal of ensuring that Retail many garment manufacturers in We also set up a performance the right goods are in the right Partnering House of Fraser in China, transporting products via our measurement system at manager place at the right time in every Europe and the global freight management network, and supervisor level to improve one of its stores.
Far East road transportation, centralised goods personal accountability and storage, supply chain technology trials ownership of the supply chain.
The NDC is much more efficient and local stockroom management under Exels management: close to city stores in the UK.
Our most recent innovation for costs reduced by 350,000 in the the House of Fraser is a groundfirst seven months of the contract The overall result is that the retailer breaking trial using a Radio in the second contract year, from can focus on day-to-day customer Frequency Identification RFID system February 2004 to January 2005, service, safe in the knowledge that that provides complete supply chain costs have been reduced by Exel is managing its global supply visibility.
Tags attached at source 1,240,000 chain backbone.
in China are read at each stage stock loss levels have improved of the journey right through to by 100% Challenge the store shelf to minimise the risk the rate of staff absenteeism In 2003, House of Fraser awarded of lost stock.
This technology is a has more than halved.
Exel a five-year contract to manage significant innovation in improving its UK National Distribution Centre retail operations and Exel will be Our activities have now grown NDC.
The retailer wanted new ideas monitoring its progress on behalf to such an extent that we continue on how it could achieve best value of the customer.
to support the evolving demands from the operation.
Specifically, of the customers global retail supply it wanted to raise service levels We also looked at ways of chain and engineer changes to while reducing costs.
motivating the NDCs staff by marry retail operations with the improving teamwork and morale.
customers emerging manufacturing House of Fraser chose Exel as its Simple devices such as shared bases around the world.
partner for our ability to: noticeboards removed barriers to provide best practice solutions and co-operation by giving Exel and end-to-end supply chain services House of Fraser staff access to the generate cost efficiencies.
We also made sure that all staff could benefit from We were so confident that we Campus, Exels online learning centre.
could achieve these goals that we agreed to make an element of our fee for managing the NDC performance-related.
For more on the retail sector visit http: www.
com exel home industries retail Exel plc 10 Annual Report 2004 Exel 001 031 Bk Prf 10 3 2005 3:18 pm Page 11 From China to the UK, we continue to help House of Fraser maintain a dominant position in the highly-competitive UK retail market via our global supply chain network.
01 Exel plc Annual Report 2004 11 Exel explained Exel 001 031 Bk Prf 10 3 2005 3:18 pm Page 12 Helping Johnson & Johnson Medical to leap the barriers to entry.
Since 1993, Exel has been helping Johnson & Johnson J&J, one of the worlds biggest manufacturers of healthcare products, to deliver its products to doctors, nurses, hospitals and laboratories around the world.
Rapid response What we do for J&J has increased Yet there was a further barrier We worked rapidly to establish in sophistication, from traditional to entry in the form of industry a national distribution centre in warehousing and distribution at regulation: healthcare companies Shanghai to receive some of J&Js the outset, to a wider, more strategic operate under intense scrutiny healthcare products from the US Healthcare role today.
Our management of to ensure the safe and compliant and Europe for onward distribution Supporting Johnson & J&Js stock levels, order fulfilment, handling of medical products.
to hospitals and other outlets.
Johnsons entry technology solutions and facilities This meant that J&Js logistics Throughout our operations, we adhere into China in countries around the world partner would need to be able to to the strictest healthcare regulations.
ensures that J&J can supply 90% demonstrate processes and systems For example, products for blood of its global customer base within of the highest quality to pass screening, testing, diagnosis and a 24-hour timeframe.
customer and regulatory audits sterilisation are kept under special and safeguard J&Js reputation.
conditions within a separate, Challenge  storage area.
The removal of restrictions on Solution international trade with China Exel was the perfect choice for J&J as: Results in 2004 presented J&J with a we were well established locally Our approach has laid a foundation huge new business opportunity.
and could support the size and and provides a showcase in China It calculated that the introduction scale of operation that J&J planned for J&J to extend its supply chain of branded J&J healthcare products we had earned its trust and could to launch new J&J-branded products into the local market could be extend the network of regional locally and widen its network in worth as much as 1bn in revenues.
suppliers that we had established Asia Pacific.
through our healthcare work J&J determined that the supply for the company in Australia, The foundations for these new chain would be critical to the success New Zealand and Thailand opportunities clearly lie within, and of this venture.
However, it needed our use of global best practices build on, the services we provide to act quickly to establish a market gave us significant advantages globally and our ability to develop footprint ahead of the competition.
over local competitors in working our solutions in tandem with our It recognised that it needed the across borders and meeting customers business.
support of a global company with international standards.
an established logistics presence to help it establish a new, low-cost supply chain base from which it could serve the local market.
For more on the healthcare sector visit http: www.
com exel home industries healthcare Exel plc 12 Annual Report 2004 Exel 001 031 Bk Prf 10 3 2005 3:18 pm Page 13 Exel has developed and grown its global relationship in around 10 countries with Johnson & Johnson, the worlds most comprehensive and broadly based manufacturer of healthcare products for the consumer, pharmaceutical, medical devices and diagnostics markets.
01 Exel plc Annual Report 2004 13 Exel explained
