Directors Report The directors present their report and the audited financial statements for the year ended 31 May 2004.
Principal activities The principal activities of the group are the design and manufacture of microwave products and compound semiconductors for wireless telecommunications systems and military applications.
Review of the business and state of the groups affairs The Chairmans Statement, the Operating Review and the Financial Review on pages 2 to 7 inclusive contain a review of the groups business.
The directors are satisfied with the state of affairs of the company and the group and believe it is well positioned to grow through opportunities offered by the worldwide wireless telecommunications and military markets.
Financial results and dividend The results for the year are set out in the profit and loss account on page 14.
The position at the end of the year is shown in the balance sheet on page 15.
Following an interim dividend of 0.90p 2003 0.90p per ordinary share, the directors are recommending payment of a final dividend of 1.80p 2003 1.80p, making a full year dividend of 2.70p 2003 2.70p per ordinary share.
Research and development Research and development costs amounted to 27.9m 2003 28.3m.
All such costs are written off to the profit and loss account as incurred.
Directors and their interests The directors of the company during the year were as follows: Professor J David Rhodes CBE FRS FREng BSc PhD DSc DEng Hon DSc Hon FIEE FIEEE Professor Christopher Snowden FREng BSc MSc PhD CEng FIEE FIEEE Alan Needle MBA Dr Christopher Mobbs BSc PhD MIEEE John Samuel BA FCA resigned 10 June 2004 Christopher Schoeld MA Cantab resigned 2 April 2004 Rhys Williams BSc Richard Blake FCA Professor Stephen Burbank BA JD Ian Hardington Graham Meek Details of their interests in the share capital of the company are set out in the remuneration report on pages 49 to 53.
Professor Stephen Burbank, Dr Christopher Mobbs, Alan Needle and Professor Christopher Snowden retire by rotation and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election at the annual general meeting.
An ordinary resolution to re-elect Professor John Roulston, who will be appointed on 6 September 2004, who retires in accordance with the companys Articles of Association, will also be proposed at the annual general meeting.
Filtronic plc Annual Report 2004 9 Directors Report Substantial shareholdings The following shareholders, other than the directors, have indicated a holding of 3% or more of the issued share capital as at 23 July 2004.
Number of % of issued 10p ordinary shares share capital Fidelity International Limited 10,900,366 14.6 Prudential plc 9,385,088 12.6 Deutsche Bank AG 8,330,073 11.2 Legal & General Investment Management Limited 2,956,443 4.0 Employees The Board is committed to ensuring the health and safety of the groups employees worldwide and applies high standards throughout the group in the control and management of its operations.
The group analyses its practices and processes using systematic health and safety management techniques and auditing regimes.
A group-wide health and safety audit showed a forty per cent reduction in reportable accidents in the year ended 31 May 2004 compared with the previous year.
The group is conscious of its obligations towards disabled persons and tries to ensure that they receive equal opportunities.
So far as particular disabilities permit, the group will continue to provide employment for any existing employee who becomes disabled.
The group will also provide relevant training, career development and promotion for disabled employees where this is appropriate.
The group operates internationally and its employment policies are designed to meet local regulations and requirements.
The group believes in keeping employees fully informed on matters which affect them through communication procedures including staff meetings, a group-wide newsletter and a culture which encourages openness and interaction between all members of staff.
Employee development has been established as one of the groups key objectives.
A training management system is currently being implemented globally thus underlying the groups commitment to on-going employee development and training.
Environmental, social and ethical policies Care for the environment is an integral part of the groups business activities worldwide.
It is the groups policy to ensure that its facilities throughout the world are safe and acceptable to the communities in which they operate.
The group is committed to ensure that their impact on the environment is minimised.
The group supports and trains its personnel to act responsibly in matters relating to the environment.
The group takes account of relevant legislation and regulations and analyses its practices, processes and products to reduce their environmental impact, and works with its customers and suppliers to achieve a high standard of product stewardship.
All of the groups major manufacturing sites have established environmental management systems and have achieved ISO14001 certication.
Wherever possible, components and materials are re-used or re-cycled.
The re-use and the utilisation and re-cycling of packaging is subject to monitoring.
The group continues to work with its customers to implement programmes to design products for disassembly and re-cycling, and in particular so as to ensure compliance with the European Union directive on waste electrical and electronic equipment and the European Union and Chinese initiatives in relation to the restriction of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment.
The group has introduced focused management teams throughout its business to ensure that compliance with these requirements is achieved within the required implementation timescales.
10 Filtronic plc Annual Report 2004 Directors Report Political and charitable contributions No contributions were made for political purposes.
The group donated 25,000 2003 24,000 to various charities.
Supplier payment policy It is the groups policy to abide by the terms of payment agreed with suppliers in respect of the goods and services properly invoiced to the group.
At 31 May 2004 trade creditors of 27.8m represented 64 days purchases, calculated in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act.
Special business at the annual general meeting Remuneration report Pursuant to the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 the Board proposes the remuneration report which is set out on pages 49 to 53, for approval resolution 9 in the notice of annual general meeting.
No entitlement of a director to remuneration is conditional on the resolution being passed but the result of the vote will be taken into account in considering the development and operation of the companys remuneration policy.
Authority to allot shares The Companies Act 1985 requires that the authority of the directors to allot relevant securities shall be subject to the approval of shareholders in general meeting or to an authority set out in the companys Articles of Association.
Accordingly, an ordinary resolution resolution 10 set out in the notice of annual general meeting will be proposed at the annual general meeting to renew the authority granted at the annual general meeting held on 26 September 2003 and thereby authorise the directors to allot unissued ordinary shares of the company up to a total nominal value of 2,488,219 representing one third of the nominal value of the companys issued share capital.
The Companies Act 1985 also requires that any equity shares issued wholly for cash must be offered to existing shareholders in proportion to their existing holdings.
This requirement was disapplied to a limited extent by a resolution passed at the annual general meeting held on 26 September 2003 and a special resolution resolution 11 set out in the notice of annual general meeting will be proposed at the annual general meeting to renew the directors authority to allot equity shares for cash other than on a pro rata basis.
This will be limited to equity shares having a nominal value of up to 373,232 representing 5% of the issued share capital of the company.
This authority will terminate no later than fifteen months after the passing of the special resolution.
Auditors A resolution to re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors will be proposed at the annual general meeting.
Company secretary On 2 April 2004 C E Schoeld resigned as company secretary and M Moynihan was appointed as company secretary.
By order of the Board M Moynihan Company Secretary 2 August 2004 Filtronic plc Annual Report 2004 11
