Martin Gilbert LLD MA LLB CA 4.
David Dunn CA 4,5 Chairman Commercial Director Senior Independent Non-Executive Director 1,3 1,2, 3 Chairman of the Nomination Committee Chairman of the Audit Committee Appointed to the Board as Commercial Director A Chartered Accountant and a qualified lawyer he in February 2004 and will take on responsibility for Appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Director is one of the founding directors and Chief Executive finance from the end of May 2004. in December 1999.
He is a Chartered Accountant of Aberdeen Asset Management PLC.
He was He joined the Group in 1999 as Commercial and is Non-Executive Chairman of Brammer plc.
appointed to the Board of FirstGroup plc in 1995.
Director Rail Division and was subsequently He is also a Non-Executive Director of Croda He is Chairman of Chaucer Holdings PLC and a appointed Managing Director of the Rail Division International plc and SMG plc.
Age 59. director of a number of investment trusts.
He qualified as a Chartered a non-executive director of Lombard International Accountant with KPMG where he worked for 8.
James Forbes CBE MSc BSc CEng MIEE Assurance SA and Primary Health Properties PLC.
12 years specialising in Corporate Transaction Non-Executive Director 1,2, 3 Age 48.
Support Services including working for the Office Chairman of the Remuneration Committee of Passenger Rail Franchising on the privatisation Appointed to the Board in April 2000, he is the 2.
Moir Lockhead OBE of train operating companies.
Age 37. former Chief Executive of Scottish and Southern Deputy Chairman and Chief Executive Energy plc.
His career began with the South of 3,4, 5 Chairman of the Safety Committee 5.
David Leeder BSc FILT Scotland Electricity Board and he has since held 4,5 Director UK Bus Chief Executive and Deputy Chairman since the various senior posts in the electricity industry.
Originally a mechanical Appointed to the Board on 1 May 2004.
He joined engineer he joined Grampian Regional Transport in 9.
John Sievwright MA CA the Group in 2001 as Managing Director UK Bus.
1,2, 3 1985 as General Manager and went on to lead the Non-Executive Director He has held various senior posts in the transport successful employee buy-out of GRT Bus Group industry including senior management roles at West Appointed to the Board in May 2002.
In 1996 he was awarded the OBE for services Midlands Travel and subsequently Chief Executive of Managing Director and Chief Operating Officer of to the bus industry and he is a past President of the National Express bus division.
He is a Fellow of the Global Markets and Investment Banking for Merrill Confederation of Passenger Transport.
Institute of Logistics and Transport and a past Lynch & Co. A Chartered Accountant, he has held President of the Confederation of Passenger various senior management positions in banking in 3.
Iain M Lanaghan MA CA Transport.
London, New York, Dublin and Japan.
He is a 4,5 Finance Director member of the North American Board of the 6.
Mike Mitchell MA MBA PhD MCIT MILT Appointed to the Board in 2000 as Finance Director.
Michael Smurfit Business School, Dublin.
4,5 Business Change Director He joined from Atlantic Power Group in Aberdeen where he was Finance Director.
Martyn Williams Business Change Director with UK responsibilities Finance Director of PowerGen International.
He is a Non-Executive Employee Director for Change Management, Property and Chartered Accountant, having qualified with KPMG Environment.
He began his career as a graduate Appointed to the board as Employee Director in in London and Europe.
Age 48. trainee with British Rail in 1970, subsequently January 2003.
He is employed as a customer holding management roles in both bus and rail services supervisor in Swansea and has worked operations.
He was formerly Chief Operating Officer for the Group for 26 years.
Age 49. with responsibility for all UK Bus and Rail operations, having joined the Board as Director B Louise Ruppel LLB of UK Rail in November 1999.
Company Secretary 1 Member of the Audit Committee 2 Member of the Remuneration Committee 3 Member of the Nomination Committee 4 Member of the Safety Committee 5 Member of the Executive Committee
