FKI Logistex FKI Logistex is a major global supplier of automated material handling systems with a market leading range of products and services.
The turnover of FKI Logistex in the year was 372.7 million compared with 437.2 million last year.
Order intake amounted to 352.4 million resulting in a closing order book of 194.6 million 2003: 231.7 million.
Underlying operating profit of 9.0 million 2003: 15.9 million represented a margin of 2.4% compared with 3.6% last year.
The reduction in reported turnover was due to an 11% 48.2 million reduction in trading together with a 16.3m adverse currency translation effect.
The fall in the underlying operating profit is explained by 4.0 million in respect of trading, a 2.3 million adverse currency translation effect and 0.6 million increase in the level of redundancy and other restructuring costs.
The trading impact was less than might be expected from the reduction in turnover as margin loss was offset by overhead cost savings.
Results for the year reflect the depressed market conditions for automated material handling systems in North America and Europe.
The generally anticipated recovery in demand during the second half of the year did not materialise and, 1 consequently, management took further actions to reduce costs and headcount, whilst sustaining the businesss market leading positions.
During the year the number of employees was reduced by a further 333 10% and these redundancies and other restructuring costs resulted in a 1.7 million 2003: 1.1 million charge to operating profit.
In addition, the small CMP business in Mansfield, Ohio, which produced material handling equipment for the tyre manufacturing industry and last year had a turnover of 2.1 million, was closed.
In North America, the warehouse and distribution sector showed no improvement in demand during the year.
However, Logistex has maintained market share in the US and continued to be successful in supplying blue chip customers such as Target, Wal-Mart, Michaels, QVC, Gordon Foods and DollarTree.
In the manufacturing sector, demand for high and low speed palletisers was adversely effected by the consolidation of Logistexs customer base and the generally low level of factory utilisation by US manufacturers.
2 US Government legislation requiring all hold baggage to be screened was expected to ensure good growth in the North American airport baggage handling market but this growth did not materialise due to delays in the allocation of funds from the Transportation Security Administration to the various airport operators.
The total market size was only 25% of that projected twelve months ago and this reduction has led to significant pricing pressure.
However, Logistex had some notable successes during the year including contract awards for Tampa and Las Vegas airports.
08 FKI plc Annual report 2004 1 2 3 In Europe and the rest of the world, the warehouse and Alvey high-speed Crisplant RFID tag in use distribution sector and manufacturing sector continued robotic palletizer cross-belt sorter at Jacksonville at a Pepsi in operation at International at a low level of activity, especially in Germany and France.
The UK and Benelux markets were stronger and Logistex Post Letter Centre in Vienna.
captured a good share of the available market including orders from Coca-Cola, Asfordby Storage, Footlocker and Europackaging.
The airport baggage handling market outside North America was very quiet as a result of the combined impact of the economic downturn, terrorism and the SARS outbreak.
There was little activity in the European and Far Eastern markets and some customers requested delays on existing projects, such as Singapores Changi International Airport, due to reduced passenger numbers.
However, the outlook for this sector is more promising with contracts for a number of projects in Europe and the Far East likely to be placed over the next twelve months.
Logistex is keen to increase its share of the service and maintenance market for installed systems and during the year was awarded a five-year service contract for Munich Airport Terminal 2.
Logistex had good successes in the European postal markets, with significant orders from national postal operations including Swedish Post, Danish Post and La Poste in France.
Despite the difficult market conditions, Logistex continued to invest in product development and applications for new technologies.
In particular, Logistex commissioned the first airport baggage system in the world to use UHF radio frequency identification RFID technology for the identification and tracking of passengers luggage through an airport baggage handling system at Jacksonville International Airport.
It continues to be difficult to predict the speed at which the markets that Logistex addresses will recover but there has been an improvement in the number of enquiries in recent months in the North American warehouse and distribution market and in the airport baggage handling market in North America, Europe and the Far East.
Management is confident that the investment in market leading product solutions and customer services leaves the group well placed to benefit when market conditions improve.
3 09 FKI plc Annual report 2004 FKI Logistex
