Hardware The Hardware group maintains leading market positions in many of the markets that it serves.
Delivery, quality, and customer Turnover in Hardware during the year amounted to service are core values, 221.8 million 2003: 254.3 million with underlying operating profit of 36.2 million 2003 restated: supplemented by engineering 41.5 million.
The turnover drop was due to the impact of a 5.3% 13.5 million downturn in trading together solutions that respond to with an adverse 19.0 million currency translation effect.
Underlying operating profit declined by 0.8 million in the voice of the customer respect of trading and 4.5 million due to adverse currency translation effect.
The overall operating margin of Hardware and provide a distinct edge remained at 16.3%.
Last year proved to be one of the most difficult years for a in the marketplace.
Some businesses performed well and others performed poorly reflecting the underlying markets in North America where the group has the vast majority of its business.
The furniture hardware, castor, ergonomic and office furniture markets continued to experience weak demand and certain markets experienced further erosion as customers transferred manufacturing to the Far East.
Housing starts in North America were estimated to have totalled about 1.85 million in the year to 31 December 2003, the highest level for ten years.
With its strong position in the window hardware market, Truth Hardware had an excellent year, helped by the fact that the housing market has remained strong into the 2004 build season.
Products launched in the last four years now account for a significant proportion of turnover in the US and Canada.
Truths quality reputation, customer focus and on-time delivery performance continue to be key factors contributing to its success.
Wright Products sells door hardware and it has improved its sales to original equipment manufacturers although other sales were adversely effected by a slowdown in custom made products.
1 2 12 FKI plc Annual report 2004 1 2 3 In the retail hardware market which is dominated by Big Box New Spring Action Popular new Truth's New retailers such as Home Depot and Lowes, Belwith secured a Shock Absorbing design of Positive Action Caster Faultless decorative Lock PAL significant three-year contract to supply decorative hardware six-inch cabinet hardware provides the to one of the largest privately owned retailers in the US.
"industrial spring sold to big box"" automatic action caster retailers by locking when the Belwith has made improvements to its automated distribution which has a much Belwith."
sash is closed broader and a visible centre and is well positioned to serve these and other big operating load indication of customers.
As with window hardware, the Canadian market range and security.
It also absorbs jolts opens with just was strong and the groups Canadian operations did well.
The Keeler manufacturing facilities are being reorganised caused by movement over to improve production efficiency and facilitate outsourcing.
Hardwares competitive position has been strengthened during the year as a result of the significant reductions to its cost base including reducing headcount by 379 or 14%, improved customer focus and the strategic use of outsourcing manufacturing domestically and internationally.
The move to outsourcing has lowered the amount of capital investment required to move the business forward and this has contributed to an excellent operating cash flow.
3 13 FKI plc Annual report 2004 Hardware
