Directors report The directors submit their report and the audited financial Employment policies statements of FKI plc for the year ended 31 March 2004.
Companies within the Group have developed a wide range of Principal activities voluntary practices and procedures for employee involvement appropriate to their own circumstances and needs.
The Group The principal activities and the development of the Group encourages this approach to providing information and are given in the Chairmans statement, the Chief Executives consultation and believes that this promotes a better review and the Operating review on pages 2 to 15.
The financial understanding of the issues facing the individual business in statements for the year ended 31 March 2004, including other which the employee works.
It is the policy of the Group to information about the Groups financial position, are set out give full and fair consideration to applications made by disabled on pages 43 to 74 persons for job vacancies, where particular job requirements Dividends are within their ability and, where possible, arrangements are made for the continuing employment of employees who have The directors recommend a final dividend on ordinary shares become disabled.
in respect of the year ended 31 March 2004 of 3.0p per share, payable on 29 October 2004 to shareholders on the register Further details of employment and health and safety policies on 1 October 2004, which with the interim dividend paid are included in the Corporate and social responsibility review on 27 February 2004 results in a total cost of 26.1 million.
Directors Environmental policy The names of the directors as at the date of this report are listed The Group is committed to adopting a responsible approach on page 28, together with brief biographical notes.
The Groups overall policy forms Matthews was appointed to the Board on 11 September 2003, the basis of detailed guidelines that are appropriate to the Mr J S Rodewig retired from the Board on 13 November 2003, individual businesses.
Mr N Bamford was appointed to the Board on 1 April 2004 Management seeks to minimise any adverse impact on the and Mr S D Jones left the Board on 1 April 2004. environment of all aspects of the Groups operations by means At the forthcoming annual general meeting and in accordance of environmentally sound disciplines, which take practical with the Companys Articles of Association, Mr C Matthews and steps to control effectively or eliminate any known pollution Mr N Bamford, having been appointed since the last annual risks.
Specifically, capital expenditure is directed towards the general meeting and, being eligible, offer themselves for replacement of hazardous materials with environmentally re-election.
Sir Michael Hodgkinson and Mr R L Gott retire by friendly alternatives and methods of minimising the costs rotation and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
of disposal of toxic waste, the recycling of wood, the reuse of cardboard and paper products, and the reduction of No contract or arrangement has been entered into at any time energy consumption.
during the year in which any director had a material interest which was significant in relation to the Groups business.
Further details of the Groups environmental policies are included in the Corporate and social responsibility review Directors interests on pages 19 to 21.
The interests of the directors including their family interests Payments to suppliers all of which are beneficial, in the share capital, share options and the Long-Term Incentive Plan of the Company appear in Operating businesses are responsible for agreeing the terms the Remuneration report on pages 40 and 41. and conditions of their transactions with suppliers.
Political and charitable donations Payment is made on those terms subject to the terms and conditions being met by the supplier.
FKI plc, as a holding During the year ended 31 March 2004 the Group contributed Company, did not have any amounts owing to trade creditors 0.1 million 2003: 0.1 million for charitable purposes.
There were no political donations during the year 2003: nil.
Share capital Research and development Details pertaining to the Companys share capital is included Product development and innovation is a continuing process.
in note 27 to the financial statements.
The Groups businesses commit resources to research and development to assist them in securing their competitive positions in their chosen markets.
31 FKI plc Annual report 2004 Significant shareholdings Directors responsibilities As at 8 June 2004, the following major interests of 3% or Company law requires the directors to prepare financial more in the ordinary shares in issue had been notified to statements for each financial year which give a true and fair the Company by: view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing Number of Holding those financial statements, the directors are required to: ordinary shares % Janus Capital Management LLC 47,943,237 8.24 select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: Legal & General Investment Management Limited 21,348,055 3.67 make judgements and estimates that are reasonable Scottish Widows Investment and prudent: Partnership Ltd 18,953,901 3.25 state whether applicable accounting standards have been Nordea S. A. Luxembourg 18,169,400 3.12 followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and Corporate governance prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis A review of the Companys application of the principles unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will and provisions of The Combined Code appears on page 29. continue in business.
Auditors The directors are also responsible for maintaining proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy Ernst & Young LLP were appointed as the Groups auditors at at any time the financial position of the Company and Group, the annual general meeting on 23 July 2003.
A resolution to and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply reappoint Ernst & Young LLP as the Groups auditors will be with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for proposed at the annual general meeting.
safeguarding the assets of the Company and Group and for Annual general meeting taking reasonable steps to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
The annual general meeting of the Company will be held at 12 noon on 21 July 2004 at Savoy Place, London WC2R 0BL.
Going concern A notice of meeting appears in the enclosed circular and for After making appropriate enquiries, the directors are confident those members wishing to attend a location map has been that the Company has adequate resources to continue in included within the circular.
operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, The Special Business to be considered at the meeting relates to the directors adopt the going concern basis in the preparation the following matters: of the Groups financial statements.
Description Resolution number By order of the Board General authority to allot equity securities 10 Michael Porter Secretary Limited authority to allot equity securities for cash excluding pre-emption rights 11 8 June 2004 Authority to purchase shares 12 Amendment to Articles of Association 13 32 FKI plc Annual report 2004 Directors report
