Energy Technology Turnover in Energy Technology for ongoing operations The outlook for the major was almost the same as last year at 327.4 million 2003: 328.5 million but underlying operating profit companies in Energy declined to 19.1 million 2003 restated: 21.8 million.
Order intake during the year amounted to 328.8 million Technology is more positive leaving a closing order book of 218.6 million 2003: 222.4 million.
The marginal turnover reduction than at this time last year.
resulted from a 1.8% 5.8 million trading downturn offset by 4.7 million favourable exchange translation Export markets, particularly mainly due to the strengthening euro.
Underlying profit declined by 3.0 million, despite a trading improvement China, South America, Asia in Turbogenerators, and was partially offset by favourable 0.3 million currency translation.
Pacific and North America, The markets for Energy Technology products and services generally remained difficult during the year and the results represent improving were significantly impacted by continued losses at DeWind and worsening performance in businesses now scheduled opportunities for the group.
However, improved trading performance was seen at Turbogenerators, FKI Switchgear and Bristol Babcock Measurement and Control.
Order intake for Brush turbogenerators was well ahead of last year reflecting solid demand for oil and gas extraction and distribution applications and recovering demand for power generation applications in the USA and the Middle East.
The co-operation agreement signed with Voith Siemens in 2003 resulted in increased hydro-generation opportunities and this, combined with increased large turbogenerator demand, improved activity levels at the factory in the Czech Republic from where the first of two hydrogen cooled 500MW turbogenerators was delivered to China.
Brush further strengthened and consolidated its relationship with GE Power Systems by securing the generator supply agreement for GEs new LMS 100 gas turbine, winning its first turbogenerator orders for GE frame 9 and 6B turbines and the signing of a co-operation agreement for the joint servicing of GE-Brush gas turbine power plants in North America.
Continued attention to operational efficiency and cost reduction combined with the increase in second half activity levels enabled Brush to return to profitability after last years break-even performance.
DeWind experienced mixed fortunes but ended the year in considerably better shape than it began.
A programme to rectify technical issues which came to light since acquisition delivered impressive improvements in turbine availability and performance during the second half year, resulting in a substantial recovery in relationships with customers.
Unfortunately whilst these pre-acquisition field problems were being resolved DeWind suffered delays in taking orders for several months which reduced sales and increased losses 1 to 6.3m in the year.
Despite this setback, DeWind delivered its largest ever project, consisting of 30 wind turbines, in December 2003 to Austrian utility BEWAG and a 12 turbine project to Ecopower in Japan.
The all important German wind market experienced its first decline in demand in 2003 and this also impacted DeWinds order intake.
14 FKI plc Annual report 2004 1 2 3 However, good export opportunities were created and DeWind MS ZUIDERDAM, Rotor insertion One of two one of Holland for testing of the Frame 6B gas became the third largest supplier in Austria and the fifth largest America Line's 500 MW Unit 3 turbine driven in Japan, these being the fourth and sixth largest markets in the latest cruise turbogenerator generators ships built by for Shen Tou supplied to world for wind power in 2003.
DeWind finished the year well Fincantieri power station, GE Oil & Gas positioned to win a number of large contracts in the growing of Italy, China.
for Oman LNG's incorporating Qalhat LNG plant.
international wind markets and some attractive framework a 15 MW DAX The generator and turbogenerator.. the load gearbox supply agreements.
Planning hurdles make the UK market have been difficult but some significant orders are expected in 2004 05. mounted on a single skid to meet the Bristol Babcock increased sales of measurement and control customer's equipment in the year by 9% and underlying profit by 55% packaging requirements.
following the restructuring of the customer facing activities of the business, a focus upon higher margin product sales, and a review of manufacturing operations resulting in a further 8% reduction in headcount.
The new Control Wave product range was well received by the market and the Company is in discussions with several end users and original equipment manufacturers to establish Control Wave as their house standard specification for Remote Terminal Unit applications.
Good progress was made in developing overseas opportunities particularly in Russia, China, Saudi Arabia and Romania.
Progress has also been made in penetrating the UK utility markets, although larger project orders remain subject to customer deferrals.
FKI Switchgear marginally increased sales but increased orders by 42% following a focus on developing export opportunities, particularly in China and South America, and a general improvement in UK demand.
New orders for distribution and protection switchgear were received from China and collaborative relationships have been developed 2 which should also provide new opportunities next year.
Manufacturing improvements and continued focus on international component outsourcing contributed to enhanced profitability and a further 5% reduction in headcount.
Product development remains key to the growth of Energy Technology and a number of notable successes were achieved in the year.
The market leading Brush air-cooled turbogenerator technology has been re-engineered for a new application as a high-speed drive for gas pipeline compressor stations.
As gas continues its rapid development as the fuel of choice for power generation and the exploitation of the worlds gas resources develops, the demand for large-scale pipelines with intermediate compression boost stations is expected to grow.
Brush has signed a three-year collaboration agreement with ABB for this application securing its first order for three 25MW drives for a Shell gas project.
The outlook for the major companies in Energy Technology is more positive than at this time last year.
Export markets, particularly China, South America, Asia Pacific and North 3 America, represent improving opportunities for the group.
The smaller companies face more restricted markets and opportunities but their competitive positions should be improved during the coming year through the various restructuring, investment and product development programmes undertaken.
15 FKI plc Annual report 2004 Energy Technology
