Lifting Products and Services Turnover in Lifting Products and Services was The groups operations 398.1 million 2003: 388.9 million and underlying operating profit amounted to 35.4 million continued to lead the way in 2003 restated: 32.4 million.
The turnover increase was due to a 4.7% 18.3 million improvement in the development of innovative underlying trading offset by a 9.1 million adverse currency translation impact.
Underlying operating profit products in liaison with some increased by 4.0 million and was partially offset by 1.0 million adverse currency translation.
of the worlds leading original Lifting Products and Services produced another year of excellent operating cash flow, which amounted to 157% equipment manufacturers.
of underlying operating profit, largely as a result of the continuing focus on reducing working capital.
Across the group, sales volumes increased modestly as economic conditions improved in some of the markets served by Lifting Products and Services.
Following the conclusion of the strategic review, two operations in the Lifting Products and Services group the Bridon wire rope group and the Crosby wire rope fittings businesses were identified as two of the major businesses on which FKI would concentrate its development resources.
Bridon and Crosby operate in mature, relatively stable markets and their powerful brands should enable them to continue to flourish and provide the group with a good profitable cash generative base.
1 10 FKI plc Annual report 2004 1 2 3 The Bridon wire and wire rope group, which has An Ore Unloader A Global Santa Fe Bridon ropes manufacturing operations in the US, UK, Germany, Indonesia in operation in Semi Submersible were used to Richards Bay exploration rig in support the and New Zealand and service led operations in many countries, South Africa operation in the suspended roof had another encouraging year.
Order intake remained stable using Bridon Blue Gulf of Mexico on the Incheon Strand High using Bridon Stadium, South and major contract successes included the supply of wire rope Performance Diamond Blue Korea built for crane ropes.
the Soccer World for Heathrow Terminal 5 and stadia in both Hannover and Cup competition.
Frankfurt which are being built for the 2006 World Cup.
The group has continued to develop the Equatorial Guinea service centre to support the expanding offshore oil industry in West Africa and further expansion in Africa is targeted in 2004 05.
In the UK, the closure of operations at Retford, Nottinghamshire, marked the exit from production of a number of commodity rope products.
The production of a small number of specialist items has been transferred from Retford to other UK sites in Doncaster and Newcastle.
The Crosby wire rope fittings businesses had a stable year although demand in North America remained weak in the wake of continuing restrictions in capital expenditure.
To stimulate demand, new products were introduced throughout the year and comprehensive plans have been developed to exploit new markets in South America and Europe.
2 3 11 FKI plc Annual report 2004 Lifting Products and Services
