3 2 To provide high levels of handling and logistics related services to customers who are looking for solutions to move goods cost effectively and efficiently.
1 To strive for high levels of professionalism in ship handling, pilotage, navigation and towage: to assist customers to use the Forth and Tay Estuaries effectively for commercial purposes and to ensure that the overall balance between commerce and the environment is maintained.
To carry out the long-term development and regeneration of waterfront sites within its ownership to promote a series of integrated communities.
Litke Bay, St. Petersburg Russia Forth Ports acquisition of Tilbury in 1995 took 3.
Helsinki & Kotka Finland the company outside its Scottish base and The investment in these three ports is an transformed it in a single stroke into one of excellent opportunity to join together with an the powerhouses of the British port industry.
existing container customer to provide a quality container terminal service in the Baltic.
This trading area is familiar to us, meets our return on investment criteria and offers attractive growth prospects.
Grangemouth Leith is the largest enclosed deepwater Grangemouth is the main port of Scotland.
port in Scotland and has the capability to Each year approximately 9 million tonnes of handle handymax ships up to 50,000 DWT.
cargo are handled through the dock facilities.
The port offers a full stevedoring and cargo handling service.
Rosyth and Fife Ports The Port of Dundee is located on the north side The Port of Rosyth opened for business in 1998 of the river Tay estuary on the East Coast of and offers tremendous potential for businesses Scotland.
Dundee is an all weather, all year port that require a riverside location for the import of which provides facilities 24 hours a day.
raw materials and the export of finished goods.
Dundee Forth Ports has already initiated the The redevelopment of the Victoria and regeneration of Leiths waterfront with Camperdown dock area is progressing imaginative redevelopments.
Local businesses and a number of prospective projects are have responded and there is now a thriving also under discussion.
community of restaurants, cafs, public houses, offices, flats and apartments.
