Furthermore the Group seeks to encourage both the involvement of Charitable and political donations employees in its performance and a common awareness on the part of Charitable donations of 28,750 2003: 750 were made during the all employees of factors affecting its performance.
No political donations were made in either 2004 or 2003. equal opportunities to all employees and prospective employees including those who are disabled.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting will be held at 11.00 am on 5 May 2004 Fixed assets and a notice of meeting is attached to this report which sets out details The changes in intangible and tangible fixed assets during the year are set of the business to be conducted.
Two items of special business will be out in Notes 11 and 12 to the accounts.
The Directors consider that the considered: the first proposes a special resolution to authorise the market value of the Groups leasehold property portfolio exceeds its Directors to allot unissued shares in the Company: the second proposes carrying value in the accounts.
However, a valuation has not been carried a special resolution to authorise Directors to allot shares as if the preout and the extent of potential surplus has not been quantified.
emption provisions of the Companies Act did not apply provided that the allotment is in connection with a rights issue or is not more than 5% Joint ventures of the issued share capital.
During the year the Group entered into two 50:50 joint venture arrangements to operate retail stores in Japan and Hong Kong Further details are given in the notice of meeting.
The Board does not respectively.
Both joint ventures are managed by committees currently have any plans to utilise either of these powers but consider comprising equal representation from the joint venture parties.
The that they provide appropriate flexibility for management of the business.
results of the joint venture businesses are included in these accounts Both powers expire at the next Annual General Meeting.
from the dates of their inception representing a period of six months for the Japan business and four months for the Hong Kong business.
Auditors In accordance with section 384 of the Companies Act 1985 a resolution to International Financial Reporting Standards re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors to the Company will be proposed at In line with all other UK listed companies, the Group will require to adopt the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
International Financial Reporting Standards with effect from its report and accounts for the year ending 31 January 2006.
An assessment is By order of the Board being made of the changes required and to gather the necessary data.
Roy Naismith Company Secretary 8 March 2004 directors Stephen Marks Chairman and Chief Executive Stephen aged 57 founded the business in 1969 and has managed the Groups development since then in the position of Chairman and Chief Executive.
Finance Director Roy aged 42 joined the Group in January 2001 as Finance Director.
He was previously Finance Director at Starbucks Coffee Company and Group Head of Finance and Company Secretary at Capital Radio PLC.
Operations Director Neil aged 39 joined the Group from KPMG in 1992 and was appointed to the Board in May 1994.
David Rockberger Non-executive Director David aged 57 is a Solicitor and joined the Board in June 2001.
He is the Director of Legal and Business Affairs at The Music Sales Group, a leading international music publisher.
