qxp 31 3 05 10:00 pm Page 15 Alfred McAlpine plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2004 Group chief executives operating and financial review | continued 15 Outlook Our businesses have strong positions in large and growing markets.
We believe we have positioned our business in services and markets We are well placed to benefit from the structural shift toward which will enable us to deliver sustained growth and longer-term outsourcing and the continuing investment in the UKs infrastructure.
earnings and we believe that we are no longer exposed to specific risks beyond the normal, generic risks faced by any organisation in Our focus on outsourcing is providing the platform for continued growth, our sector.
and the generation of visible, longer-term, lower-risk earning streams.
This gives us great optimism about the future of Alfred McAlpine The growth in outsourcing is driven by the widely held corporate and our ability to deliver sustained growth in shareholder value.
philosophy that organisations should focus on their core activities and either exit or outsource non-core activities.
This philosophy is now deep rooted and we believe that it will continue to provide significant market opportunities for our business in the coming years.
As we have re-shaped our business, we have reduced our involvement Ian Grice Group Chief Executive in higher-risk construction contracts which represent a significant portion of the exceptional charges we are carrying this year.
Construction is now a much smaller percentage of our overall business, and within these operations we are increasingly focused on new, lowerrisk forms of contract.
We will continue to concentrate on providing services related to the built environment.
This is our heartland and we will not stray from it.
We understand buildings and infrastructure and we have a thorough knowledge of the businesses we are involved in.
Within our clear strategic focus on the built environment, we operate in a sufficiently broad range of services and markets to provide protection against adverse conditions in any one sector.
This has been demonstrated clearly over the last year when, despite challenging conditions in one of our principal businesses, we were still able to deliver growth as a Group.
We operate in stable markets and are not exposed to technology risks.
Our business infrastructure continues to be developed to allow us to manage our planned growth and our employees tell us that their levels of satisfaction and commitment are well ahead of UK norms.
qxp 13 4 05 1:44 pm Page 16 Alfred McAlpine plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2004 16 Directors and advisors Directors and advisors Ian Grice | Group chief executive Oliver Whitehead CBE | Non-executive chairman Appointed to the Board in September 1995 and became group chief executive Appointed to the Board as group chief executive in May 1993 and became in August 2003.
A chartered engineer who was previously a director with John chairman in May 2002.
Between March 2004 and February 2005 he was Mowlem plc where he worked for 17 years after starting his career with Laing non-executive chairman of ITNET plc.
Formerly group chief executive of Babcock and Kier.
Age 51. International plc, he was prior to that a director of AMEC plc.
From 1963 to 1986 he held various positions in John Laing plc, including that of executive Dominic Lavelle | Group finance director director.
A civil engineering graduate who qualified as a chartered accountant with Arthur Andersen in 1989.
Formerly finance Christopher Collins | Senior independent non-executive director director of Allders plc and finance director and company secretary of Oasis Appointed in September 2000.
A chartered accountant who joined Hanson plc Stores plc, having held senior roles in other public companies.
Age 42. in 1989, was director of corporate development from 1991 to 1995 and chairman from 1998 to 2005.
Also a non-executive director of Old Mutual plc, Matt Swan | Managing director Capital Projects The Go-Ahead Group plc and chairman of Forth Ports plc.
Joined the company in May 2002 and appointed to the Board in August 2002.
Formerly managing director of Alfred McAlpine Homes East Midlands, prior to Robert Hough DL | Non-executive director which he held senior positions at The Berkeley Group plc and Crest Nicholson Appointed in March 2003.
Qualified as a solicitor, and for 15 years a partner plc.
Age 41. specialising in corporate law in a major firm of Manchester solicitors, prior to being appointed as executive deputy chairman of Peel Holdings plc from 1989 to Craig McGilvray | Managing director Business Services 2002.
He is currently non-executive deputy chairman of Peel Holdings Limited Appointed to the Board in March 2005.
A languages graduate and chartered and chairman of Peel Airports Limited, non-executive deputy chairman of QA plc, accountant.
Formerly treasury manager at First Engineering, Craig joined Stiell and a non-executive director of Shiloh plc and the Cheshire Building Society, and Limited in 1996 and became finance director in 1997.
Following the Groups chairman of New East Manchester Limited.
Age 59. acquisition of Stiell in 2002, Craig became finance director of Alfred McAlpine Business Services, and then managing director of its corporate business unit.
Philip Swatman | Non-executive director He was appointed managing director of Alfred McAlpine Business Services in Appointed in March 2003.
A chartered accountant, who trained with KPMG and March 2005.
Age 38. worked for the National Enterprise Board before joining N M Rothschild & Sons Limited in 1979, where he became a director in 1986.
After a short spell as director and head of corporate development at Chase Property Holdings plc, he returned to Rothschilds, became a managing director in 1996 and subsequently became co-head of Investment Banking.
He is currently vice chairman, Investment Banking with N M Rothschild & Sons Limited.
Registered and Group head office Auditors  LLP, Board Committees Kinnaird House, 1 Pall Mall East, 1 Embankment Place, London WC2N 6RH London SW1Y 5AZ Audit Committee Nomination Committee Stockbrokers and Financial Advisors Mr P H Swatman chairman Mr G O Whitehead chairman Company registration number 1367044 Cazenove & Co. Ltd Mr C D Collins Mr C D Collins Mr R E Hough Mr I M Grice Website www.
com Bankers Mr R E Hough HSBC Bank plc Remuneration Committee Mr P H Swatman Lloyds TSB Bank plc Mr C D Collins chairman The Royal Bank of Scotland plc Mr R E Hough Allied Irish Bank plc Mr P H Swatman Clydesdale Bank plc Principal solicitors Ashurst Mr R E Hough will chair the Remuneration Committee from 1 May 2005. pp17-pp26.
qxp 31 3 05 9:02 pm Page 17 Alfred McAlpine plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2004 Report of the directors 17 Report of the directors The directors present their Annual Report and the audited accounts for the year ended 31 December 2004.
Principal Activities The Group provides business services, infrastructure services and project services, principally in the UK.
The operations of the Group are reviewed on pages 6 to 15 of this report.
Profits and Dividends The Group profit for the year attributable to shareholders amounted to 3.5m 2003: 22.8m after tax, exceptional charges and goodwill.
The directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 7.15p per ordinary share which, together with the interim dividend of 4.95p already paid, makes a total of 12.1p per ordinary share for the financial year.
If approved at the Annual General Meeting AGM to be held on 9 June 2005, the final dividend will be paid on 17 June 2005 to those shareholders on the register at close of business on 27 May 2005.
After provision for these ordinary dividends and dividends of 0.4m paid to preference shareholders, the loss of 8.7m 2003: 11.5m profit has been transferred from reserves.
Post Balance Sheet Event On 26 January 2005, the Group disposed of its shareholding in Mercia Healthcare Holdings Limited, together with its non-equity interest in Mercia Healthcare Limited, for a consideration of 5.6m.
Further details of this transaction are set out in note 29 on page 51.
Substantial Interests At 23 March 2005, the following interests in 3% or more of the Companys ordinary share capital had been notified to the Company: Number of shares Percentage held % Aegon UK 5,079,307 5.07 Legal & General Group plc 5,030,159 5.02 Fidelity International Limited 3,888,551 3.88 Aviva plc 3,825,047 3.82 Directors Present members of the Board are shown on page 16.
Mr P V Carolan was appointed on 11 March 2004 and resigned on 31 December 2004.
Mr C M McGilvray was appointed on 17 March 2005.
All other directors served throughout the year.
Article 73 of the Companys articles of association requires each director to retire from office at the third AGM after the AGM at which he was last elected.
With the exception of Mr C M McGilvray, the current directors were re-elected or re-appointed at either the 2003 AGM or the 2004 AGM.
Mr McGilvray, having been appointed by the Board on 17 March 2005, offers himself for re-appointment.
Details of Mr McGilvrays service contract appear in the remuneration report on page 21.
None of the directors had a beneficial interest in any contract or arrangement of significance to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries was a party during the year.
Details of the directors interests in shares in the Company appear in the remuneration report on pages 21 to 23.
The Group maintains directors and officers liability insurance.
Related Party Transactions Details of transactions with related parties undertaken by the Group during the year are disclosed in note 28 on page 51.
Employees It is the Groups policy to communicate with and involve employees on matters affecting their interests at work, and inform them of the performance of the business.
It is also Group policy to treat all employees and potential employees equally and to give full consideration to suitable applications for employment from disabled persons, where they have the necessary abilities and skills for the position, and wherever possible to re-train employees who become disabled, so that they can continue their employment in another position.
The Company operates an all-employee savings-related share option scheme, the principal aim of which is to encourage eligible employees to purchase shares in the Company.
At 31 December 2004 there were 1,495 2003: 1,800 employees participating in this scheme, details of which are set out in note 21 on page 46. pp17-pp26.
qxp 31 3 05 9:02 pm Page 18 Alfred McAlpine plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2004 18 Report of the directors | continued Donations Charitable donations of 38,856 2003: 36,000 were made during the year to UK registered charities, including 10,000 to Crisis at Christmas.
No political donations were made.
Share Capital Since the last AGM, no offer has been made or agreement entered into which would require shares to be issued, other than in connection with the Executive Share Option Schemes, the Savings Related Share Option Scheme and the Restricted Share Plan.
At 31 December 2004, the trustee of the Alfred McAlpine Employee Benefit Trust held 2,136,098 ordinary shares, being approximately 2.13% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital.
At 31 December 2004, the authority granted at the AGM held on 20 May 2004 to enable the Company to purchase up to 10,261,590 ordinary shares, representing 10% of its then issued ordinary share capital, was still valid.
During the year, 2,680,447 ordinary shares with a nominal value of 670,112 and representing 2.6% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital as at 20 May 2004 were purchased for an aggregate net consideration of 6,998,838 excluding costs and subsequently cancelled under this authority.
The authority expires at the conclusion of the AGM to be held on 9 June 2005, and a resolution to renew the authority in full will be put to shareholders at that meeting.
Auditors  LLP have confirmed their willingness to continue in office, and a resolution concerning their re-appointment and remuneration will be proposed at the AGM.
Supplier Payment Policy It is the policy of both the Company and the Group to make payment on their standard terms to suppliers unless alternative terms are agreed.
The Company and the Group both seek to abide by these payment terms, provided that they are satisfied that the supplier has complied with the agreed terms and conditions.
The Companys average creditor days during the year were 29 2003: 30.
Annual General Meeting The AGM of the Company will be held in the Redgrave Suite at the Barbican Centre, Silk Street, London EC2 on 9 June 2005 at 12 noon.
Full details of the business of the meeting, together with an explanatory note on the resolutions proposed, are contained in the enclosed notice of meeting.
By order of the Board D Lavelle Group Finance Director 23 March 2005 pp17-pp26.
qxp 31 3 05 9:02 pm Page 19 Alfred McAlpine plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2004 Remuneration report 19 Remuneration report The auditable part of the remuneration report is set out on pages 22 to 23.
INFORMATION NOT SUBJECT TO AUDIT Membership and Constitution of the Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee, comprising the independent non-executive directors Mr C D Collins, Mr R E Hough and Mr P H Swatman, makes recommendations to the Board on the Companys overall framework for the remuneration of executive directors and certain key senior executives, and also determines their individual remuneration packages including pension rights and compensation payments.
The Committee consults the group chief executive on the remuneration of the executive directors and senior executives, and is assisted by the group company secretary.
Inbucon Limited acts as advisor to the Committee and also, when required, to the Company in respect of executive remuneration and share schemes.
Mercer Human Resource Consulting Limited advises the Company on pension matters.
Inbucon and Mercer do not provide other services to the Group and neither the Committee nor the Company is aware of any conflict of interest.
Compliance The Committee is constituted and operates in accordance with the provisions of Section B of The Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council.
In preparing this report the Board has complied with the provisions of the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 and the Code.
Executive Remuneration Policy and Structure The Groups aim is to provide remuneration packages that are sufficient to attract, motivate and retain executive directors of a high calibre.
To this end, surveys and external advice are instrumental in the annual review of salary and benefits packages.
The Committee believes that base salary and benefits for executive directors should represent a fair return for employment, but that the total reward for executive directors should be derived substantially from the performance-related elements of the remuneration package annual bonus and awards of shares under a long-term incentive plan.
The current policy adopted by the Committee is that executive directors base pay should be around the median and that incentives may bring their total remuneration to the upper quartile.
Performance-related elements form a significant proportion of the executive directors total remuneration packages, aligning their interests with those of the shareholders and providing incentives for performance.
In designing schemes for performance-related remuneration, the Committee follows the provisions of the Code.
Due consideration is given to performance relative to comparable companies.
There have been no amendments to the terms and conditions of any entitlement of a director under the long-term incentive scheme the Restricted Share Plan during the year.
Performance Chart The chart below compares the growth in value of 100 invested in ordinary shares in Alfred McAlpine plc on 1 January 2000 with the performance of a similar investment in the shares of the constituents of the FTSE Construction and Building Materials Index and the FTSE Support Services Index.
The directors are of the view that these constitute a relevant broad equity market index.
300 Cumulative total shareholder return % Alfred McAlpine plc 250 FTSE Construction and Building Materials x FTSE Support Services 200 150 x x 100 x x x x 50 31 12 99 31 12 00 31 12 01 31 12 02 31 12 03 31 12 04 Basic Salary The salary of each executive director is determined by the Committee, taking into account his personal performance and the prevailing rates in the employment market for executives of comparable status, responsibility, skill and position in other companies.
When determining directors salaries the Committee is always sensitive to pay and employment conditions throughout the Group.
Independent remuneration surveys are commissioned when required to substantiate salary levels.
The most recent surveys show that the basic salaries of the executive directors are currently slightly below the median when compared with their peers.
Annual Bonus The Committee reviews the targets for the executive directors annually.
For 2004 and 2005, bonuses for the executive directors are based on growth in the Groups profit before tax and amortisation PBTA prior to exceptional charges and, if the director is responsible for a business stream, performance against budget for that business.
The maximum bonus achievable is 100% of salary, which would require 20% growth over prior year in Group PBTA.
The bonus payable may be reduced if broader key performance indicators are not met.
This is relevant, stretching and designed to enhance the business.
Pensions Policy The Alfred McAlpine Pension Plan the Pension Plan was closed to new entrants on 31 July 2003.
Members of this final salary Pension Plan as at that date retain the link to pensionable salary at their eventual date of leaving in respect of service up to 31 July 2003, but have ceased to accrue benefits within the Pension Plan in respect of service after 31 July 2003.
During 2004, the Group contributed 4.0m 2003: 5.2m to the Pension Plan, and it will continue to make an annual, index-linked contribution of this amount.
The Company also operates the McAlpine 2003 Pension Plan the 2003 Pension Plan, which is a contracted-in defined contribution pension arrangement.
The 2003 Pension Plan is operated on behalf of the Company by Zurich Corporate Pensions as successor to Eagle Star and is subject to the Stakeholder Pensions regulations.
The minimum employee contribution is 3% of basic salary which is matched by the Company.
Employees may elect to pay additional contributions, some of which will be matched by the Company, thus increasing the Company contribution to 6% or 9% depending on the grade of the employee.
For executive directors, the Company contribution can be up to 21% if the director contributes 9%.
qxp 8 4 05 2:44 pm Page 20 Alfred McAlpine plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2004 20 Remuneration report | continued The average Company contribution equates to 5.63% of basic salary, amounting to 2.5m during 2004 2003: 0.8m for the five month period.
Life assurance cover of four times basic salary is provided to members of the 2003 Pension Plan, whilst in service with the Group.
Dependants pensions are provided on a members death in service or in retirement.
In addition, former members of the final salary Pension Plan are currently provided with a further life assurance cover of two times basic salary, on death in service, which must be used to provide a dependants pension.
All pension benefits are subject to Inland Revenue limits.
It is the Groups policy to provide those executives who joined the Company after May 1989, and who are subject to the earnings cap 102,000 in the 2004 05 tax year, with appropriate pension benefits outside the pension arrangements outlined above in relation to that part of their salary which exceeds the cap.
The means of providing pension benefits for such executives in the future will be reviewed when details of the proposed regulatory changes are confirmed.
Executive directors retire at age 62.
The Remuneration Committee takes into consideration the impact of basic salary increases upon pension and associated employment costs.
Share Schemes The Company currently operates the Alfred McAlpine Executive Share Option Scheme 2000 the ESOS 2000 and the Alfred McAlpine plc Restricted Share Plan the Restricted Share Plan, both of which are performance-related.
The ESOS 2000 replaced the Alfred McAlpine Executive Share Option Scheme 1991 the ESOS 1991, under which a number of options are still outstanding, the final grant having been made in April 2000.
The most recent initial awards under the Restricted Share Plan were made on 22 April 2004, and the Company does not intend to make any further initial awards under this Plan.
Proposals for a new long-term incentive plan will be submitted to shareholders at the AGM in June 2005.
At the same time, the Company will also seek approval for a new executive share option scheme to replace the ESOS 2000, which has reached the end of its five-year life.
The Group also operates an all-employee share scheme, the Alfred McAlpine Savings Related Share Option Scheme 1998, further details of which may be found in note 21 on page 46.
At the AGM in 2000, shareholders approved a share incentive plan to be known as the Alfred McAlpine plc Partnership Share Scheme 2000, implementation of which is currently under consideration.
There are no plans to grant discretionary options to executive directors who receive awards under either the Restricted Share Plan or the proposed new long-term incentive plan.
The Restricted Share Plan The Restricted Share Plan was approved by shareholders on 22 May 1996 and no initial awards may be made after the tenth anniversary of its adoption.
Restricted Share Plan awards are subject to performance conditions intended to link participants interests with those of the shareholders by encouraging an increase in the total shareholder return TSR of the Group relative to a peer group of companies and also in the long-term earnings per share EPS of the Group.
The Committee believes that TSR and EPS are appropriate performance measurements, being two key long-term indicators of a companys success.
It is the current intention of the Committee that these performance measurements continue to apply to the Plan.
Awards made under the terms of the Restricted Share Plan represent a conditional right to receive ordinary shares in the Company, provided that the Company achieves specific performance criteria and the participant remains in the Groups employment.
The maximum value based on market value at date of award of shares over which an initial award may be made to a participant in any year may not exceed 50% of salary.
Typically, initial awards have been made each year following the preliminary announcement of the full-year results.
However, initial awards have been made at other times, when the Committee believed them to be justified.
The performance criterion currently used to determine the vesting of the initial awards is TSR, which is calculated by taking the percentage increase in the average mid-market ordinary share price of the Company for the three-year restricted period from the date of award, plus the value of the reinvested dividends.
The Companys performance is then measured against that of a peer group of companies, the majority of which are direct competitors.
As shown below, the peer group was amended following the sale of the Homes business on 1 October 2001.
Original comparator group to 2001 : AMEC plc Costain Group plc Montpellier Group plc Taylor Woodrow plc Beazer Group plc Interserve plc Morrison Construction Group plc Wainhomes Birse Group plc Kier Group plc Persimmon plc Westbury plc Bryant Group plc John Laing plc Speedy Hire plc George Wimpey plc Beazer Group plc, Bryant Group plc, Morrison Construction Group plc and Wainhomes were all taken over after the start of the performance periods for the Restricted Share Plan awards.
Wainhomes is not included as a comparator company for awards made after 1999.
Amended comparator group 2002 onwards : Amey plc Birse Group plc Interserve plc MITIE Group plc W S Atkins plc Costain Group plc Jarvis plc Morgan Sindall plc Balfour Beatty plc Galliford Try plc Kier Group plc Serco Group plc Amey plc ceased to be listed on the London Stock Exchange on 26 June 2003, following its acquisition by Ferrovial Servicios SA.
Vesting may take place from the third anniversary of the initial award date.
No awards vest if the Companys performance is below the 50th percentile.
Vesting starts at the 50th percentile, and 100% of the initial award can vest at the 40th percentile.
Vesting is on a straight-line basis between the 50th and the 40th percentile.
If the Companys performance exceeds the 40th percentile, the number of shares represented by the award increases on a proportionate basis, so that at the 1st percentile 150% of the number of shares under the initial award may vest.
These additional rights are known as exceptional performance awards.
The rules allow for re-testing between the third and seventh anniversaries of the initial award date.
Vesting may be deferred for a further period of three years in the Alfred McAlpine Employee Benefit Trust the Employee Benefit Trust.
At the end of this deferral period, the deferred award may be matched on a one-for-one basis subject to satisfaction of a further performance target.
This second performance target requires the growth in EPS of the Company to exceed the growth in the Retail Price Index RPI by 9% or more over the three-year deferral period.
qxp 31 3 05 9:02 pm Page 21 Alfred McAlpine plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2004 Remuneration report | continued 21 The trustee of the Employee Benefit Trust has waived its entitlement to dividends.
Where a participant has elected to defer vesting, the Company makes discretionary cash payments to the participant, which are equivalent to the dividends that would normally be payable on the number of shares corresponding to the deferred award.
ESOS 2000 Executive Share Option Scheme Senior executives are granted discretionary options over ordinary shares in the Company, at the market price prevailing at the date of grant.
The performance condition for the ESOS 2000 requires the Companys EPS growth to exceed the growth in RPI by not less than 3% per annum over a rolling three-year period in order for the options to be exercised.
No further options will be granted under this scheme.
Directors Service Agreements and Contracts When appointing new executive directors, the Committee considers it appropriate to offer a one-year service agreement.
When Mr Grice became group chief executive in August 2003, the Committee considered it appropriate to offer him an initial two-year service agreement, which reduced to a rolling one-year agreement on 10 August 2004.
Details of the executive directors service agreements are set out below: Effective date Unexpired Notice period Notice period Executive directors of contract term by Company by director I M Grice 10 08 03 12 months 12 months 12 months D Lavelle 30 10 03 12 months 12 months 12 months C M McGilvray 17 03 05 12 months 12 months 12 months M D Swan 01 05 02 12 months 12 months 12 months The service agreements for the executive directors contain a provision allowing either party to terminate the agreement with immediate effect during the period of 90 days following a change of control of the Company, whereupon a predetermined amount shall be payable to the director.
There are no other provisions for compensation on early termination.
Each of the executive directors has a retirement age of 62.
Brief details of the contracts between the Company and the non-executive directors are set out below.
There are no provisions for compensation on early termination of these contracts.
Effective date Unexpired Notice period Notice period Non-executive directors of contract term by Company by director C D Collins 07 09 03 18 months 6 months 6 months R E Hough 13 03 03 12 months 6 months 6 months P H Swatman 13 03 03 12 months 6 months 6 months i G O Whitehead chairman 10 08 03 17 months 12 months 12 months i The Company provides certain benefits for Mr Whitehead private medical care, life insurance, disability insurance, fully-expensed car and pension contributions that are not provided to the other non-executive directors.
Directors Interests Directors and all senior executives are encouraged to accumulate a shareholding broadly equivalent to one years salary and to retain their shares after exercising share options or after vesting under the Restricted Share Plan, subject to the need to fund the acquisition of the shares and any associated tax and national insurance liability.
The Alfred McAlpine Employee Benefit Trust was established in 1998 and may benefit employees, including the executive directors, of the Group.
The trust is able to subscribe for or purchase shares to fulfil obligations under any of the Companys share schemes.
The trustee is Mourant and Co Trustees Limited, based in the Channel Islands.
As at 31 December 2004 the trust held 2,136,098 ordinary shares in the Company.
As potential beneficiaries, the executive directors are each deemed to have a beneficial interest in all of the shares held in the trust.
There has been one change in directors interests between the year end 31 December 2004 and 23 March 2005.
On 6 January 2005, Mr G O Whitehead exercised an option over 120,000 ordinary shares that was due to expire in April 2005, and immediately sold all of the resultant shares on the open market at a price of 306p per share, giving rise to a gain on exercise of 190,800.
At the date of his appointment, Mr C M McGilvrays interest in shares in the Company comprised 90,380 ordinary shares and 38,467 initial awards under the Restricted Share Plan.
qxp 31 3 05 9:02 pm Page 22 Alfred McAlpine plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2004 22 Remuneration report | continued INFORMATION SUBJECT TO AUDIT The auditable part of the remuneration report as defined in Part 3, Schedule 7a of the Companies Act 1985 is contained in the following tables and accompanying notes.
The executive directors are eligible for various taxable benefits, which include a fully expensed company car or alternatively a car allowance, membership of private medical schemes and life assurance premiums in respect of salary above the earnings cap.
The Company makes a supplementary payment to each of them, enabling them to make their own provision for pension in respect of salary above the earnings cap.
ii Mr Carolan was appointed on 11 March 2004.
Mr Carolans pension benefits are provided under the Alfred McAlpine Utility Services Group Limited Retirement Benefits Scheme, which is an occupational defined contribution pension scheme.
iii Mr Hume resigned as a director on 30 October 2003.
In mitigation of Mr Humes contractual entitlement to two years notice under the terms of his service agreement dated 1 October 1998, the Committee agreed it was appropriate to continue payment of salary and benefits to Mr Hume on a month by month basis.
Between 1 September 2004 and 31 December 2004 no salary payments were made to Mr Hume, who was in receipt of short-term consultancy income from elsewhere.
If, prior to 30 October 2005, Mr Hume commences alternative employment that is comparable with his former position with the Company, the Company will make a lump sum payment to Mr Hume equivalent after an adjustment to offset remuneration earned by Mr Hume since 1 November 2003 to 50% of the salary and benefits then outstanding under his notice period.
Included in taxable benefits for Mr Hume is the sum of 11,366 in respect of 9,190 shares released upon vesting of an award under the Restricted Share Plan.
The date of release for these shares was 11 May 2004, when the market price of a share was 301p.
Directors Pension Arrangements for the Year Ended 31 December 2004 With effect from 31 July 2003, when it closed for future benefit accrual, the directors ceased to accrue defined benefit pensions within the Alfred McAlpine final salary plan.
In common with other members of that plan, the directors continue to retain the link to pensionable salary at their eventual date of leaving in respect of service accrued up to 31 July 2003, subject to appropriate Inland Revenue limits.
Defined Benefit Plan 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Gross increase Value of Transfer Transfer in accrued Increase in Total net increase Total change value of value of pension accrued accrued in accrued in transfer accrued accrued during pension net pension at pension over value during pension at pension at Age the year of inflation 31 12 04 the year the year 31 12 04 31 12 03 nearest I M Grice 52 527 40 17,944 438 25,862 196,298 170,436 M D Swan 41 107 21 3,184 140 3,434 21,277 17,843 The values of accrued pension in columns 6 and 7 have been calculated in accordance with version 8.1 of guidance note GN 11 issued by the actuarial profession.
The value of the net increase in column 4 represents the incremental value to the director of his service during the year, calculated on the assumption that service terminated at the year end.
It is based on the accrued pension increase in column 2 and allows for the deduction of the directors contribution.
The change in the value of accrued pension in column 5 includes the effect of fluctuations in the transfer value due to factors beyond the control of the Company and directors, such as stock market movements.
It is calculated after deducting the directors contribution.
Voluntary contributions paid by directors and resulting benefits are not shown.
qxp 31 3 05 9:02 pm Page 23 Alfred McAlpine plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2004 Remuneration report | continued 23 Share Options The only options over ordinary shares that were held by directors during the year were as follows: Alfred McAlpine Savings Related Share Option Scheme 1998 and Alfred McAlpine Executive Share Option Scheme 1991 Value Date of Exercise As at Exercised Lapsed As at Share price Date of of gain grant Price 01 01 04 in year in year 31 12 04 at exercise exercise I M Grice 27 08 03 228.0p 4,442 4,442 G O Whitehead 12 04 95 147.0p 120,000 120,000 Savings-related share option normally exercisable during the six-month period following completion of a five-year savings contract.
These options are granted for nil consideration and, subject to the Company achieving specific performance targets, are exercisable between three and ten years from the date of grant.
The market price of an ordinary share of 25p in the Company at 31 December 2004 was 305.0p 31 December 2003: 294.25p and the highest and lowest market prices during the year were 322.0p and 240.5p.
ii Mr Carolans awards are shown as at 11 March 2004 and as at 31 December 2004.
Mr Carolans outstanding initial awards and exceptional performance awards lapsed following his resignation.
iii Initial awards and exceptional performance awards that fail to satisfy the performance requirement automatically lapse on the seventh anniversary of the date of award.
iv The date of vesting was 15 June 2004, and the open market price for shares sold on behalf of participants immediately upon release was 285p.
This report has been approved by the Board of directors and has been signed on behalf of the Board by C D Collins Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 23 March 2005 pp17-pp26.
qxp 31 3 05 9:02 pm Page 24 Alfred McAlpine plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2004 24 Corporate governance Corporate governance Compliance The Board supports the principles of good governance set out in Section 1 of The Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council in July 2003.
Throughout 2004 the Company complied with all but two of the provisions of the Code.
3.2: The members of the Board believe that the current size of the Board is appropriate for the current Company, and the balance of executive and non-executive directors is correct.
This view was re-affirmed during the evaluation process.
1.6: As previously explained, at 1 January 2004 Mr I M Grices contract as group chief executive was terminable on just over 20 months notice by the Company.
This notice period reduced on a month-by-month basis to 12 months at 10 August 2004.
Application The Board The chairman is responsible for ensuring the effectiveness of the Board and proper communication with shareholders.
The group chief executive is responsible for implementing strategy and ensuring the effectiveness of the executive functions.
The composition and effectiveness of the Board were reviewed during 2003, in the light of the transformation and re-positioning of the Group accomplished since the end of 2001.
A formal evaluation of the performance of the Board and its Committees, to assess the effectiveness of each body and its individual members, was carried out in 2004.
The process, in the form of a detailed questionnaire, asked the members of the Board, the managing directors of the principal business streams and the group company secretary to comment on a range of issues, including: conduct of meetings content and time allocation : adequacy, timeliness and quality of information: balance of experience and skills: training and development needs: understanding of the Groups business and contribution to the Groups strategy: corporate responsibility: and culture and values.
Board members were also asked to comment on the performance of the chairman of the Board and the Committee chairmen.
Responses were constructive in nature and predominantly positive.
The responses have been reviewed, and suggestions implemented or subjected to further review.
The Board believes that the assessment of the performance of its individual members has been carried out in a thoroughly appropriate manner and intends to repeat the process annually.
The following table sets out the frequency of, and attendance at, board and principal board committee meetings during 2004.
Audit Remuneration Board Committee Committee Number of meetings held 643 i ii P V Carolan 6 2 C D Collins 633 ii ii I M Grice 64 3 R E Hough 643 ii D Lavelle 64 ii M D Swan 64 P H Swatman 532 ii ii G O Whitehead 64 3 i Mr Carolan attended the board meeting in February 2004 by invitation.
ii Attendance by invitation for all or part of the meeting.
Board meetings Six regular board meetings were held during the year in addition to the Groups strategy review which is held in July.
A number of matters are reserved for the Boards formal approval, including major capital expenditure, treasury and dividend policy, overall Group strategy and all Group budgets and plans.
These matters are clearly identified in the Group Authority Listing, which sets out the requirements for notification and authorisation of transactions and procedures throughout the Group, and is reviewed annually.
Group Executive Committee The group chief executive, the group finance director, the group company secretary, the managing directors of the three principal business streams, the HR director and the strategy and communications director comprise a Group Executive Committee which meets eleven times a year to deal with all executive business of the Group not specifically reserved to the Board or its other committees.
It is responsible for the ongoing management and monitoring of the Groups system of internal control.
Additional meetings are held to discuss specific issues.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee is formally constituted with written terms of reference, which were revised and updated during 2004.
The Committees terms of reference may be downloaded from the corporate governance section within the Investor Centre on the Groups website: www.
The Committee comprises the three independent non-executive directors, and is chaired by Mr P H Swatman, who is appropriately qualified and has extensive and current relevant expertise.
All three members of the Committee hold recognised and relevant professional qualifications.
The Committee currently meets four times a year.
The chairman, the group chief executive, the group finance director and the external auditors are invited to attend each meeting.
The managing directors of each of the three principal business streams and the head of the Groups corporate audit function attend when the Committee so requires.
Each meeting provides an opportunity for discussion between the nonexecutive directors and the external auditors, from which the executive directors are excluded.
The Committee oversees the work of the Groups corporate audit function, formally reviewing the remit and scope of its plans in advance to ensure that the necessary resources are available and that appropriate priorities are set.
In reviewing the findings of the corporate audit function, the Committee pays particular attention to the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control brief details of which are set pp17-pp26.
qxp 31 3 05 9:02 pm Page 25 Alfred McAlpine plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2004 Corporate governance | continued 25 out on page 26.
The Groups internal controls are reviewed by the external auditors as part of the audit process.
The Committee also monitors a schedule of key risks identified by the Group Executive Committee and ranked according to materiality and probability.
By reference to these sources, the Committee has reviewed and continues to review the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control and identifies any areas where improvement may be required.
In relation to risk management, the Committee also considers contract risk attaching to major projects undertaken by the Group.
The review of systems of internal control and risk management measures is also applied to the Groups material joint ventures and associates.
This process will be further formalised during 2005 with the establishment of a Group Risk Committee, which will report to the Audit Committee.
The Groups whistle-blowing policy was reviewed and revised in January 2004.
The Committee also reviews the scope, result and cost-effectiveness of the external audit and the independence and objectivity of the external auditors.
Details of non-audit services provided by  LLP to the Group during 2004 are set out in note 5 on page 37.
Such work is only awarded to  LLP following careful assessment of: their expertise relative to that of other potential service providers: the value for money offered: and assurances that, individually or cumulatively with any other factors, the independence of  LLP is not at risk of compromise.
The award of non-audit work to  LLP is subject to predetermined fee thresholds, requiring prior approval by the chairman of the Audit Committee or the full Committee.
The chairman of the Committee reports to the full Board on matters discussed at each Audit Committee meeting.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee is formally constituted with written terms of reference, which were revised and updated during 2004 and may be downloaded from the corporate governance section within the Investor Centre on the Groups website: www.
The Committee was chaired by Mr C D Collins during 2004 from 1 May 2005 it will be chaired by Mr R E Hough, and comprises the independent non-executive directors.
The Committee meets on average three times a year and is responsible for determining the remuneration packages of the executive directors and certain key senior executives.
Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee is formally constituted with written terms of reference, which were revised and updated during 2004 and may be downloaded from the corporate governance section within the Investor Centre on the Groups website: www.
It is chaired by Mr G O Whitehead, and comprises the non-executive directors and the group chief executive.
The Committee meets on an ad hoc basis and nominates candidates for appointment and re-appointment to the Board.
Appointments and re-appointments are made by the full Board.
Routine Business Committee The Routine Business Committee is formally constituted with written terms of reference, which were revised and updated during 2004 and may be downloaded from the corporate governance section within the Investor Centre on the Groups website: www.
The Committee comprises two directors one of whom shall be either the group chief executive or the group finance director and the group company secretary, and deals primarily with routine administrative and banking matters arising between board meetings.
The Committee also deals with matters that have been approved in principle by the Board and do not warrant specific sub-committees.
Non-executive directors The non-executive directors are appointed by the Board, on the recommendation of the Nomination Committee, for specified terms.
They are subject to periodic re-election by shareholders and statutory provisions regarding removal.
There are clear channels of communication between the non-executive directors and the chairman, providing opportunities for private discussion outside board meetings.
All four non-executive directors have significant external commercial experience, and bring expert advice and strong judgement to the Board.
The directors are of the opinion that, with the exception of Mr Whitehead, each of the non-executive directors is independent of the Companys management and free from any restraint that could materially interfere with the exercise of his judgement.
The re-appointment of a non-executive director is a matter for consideration by the Nomination Committee and agreement by the Board.
Mr C D Collins, who is the senior independent non-executive director, is currently half-way through his second three-year term as a director, and Mr Hough and Mr Swatman will reach the end of their initial three-year terms in March 2006.
The remuneration of the non-executive directors takes the form of an annual fee, which is set by the Board in line with market levels for the role undertaken.
As chairman, Mr Whitehead is the only non-executive director for whom pension and other benefits are provided by the Company.
Non-executive directors are not entitled to participate in any bonus scheme or to receive options or awards under any of the Companys share schemes.
Re-election The Companys articles of association direct that all of the directors submit themselves for re-appointment at the first AGM after their appointment and at least every three years thereafter.
Although the articles allow the group chief executive to be excluded from this requirement, the Board has determined that all directors shall comply with the Code.
The Secretary and independent advice All directors have access to the advice and services of the group company secretary, who is responsible to the directors for ensuring that board procedures are followed and applicable rules and regulations complied with.
The directors consider that it is reasonable for any director who wishes to seek independent legal advice to consult the Company, before advice is sought and any costs are incurred by the Group.
qxp 31 3 05 9:02 pm Page 26 Alfred McAlpine plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2004 26 Corporate governance | continued Relations with shareholders The Group encourages two-way communications with its institutional and private investors.
Each year, the group chief executive and other executive directors attend a number of meetings with analysts, shareholders and private client brokers.
The non-executive directors attend the AGM each year.
The chairman and senior independent non-executive director are available to meet with any major shareholder when reasonably requested.
Analysts reports are circulated to the Board, and the executive directors make a report to the Board following meetings with analysts.
All queries from shareholders are dealt with in a timely manner, with welcome packs being sent to new shareholders.
Accountability and Audit Directors responsibilities The following statement, which should be read in conjunction with the report of the auditors set out on page 27, is made with a view to distinguishing for shareholders the respective responsibilities of the directors and of the auditors in relation to the accounts: The directors are required by UK company law to prepare accounts which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the Group at the end of the financial year and of the profit or loss of the Group for the financial year then ended.
The directors are also responsible for maintaining adequate accounting records and for taking reasonable steps to safeguard the assets of the Group and detect irregularities and fraud.
The directors confirm that in preparing the Groups accounts appropriate policies have been consistently applied and they have complied with the Companies Act 1985 and applicable accounting standards.
Further, in all material respects the accounts are supported by prudent judgements and estimates made by reference to information available at the time of their preparation.
The directors are also responsible for the integrity and maintenance of the Groups websites.
The Group financial statements are published on the Groups main website, and follow UK guidance as regards preparation and dissemination.
The requirements in other jurisdictions may differ.
All directors bring independent judgement to bear on their deliberations concerning strategy and performance.
The directors are satisfied that throughout the period they have had access to sufficient information to enable them to make proper decisions in a timely manner, and the chairman has ensured that all directors were kept properly briefed.
Going concern After reviewing current performance and detailed forecasts and taking into account available bank facilities and making further enquiries as considered appropriate, the directors are satisfied that the Company and Group have adequate resources to enable them to continue in business for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, the accounts which appear on pages 28 to 54 have been prepared on a going concern basis.
Internal control The Group has fully complied with provision C. 2.1 of the Code throughout the financial year to 31 December 2004 and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
In accordance with the Turnbull Guidance on Internal Control, a process has been established, and is ongoing, for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
The Board acknowledges its responsibility for maintaining a sound system of internal control relating to operational, financial and compliance controls and risk management, in order to safeguard the shareholders investment and the Companys assets, and has regularly reviewed the effectiveness thereof.
Such a system, however, is designed to manage and meet the Groups particular needs and mitigate the risks to which it is exposed, rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material mis-statement or loss.
The Group has a control environment, with policies, processes and codes of conduct that are designed to identify, manage and mitigate risk across a wide range of business activities.
As new procedures and working practices are adopted, risk factors are considered and appropriate internal controls are embedded into the Groups management systems wherever possible.
During 2004 and 2005 the Groups principal IT systems are being progressively reviewed and upgraded, where necessary, to enhance consistency across the Groups various businesses and support future growth.
The key components of the Groups system of internal control are: The Policy and Compliance Unit, which reports to the group chief executive, with the objective of monitoring and improving the safety, health and environmental record of the Group.
A system of self-assessment whereby each business and business unit within the Group addresses on a comprehensive basis the approach to controlling business risks.
A Group-level review carried out by the Group Executive Committee, using the output from the business-level processes, to identify the major risks facing the Group and to develop and implement appropriate initiatives to manage those risks.
As an integral part of the Committees regular meetings, assessment is made of the progress against objectives, changes to operational risk, adequacy of control and handling of any problems which arise from such reviews.
The regular review by the Board of the key risks identified by the Group Executive Committee.
Advised by the Audit Committee, the Board considers the extent to which the measures taken by the Group address those risks.
An established management structure for the major operating businesses, with short lines of communication to the group chief executive, group finance director and group company secretary.
Delegation within the framework of the Group Policy Manual of clearly defined responsibilities and procedures, with authorisation limits set at appropriate levels for the maintenance of effective controls across the whole Group.
The Corporate Audit Department, which reports regularly to the Audit Committee and the group finance director on compliance with procedures, authority limits and on the effectiveness of the risk management strategies of the major businesses, such that the principal areas of business risk and exposure are identified, evaluated and mitigated.
The Corporate Audit Department is also involved in overseeing a system of peer reviews involving internal audit of business units by other operational staff.
A comprehensive financial reporting system of annual budgets, periodic forecasts and detailed monthly reporting, together with weekly cash reporting.
Budgets and forecasts are reviewed and approved by the Board.
qxp 8 4 05 2:45 pm Page 27 Alfred McAlpine plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2004 Report of the auditors 27 Report of the auditors Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Alfred McAlpine plc We have audited the financial statements which comprise the Group profit and loss account, the balance sheets, the Group cash flow statement, the statement of total recognised gains and losses and the related notes which have been prepared under the historical cost convention and the accounting policies set out in the statement of accounting policies.
We have also audited the disclosures required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 contained in the remuneration report the auditable part.
Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditors The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the remuneration report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards are set out in the statement of directors responsibilities on page 26.
The directors are also responsible for preparing the remuneration report.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the auditable part of the remuneration report in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and United Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the auditable part of the remuneration report have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the report of the directors is not consistent with the financial statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and transactions is not disclosed.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report and Accounts and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent mis-statements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
The other information comprises only the report of the directors, the unaudited part of the remuneration report, the chairmans statement, the group chief executives review, the operating and financial review and the corporate governance statement.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or to form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Companys or Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
Basis of Audit Opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the auditable part of the directors remuneration report.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the auditable part of the remuneration report are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements.
Opinion In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group at 31 December 2004 and the profit and cash flows of the Group for the year then ended: the financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and those parts of the remuneration report required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
 LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors 1 Embankment Place, London WC2N 6RH 23 March 2005 pp27-pp34.
qxp 8 4 05 2:46 pm Page 28 Alfred McAlpine plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2004 28 Group profit and loss account Group profit and loss account 2004 Year ended 31 December 2004 2004 2004 2004 Exceptional charges and Continuing goodwill operations amortisation Total Notes m m m Turnover Group and share of joint ventures 947.3 947.3 Less: Share of joint ventures turnover 16.3 16.3 Group turnover 1, 2 931.0 931.0 Group operating profit loss 2, 4 30.0 35.2 5.2 Share of operating profit in joint ventures and associated undertakings 1 18.1 18.1 Total including joint ventures and associated undertakings 48.1 35.2 12.9 Net interest payable Group 3 1.8 1.8 Share of joint ventures 1 8.1 8.1 9.9 9.9 Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 5 38.2 35.2 3.0 Taxation on ordinary activities 6 7.6 8.1 0.5 Profit on ordinary activities after taxation 30.6 27.1 3.5 Dividends including non-equity 8 12.2 Transfer from reserves 22 8.7 Earnings per ordinary share Adjusted before goodwill and exceptional items 9 30.6p 30.6p Basic 9 3.1p Diluted 9 3.0p Dividend per ordinary share 8 12.1p There is no material difference between the results as shown in the profit and loss account and the results on an unmodified historical cost basis.
qxp 8 4 05 2:47 pm Page 29 Alfred McAlpine plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2004 Group profit and loss account | continued 29 Group profit and loss account 2003 Year ended 31 December 2003 2003 2003 2003 Exceptional charges and Continuing goodwill operations amortisation Total Notes m m m Turnover Group and share of joint ventures 886.1 886.1 Less: Share of joint ventures turnover 17.6 17.6 Group turnover 1, 2 868.5 868.5 Group operating profit 2, 4 29.7 5.6 24.1 Share of operating profit in joint ventures and associated undertakings 1 14.2 14.2 Total including joint ventures and associated undertakings 43.9 5.6 38.3 Net interest payable Group 3 1.0 1.0 Share of joint ventures 1 8.7 8.7 7.7 7.7 Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 5 36.2 5.6 30.6 Taxation on ordinary activities 6 7.1 0.7 7.8 Profit on ordinary activities after taxation 29.1 6.3 22.8 Dividends including non-equity 8 11.3 Transfer to reserves 11.5 Earnings per ordinary share Adjusted before goodwill 9 28.6p 28.6p Basic 9 22.3p Diluted 9 21.6p Dividend per ordinary share 8 11.0p There is no material difference between the results as shown in the profit and loss account and the results on an unmodified historical cost basis.
qxp 31 3 05 8:58 pm Page 30 Alfred McAlpine plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2004 30 Group balance sheet Group balance sheet at 31 December 2004 2004 2004 2003 2003 Notes m m m m Restated Restated Fixed assets Intangible assets 10 140.6 143.9 Tangible assets 11 59.8 52.9 Investments in joint ventures: 15 Share of gross assets 264.3 250.8 Share of gross liabilities 249.2 239.5 14 15.1 11.3 Loans to joint ventures 14 10.9 5.0 26.0 16.3 Investments in associates 14 4.5 3.2 230.9 216.3 Current assets Stocks 16 25.6 24.2 Debtors: due within one year 17 236.1 226.6 Debtors: due after one year 17 41.3 41.6 Cash at bank and in hand 23, 25 59.4 72.5 362.4 364.9 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year Borrowings 18 20.4 7.7 Other creditors 18 255.9 235.7 276.3 243.4 Net current assets 86.1 121.5 Total assets less current liabilities 317.0 337.8 Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year Borrowings 18 3.2 2.8 Other creditors 18 7.6 7.9 10.8 10.7 Provisions for liabilities and charges 19 5.8 11.1 16.6 21.8 Net assets 300.4 316.0 Capital and reserves Called up share capital 20 29.5 30.1 Share premium 22 87.4 87.2 Revaluation reserve 22 0.3 0.6 Other reserves 22 61.6 60.9 Profit and loss account 22 121.6 137.2 Shareholders funds including 4.5m relating to non equity interests 300.4 316.0 The notes on pages 35 to 54 form part of these accounts.
These accounts were approved by the Board on 23 March 2005.
I M Grice D Lavelle Group Chief Executive Group Finance Director pp27-pp34.
qxp 31 3 05 8:58 pm Page 31 Alfred McAlpine plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2004 Statement of total recognised gains and losses 31 Statement of total recognised gains and losses for the year ended 31 December 2004 2004 2003 Notes m m Profit for the financial year 3.5 22.8 Movement in translation of foreign currency investments 22 0.5 0.7 Total recognised gains relating to the year 3.0 22.1 Reconciliation of movements in shareholders funds for the year ended 31 December 2004 2004 2003 Notes m m Restated Profit for the financial year 3.5 22.8 Dividends 8 12.2 11.3 8.7 11.5 Shares issued 20, 22 0.3 5.2 Shares cancelled 22 7.1 9.6 Movement in translation of foreign currency investments 22 0.5 0.7 Movement in ESOP Trust 22 0.4 Net decrease increase in shareholders funds 15.6 6.4 Opening shareholders funds 316.0 309.6 Closing shareholders funds 300.4 316.0 Opening shareholders funds were 309.3m before prior year adjustments of 0.3m in respect of UITF 38.
The notes on pages 35 to 54 form part of these accounts.
qxp 31 3 05 8:58 pm Page 32 Alfred McAlpine plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2004 32 Group cash flow statement Group cash flow statement for the year ended 31 December 2004 2004 2004 2003 2003 Notes m m m m Operating activities Net cash inflow outflow from operating activities before exceptional charges 24 27.9 1.5 Exceptional charges paid 6.4 1.9 Net cash inflow outflow from operating activities 21.5 3.4 Dividends received from joint ventures and associates 2.6 1.1 Returns on investments and servicing of finance Interest received 1.9 2.4 Interest paid 3.4 1.1 Interest element of finance lease payments 0.3 0.3 Non-equity dividends 0.4 0.4 2.2 0.6 Taxation paid 4.5 9.0 Capital expenditure and financial investment Purchase of tangible fixed assets 18.7 16.2 Sale of tangible fixed assets 3.9 5.9 14.8 10.3 Acquisitions and disposals Cash consideration paid for subsidiary undertakings 5.2 7.7 Net cash overdrafts acquired with subsidiary undertakings 0.1 0.1 Costs paid on disposal of subsidiary undertakings 0.9 Net cash invested in received from joint ventures and associates 3.7 0.6 8.8 8.1 Equity dividends paid 11.2 10.4 Cash outflow before management of liquid resources and financing 17.4 39.5 Management of liquid resources Decrease in short-term bank deposits 31.4 48.1 Financing Issue of ordinary shares 0.3 1.9 Purchase of ordinary shares 7.1 9.6 Capital element of finance lease payments 2.0 1.2 Repayment of debt acquired 5.9 Decrease in debt 0.7 8.8 15.5 Increase decrease in cash in the year 25 5.2 6.9 Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net cash Increase decrease in cash in the year 5.2 6.9 Decrease in liquid resources 31.4 48.1 Borrowings net of overdrafts acquired with subsidiary undertakings 0.3 5.9 Decrease in debt 9.0 Decrease increase in finance leases 0.3 0.9 Decrease in loan notes 0.7 Decrease in net cash in the year 26.2 52.1 Opening net cash at 1 January 25 62.0 114.1 Closing net cash at 31 December 25 35.8 62.0 The notes on pages 35 to 54 form part of these accounts.
qxp 31 3 05 8:58 pm Page 33 Alfred McAlpine plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2004 Company balance sheet 33 Company balance sheet at 31 December 2004 2004 2004 2003 2003 Notes m m m m Restated Restated Fixed assets Tangible assets 11 1.8 7.4 Investments 14 390.6 407.9 392.4 415.3 Current assets Debtors: due within one year 17 249.3 201.4 Debtors: due after one year 17 32.3 32.3 Cash at bank and in hand 0.4 282.0 233.7 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year Borrowings 18 2.8 2.7 Other creditors 18 270.9 261.9 273.7 264.6 Net current assets liabilities 8.3 30.9 Total assets less current liabilities 400.7 384.4 Provisions for liabilities and charges 19 7.2 6.4 Net assets 393.5 378.0 Capital and reserves Called up share capital 20 29.5 30.1 Share premium 22 87.4 87.2 Other reserves 22 188.6 210.2 Profit and loss account 22 88.0 50.5 Shareholders funds including 4.5m relating to non equity interests 27 393.5 378.0 The notes on pages 35 to 54 form part of these accounts.
These accounts were approved by the board of directors on 23 March 2005.
qxp 31 3 05 8:58 pm Page 34 Alfred McAlpine plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2004 34 Accounting policies Accounting policies Basis of Accounting and Consolidation The Group accounts are prepared on the historical cost basis except for the revaluation of certain tangible fixed assets, in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and applicable accounting standards and include the financial statements of the Company and all of its subsidiary undertakings made up to 31 December, together with the Groups share of the results up to 31 December of: i Joint ventures A joint venture is an entity in which the Group holds a long-term interest and which is jointly controlled by the Group and one or more other venturers under a contractual arrangement.
The results of joint ventures are accounted for using the gross equity method of accounting.
ii Associates An associate is an entity in which the Group holds a long-term interest and over whose operating and financial policies the Group exercises a significant influence.
The results of associates are accounted for using the equity method of accounting in accordance with FRS 9. iii Joint arrangements that are not entities The Group has certain contractual arrangements with other participants to engage in joint activities that do not create an entity carrying on a trade or business of its own.
The Group includes its share of assets, liabilities and cash flows in such joint arrangements, measured in accordance with the terms of each arrangement, which is usually pro-rata to the Groups interest in the risks in the joint arrangement.
Any subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures, associates and joint arrangements that are not entities sold or acquired during the year are included up to, or from, the dates of change of control.
Turnover and Profit Recognition Turnover comprises the value of work performed, goods sold and services provided outside the Group excluding Value Added Tax.
Amounts in respect of contracts included in turnover, net of payments received on account, are shown in debtors as amounts recoverable on contracts.
Cash received in excess of the value of work done is shown in creditors as payments on account.
An appropriate proportion of the anticipated contract profit is recognised in the profit and loss account based on the stage of completion of the work and the expected end of life outcome.
Provision is made for anticipated contract losses.
Pre-contract costs incurred before it is virtually certain that a contract will be awarded are charged to the profit and loss account.
Once virtually certain of contract award, costs are held as amounts recoverable on contracts and form part of the accounting for the contract as a whole.
Turnover in respect of land sales is recognised on the exchange of unconditional contracts.
Depreciation Depreciation, based on estimated useful lives, is charged on a straight line basis as follows: freehold properties 2% per annum: leasehold properties over the lease term: plant and equipment at rates between 10% and 33% per annum.
Slate reserves minerals are depreciated by reference to production, where the quarry life is less than ten years.
Stocks Stock and work in progress, including land held for and in the course of development, is valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost includes, where appropriate, labour and production overheads.
Deferred Taxation Full provision is made at anticipated rates for taxation deferred as a result of the pensions prepayment, accelerated capital allowances and other timing differences.
No provision is made for UK or overseas taxation that might become payable on the remittance of profits from overseas.
Rates of Exchange Profit and loss accounts of overseas subsidiaries are translated into sterling at average rates of exchange for the year.
Assets and liabilities are translated into sterling at the closing rate of exchange.
The difference arising from the re-translation at the closing rate of the opening net assets and the retained profits and losses for the current year, is taken to reserves.
Financial Instruments Foreign currency assets and liabilities covered by forward contracts are translated at the contract rates of exchange.
Other assets and liabilities in foreign currencies are translated at closing rates.
Pensions The Group operates six main defined contribution pension schemes.
The contributions paid by the Group and the employees are invested within the individual pension funds in the month following the month of deduction.
The employer contribution rates are determined by reference to an age, service or grade related scale or are at a fixed, level percentage.
The amount contributed by the Group is charged to the profit and loss account as the contributions fall due.
The Group also operates a defined benefit pension scheme, which is closed to future service accrual, and participates in the Electricity Supply Pension Scheme ESPS.
Both of these schemes are administered by trustees, the funds being independent of the Groups finances and not included in the Group accounts.
Each scheme is valued by an independent actuary at least every three years, and funded by contributions from the Company at rates determined on the advice of the actuary.
Contributions to the schemes are charged to the profit and loss account so as to spread the cost of pensions over employees service lives within the Group.
Employees also contribute to the ESPS.
Leases and Hire Purchase Contracts Assets obtained under lease and hire purchase contracts which result in the transfer to the Group of substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are capitalised as tangible fixed assets at the estimate present value of underlying lease payments and are depreciated over the shorter of the asset's useful economic life and the lease term.
Obligations under such agreements are included in creditors net of finance charges allocated to future periods.
The finance element of the rental payments is charged to the profit and loss account over the period of the lease so as to produce a constant periodic rate of charge on the outstanding balance of the net obligations in each period.
Rentals paid under operating leases are charged against income on a straight line basis over the lease term.
Purchased Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of the fair value of the purchase consideration for shares in subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures and associates over the fair value to the Group of the net assets acquired.
i To 31 December 1997: Goodwill was written off to reserves in the year of acquisition.
The profit or loss on the disposal of a business acquired before 31 December 1997 takes into account the attributable value of purchased goodwill relating to that business.
ii From 1 January 1998: Goodwill has been recognised within fixed assets in the year in which it arises and amortised on a straight line basis over its useful economic life.
Negative goodwill represents the excess of the fair value to the Group of net assets acquired over the fair value of purchase consideration and is amortised over the periods in which the underlying assets to which it relates are recovered.
qxp 31 3 05 8:53 pm Page 35 Alfred McAlpine plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2004 Notes to the accounts 35 Notes to the accounts 1.
Segmental Analysis 2004 2003 Turnover m m Continuing operations Alfred McAlpine Business Services 270.2 210.6 Alfred McAlpine Infrastructure Services 339.5 304.3 Alfred McAlpine Capital Projects 330.4 329.9 Centre and other businesses 25.6 23.7 Intra-Group elimination Business Services 34.7 Group 931.0 868.5 2004 2003 Profit m m Continuing operations Alfred McAlpine Business Services 17.4 12.8 Alfred McAlpine Infrastructure Services 5.1 12.9 Alfred McAlpine Capital Projects 13.7 14.0 Centre and other businesses 6.2 10.0 Group 30.0 29.7 Net interest 1.8 1.0 28.2 30.7 Alfred McAlpine Project Investments joint ventures Share of operating profit 12.5 12.7 Share of interest payable 8.1 8.7 4.4 4.0 Alfred McAlpine Business Services associates 0.1 Alfred McAlpine Infrastructure Services associates 5.5 1.5 Profit before exceptional charges, goodwill amortisation and tax 38.2 36.2 Exceptional charges Alfred McAlpine Business Services 0.6 Alfred McAlpine Infrastructure Services 8.2 Alfred McAlpine Capital Projects 16.1 Centre and other businesses 2.1 27.0 Goodwill amortisation Alfred McAlpine Business Services 4.4 1.7 Alfred McAlpine Infrastructure Services 3.8 3.9 8.2 5.6 Profit before tax 3.0 30.6 pp35-pp55.
qxp 31 3 05 8:53 pm Page 36 Alfred McAlpine plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2004 36 Notes to the accounts | continued 1.
Segmental Analysis continued Net operating assets 2004 2003 m m Restated Continuing operations Alfred McAlpine Business Services 37.6 40.5 Alfred McAlpine Infrastructure Services 30.6 25.0 Alfred McAlpine Capital Projects 16.4 14.4 Centre and other businesses 85.0 76.6 136.8 127.7 Goodwill Alfred McAlpine Business Services 76.4 80.8 Alfred McAlpine Infrastructure Services 64.2 63.1 277.4 271.6 Net operating assets exclude provisions for liabilities and charges of 5.8m 2003: 11.1m, net cash of 35.8m 2003: 62.0m and dividends payable of 7.0m 2003: 6.5m which have not been allocated to operations.
2004 2003 Group turnover analysed by geographical area of origin which does not differ materially from destination : m m UK 918.5 859.3 Rest of the World 12.5 9.2 931.0 868.5 2.
Statutory Information 2004 2004 2004 2003 Exceptional charges and Continuing goodwill operations amortisation Total Total m m m m Turnover 931.0 931.0 868.5 Cost of sales 821.7 21.0 842.7 762.0 Gross profit 109.3 21.0 88.3 106.5 Distribution costs 0.1 0.1 0.1 Administrative expenses including goodwill 79.2 14.2 93.4 82.3 Group operating profit loss after goodwill 30.0 35.2 5.2 24.1 Group operating profit before goodwill 30.0 27.0 3.0 29.7 Group operating profit loss is stated before the share of operating profit in joint ventures and associates.
qxp 31 3 05 8:53 pm Page 37 Alfred McAlpine plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2004 Notes to the accounts | continued 37 3.
Group Interest 2004 2003 m m Interest payable on bank loans and overdrafts 2.8 0.9 Finance charges payable under finance leases and hire purchase contracts 0.3 0.3 Other interest payable 0.5 0.1 Unwinding of discount on provisions 0.1 0.1 Interest payable 3.7 1.4 Interest receivable 1.9 2.4 1.8 1.0 4.
Exceptional Charges and Goodwill Amortisation 2004 2003 m m Goodwill amortisation 8.2 5.6 Provision against old contract issues 21.0 Restructuring and reorganisation costs 6.0 35.2 5.6 Related tax credit charge 8.1 0.7 27.1 6.3 The provision against old contract issues relates to a recent worsening of out-turn losses on two construction contracts which commenced in 2000 and 2001 and the resolution of issues associated with the acquisition of Ryan Utility Services in 2001.
The restructuring and reorganisation costs were incurred during 2004.
Profit on Ordinary Activities Before Taxation is stated after charging crediting : 2004 2003 m m Staff costs see note 7 263.1 220.4 Depreciation of tangible fixed assets own assets 9.0 7.9 assets held under finance leases and hire purchase obligations 0.6 0.5 Amortisation of goodwill 8.2 5.6 Hire of plant and machinery 37.1 37.4 Rentals under operating leases plant and machinery 7.1 7.6 other 8.2 4.9 i Auditors remuneration audit fees 0.5 0.5 Profit on disposal of fixed assets 0.7 2.6 i Included in the auditors remuneration figure above are fees incurred by Alfred McAlpine plc of 0.1m 2003: 0.1m relating to the audit of the Company.
Fees payable to  LLP for non-audit services in 2004 were 0.4m 2003: 0.8m, in respect of taxation advice and compliance work.
qxp 31 3 05 8:53 pm Page 38 Alfred McAlpine plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2004 38 Notes to the accounts | continued 6.
Taxation on Ordinary Activities Analysis of charge in the year 2004 2003 m m UK taxation Corporate tax at 30% 2003: 30% 3.6 9.4 Double tax relief 0.4 Adjustment in respect of prior periods 2.1 3.4 Share of joint ventures and associates tax 2.4 1.4 3.9 7.0 Overseas Corporate tax 0.4 1.0 Total current tax 4.3 8.0 Deferred tax Credit for the year 3.5 0.3 Adjustment in respect of prior periods 1.3 0.1 Total deferred tax 4.8 0.2 Taxation credit charge for the year 0.5 7.8 The current tax charge for the year is higher than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK 30%.
The differences are explained below: 2004 2003 m m Profit on ordinary activities before tax 3.0 30.6 Profit on ordinary activities multiplied by the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 30% 2003: 30% 0.9 9.2 Effects of: Amortisation of goodwill from continuing operations 2.5 2.3 Net income not chargeable for tax purposes 0.3 0.4 Accelerated capital allowances and other timing differences 4.2 0.6 Adjustments to tax in respect of prior periods 2.1 3.4 Higher rates of tax on overseas activities and DTR 0.3 Utilisation of prior year losses 0.6 0.3 Current tax charge for the year 4.3 8.0 The Group has an unrecognised deferred tax asset of 1.7m 2003: 1.7m in respect of ACT recoverable which may affect future tax charges.
qxp 31 3 05 8:53 pm Page 39 Alfred McAlpine plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2004 Notes to the accounts | continued 39 7.
Employees and Directors 2004 2003 a Employee costs during the year, including Directors: m m Wages and salaries 227.8 192.6 Social security costs 26.3 19.5 Other pension costs see note 30 8.7 8.3 262.8 220.4 2004 2003 b Average number employed during the year, including directors: Number Number Production 6,750 6,410 Sales and distribution 16 18 Administration and services 1,492 1,366 8,258 7,794 c Directors emoluments An analysis of individual directors emoluments and pension entitlements including those of the highest paid director and their interests in the share capital of the Company is contained in the remuneration report on pages 21 to 23.
Dividends 2004 2003 m m Ordinary shares Interim of 4.95p 2003: 4.5p paid on 5 November 2004 4.9 4.4 Final of 7.15p 2003: 6.5p payable on 17 June 2005 6.9 6.5 11.8 10.9 Preference shares 0.4 0.4 12.2 11.3 The Trustee of the Alfred McAlpine Employee Benefit Trust has waived its right to receive any dividends except for 0.001p per share in respect of shares held in the Trust.
Earnings Per Share 2004 2003 m m Profit after tax 3.5 22.8 Preference dividend 0.4 0.4 Basic earnings 3.1 22.4 Goodwill amortisation 8.2 5.6 Exceptional charges 27.0 Taxation credit charge on exceptional charges and goodwill amortisation 8.1 0.7 Adjusted earnings 30.2 28.7 Adjusted earnings per share of 30.6p 2003: 28.6p is calculated by dividing the earnings excluding exceptional items and goodwill amortisation of 30.2m by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year of 98,699,309 2003: 100,274,258.
In the directors opinion the adjusted EPS provides a more meaningful view of the Groups underlying operating performance.
Basic earnings per share of 3.1p 2003: 22.3p is calculated by dividing the earnings of 3.1m attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year of 98,699,309 2003: 100,274,258.
Diluted earnings per share of 3.0p 2003: 21.6p is calculated by dividing the earnings of 3.1m attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average number of shares in issue increased to assume conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares totalling 3,241,432 2003: 3,227,483. pp35-pp55.
qxp 31 3 05 8:53 pm Page 40 Alfred McAlpine plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2004 40 Notes to the accounts | continued 10.
Intangible Fixed Assets Negative Goodwill goodwill Total Group m m m Cost At 1 January 2004 160.8 2.2 158.6 Additions during the year see note 26 4.9 4.9 At 31 December 2004 165.7 2.2 163.5 Amortisation At 1 January 2004 16.9 2.2 14.7 Charge for the year 8.2 8.2 At 31 December 2004 25.1 2.2 22.9 Net book amount at 31 December 2004 140.6 140.6 Net book amount at 31 December 2003 143.9 143.9 11.
Tangible Fixed Assets Plant and Land and equipment buildings Minerals Total Group m m m m Cost or valuation As at 1 January 2004 56.8 20.8 12.3 89.9 Additions 16.3 0.7 3.3 20.3 Acquisitions 0.5 0.5 Disposals 9.5 1.4 10.9 At 31 December 2004 64.1 20.1 15.6 99.8 Depreciation As at 1 January 2004 29.9 4.4 2.7 37.0 Provided in the year 7.6 0.8 1.2 9.6 Disposals 6.4 0.2 6.6 At 31 December 2004 31.1 5.0 3.9 40.0 Net book value at 31 December 2004 33.0 15.1 11.7 59.8 Net book value at 31 December 2003 26.9 16.4 9.6 52.9 Land and buildings Minerals m m The net book value comprises: Freehold 6.7 10.8 Long leasehold 7.8 Short leasehold 0.6 0.9 15.1 11.7 The gross book value of land and buildings represents 18.6m 2003: 18.5m at cost and 1.5m 2003: 2.3m at 1993 valuation.
The transitional provisions of FRS 15 were followed, whereby this valuation does not need to be updated.
The historic cost of land and buildings amounted to 19.8m 2003: 20.3m and accumulated depreciation based thereon would be 4.9m 2003: 4.3m.
qxp 31 3 05 8:53 pm Page 41 Alfred McAlpine plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2004 Notes to the accounts | continued 41 11.
Tangible Fixed Assets continued Included in the amounts for plant and equipment above are the following amounts relating to leased assets and assets acquired under hire purchase contracts.
2004 2003 m m Cost 7.0 7.3 Accumulated depreciation 2.7 3.5 4.3 3.8 Land and Plant and buildings equipment Total Company m m m Cost At 1 January 2004 2.0 6.6 8.6 Additions 0.8 0.8 Disposals 0.6 6.5 7.1 At 31 December 2004 1.4 0.9 2.3 Accumulated depreciation At 1 January 2004 0.2 1.0 1.2 Provided during the year 0.1 0.1 0.2 Disposals 0.9 0.9 At 31 December 2004 0.3 0.2 0.5 Net book value at 31 December 2004 1.1 0.7 1.8 Net book value at 31 December 2003 1.8 5.6 7.4 Land and buildings m The net book value comprises: Freehold Long leasehold 1.1 1.1 12.
Operating Lease Commitments The minimum annual commitments at 31 December 2004 under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: Land and Land and buildings Other buildings Other 2004 2004 2003 2003 m m m m Leases which expire: Within one year 0.7 10.7 0.5 9.1 Between two and five years 2.2 17.8 2.3 18.0 Over five years 2.5 1.0 3.1 0.4 5.4 29.5 5.9 27.5 pp35-pp55.
qxp 31 3 05 8:53 pm Page 42 Alfred McAlpine plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2004 42 Notes to the accounts | continued 13.
Capital Commitments 2004 2003 m m Contracted for but not provided 14.
Fixed Assets Investments Group Group Company Company 2004 2003 2004 2003 m m m m Shares in Group undertakings At 1 January 401.1 392.2 Additions 8.9 Impairment provision 22.3 At 31 December 378.8 401.1 Interests in joint ventures Share of net assets at 1 January 11.3 9.7 6.4 6.3 Share of retained profits 1.6 2.2 Distributions 1.6 0.8 Additions 3.8 0.2 0.3 0.1 Share of net assets at 31 December 15.1 11.3 6.7 6.4 Loans to joint ventures 10.9 5.0 5.1 0.4 26.0 16.3 11.8 6.8 Interests in associated undertakings Share of net assets at 1 January 3.2 3.8 Share of retained profits 3.9 0.9 Distributions 2.6 0.3 Additions 0.5 Disposals 1.7 Share of net assets at 31 December 4.5 3.2 Total fixed asset investments 30.5 19.5 390.6 407.9 The principal subsidiary and joint venture undertakings, all of which are included in the consolidated accounts, are set out on page 55.
For the Company the interest in joint ventures is held at cost.
An impairment provision has been made in the Company against certain investments in subsidiaries where the underlying subsidiaries' trading net assets no longer support the investment carrying value.
qxp 31 3 05 8:53 pm Page 43 Alfred McAlpine plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2004 Notes to the accounts | continued 43 15.
Joint Ventures The Group has investments in joint ventures established to provide long term services to Government agencies as part of the Private Finance Initiative PFI.
The Groups share of the net assets of all joint ventures is noted below: 2004 2003 Share of joint venture balance sheets m m Fixed assets 183.4 159.7 Finance receivables 54.0 39.5 Current assets 26.9 51.6 Liabilities due within one year 15.4 15.7 Liabilities due after one year 233.8 223.8 Net assets 15.1 11.3 Net loans to joint ventures 10.9 5.0 Total investment in joint ventures 26.0 16.3 The liabilities of the joint venture investments have no recourse to the Group.
The Group has a commitment to invest 9.0m relating to its investment in PFI schemes, including 4.7m in relation to A1 Darrington to Dishforth, 3.8m in relation to Addenbrookes Hospital and 0.5m in other schemes.
All joint venture borrowings are without recourse to the Group.
Included in the above is the Groups share of Road Management Group Limited RMG the details of which are separately disclosed below: Road Management Group 2004 2003 Groups share of profit and loss account m m Turnover 10.7 10.8 Operating profit 8.2 8.3 Interest 6.4 6.3 Profit before tax 1.8 2.0 Tax 0.5 0.6 Profit after tax 1.3 1.4 Groups share of balance sheet Fixed assets 183.4 151.9 Current assets 23.1 48.1 Liabilities due within one year 12.9 14.0 Liabilities due after one year 179.8 175.5 Net assets 13.8 10.5 16.
Stocks 2004 2003 m m Group Raw materials 12.6 8.0 Plant spares and consumable stores 0.6 1.1 Finished goods and goods for resale 5.4 6.1 Work in progress 1.5 3.4 Other stocks 5.5 5.6 25.6 24.2 pp35-pp55.
qxp 31 3 05 8:53 pm Page 44 Alfred McAlpine plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2004 44 Notes to the accounts | continued 17.
Debtors Group Group Company Company 2004 2003 2004 2003 m m m m Restated Restated Amounts falling due within one year Trade debtors 78.7 64.9 0.2 Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 198.6 197.2 Prepayments and accrued income 33.1 33.1 0.4 0.3 Amounts recoverable on contracts 107.1 111.7 Other debtors 17.2 16.9 50.3 3.7 236.1 226.6 249.3 201.4 Amounts falling due after more than one year Pension prepayment see note 30 32.3 32.3 32.3 32.3 Amounts recoverable on contracts 5.4 4.8 Other debtors 3.6 4.5 41.3 41.6 32.3 32.3 18.
Creditors Group Group Company Company 2004 2003 2004 2003 m m m m Restated Restated Amounts falling due within one year: Borrowings Loan notes 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.3 Overdrafts 18.7 5.6 2.5 2.4 Finance leases and hire purchase contracts 1.4 1.8 20.4 7.7 2.8 2.7 Other Payments received on account 8.9 17.1 Trade creditors 93.5 103.6 1.6 1.3 Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 256.2 250.8 Accruals and deferred income 82.6 56.0 1.7 1.6 Taxation and social security 25.2 19.8 4.1 1.4 Other creditors 38.7 32.7 0.3 0.3 Proposed dividends 7.0 6.5 7.0 6.5 255.9 235.7 270.9 261.9 Amounts falling due after more than one year: Borrowings Finance leases and hire purchase contracts 3.2 2.8 Other Shortfall on pension schemes acquired 5.0 6.5 Other creditors 2.6 1.4 7.6 7.9 At 31 December 2004 there were no bank loans outstanding under the committed revolving credit facilities which expire in November 2007.
All bank borrowings are unsecured.
qxp 31 3 05 8:53 pm Page 45 Alfred McAlpine plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2004 Notes to the accounts | continued 45 19.
Provisions for Liabilities and Charges Group Group Group discontinued Group Company deferred property business total deferred taxation provisions provisions provisions taxation m m m m m At 1 January 2004 8.5 1.0 1.6 11.1 6.4 Credited charged to profit and loss account 4.8 0.1 4.7 0.8 Unwinding of discount 0.1 0.1 Amounts utilised 0.6 0.1 0.7 At 31 December 2004 3.7 0.6 1.5 5.8 7.2 a Group deferred taxation Provided Provided 2004 2003 m m Net pension prepayment 8.2 7.7 Accelerated capital allowances 3.4 5.3 Short-term timing differences 1.1 6.1 3.7 8.5 At 31 December 2004 there was an unrecognised deferred tax asset of 1.7m 2003: 1.7m in respect of ACT recoverable.
There would be no unprovided tax liability 2003: nil if the Groups fixed assets were sold at their revalued amounts.
b Group property provisions These relate to onerous property leases which were either acquired with Raine plc in June 1997 or became surplus as a result of the closure of the old building division.
The maximum outstanding period for any of these leases is nine years and the provision is based upon the discounted committed head lease expenditure offset by committed and estimated sub-lease income.
c Group discontinued business provisions These represent the estimated costs remaining from the Groups withdrawal from discontinued operations.
The amount provided represents the best estimate of both obligations under completed contracts and other estimated costs.
qxp 31 3 05 8:53 pm Page 46 Alfred McAlpine plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2004 46 Notes to the accounts | continued 20.
000 m m Allotted and fully paid Ordinary shares at beginning of year 102,555 103,226 25.6 25.8 Issued during the year 188 2,884 0.1 0.7 Cancelled during the year 2,680 3,555 0.7 0.9 Ordinary shares at end of year 100,063 102,555 25.0 25.6 9% cumulative preference shares of 1 each 4,507 4,507 4.5 4.5 29.5 30.1 The preference shares, which represent the only non-equity interest in shareholders funds, have the following rights: a a fixed cumulative preference dividend of 9% per annum payable half yearly on 30 April and 31 October: b they rank with regard to dividend including any arrears to the commencement of a winding up and return on capital in priority to ordinary shares.
On a return of assets on liquidation or reduction in capital, there is a premium entitlement calculated in accordance with the terms and conditions of the articles of association but no further right to participate in the profits or assets: c there is no redemption entitlement: and d where any preference dividend is in arrears, holders are entitled to attend any general meeting, with the right to vote on a show of hands or by poll, with one vote for each share held.
Consideration received for the 188,567 ordinary shares issued during the year was 313,744, all of which was received upon the exercise of share options.
Committed but Unissued Share Capital Options over the Companys ordinary shares outstanding at 31 December 2004 were as follows: Alfred McAlpine Executive Share Option Scheme 1991 ESOS 1991 # Alfred McAlpine Executive Share Option Scheme 2000 ESOS 2000 # # # # Date of Grant 12 04 95 29 10 97 13 05 98 18 04 00 22 03 01 23 04 02 03 09 03 18 10 04 Price 147.0p 134.5p 158.5p 178.0p 280.5p 436.1p 304.5p 262.6p Total Directors 120,000 120,000 Employees 22,000 33,560 117,500 58,438 264,000 303,000 28,868 827,366 Total as at 31 12 04 120,000 22,000 33,560 117,500 58,438 264,000 303,000 28,868 947,366 Ordinarily, options granted under the terms of the ESOS 1991 and the ESOS 2000 are exercisable between three and ten years from the date of grant, subject to the Company achieving specific performance targets.
1998 Savings Related Share Option Scheme Date of Grant 20 04 00 27 08 03 Price 158.0p 228.0p Exercisable from Number Number 01 07 05 182,827 01 11 06 1,122,097 01 11 08 1,235,265 182,827 2,357,362 Savings-related share options are normally exercisable during the six-month period following completion of either a three-year or five-year savings contract.
qxp 31 3 05 8:53 pm Page 47 Alfred McAlpine plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2004 Notes to the accounts | continued 47 21.
Participants may elect to defer vesting for a further period of three years, during which the shares are held in the Employee Benefit Trust and may become eligible for matching under the rules of the Plan.
On the occasion of the sale of the Homes business, the Remuneration Committee exercised its discretion by subjecting all outstanding awards to a performance test as at 1 October 2001.
With the exception of the awards made on 17 July and 29 October 1997 which achieved vesting at 144.79%, the Companys performance was measured as achieving 150% maximum vesting at 1 October 2001.
The shares representing the proportion of each award deemed to have tested successfully calculated by reference to the proportion of the three-year restricted period that had elapsed at 1 October 2001 were held by the trustee of the Employee Benefit Trust until such time as the award would normally vest, subject to the participant continuing to be employed by the Group.
As at 22 March 2004, the Companys performance over the three-year period from the date of award ranked twelfth in its comparator group, and the only shares capable of vesting under the awards made on 22 March 2001 were those that had satisfied the performance requirements at 1 October 2001.
Participants elected to defer vesting of 83,499 shares.
The growth in the Companys earnings per share after adjustment to reflect the disposal of the Homes business over the three-year deferral period ending on 13 May 2004 exceeded the Retail Price Index by more than the requisite 9%.
115,624 shares, together with the corresponding matching shares, were released to participants on 15 June 2004.
On 24 October 2004, 29,156 shares reached the end of the three-year deferral period.
At 31 December 2004, these shares were still held in the Employee Benefit Trust, pending formal confirmation that the corresponding 29,156 matching shares might be awarded.
Subject to the growth in the Companys earnings per share after adjustment to reflect the disposal of the Homes business exceeding the Retail Price Index by the requisite 9% over the three years to 24 October 2004, a total of 58,312 shares will be released to participants.
On 2 December 2004, 52,337 shares reached the end of the three-year deferral period.
At 31 December 2004, these shares were still held in the Employee Benefit Trust, pending formal confirmation that the corresponding 52,337 matching shares might be awarded.
Subject to the growth in the Companys earnings per share after adjustment to reflect the disposal of the Homes business exceeding the Retail Price Index by the requisite 9% over the three years to 2 December 2004, a total of 104,674 shares will be released to the participant.
An analysis of directors interests is contained in the remuneration report on pages 21 to 23.
Reserves Share Revaluation Other Profit and premium reserve reserves loss account Group m m m m At 1 January 2004 as previously reported 140.5 0.6 7.6 136.9 Prior year adjustment UITF 38 0.3 Prior year adjustment merger reserve transfer 53.3 53.3 At 1 January 2004 as restated 87.2 0.6 60.9 137.2 Loss for the year 8.7 Purchase of own shares for cancellation 0.7 7.1 Movement in ESOP Trust 0.4 Transfer to profit and loss account 0.3 0.3 Currency adjustments 0.5 Shares issued 0.2 At 31 December 2004 87.4 0.3 61.6 121.6 Other reserves include 53.3m 2003: nil of merger reserve and 8.3m 2003: 7.6m of capital redemption reserve.
qxp 31 3 05 8:53 pm Page 48 Alfred McAlpine plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2004 48 Notes to the accounts | continued 22.
Reserves continued Share Other Profit and premium reserves loss account Company m m m At 1 January 2004 as previously reported 140.5 156.9 50.2 Prior year adjustment UITF 38 0.3 Prior year adjustment merger reserve transfer 53.3 53.3 At 1 January 2004 as restated 87.2 210.2 50.5 Profit retained for the year 44.2 Purchase of own shares for cancellation 0.7 7.1 Movement in ESOP Trust 0.4 Shares issued 0.2 Impairment of investments in subsidiaries 22.3 At 31 December 2004 87.4 188.6 88.0 Cumulative goodwill arising on the acquisition of subsidiary undertakings prior to 1 January 1998 of 6.6m 2003: 6.6m remains written off to reserves.
Prior year adjustments In order to conform with the requirements of UTIF Abstract 38 Accounting for ESOP Trusts and the amendment to UTIF Abstract 17 Employee Share Schemes, investments in Alfred McAlpine plc ordinary shares of 25p each held by the trustees of the Alfred McAlpine Employee Benefit Trust are recorded as a deduction in arriving at shareholders funds.
Previously these shares were shown within debtors as investments in own shares.
This change has no impact on the profit and loss account for either the prior year or the year under review.
The reserves of the Company and the Group have been restated to reflect the transfer of the cumulative premium on shares issued as part of the consideration for past acquisitions to other reserves under the merger relief provisions of section 131 of the Companies Act 1985.
Financial Instruments It is the Groups objective to minimise exposure to interest rate, currency and liquidity risk through the use of financial instruments.
During the year the Group has addressed these risks principally through the use of primary financial instruments.
Formal procedures are in place to cover banking and other treasury matters.
The Groups policy is not to speculate or trade in financial instruments.
Short-term debtors and creditors Short-term debtors and creditors have been excluded from all the following disclosures, other than the currency risk disclosures.
Fair values The following table provides a comparison by category of the carrying amounts and the fair values of the Groups financial assets and financial liabilities at 31 December 2004.
Where available, market values have been used to determine fair values.
Where market values are not available, fair values have been calculated by discounting expected cash flows at prevailing interest and exchange rates.
Set out below the table is a summary of the methods and assumptions used for each category of financial instrument.
Book value Fair value Book value Fair value 2004 2004 2003 2003 m m m m Primary financial instruments held or issued to finance the Groups operations: Short-term borrowings 19.0 19.0 5.9 5.9 Preference shares 4.5 5.4 4.5 6.2 Finance leases 4.6 4.6 4.6 4.6 Other financial liabilities 3.2 3.2 2.4 2.3 31.3 32.2 17.4 19.0 Short-term deposits 23.8 23.8 55.2 55.2 Cash at bank and in hand 35.6 35.6 17.3 17.3 59.4 59.4 72.5 72.5 Other financial assets 20.6 20.6 15.3 15.3 48.7 47.8 70.4 68.8 Summary of methods and assumptions The fair value of the Groups bank loans approximates to the carrying value reported in the balance sheet as the loans are floating, with payments reset to market rates at intervals of less than one year.
The Companys preference shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange and their fair value is based on their quoted market price at 31 December 2004.
The fair value of short-term deposits, cash and overdrafts approximates to the carrying amount because of the short maturity of these instruments.
The fair value of other financial assets approximates to the carrying amount because of the ongoing trading nature of these items and the effect of increasing expected recovery off-setting the effect of discounting.
Other financial assets include shared equity debtors of 4.3m 2003: 4.9m, long-term debtors of 5.4m 2003: 5.4m and loans to joint ventures of 10.9m 2003: 5.0m.
The fair value of other financial liabilities reflects the discounting of the liabilities.
Other financial liabilities include the provisions for vacant leasehold properties of 0.6m 2003: 1.0m, and long-term creditors of 2.6m 2003: 1.4m.
qxp 31 3 05 8:53 pm Page 49 Alfred McAlpine plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2004 Notes to the accounts | continued 49 23.
Financial Instruments continued Profile of financial assets Cash at Short Other Cash at Short Other bank and term financial bank and term financial Total in hand deposits assets Total in hand deposits assets 2004 2004 2004 2004 2003 2003 2003 2003 Currency m m m m m m m m Sterling 74.5 30.1 23.8 20.6 86.1 15.6 55.2 15.3 US dollars 0.8 0.8 0.7 0.7 EU currencies 4.7 4.7 1.0 1.0 At 31 December 80.0 35.6 23.8 20.6 87.8 17.3 55.2 15.3 Floating rate 56.2 35.6 20.6 32.6 17.3 15.3 Fixed rate 23.8 23.8 55.2 55.2 At 31 December 80.0 35.6 23.8 20.6 87.8 17.3 55.2 15.3 The fixed rate short-term deposits in sterling are placed with banks on a rolling basis and earn interest at between 4.0% and 5.0% per annum.
Floating rate cash earns interest based on relevant national LIBOR equivalents.
Interest rate profile of financial liabilities Financial Financial Floating Fixed liabilities Floating Fixed liabilities rate rate on which rate rate on which financial financial no interest financial financial no interest Total liabilities liabilities is paid Total liabilities liabilities is paid 2004 2004 2004 2004 2003 2003 2003 2003 Sterling liabilities m m m m m m m m Financial liabilities 26.8 19.6 4.6 2.6 12.9 6.9 4.6 1.4 Preference shares 4.5 4.5 4.5 4.5 At 31 December 31.3 19.6 9.1 2.6 17.4 6.9 9.1 1.4 All the Groups creditors falling due within one year other than bank and other borrowings are excluded from the above tables either due to the exclusion of short-term items or because they do not meet the definition of a financial liability.
In addition to the above, the Groups provisions of 0.6m for vacant leasehold properties note 19 meet the definition of financial liabilities.
These financial liabilities are considered to be floating rate financial liabilities as, in establishing the provisions, the cash flows have been discounted and the discount rate is re-appraised at each half-yearly reporting date to ensure that it reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the liability.
The weighted average interest rate for fixed rate liabilities is 6.0%, fixed for a weighted average period of three years.
The Companys fixed rate 9% cumulative preference shares have no redemption date.
Floating rate financial liabilities bear interest at rates, based on relevant LIBOR equivalents, which are fixed in advance for periods up to three months.
The weighted average period until maturity of financial liabilities on which no interest is paid is 1.5 years.
The undrawn elements of the Groups committed borrowing facilities at 31 December 2004 total 105m.
These facilities expire in November 2007 and incur commitment fees at fixed contractual rates.
Currency exposures There are no significant external monetary assets and liabilities held by Group companies in currencies other than their local currency.
Hedges There are no significant off balance sheet hedges as at 31 December 2004. pp35-pp55.
qxp 31 3 05 8:53 pm Page 50 Alfred McAlpine plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2004 50 Notes to the accounts | continued 24.
Reconciliation of Operating Profits to Net Cash Flow from Operating Activities 2004 2003 m m Group operating profit before exceptional charges 21.8 24.1 Depreciation 9.6 8.4 Profit on disposal of tangible fixed assets 0.7 2.6 Goodwill amortisation 8.2 5.6 Increase in stocks 0.4 1.9 Increase in debtors 31.7 39.6 Increase in creditors 21.6 5.4 Decrease in other provisions 0.5 0.9 Net cash flow from operating activities before exceptional charges 27.9 1.5 25.
Acquisition of UK Power Construction Limited On 6 February 2004 the Group acquired UK Power Construction Limited for a cash consideration of 5.2m including acquisition costs of 0.1m.
In addition, net cash of 0.1m was acquired.
The business has been fully incorporated into Alfred McAlpine Infrastructure Services and consequently the results cannot be separately identified.
The acquisition has been accounted for using the acquisition method of accounting.
Goodwill arising on the acquisition is being amortised over its useful economic life of 20 years.
The following table sets out the book values of the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired and their fair value to the Group.
Fair value Net assets Fair value to the acquired adjustments Group m m m Tangible assets 0.7 0.2 0.5 Cash 0.1 0.1 Debtors 1.1 0.1 1.0 Creditors 0.8 0.2 1.0 Finance leasess 0.3 0.3 Net assets acquired 0.8 0.5 0.3 Goodwill 4.9 Consideration satisfied by cash 5.2 The fair value adjustments relate to the realignment of accounting policies.
The fair valuation of net assets acquired is provisional and ongoing, and will be finalised in the 2005 financial statements.
qxp 31 3 05 8:53 pm Page 51 Alfred McAlpine plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2004 Notes to the accounts | continued 51 27.
Parent Company As permitted by Section 230 1 of the Companies Act 1985, the profit and loss account of the Company is not presented as part of the accounts.
The parent company profit after tax of 56.4m 2003: 10.0m is included in the Group profit for the financial year.
The reconciliation of movements in shareholders funds is as follows: 2004 2003 m m Restated Profit for the financial year 56.4 10.0 Dividends 12.2 11.3 44.2 1.3 Impairment of investments in subsidiaries 22.3 New shares issued 0.1 2.8 Premium on new share capital issued 0.2 2.5 Purchase of own shares for cancellation 7.1 9.6 Movement on ESOP Trust 0.4 Net increase decrease to shareholders funds 15.5 5.6 Opening shareholders funds 378.0 383.6 Closing shareholders funds 393.5 378.0 28.
Related Party Transactions During the year the Group entered into the following material transactions with related parties: Transactions amounting to 77.2m 2003: 52.3m have been made with joint ventures and associates for provision of labour at cost, plant at normal commercial rates, recharge of costs incurred and management fees.
The Group was owed net balances totalling 2.6m 2003: 0.5m owed by the Group by these joint ventures and associates at the year end.
0.2m was written off in respect of such balances 2003: nil.
In each case, a senior representative of the Alfred McAlpine Group sits on the Board of the joint venture body.
Post Balance Sheet Events On 26 January 2005, the Group sold its investment in Mercia Healthcare Holdings Limited for 5.6m, generating an exceptional profit of 2.9m.
Mercia Healthcare operates a PFI scheme on behalf of Hereford Hospitals NHS Trust.
The full effects of this disposal will be included in the 2005 Annual Report.
qxp 31 3 05 8:53 pm Page 52 Alfred McAlpine plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2004 52 Notes to the accounts | continued 30.
Pension Costs Defined contribution schemes The Group operates six main defined contribution pension schemes in the UK.
All provide benefits based upon the individual funds available, at retirement, for the purchase of an annuity.
On 1 August 2003, the Company introduced the McAlpine 2003 Pension Plan the 2003 Pension Plan, which is a contracted-in defined contribution pension arrangement.
The minimum employee contribution is 3% of basic salary.
Employees may elect to pay additional contributions, some of which will be matched by the Company, thus increasing the Company contribution from the minimum 3% to a maximum of 6% or 9% depending on the grade of the employee.
The average Company contribution equates to 5.6% of basic salary.
In aggregate, employer contributions were 2.5m in 2004 2003: 0.8m part year.
The Alfred McAlpine Utility Services Group Limited Retirement Benefits Scheme received employer contributions in 2004 of 121,000 2003: 117,000.
The Alfred McAlpine Utility Services Group Limited Group Personal Pension Plan received employer contributions in 2004 of 570,000 2003: 464,000.
The Stiell Retirement Savings Scheme received employer contributions in 2004 of 357,000 2003: 278,000.
The Stiell Limited Group Personal Pension Plan received employer contributions in 2004 of 122,000 2003: 142,000.
The Eastern Contracting Limited Group Personal Pension Plan, which was discontinued at 30 November 2003, received no employer contributions in 2004 2003: 9,000.
Defined benefit schemes The Group operates a defined benefit pension plan and participates in the Electricity Supply Pension Scheme the ESPS in the UK.
Both the Alfred McAlpine Pension Plan the Plan and the ESPS provide benefits based on final pensionable salary for eligible employees.
The assets are held separately from those of the Group and are managed on the trustees behalf by investment managers.
Both are funded by contributions from the employer and investment returns.
The rates of contribution are determined by independent qualified actuaries.
Employees who are members of the ESPS also pay a contribution.
The Plan With effect from 31 July 2003, the Plan was closed to new entrants.
Members as at that date retain the link to pensionable salary at their eventual date of leaving in respect of service up to 31 July 2003, but have ceased to accrue benefits within the Pension Plan in respect of service after 31 July 2003.
The most recent full valuation of the Plan was at 31 December 2002 and incorporates the assumption that investment returns will be 2.05% per annum greater than the rate of future salary increases to normal retirement date or earlier death or withdrawal from the Plan and 2.8% greater than the rate of increase in present and future pensions.
The actuary reported that the smoothed market value of the Plans assets at 31 December 2002 was 189.7m 1999: 236.8m which was sufficient to cover 71% of the benefits that had accrued to members, allowing for future salary projections.
The deficit is spread over the estimated average remaining service life of Plan members of 15 years, allowing for the variation to be index-linked to RPI.
This is a changed basis of spreading the deficit, following the closure of the scheme, and was adopted after taking advice from the independent actuary.
Employer contributions made to the Plan in 2004 were 4.0m 2003: 5.2m and the charge to the profit and loss account in the year to 31 December 2004 totalled 4.0m 2003: 4.3m.
The prepayment of 32.3m therefore remains unchanged.
From 1 January 2005, the Group will make an index-linked contribution to the Pension Plan of 4.0m per annum.
The ESPS The most recent full valuation of the ESPS was at 31 March 2004 and incorporates the assumption that investment returns will be 2.3% per annum greater than the rate of future salary increases to normal retirement date or earlier death or withdrawal from the ESPS and 1.3% greater than the rate of increase in present and future pensions.
The actuary reported that the smoothed market value of the Alfred McAlpine Group of the ESPS assets at 31 March 2004 was 44.1m 2001: 37.3m, which was sufficient to cover 83% of the benefits that had accrued to members.
Employer contributions made to the ESPS in 2004 were 1.1m 2003: 0.9m.
Application of FRS 17 The following information is given under the transitional provisions of FRS 17, which prescribes a method of valuation, for accounting purposes, that differs widely from both the full actuarial valuation and the methodology as prescribed by regulation of the minimum funding requirement.
FRS 17 gives the present value of pension liabilities by discounting pension commitments, including salary growth, at an AA corporate bond yield and includes assets at the market value at that date.
The FRS 17 value of total liabilities under the Plan and the ESPS at 31 December 2004 estimated by qualified independent actuaries was 354.4m 2003: 330.7m and the snapshot market value of assets was 274.1m 2003: 247.8m, giving a deficit as at that specific date of 56.2m 2003: 58.0m after the related deferred tax asset.
qxp 31 3 05 8:53 pm Page 53 Alfred McAlpine plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2004 Notes to the accounts | continued 53 30.
Pension Costs continued In calculating the liabilities the following assumptions have been used: At At At At At At 31 12 04 31 12 04 31 12 03 31 12 03 31 12 02 31 12 02 ESPS The Plan ESPS The Plan ESPS The Plan %pa %pa %pa %pa %pa %pa Discount rate 5.3 5.4 5.4 5.8 5.5 5.6 Salary growth 3.6 3.6 4.3 3.8 3.8 3.3 RPI 2.6 2.6 2.8 2.8 2.3 2.3 Increases to pensions in payment 2.7 2.6 2.9 2.8 2.5 2.3 Deferred pensions are revalued to retirement age in line with the RPI assumptions unless otherwise prescribed by statutory requirements or the rules of the schemes.
The expected rates of return of the assets of the schemes were: At At At At At At 31 12 04 31 12 04 31 12 03 31 12 03 31 12 02 31 12 02 ESPS The Plan ESPS The Plan ESPS The Plan %pa %pa %pa %pa %pa %pa Equities 7.5 6.6 7.9 6.9 7.6 7.0 Corporate bonds 5.0 4.9 5.3 5.4 5.0 5.5 Cash and gifts 4.5 4.1 4.8 4.4 4.5 4.5 The assets in the scheme were: At At At At At At 31 12 04 31 12 04 31 12 03 31 12 03 31 12 02 31 12 02 ESPS The Plan ESPS The Plan ESPS The Plan m m m m m m Equities 35.5 155.6 28.9 141.5 24.4 106.7 Corporate bonds 4.7 41.6 3.6 40.1 3.6 31.4 Cash and gifts 7.3 29.4 5.4 28.3 3.2 53.1 47.5 226.6 37.9 209.9 31.2 191.2 Present value of scheme liabilities 63.9 290.5 55.1 275.6 39.3 255.1 Deficit in the scheme 16.4 63.9 17.2 65.7 8.1 63.9 Related deferred tax assets 4.9 19.2 5.2 19.7 2.4 19.2 Net pension shortfall 11.5 44.7 12.0 46.0 5.7 44.7 If the aggregate of the above amounts had been recognised in the financial statements, the Groups net assets and profit and loss reserve at 31 December 2004 would be as follows: 2004 2003 Group Group m m Restated Net assets per balance sheet 300.4 316.0 Remove net SSAP 24 pension asset and its associated deferred tax 19.1 18.1 Include FRS 17 pension liability and its associated deferred tax the Plan 44.7 46.0 ESPS 11.5 12.0 Net assets including FRS 17 pension shortfall 225.1 239.9 2004 2003 Group Group m m Restated Profit and loss reserve per balance sheet 121.6 137.2 Remove net SSAP 24 pension asset and its associated deferred tax 19.1 18.1 Include FRS 17 pension liability and its associated deferred tax the Plan 44.7 46.0 ESPS 11.5 12.0 Profit and loss reserve including FRS 17 pension shortfall 46.3 61.1 pp35-pp55.
qxp 31 3 05 8:53 pm Page 54 Alfred McAlpine plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2004 54 Notes to the accounts | continued 30.
Pension Costs continued Analysis of the amount that would have been charged to operating profit 2004 2003 m m Current service cost 1.7 3.9 Past service cost 0.1 Curtailment cost 0.7 Total operating charge 1.8 4.6 Analysis of the amount that would have been charged to other finance income 2004 2003 m m Expected return on pension scheme assets 15.7 12.9 Interest on pension scheme liabilities 18.7 16.2 Net return 3.0 3.3 Analysis of the amount that would have been recognised in statement of total recognised gains and losses STRGL 2004 2003 m m Actual return on assets 27.7 29.6 Less expected return on assets 15.7 12.9 12.0 16.7 Experience gains and losses on liabilities 2.1 10.6 Changes in assumptions 7.7 16.3 Actuarial gain loss recognised in STRGL 2.2 10.2 Movement in deficit during the year 2004 2003 m m Deficit at beginning of year 82.9 72.0 Movements in year: Current service cost 1.7 3.9 Past service costs 0.1 Curtailment cost 0.7 Contributions 5.2 7.2 Other finance charge 3.0 3.3 Actuarial gain loss 2.2 10.2 Deficit at end of year 80.3 82.9 History of experience gains and losses 2004 2003 2002 m m m Difference between the experience and actual return on scheme assets 12.0 16.7 40.2 Percentage of scheme assets 4% 7% 18% Experience gains and losses on scheme liabilities 2.1 10.6 12.7 Percentage of scheme liabilities 1% 3% 4% Total amount recognised in statement of total recognised gains and losses 2.2 10.2 38.1 Percentage of scheme liabilities 1% 3% 13% 31.
Contingent Liabilities There are contingent liabilities in respect of: a completed and uncompleted contracts of the Group, its related undertakings and joint ventures: and b legal or potential claims, the outcome of which cannot at present be foreseen.
Appropriate provision has been made in these accounts for all liabilities that are, in the opinion of the directors, likely to materialise.
