qxp 31 3 05 10:00 pm Page 6 Alfred McAlpine plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2004 06 Group chief executives operating and financial review Group chief executives operating and financial review The strength of our business model has been demonstrated in 2004.
Whilst one of our major businesses experienced challenging market conditions, we have delivered growth as a Group.
Business Objectives Business Performance Our overriding goal is to provide a growing return to our investors.
Overview We will do this by retaining our core focus on providing services related All figures presented in this review exclude the exceptional charges to the built environment: by developing a balanced business without referred to in the chairmans statement.
over-dependence on any one sector, market or client: and by creating a company with outstanding employees and a strong culture focused Whilst our Infrastructure Services business, which accounts for around on long term customer relationships.
one third of our activities, experienced challenging operating conditions in its key markets in the first half of the year, the strong performance of Our Business Services and Infrastructure Services operations are our other businesses allowed us to record another year of profit growth positioned in strong growth markets, and in these businesses we are before exceptional charges and goodwill amortisation.
Recognising the more mature operating environment of our Capital Projects business, we have, for some time, Business Services continued to deliver strong growth and margins, focused on margins rather than growth.
Market and competitive taking advantage of the buoyant UK facilities management market.
conditions vary across our core activities, as does the risk profile.
Because of this, we have different margin expectations from each We are now seeing the benefits of the investment we have made in of our businesses.
strengthening the management team in our Capital Projects business over the last two years.
In line with our strategy, this business is moving As a Group, our primary financial targets are to generate double digit progressively into longer-term framework and partnering activities.
growth in profit before tax and goodwill amortisation, to continue to deliver sector-leading margins and to maximise our cash balances.
Business Services We are also committed to ensuring that the proportion of our work During 2004, Business Services became our biggest single profit that is generated from long term contracts and framework agreements contributor and we expect this to continue.
remains at or above the current level of just over 70%.
In 2004 profit before tax and amortisation in this business rose by In line with our objective of generating a high proportion of our 38% to 17.6m 2003: 12.8m on turnover up 28% at 270.2m earnings from long term business, we have set the goal of becoming 2003: 210.6m.
As a result the PBTA margin grew to 6.5%.
This our clients partner of choice in the services we provide.
reflects the degree to which we have developed consultancy and other specialist services in this business.
In order to provide high quality customer service and build long term client relationships, it is clear to us that we need to have satisfied and Business Services principal activity is facilities management FM.
If they are not happy with the company they work involves managing and maintaining buildings and the services provided for, we cannot expect them to go the extra mile for our clients.
We are involved with our clients in planning how they make best use of their space to support their business operations: we We work with MORI, the international research organisation, to monitor, run help-desks and reception areas: we implement moves and changes, on an annual basis, how our employees understand the Company and refurbishments and fit-outs: we maintain the mechanical, electrical feel about it.
Our 2004 survey showed that the satisfaction and and information technologies which are embedded in buildings and commitment levels of our employees are well ahead of average.
are critical to continuing operations: and we manage the provision of services such as catering, cleaning and security.
Our medium term objective is to achieve employee engagement and advocacy levels that are also well above MORIs UK private sector Supporting its facilities management activities, Business Services norm.
We report on progress against this objective later in this review provides advisory services on workplace compliance, IT services, and see pages 10 and 11. asset management services covering the financing and provision of vehicles, plant and temporary accommodation.
Turning to safety, we have, over the last five years, reduced our accident frequency rate significantly and Alfred McAlpine now has one of the Historically, the principal risk in this business has been its reliance on lowest rates in our sector.
Our medium term objective remains the the financial services market.
Over the last three years, this has been achievement of an accident frequency rate of 0.1, which equates to one offset by successful diversification into new markets.
It is now a accident per million man hours worked.
Ultimately our goal is, of course, well-balanced business with a strong service offering and a broad range to eliminate all accidents.
We report on our safety performance later in of markets.
qxp 1 4 05 12:33 pm Page 7 Alfred McAlpine plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2004 Group chief executives operating and financial review | continued 07 Business Services turnover by service percentage Business Services turnover by market percentage Property and construction 2.2 Other manufacturing 5.0 Extractive industries 6.2 Asset management 18.6 Facilities management 62.5 Retail 4.0 Health 3.3 Defence 8.9 Other services 20.1 IT 13.8 Utilities 4.9 Aviation 1.8 Government 3.8 Education 0.5 Consultancy 5.1 Technology 10.8 Financial and professional services 28.5 Driven by outsourcing, the market for FM services continues to show Infrastructure Services strong growth.
We estimate that around one third of FM activity in the Our Infrastructure Services operation is involved in the maintenance and UK is currently outsourced and that this represents a market worth in renewal of utilities networks in the gas, electricity, telecommunications the region of 60bn per annum.
The trend for organisations to and water sectors.
It also has a thriving highways maintenance and outsource non-core activities is driving double digit annual growth and management business working principally for local authorities.
During we anticipate positive conditions in this market for some time to come.
2004, we saw strong growth in our telecommunications and highways operations and the business now has a good balance of activities.
2004 saw both the continued growth of our business with existing clients and the acquisition of a number of new clients.
Abbey, Airbus, BAA and EDS all extended or expanded their contracts and new business wins included major contracts with ABRO, BBC Northern Ireland, Debut Services the consortium operating the south west Prime contract for the MoD, E. ON, Royal and Sun Alliance, Sainsburys and Shell.
This excellent performance has enabled us to maintain a strong order book in this business with typical contract lengths of between three and ten years.
Ian Grice Group Chief Executive pp1pp16.
qxp 31 3 05 10:00 pm Page 8 Alfred McAlpine plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2004 08 Group chief executives operating and financial review | continued Infrastructure Services turnover by sector percentage Capital Projects turnover by market percentage Urban regeneration 2.4 Other 3.0 Health 6.1 Telecommunications 7.3 Electricity 22.4 Government 15.9 Education 7.0 Financial services 8.9 Utilities 7.3 Professional Highways 26.7 services 2.1 Gas 24.5 Rail 14.6 Retail 3.7 Leisure 4.6 Other 5.1 Water 16.1 Highways 22.3 As the utilities industry focused on regulatory reviews in the water and During the year, our highways maintenance contract with Suffolk electricity sectors and network sales in the gas sector, workflows and County Council expanded and performed ahead of expectations.
visibility became unpredictable during the first half of 2004, impacting Towards the end of the year, we also announced new five-year contracts on our operating efficiency and, in turn, depressed profitability in with Severn Trent Water and Northumbrian Water.
Currently, we are this business.
bidding for further framework contracts with a number of utility companies and local authorities.
Market conditions are now returning to normal, however, our 2004 results for this business have suffered.
Whilst turnover grew by 12% to Core Utility Services, our joint venture with Scottish Power, continues 339.5m 2003: 304.3m, PBTA fell to 8.8m 2003: 13.7m.
to make good progress in the electrical connections market.
We have made a number of management changes in this business, Capital Projects and have restructured our contracting and commercial operations.
In our Capital Projects operation, our focus is on margins rather than We have also made a structured withdrawal from a small number of volume.
We entered the year with a number of major projects coming contracts which had developed to the point where the risks we were to a close and a limited order book.
being asked to accept far outweighed the potential rewards available.
However, during the year, Capital Projects delivered another good result Looking forward, the recent regulatory reviews in the electricity and to produce a year-end out-turn similar to 2003, achieving PBTA of water sectors have signalled increased expenditure programmes over 15.5m 2003: 16.5m on turnover of 330.4m 2003: 329.9m.
the five years from April 2005.
In the electricity sector, where we have The slight margin decline in this business, from 5% in 2003 to 4.7%, a particular strength, Ofgem has indicated that investment to replace reflects the increase in lower risk projects.
network assets and improve network performance over the period should grow by 48% to 5.7bn.
In the water sector, an increase Capital Projects provides project services for the building and civil in expenditure of around 1.0bn will take the total investment engineering markets.
Our civil engineering services are focused on the programme over the same period to 16.8bn.
We expect that highways and utilities sectors, and are now delivered largely through Infrastructure Services will begin to see the benefits of these new framework agreements and Early Contractor Involvement ECI programmes in the latter part of 2005. schemes, providing greater long term visibility of work and lower risks.
We have contracts in the Scottish and Yorkshire regions which are in Our special projects operation concentrates on mid-sized projects in the process of being sold by Transco.
These contracts have some time emerging and niche markets.
We are active in health, justice and to run, and we look forward to continuing to provide services to the education PFI schemes as well as design and build projects in the new owners, Scottish and Southern Energy and United Utilities health, leisure, commercial and public sectors.
activity is carried out through framework agreements with repeat clients.
During 2004, we gained significant new orders with existing Despite challenging operating conditions during the year, Infrastructure clients MBNA, Ician, and Caerphilly County Borough Council.
Services continued to make good progress in winning new orders and building its future income base.
In the first half of the year, we secured Our emphasis on new forms of contract, allied to improved risk two complementary five-year contracts with Thames Water, a threeassessment at bidding, is progressively reducing the operating and year contract with Three Valleys Water, and a highway management financial risks in this business.
programme for Redcar and Cleveland Borough Council.
qxp 31 3 05 10:00 pm Page 9 Alfred McAlpine plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2004 Group chief executives operating and financial review | continued 09 Capital Projects turnover by form of contract percentage Competitively tendered 11.1 Framework 20.8 ECI target cost 19.8 PFI 26.4 Negotiated 21.9 The Government remains committed to a significant road building Project Investments programme and we are well positioned to benefit from this.
In Our Project Investments business manages our PFI investment portfolio.
December 2004, the Highways Agency announced its specific Our share of profit from the PFI schemes in which we are involved grew programme for the next three years.
This has extended the timescales by 10% during 2004 to 4.4m 2003: 4.0m.
During the year, for some projects.
However, we anticipate that the overall impact on financial close was achieved on both the Addenbrookes and Stoke our committed schemes will be neutral.
Mandeville hospital schemes and these are now in the construction phase.
Construction of Exeter Crown Courts was completed during the The positive conditions in the highways markets, combined with the year and this scheme is now operational.
entrepreneurial targeting of specialist opportunities in emerging and niche markets, gives us significant grounds for optimism about this Slate business going forward.
This is reinforced by the restructuring and Buoyed by continuing strong demand across its product range, turnover development of the management team over the last two years which in our Slate business grew by 12.0% to 24.3m 2003: 21.7m.
has increased the professionalism in all aspects of our operations, Supported by efficiencies generated through investment in new plant produced a stronger concentration on areas of strength, and led to and equipment, PBTA grew at the higher rate of 44% to 3.9m more effective business development processes.
In a sector renowned for its low margins, it is testament to the focus Group Financial Performance and Position and discipline of the management team in Capital Projects that it is Group profit before tax and goodwill amortisation rose by 6% to able to sustain sector-leading margins.
PBTA margin remains virtually unchanged at 4.1% During 2004, a number of significant projects reached completion 2003: 4.2%.
including new school and community facilities at New Tredegar in Wales, the latest phase of office developments for MBNA in Cheshire, Our accounts for the year carry exceptional charges of 27.0m, as Exeter Crown Courts an Alfred McAlpine PFI scheme, and the Hedon announced in December 2004.
21.0m of this relates to worsening Road relief road in Hull.
out-turn losses on two construction contracts which commenced in 2000 and 2001, and to provisions for the resolution of issues associated At the same time, improved business development performance led to with the acquisition of Ryan Utility Services.
The remaining 6.0m a number of major new orders.
These included contracts to create new relates to restructuring and reorganisation costs.
facilities at Addenbrookes and Stoke Mandeville Hospitals both Alfred McAlpine PFI schemes, redevelop the Vancouver Centre in Kings Lynn, Our tax charge continues to benefit from prudent provisioning and create a new Holiday Inn Express near Cardiff airport, upgrade the A1 historic brought-forward tax losses.
As indicated previously, our effective to motorway standard between Barton and Dishforth in joint venture tax rate remained at 20% during 2004 and we anticipate being able to with AMEC, and to build the A30 bypass between Bodmin and Indian benefit from a similar rate for the next few years.
Our profit growth, combined with 7.1m spent on buying back shares Since the year end, this positive performance has continued with new in the last year, has generated an increase in adjusted earnings per orders for the redevelopment of Baskerville House in Birmingham and share of 7% to 30.6p 2003: 28.6p.
Dividend cover remains virtually the widening of the M4 in Wales.
The net goodwill amortisation charge of 8.2m is an increase of 2.6m over 2003, when we benefited from 2.2m negative goodwill pp1pp16.
qxp 13 4 05 1:44 pm Page 10 Alfred McAlpine plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2004 10 Group chief executives operating and financial review | continued Accident frequency rate AFR improvement over the last five years 0.4 0.35 0.33 0.28 0.27 0.3 0.25 0.2 0.1 0.0 generated by the acquisition of Inframan.
The remainder of the increase As a result of 5.2m spent on acquisitions, 7.1m spent on buying relates to the acquisition of UK Power in February 2004 and a full years back shares, a 4.5m tax payment, 11.6m of dividends, net PFI charge for the 2003 acquisition of AIMS.
payments of 1.1m and 16.7m of net capital expenditure, our overall cash balance at the end of the year fell to 35.8m 2003: 62.0m.
Centre and other corporate costs have fallen from 11.9m in 2003 to 9.7m in 2004.
We will be required to prepare our interim and annual financial statements for 2005 under the new International Financial Reporting Our balance sheet remains ungeared, giving us access to significant Standards IFRS.
We will continue to monitor the development of these funding to take advantage of future opportunities.
standards and their potential effects as they are finalised.
We expect them to impact principally on the treatment of pensions, goodwill and Shareholders funds stand at 300.4m, down from 316.0m in 2003 share schemes.
Our initial assessment is that the impact on 2004 restated, primarily as a result of the exceptional charges we are earnings is likely to be immaterial.
In the transitional balance sheet, our bearing this year.
Goodwill has fallen from 143.9m in 2003 to IAS19 net pension deficit of 56.5m will be shown as a liability and our 140.6m.
Shareholders funds also include a 19.1m asset, net of tax, net SSAS 24 prepayment of 19.1m will be eliminated.
The goodwill in pension balances.
amortisation charge will be replaced by an annual impairment review and consequent charge if appropriate.
We expect to present a During the year, following the financial close of our Addenbrookes and restatement of the 2004 interim and annual statements, in accordance Stoke Mandeville hospital schemes, our investments in PFI joint ventures with IFRS, in June 2005. rose by 9.7m to 26.0m as planned 2003: 16.3m.
Safety, Health and Environment Since the year end, we have disposed of our investment in Mercia We are pleased that our overall accident frequency rate has fallen again Healthcare to The Secondary Market Infrastructure Fund SMIF for and now sits at 0.25 2003: 0.27.
This is a 40% improvement over six 5.6m.
Mercia Healthcare operates a PFI scheme on behalf of Hereford years and equates to 2.5 accidents for every one million man hours Hospitals NHS Trust.
The sale will generate an exceptional profit of worked.
Congratulations are due to all of our people for their 2.9m in 2005 and represents a multiple of 3.1 on our net investment, continued efforts to make Alfred McAlpine one of the safest places which clearly demonstrates the value within our PFI investment to work in our industry.
A good safety record can only be built through years of concerted effort.
At 31 December 2004, there was an FRS 17 deficit in both of the We constantly seek to introduce improvements to the management Alfred McAlpine defined benefit pension schemes totalling 56.2m processes and technologies that influence safety, with a particular focus net of tax 2003: 58.0m, compared to a 19.1m SSAP 24 pension on leadership by directors, professional supervision and the development prepayment, after taking deferred taxation into account.
To ensure the of a positive and fair culture.
Good health and safety is good business Alfred McAlpine Pension Plan remains adequately funded, the Group and we will continue to invest to gain further improvements.
has maintained its commitment to a total contribution approaching 4.0m on an annual basis for the foreseeable future.
Employees Our employees are fundamental to our success as a service business During 2004, as predicted, we returned to the position of generating and our ability to build the long term client relationships which significant positive cash flow from operations.
In the period, we underpin our growth and profitability.
Through our annual staff survey, generated 27.9m of cash from operations.
we work with MORI to measure our performance on a number of key indicators.
We use the MORI employee advocacy model and, as 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 pp1pp16.
qxp 31 3 05 10:00 pm Page 11 Alfred McAlpine plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2004 Group chief executives operating and financial review | continued 11 The MORI employee advocacy model Advocacy Engagement Pride Commitment Satisfaction Awareness understanding previously noted, our objective is to achieve engagement and advocacy Satisfaction 73% of our employees said they were satisfied with their levels well above the UK private sector norm based on MORIs previous job, against the UK private sector norm of 62%.
Whilst this is down surveys.
Our last survey was carried out in November 2004 and on the 80% rating from our 2003 survey which used a different presented an encouraging set of results.
methodology, it is encouraging to see job satisfaction levels which are so far ahead of the norm.
This is a reflection of the challenging roles Awareness and Understanding 61% of our employees say they we are able to offer our employees and the scope we give them to understand the Companys objectives UK norm: 63% and 56% say influence how we approach our work.
64% of our employees they are well informed UK norm: 54%.
We believe this reflects the indicated that they were satisfied working for Alfred McAlpine, and progress we have been making on internal communications over the again this is ahead of the UK norm of 60%.
We now have a broad range of briefing and consultation programmes, a strong intranet, and a number of employee publications.
THE QUALITY OF SERVICE PROVIDED BY OUR EMPLOYEES IS A KEY DRIVER OF GROWTH AND Employee survey results percentage Alfred McAlpine UK norm PROFITABILITY IN OUR BUSINESS Understand the Companys objectives 61 63 Satisfied with their job 73 Commitment The proportion of our employees who say they are 62 committed to helping the Company achieve its objectives was 78% Satisfied with the Company UK norm: 70%.
This result is amongst the ten highest ever recorded 64 in a MORI survey for a UK private sector organisation and is, we believe, 60 a reflection of the strong work ethic and dedication of our people.
Committed to helping the Company achieve its objectives 78 Pride At 56%, the number of our employees who say they are proud to 70 work for Alfred McAlpine is broadly on a par with the UK norm of 58%.
Proud of the Company 56 Engagement 63% of our employees say they are either involved, or 58 want to become more involved in helping the Company achieve its Involved or want to be more involved goals this is broadly comparable with the UK norm for engagement 63 of 65%.
65 Speak highly of the Companys services 58 Advocacy 58% of our employees say they would speak highly of the 62 Companys services, whilst 50% say they would speak highly of the Speak highly of the Company as an employer Company as an employer, against UK norms of 62% and 52% 50 respectively.
52 The UK norm is the average result for UK private sector companies Overall, we are encouraged by the levels of satisfaction and in over 100 previous MORI surveys.
commitment demonstrated by our 2004 survey.
