qxp 31 3 05 10:00 pm Page 13 Alfred McAlpine plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2004 Group chief executives operating and financial review | continued 13 AEA Technology was employed to undertake an audit of our Civil informing the public about forthcoming works and monitoring their Engineering Contractors Assurance Case.
satisfaction with the way the works are handled.
Our Corporate Responsibility Report, and the data included within it, is During 2004, customer service training courses for our front line independently verified by WSP Group.
managers in Infrastructure Services were introduced and our customer service department is now engaged in a programme of site audits Investing in the Future which are designed to help us improve our interaction with the public.
Alfred McAlpine is now a service business.
Our success in the future will be intrinsically linked to the quality of the service we deliver to our clients Our Capital Projects business is committed to new forms of contract and our ability to build and sustain long term customer relationships.
which provide the basis for enriched relationships with its clients.
During 2004, we made significant progress in developing ECI contracts This, in turn, requires that we have engaged and skilled people Early Contractor Involvement.
ECI contracts encourage transparency supported by appropriate structures, knowledge and processes.
and open book working in order to remove the downstream difficulties which plague traditional construction contracts.
The non-adversarial It is also important that our employees and the outside world understand approach established by early involvement allows for greater value the new focus of our business and the value we can deliver to our clients.
engineering in the design stages and a reduction in operational issues.
We are also seeing the closer working arrangements form the basis for To address all of these critical issues, we have an integrated longer-term relationships.
development strategy which focuses on customers: our people and culture: structures, knowledge and processes: and our brand.
People and Culture As a service business, it is clear that our competitiveness depends on Service and Customer Relationships the skills of our people and the culture of our organisation.
For the last We have a number of initiatives operating across our business which decade, we have been developing a strong and distinctive culture are designed to improve the value we deliver to our customers.
Operating through a range of training, development, leadership and communications activities we have built a During 2004, we became a member of the Institute of Customer culture which is open, customer focused, enterprising and results Service, and this has been instrumental in helping us establish an driven.
internal Academy of customer service training programmes, which our employees are benefiting from.
Our Business Services operation has been investing in customer service DEVELOPING OUR PEOPLE AND CULTURE IS THE development for many years, and is now recognised as a service leader SURE ROUTE TO OUTSTANDING CUSTOMER in the facilities management market.
Early in 2004, Business Services launched a new customer satisfaction measurement process, which SERVICE AND LONG TERM RELATIONSHIPS involves interviewing all key clients to identify what is important to them and how we are performing.
The early results from this new process are now being used to generate focused service improvements for each client.
To support our growth, it is clear that we will need more people with In November 2004, Business Services agreed to endow the Visiting the technical, professional and managerial skills that will be in demand Chair of Customer Management at Manchester Business School.
To address this requirement, we are continuing to invest Through this, we will benefit from direct access to their knowledge in our people.
base on customer service and the support of key members of the faculty.
In December, Business Services hosted a major customer Our thriving apprentice and graduate entry programmes have 120 and seminar which involved a number of clients.
This examined key 25 participants respectively.
Four training centres throughout the UK approaches for building a strong customer focused organisation.
address our technical skills requirements.
Run by a dedicated staff of around 40 trainers, they delivered over 13,000 training days and 750 Our Infrastructure Services business is increasingly involved in handling NVQs during 2004.
As well as meeting our own needs, these centres front line customer service on behalf of our clients in the utilities sector.
are now increasingly attracting external customers.
Over the last two years, we have been developing our customer service function in response to this.
New processes have been established for pp1pp16.
qxp 31 3 05 10:00 pm Page 14 Alfred McAlpine plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2004 14 Group chief executives operating and financial review | continued During 2004, our management training programmes concentrated During 2004, we have introduced the use of handheld Blackberry particularly on leadership and motivation, performance management, devices to help manage the workflow of our mobile service engineers.
change management, recruitment and selection and financial This is resulting in improved customer service and operating efficiencies.
In addition to the enhancement of our IT backbone and wireless To meet the needs of our senior managers and prepare them for wider capability, we continue to invest in our business systems to increase the responsibilities, we launched a new director development programme speed, accuracy and efficiency of our back office processes.
Initially, this has focused on strategic management 2004, we substantially completed the implementation of an integrated and during 2005 will embrace financial management and people procurement, costing, management information and accounting system development.
across two thirds of the business.
This is already generating efficiencies and improved management information, and has the capacity to Throughout our business, performance is managed through Personal support our planned growth.
During 2005, a major focus will be the Development Plans which assess employee performance and set goals delivery of an integrated HR and payroll system across the Group.
Structures, Knowledge and Processes CAPTURING, ORGANISING AND PROVIDING Our three principal business streams Business Services, Infrastructure ACCESS TO THE KNOWLEDGE THAT EXISTS Services and Capital Projects benefit from the brand and reputation of the Company and the ability to harness the extensive knowledge of THROUGHOUT OUR BUSINESS IS BECOMING each sector.
In addition they are supported by the provision of a INCREASINGLY IMPORTANT IN ENSURING common infrastructure and a network of expert professionals without COMPETITIVE SUCCESS having to bear the cost of a large central overhead.
We continue to invest in the critical functions that support our operating businesses.
Within the last two years, new leaders have been appointed in finance, Our Brand HR and strategy and communications and they have led the The Alfred McAlpine brand is long established and, we believe, well strengthening of these functions throughout the business.
However, it is clear that perceptions of our activities lag these areas, our head office team is restricted to the size required to behind the reality of our re-shaped business.
establish strategy and policy, manage Group requirements and monitor compliance.
The majority of personnel in these functions are employed In late 2003, we launched a new corporate identity.
The clean look of in our operating businesses.
our new identity met with a very positive reception, in most quarters, and has been instrumental in signalling the changes that have taken Following several recent acquisitions, we inherited a diverse range of place in our business.
We are now making good progress in adopting Company-wide procurement processes and, Whilst, clearly, it is important to help people understand the focus already, we have generated significant cost savings in stationery, office and shape of our business, we also believe it is prudent to match our consumables and travel.
This programme will continue, with a particular investment in brand communication to the overall resource position focus on property related costs.
Capturing, organising and providing access to the knowledge that In light of this, we have commenced, and will continue to invest in, exists throughout our business is becoming increasingly important in focused communications activities designed to shift brand perceptions ensuring competitive success.
During 2004, we developed and over the longer term.
This has included our successful sponsorship of launched Revelation, an advanced intranet, in our Business Services the UK sailing team at the 2004 Olympics in Athens.
This will be rolled out shortly across the rest of our business.
Revelation was developed by our own IT business, which has also led the development of our voice and data networks.
This increasingly serves wireless devices that enhance our capability to respond, monitor and manage in real time.
