qxp 31 3 05 10:00 pm Page 6 Alfred McAlpine plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2004 06 Group chief executives operating and financial review Group chief executives operating and financial review The strength of our business model has been demonstrated in 2004.
Whilst one of our major businesses experienced challenging market conditions, we have delivered growth as a Group.
Business Objectives Business Performance Our overriding goal is to provide a growing return to our investors.
Overview We will do this by retaining our core focus on providing services related All figures presented in this review exclude the exceptional charges to the built environment: by developing a balanced business without referred to in the chairmans statement.
over-dependence on any one sector, market or client: and by creating a company with outstanding employees and a strong culture focused Whilst our Infrastructure Services business, which accounts for around on long term customer relationships.
one third of our activities, experienced challenging operating conditions in its key markets in the first half of the year, the strong performance of Our Business Services and Infrastructure Services operations are our other businesses allowed us to record another year of profit growth positioned in strong growth markets, and in these businesses we are before exceptional charges and goodwill amortisation.
Recognising the more mature operating environment of our Capital Projects business, we have, for some time, Business Services continued to deliver strong growth and margins, focused on margins rather than growth.
Market and competitive taking advantage of the buoyant UK facilities management market.
conditions vary across our core activities, as does the risk profile.
Because of this, we have different margin expectations from each We are now seeing the benefits of the investment we have made in of our businesses.
strengthening the management team in our Capital Projects business over the last two years.
In line with our strategy, this business is moving As a Group, our primary financial targets are to generate double digit progressively into longer-term framework and partnering activities.
growth in profit before tax and goodwill amortisation, to continue to deliver sector-leading margins and to maximise our cash balances.
Business Services We are also committed to ensuring that the proportion of our work During 2004, Business Services became our biggest single profit that is generated from long term contracts and framework agreements contributor and we expect this to continue.
remains at or above the current level of just over 70%.
In 2004 profit before tax and amortisation in this business rose by In line with our objective of generating a high proportion of our 38% to 17.6m 2003: 12.8m on turnover up 28% at 270.2m earnings from long term business, we have set the goal of becoming 2003: 210.6m.
As a result the PBTA margin grew to 6.5%.
This our clients partner of choice in the services we provide.
reflects the degree to which we have developed consultancy and other specialist services in this business.
In order to provide high quality customer service and build long term client relationships, it is clear to us that we need to have satisfied and Business Services principal activity is facilities management FM.
If they are not happy with the company they work involves managing and maintaining buildings and the services provided for, we cannot expect them to go the extra mile for our clients.
We are involved with our clients in planning how they make best use of their space to support their business operations: we We work with MORI, the international research organisation, to monitor, run help-desks and reception areas: we implement moves and changes, on an annual basis, how our employees understand the Company and refurbishments and fit-outs: we maintain the mechanical, electrical feel about it.
Our 2004 survey showed that the satisfaction and and information technologies which are embedded in buildings and commitment levels of our employees are well ahead of average.
are critical to continuing operations: and we manage the provision of services such as catering, cleaning and security.
Our medium term objective is to achieve employee engagement and advocacy levels that are also well above MORIs UK private sector Supporting its facilities management activities, Business Services norm.
We report on progress against this objective later in this review provides advisory services on workplace compliance, IT services, and see pages 10 and 11. asset management services covering the financing and provision of vehicles, plant and temporary accommodation.
Turning to safety, we have, over the last five years, reduced our accident frequency rate significantly and Alfred McAlpine now has one of the Historically, the principal risk in this business has been its reliance on lowest rates in our sector.
Our medium term objective remains the the financial services market.
Over the last three years, this has been achievement of an accident frequency rate of 0.1, which equates to one offset by successful diversification into new markets.
It is now a accident per million man hours worked.
Ultimately our goal is, of course, well-balanced business with a strong service offering and a broad range to eliminate all accidents.
We report on our safety performance later in of markets.
