Statutory reports Geest PLC 25 DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors submit their report and the Directors and their interests Substantial shareholdings audited accounts of the Company and The Nomination Committee has formally The Company has been informed its subsidiary undertakings together considered the balance of skills, that on 18 March 2005 the following the Group for the fty two weeks ended knowledge and experience of the Board shareholders held substantial holdings 1 January 2005.
Comparatives in this and has confirmed that the composition of the issued ordinary shares of report are for the fty three week period of the Board is satisfactory, subject the Company: ended 3 January 2004. to the appointment of an additional Issued independent non-executive Director.
Holding of share ordinary shares capital Principal activities and business review Shareholder Number % The principal activities of the Group are Biographical details of the present Bakkavr Group hf 14,934,483 19.8 the preparation and marketing of fresh Directors are set out on pages 14 and 15.
Harris Associates LP 3,729,000 4.9 prepared foods and the marketing and distribution of fresh produce.
Mark Pullen and David Wallis retire Allianz Global Investors 3,685,000 4.9 by rotation at the forthcoming Annual Crdit Industriel The operational and financial activity General Meeting and, being eligible, dAlsace et fide Lorraine 3,151,331 4.2 of the Group in the period is discussed offer themselves for re-election.
Legal & General in more detail in the Operating and The Board confirms that each of these financial review on page 4 onwards.
Directors has been formally appraised Investment Management 2,658,073 3.5 during the period and that they continue Source: JPMorgan Cazenove Results and dividends to demonstrate commitment to the The profit on ordinary activities before Board and to be an effective member.
exceptional costs and taxation was Going concern 34.4 million 2003 restated: 37.6 million, Details of the Directors service contracts The Directors confirm that they are and after exceptional costs was and the interests of the Directors in the satisfied that the Company and the 33.7 million 2003 restated: 27.7 million.
shares of the Company and in options Group have adequate resources to over such shares are disclosed in the continue in business for the foreseeable An interim dividend of 8.6 pence per Directors pay and benets report future.
For this reason, they continue ordinary share was paid on 31 December on pages 27 to 38. to adopt the going concern basis 2004.
As part of the recommended in preparing the accounts.
offer price for the takeover of Geest No Director had at any time during the by Bakkavr, a special dividend period, or has, a material interest in any Creditor payment policy of 7.0 pence per share is proposed.
contract or arrangement of signicance The Groups strategy is to develop Assuming the deal is completed, to which any Group undertaking was, mutually beneficial relationships with this dividend will be payable to all or is, a party.
The Company has effected its key suppliers.
The Groups policy, shareholders on the register at the insurance covering Directors and ofcers in relation to all its suppliers, is to settle dividend record time expected to be against liabilities which they may incur the terms of the transaction and to 6pm on 12 May 2005.
It is expected in their capacity as Directors or ofcers.
abide by those terms, provided that it is that this special dividend will be paid satisfied that the supplier has provided on 27 May 2005. the goods or services in accordance with the agreed terms and conditions.
Fixed assets The Directors are of the opinion that The average number of days purchases there is no significant difference between outstanding for payment by the Group the book value and market value of the was 69 days 2003: 52 days.
26 Geest PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Disabled employees The accounts, of which the form and 3 To approve the Directors pay and We consider all applications for content is prescribed by the Companies benets report set out on pages employment by disabled persons fully Act 1985, must give a true and fair view 27 to 38. and fairly in regard to to the aptitudes of the state of affairs of the Company and abilities of the applicant.
Training and the Group at the end of the financial 4 To seek approval for the Company and career opportunities are available period, and of the profit or loss of the to make purchases of its own shares.
to all employees and, in the event of Group for the period, and must comply Some or all of the shares purchased employees developing a disability, with applicable accounting standards, may be held in treasury for subsequent every effort is made to ensure that their subject to any material departures cancellation or transfer out of treasury employment within the Group continues disclosed and explained in the accounts.
to the extent permitted by law and and that they receive suitable retraining.
in accordance with the authorities In preparing the accounts, the Directors granted by shareholders at the Annual Community involvement are responsible for the adoption of General Meeting.
This authority will Details of our involvement in local suitable accounting policies as set only be exercised if it is earnings communities are available on our out on pages 44 and 45, consistently enhancing and in the best interests website: www.
co. uk gst applied and supported by reasonable of shareholders.
In 2004, our and prudent judgements and estimates.
businesses donated a total of 52,000 5 To seek approval for the Company 2003: 107,000.
We have a policy not In addition, the Directors are responsible to use shares repurchased and held to make any political donations.
for maintaining proper accounting records in treasury to satisfy entitlements which disclose with reasonable accuracy under the Companys share benefit Share capital the financial position of the Company schemes Executive co-investment Details of shares issued during the period and which enable them to ensure that plan, Long term incentive plan, following the exercise of options under the accounts comply with the Companies Company share option scheme, share option schemes operated by Act 1985.
They have general responsibility Sharesave scheme.
Use of these the Company are set out on page 56. for taking reasonable steps to safeguard shares will be in accordance with No other shares were issued during the the assets of the Group and for the the equity dilution guidelines of the period.
Additional information regarding prevention and detection of fraud Association of British Insurers ABI.
various share option arrangements and and other irregularities.
The Directors options outstanding is given in the statement on the Groups internal 6 To seek approval of an amendment Directors pay and benets report controls is set out on pages 20 and 21. to the Articles of Association of on pages 27 to 38.
The Directors confirm that the above the Company to increase the total requirements have been complied with amount of fees paid to the Directors During the period, the Company in the accounts.
to 400,000. purchased 2,310,000 of its own shares, which have been held in treasury.
Special business at the Annual Resolutions 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5, if passed, At 1 January 2005, the Company could General Meeting will renew, until the next Annual General purchase a further 5,224,964 shares Resolutions will be proposed at the Meeting, a similar authority granted in accordance with the authority granted forthcoming Annual General Meeting to the Directors by resolutions passed by shareholders at the 2004 Annual for the following purposes: at the last Annual General Meeting.
1 To grant to the Directors limited The various resolutions are set out in Auditor authority to exercise the powers the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
A resolution concerning the of the Company to allot shares.
reappointment of KPMG Audit Plc as The Directors have no present intention By order of the Board auditor and to authorise the Directors to exercise this authority except to Dawn E Durrant to agree the level of remuneration will issue shares to employees who have Company Secretary be proposed at the forthcoming Annual exercised options under employee 18 March 2005 General Meeting.
Directors responsibilities for preparing 2 To give the Directors a limited power the accounts to issue shares for cash and to dispose The Directors are obliged under company of treasury shares without complying law to prepare accounts for each financial with statutory pre-emption rights up period and to present them annually to to an aggregate nominal amount of the Companys members at the Annual 183,134, which sum represents General Meeting.
3,662,696 ordinary shares of 5 pence each, being approximately 5% of the issued share capital, excluding treasury shares, of the Company at 18 March 2005.
