20 Geest PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED annually to share market views and Risk management process Our investment updates.
Meetings between major Following publication of guidance for We have grown substantially over the shareholders and the Chairman and Directors on internal control: Internal past few years and plan to do so in a other non-executive Directors are Control Guidance for Directors on sustainable way.
It is necessary that all arranged on request.
the Combined Code the Turnbull the key resources are available to allow guidance, the Board confirms that: that growth to continue and that our At the Annual General Meeting, the investments achieve targeted returns.
Chairman issues a formal statement there is a continuing process for and the Chief Executive Officer reviews identifying, evaluating and managing These five big risks are monitored by informally developments during the the significant risks faced by the Board, which receives regular reports year.
All Directors are available before the Group: and presentations in these areas.
Once and during the meeting for questions the process has been in place for a year, the Audit Committee and the and informal discussion.
We announce the period under review and up to Board formally review these risks the results of proxy votes, including the date of the approval of the Annual and the processes in place to manage abstentions, at the meeting and we also Report and Accounts: and them to consider whether they are still publish them on our website immediately this process is regularly reviewed appropriate and to identify any significant following the meeting.
See the Geest by the Board and accords with increase in risk that requires action.
investors shareservices agm In arriving at the five big risks, the The Board continues to believe that Board identified over 30 subsidiary risks, the management of the five areas listed which all fall into one or more of the The internal control framework below is fundamental to the success above categories.
The management of of the Company.
these subsidiary risks has been allocated Responsibility to specific senior managers.
All of the Board Food safety risks are re-evaluated formally by the Millions of people eat our products.
It is Management Board at least once a paramount that we ensure food safety.
year to assess whether they are still appropriate and to identify any significant Framework Our customers increase in risk that requires action.
We serve few, very important Clear, delegated authorities to management Policies and procedures customers.
We make products which The results of the Management Boards Communication up and down the chain carry their brand name.
The health of assessment and any proposed actions these relationships is vital to our are considered by the Audit Committee business.
Review Our consumers The internal control framework Central to the success of our business is Responsibility: The Board is ultimately Audit Committee overall system Safety Committee food safety, health the ability to supply a variety of innovative responsible for the Groups system and safety and environment and attractive food which is of high of internal control and for reviewing its Board and the Management Board quality and convenient to a consumer effectiveness.
However, such a system key performance indicators and risk areas who is increasingly demanding these is designed to manage rather than attributes.
We have also recognised and eliminate the risk of failure to achieve are addressing the increasing demand business objectives and can provide Audit for healthy, ethically-sound food.
only reasonable, and not absolute, Internal audit GARD assurance against material External audit Our people misstatement or loss.
To grow in a profitable and sustainable way requires very good employees.
Framework: The Group maintains We need to recruit, retain and develop a well-established control framework our people to support our growth.
comprising clear structures and We also need to share the same values accountabilities, well-understood if we are to work cohesively and in policies and procedures and budgeting a common direction.
The key Corporate governance Geest PLC 21 elements within the control structure There is a Group-wide policy governing suspended to focus resource on our are as follows: the Board establishes appraisal and approval of investment improvement programme.
Divisional corporate strategy and the Groups expenditure and asset disposals.
Finance Directors were given additional business objectives, and the responsibility to manage compliance Management Board and divisional The Audit Committee receives reports and controls.
The review activities management integrate these objectives on the system of internal financial recommenced in the second half of into divisional business strategies with controls from the external auditor and the year.
internal financial audit function and reviews the process for monitoring Non-financial controls: The Group has Each division and its constituent the effectiveness of internal controls, an internal team which audits production operating units have formal management both financial and non-financial.
sites for technical integrity and food structures with clear definition of safety.
This team is accredited with responsibility and which operate within Audit independent status by the British Retail well-defined policies covering food Financial controls: The Group has Consortium.
All sites are audited at safety, financial matters, health and an internal financial audit function, the least annually either by this team or safety and the environment, human Group Audit and Review Department by external auditors and any issues are resources, purchasing and manufacturing.
GARD which is reviewed by the Audit reported to the Safety Committee and Policies and control procedures are Committee annually for the to the Board.
We have a manufacturing documented in manuals which are appropriateness of resource and excellence template which sets out distributed to each business unit.
The Head of Group Audit and best practice in operational matters Review reports directly to the Audit and we audit key business units against Review: The Management Board Committee on the results of its work.
Health and safety and meets monthly to consider Group GARD has a programme to conduct an environmental issues are also monitored and divisional financial performance, in-depth review of financial, operational by the Board and there are systems in business development plans, Group and compliance controls and compliance place to audit performance.
In addition, management issues, financial and with Group financial policies at business all sites undergo an annual assessment operating budgets and forecasts, units.
The GARD reports its findings in respect of insured risks such as development and succession, capital to divisional and Group management.
expenditure proposals and key Any material issues are reported to the performance indicators.
To underpin the effectiveness of controls, it is the Groups policy to recruit and Reports on Group and divisional The internal audit programme, which develop and manage people of high performance are discussed at Board is based on an annual risk assessment calibre, integrity and appropriate meetings.
The Board also regularly of the operating units, is approved by disciplines.
There is an annual employee receives reports from executives and the Audit Committee.
During the first appraisal process which assesses functional heads on key risk subjects.
half of 2004, GARD activities were performance against agreed objectives Summary of Board governance Audit Remuneration NominationSafety Name Independent Committee Committee Committee Committee Sir John Banham Yes No No Chairman No Bob Davies Yes Chairman to May Yes, to May Yes, to May No Raymond Destin Yes Yes Yes Yes Chairman David Wallis Yes Acting Chairman Chairman Yes No Gareth Voyle No No No No Yes Mark Pullen No No No No No Jane Scriven No No No No No Number of times Committees met in 2004 35 3 3 The Board considers the Chairman to be independent although not for purposes of compliance with the Combined Code.
Bob Davies contract expired in 2004 and he stood down from the Board on 19 May 2004.
There was full attendance at the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees in 2004.
22 Geest PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Audit Committee Report by acting Committee Chairman, David Wallis The Audit Committees role includes the Company Secretary attend all reports on his findings and any frauds reviewing the Groups accounts and Committee meetings.
As noted on page 21, the preliminary and full year results Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, during the first six months of 2004, announcements and the financial the Group Finance Director, the Group Group Audit and Review activities judgements contained in them: Financial Controller and other executives were suspended to free up resource reviewing financial controls and usually attend by invitation.
systems of internal financial control The Committee is satisfied that and risk management: monitoring The Committee has the power to call this temporary suspension did not and reviewing the effectiveness for information from management prejudice the Groups financial of the internal audit function: and to consult directly with the controls.
We also reviewed the recommending and reviewing the external auditor or its advisors as Groups risk management process to appointment of the external auditor, considered appropriate.
The Head ensure that controls over financial ensuring its independence and of Group Audit and Review also has and non-financial risks are in place objectivity and the independence the right to raise issues directly with and working effectively and and effectiveness of the audit the Committee if he considers it discussed the effect of any new process.
It also reviews the Groups appropriate.
The independent nonaccounting policies and practices policy on use of the auditor for nonexecutive Directors meet privately on Group accounts.
Further details audit services and the whistlewith the external auditor at least of the Groups risk management blowing policy.
process and Groups internal control is required to report to the Board framework are described on pages any recommendations for action During 2004 we held a Committee 20 and 21. or improvement.
meeting prior to the preliminary and interim results announcements, For the first time in 2004 we formally The members of the Committee are at which we reviewed the Groups approved the appointment of the myself and the other independent financial performance and the external external auditor and its fee, and non-executive Director excluding auditors report in relation to this, as reviewed the auditors independence the Chairman of the Board and well as, in March, their audit findings.
and objectivity and provision of nonwe usually meet three times each year.
The Committee reviewed with the audit services.
We also formally Following the expiry of term of office external auditor and management the reviewed and approved the Groups of Bob Davies in May 2004, we have robustness of the numbers, any areas tax planning policy and whistlenot had a member with the relevant of judgement and any concerns blowing policy.
financial experience within the terms raised by the external auditor.
In light of the Combined Code.
However, of this we discussed the draft Please refer to the Geest website we are confident that the affairs announcement with the remainder of www.
co. uk gst responsibilities of the Audit Committee have been the Board.
to see our terms of reference, our conducted with rigour.
policy on use of external auditors for We reviewed with the Head of Group non-audit work and our whistleThe external auditor, the Head Audit and Review his planned audit blowing policy.
of Group Audit and Review who has schedule, the resource available to responsibility for internal audit and him, progress against the plan, Corporate governance Geest PLC 23 and the Groups values, and identifies Accompanying this change was a move and the organisation of bespoke necessary training to maintain and to more value investors and, given the factory visits at the request of several enhance standards of performance.
In addition, many of our sites have undergone an audit to assess Given these changes in our shareholder For the sell-side broker analysts, compliance against our employee base, we have regularly updated the in addition to our scheduled pre-close welfare and human rights policy, and latest holdings of substantial shareholders conference call updates and results all site Human Resources Managers on our website www.
co. uk gst presentations, we also organised faceare now trained in the requirements.
investors shareservices sharestructure to-face meetings, which we held with shareholders.
During the year, we Investor relations summary also briefed several broker sales teams.
Shareholder base Shareholder and analyst contact The concentration of our shareholder In 2004, senior management undertook Price sensitive information base changed significantly in 2004, scheduled conference calls and face-toand offer period following the increase in Bakkavrs face meetings with around 90 existing Our price sensitive information PSI stake to just under 20%.
More dramatic and potential shareholders.
In addition, protocol was drawn up in August 2002. was the shift in our shareholder base by we dealt with ad hoc queries by Accordingly, only our Chief Executive geographic composition.
At the end of telephone, post and e-mail.
Officer, Group Finance Director, 2003, British shareholders accounted Group Communications Manager and for 63% of our base: a year later, this Given the bid speculation, we made a appointed advisors, Financial Dynamics, percentage had almost halved to 34%.
concerted effort to see as many of our may impart price sensitive information.
larger shareholders as possible in the Shareholder base second half of the year.
We targeted Since the announcement of the by geographic split to meet up with shareholders owning agreement to allow Bakkavr to carry 70% of the business and we managed out due diligence on Geest, we have England and Wales to visit or hold scheduled conference been in an offer period.
All telephone calls with shareholders who, between calls and meetings with shareholders, them, owned 67% of the Company.
potential shareholders and broker Iceland This included a trip to the US and analysts have since been monitored by Canada to meet new shareholders our brokers.
Below threshold 0 102030405060 % shareholding by recognised country December 2003 December 2004 Source: JPMorgan Cazenove.
24 Geest PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED % number of named shareholders Remuneration Committee % number of shares held Report by Committee Chairman, David Wallis 0 102030405060708090100 Private individuals Institutions companies Source: Computershare Investor Services PLC, at 31 December 2004 excludes shares held in treasury.
the Takeover Panel rules to demonstrate The Remuneration Committee a sign of their commitment to the that no PSI had been discussed and makes recommendations to and improvement programme.
In 2004, that equality of treatment of determines on the Boards behalf for the first time since its inception, shareholders had been maintained.
all aspects of pay and benefits of awards maturing under the LTIP the Chairman, executive Directors failed to pay out due to relative Private investors and members of the Management TSR targets over the previous four Private individuals account for around Board, as well as other aspects year period being missed.
Financial 80% of registered shareholders but only of Group pay and benefits.
The targets relating to the executive 11% of shares held.
Over 90% of shares Directors pay and benefits report Directors short term annual bonus are held by around 3% of named on pages 27 to 38 sets out in more were also missed, so that executive shareholders.
Our investor relations detail the Committees policies and Directors and senior management approach aims to be all-inclusive practice in this area.
We meet at earned significantly less in total than see www.
I do not believe this However, we do appreciate that Destin and myself sit on the reflects the commitment and hard management time is skewed towards Committee and the Chairman of work of our senior management our larger, institutional holders.
To balance the Board normally attends meetings team, which met its targets for our this we endeavour to make the content at my invitation.
and language of our report and accounts Secretary attends all meetings.
easy to digest and we encourage the During the year we adopted a use of our website where timely During 2004, we approved a change pension policy for executive Directors.
information is made available to all.
to the peer group against which the This allows the Company to pay We now have 485 registered users of Companys total shareholder return a higher salary supplement to our e-mail alert system up 62% since TSR is measured, for the purposes executive Directors who are unable last year and we estimate that many 1 of the Long term incentive plan to receive a 30th accrual under the of these are private investors.
LTIP and the Company share option Geest final pay pensions scheme scheme.
The original group of food due to Inland Revenue restrictions.
We continue to offer and encourage an producers and processors has This brings our executive Directors electronic communication shareholder diminished in number significantly in line with an existing policy that is service but have, to date, only attracted over the past seven years and so in place for the Management Board.
a small number of people around 40 the Committee felt that the FTSE who opt to review our report and 250 sector, excluding investment Should the Bakkavr bid not accounts via the website instead of companies, would be a more proceed, during 2005 we will, receiving a hard copy.
in accordance with best practice, adopt a policy for the measurement We do not wish to prejudice any In July, it was decided that the of earnings per share under our shareholders unable or unwilling to executive Directors should receive Executive co-investment plan use our corporate website and we no increase to their basic salary as and LTIP.
encourage shareholders to contact us if they require paper copies of any released information.
