14 Geest PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 BOARD OF DIRECTORS From left to right: Gareth Voyle, Sir John Banham, Dawn Durrant, David Wallis, Mark Pullen, Jane Scriven, Raymond Destin Length of service on prepared foods business.
In July 1995, Jane joined the Board of Geest in Geest Board rounded to Gareth was appointed to the Board January 1996 and believes there is Name nearest full year and, with his team, has been responsible significant opportunity for measured Executive Directors for developing both the culture and growth in continental Europe.
Jane was Gareth Voyle 10 operating practices that form the basis appointed as a non-executive Director Mark Pullen 10 of our business.
Gareth became of Greene King plc in March 2005.
Jane Scriven 9 Chief Operating Officer in 1998 and Chief Executive Officer in July 2002.
Dawn Durrant 38 Independent non-executive Directors Company Secretary Sir John Banham 3 Mark Pullen 54 Dawn qualified as a solicitor with Raymond Destin 8 Group Finance Director Allen & Overy, the London law firm, David Wallis 5 Mark has worked in the consumer goods in 1990.
She practised company and industry for over 30 years.
He is a qualified commercial law there until 1994 when Company Secretary accountant with a business degree and she decided to develop her career in his career with Unilever and, subsequently, industry with Geest.
Initially she joined Dawn Durrant 5 Guinness has included production planning, as legal advisor, providing support and industrial relations, brand marketing, IT, advice to the business, and subsequently Key to symbols the buying and selling of businesses widened her responsibilities to include Nomination Committee and the running of a bottling plant.
compliance, corporate governance, Remuneration Committee corporate responsibilities including Audit Committee Mark joined Geest and the Board in specifically health and safety and the October 1995 as Group Finance Director.
Executive Directors His top priorities have been to ensure Dawn was appointed Company Gareth Voyle 45 that the performance of the business Secretary in December 1999.
She has Chief Executive Officer is clearly understood, that targets are focused on developing and improving The early part of Gareths career was owned and learning occurs quickly.
legal and governance best practice in a technical capacity, largely with throughout the Group.
Rank Hovis McDougall PLC RHM.
Jane Scriven 45 His belief in the absolute necessity Managing Director, Continental Europe Independent non-executive Directors for product quality and food safety Having started her career as a solicitor Sir John Banham 64 derives from this early experience.
at Norton Rose in London, Jane has spent Non-executive Chairman Gareth became a company General the last 16 years working in industry in Sir John was appointed to the Board of Manager at the age of 27 and was Asia and Europe.
Her career with Elders Geest in August 2002 and to non-executive subsequently appointed Deputy IXL and, for the past 14 years, with Geest Chairman of Geest in September 2002.
Managing Director for R F Brooks Ltd. has covered extensive mergers and a significant chilled food manufacturing acquisition work, corporate development Sir John is also the non-executive subsidiary of RHM.
He joined Geest and, more recently, the running of Chairman of Whitbread PLC, ECI in 1991 to run the Spalding-based fresh our continental European business.
Ventures LLP and Cyclacel Limited, Board of Directors Geest PLC 15 the senior non-executive Director of disposals and restructuring, which Sir John Banham AMVESCAP PLC and a non-executive reinforced his belief that retail is detail.
In our independent non-executive Director of Merchants Trust PLC.
David joined the Geest Board in February Chairman we looked for gravitas 2000.
David is now Chairman of Speedy and broad experience.
We also wanted Previously, Sir John has held several Hire Plc, the market leader in the tool a good businessman and someone leading positions in British industry.
hire sector, a non-executive Director who shared our values.
Our Chairman He was Director General of the CBI of Robinson Healthcare and Chairman has all of these attributes, the clarity from 1987-1992, non-executive of Herbert Brown a regional chain of of thought that McKinseys fosters Chairman of Tarmac PLC 1994-2000 jewellers.
He is an active supporter and the depth of understanding and and Kingfisher PLC 1996-2001, of entrepreneurship and advises private experience brought by three successful Director of The National Westminster equity and development capital groups.
chairmanships two previous and one Bank and National Power both 1992- current in the FTSE 100.
1998 and the founding Chairman of Board composition Westcountry Television and Labatt In May 2004, the six-year contract of Raymond Destin Breweries of Europe.
He has also held our Senior independent non-executive We are a UK-centric business with important public sector appointments: Director, Bob Davies, expired.
We have ambition to grow abroad.
We found as the first Controller of the Audit identified a suitable replacement but a Belgian who has worked in the Commission 1983-1987, the first not yet appointed him pending the consumer food industry in most Chairman of the Local Government outcome of the Bakkavr offer.
Sir European countries and for companies Commission for England 1992-1995 John Banham reports on this in the which understand and practise the and Chairman of the UK Governments Nomination Committee report on Anglo-Saxon equity culture and Retail and Consumer Affairs Foresight page 16.
This means that we have whose last job involved close contact Panel 1997-2001. not complied with the Combined with almost every food manufacturer Code since May 2004 with regard to: of scale in Europe.
In 2003, we offered Raymond Destin 64 Raymond a third three-year term.
Non-executive Director balance of independent nonThis was a departure from our normal Raymond has enjoyed a long career in executive and executive Directors: policy, but was important for our the food industry primarily with Americana financially qualified member of continental European development.
owned companies in countries across our Audit Committee: and Europe.
He initially joined the industry the number of Committee members David Wallis in marketing with Colgate Palmolive of our Audit and Remuneration We run a devolved business and and progressed to become General Committees.
encourage our managers to be Manager of its Campbell Soup food entrepreneurial in dealing with our division.
He then had a period as Group What we look for in our independent retail customers.
We looked for, Director of Borden Europe, followed non-executive Directors.
and found, an experienced retailer by seven years at Conagra Europe We think long and hard when we who had headed up his own business as General Manager.
Until recently, choose our independent non-executive and then adapted his management Raymond was General Manager of Directors and maybe that is one of style to run a publicly quoted PLC.
the European Food Federation the the reasons why it has taken us so In David we have found a  association of European long to have found a replacement talking, hands-on player with food manufacturers.
Raymond joined for Bob Davies.
It is not just about strong attention to detail.
the Geest Board as a non-executive looking at CVs but, as importantly, Director in May 1997. understanding what each personality brings to our business and how they David Wallis 57 interact with the rest of the Board.
Senior non-executive Director We look in particular for people David is a lifelong food retailer and with proven independence and an entrepreneur.
After graduating in outstanding track record of creating economics he worked in his family food shareholder value.
business for seven years before selling it to Merchant Retail Group plc where he subsequently became Chief Executive.
Over the following nine years he gained substantial experience in acquisitions,
