OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW US HOUSING GEORGE WIMPEY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2004 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW US HOUSING CONTINUED 22 The centralised Signature Selection Centers US TOTAL COMPLETIONS VS LANDBANK GROWTH available across all Divisions continue to add value for our customers.
On average customers OWNED AND CONTROLLED PLOTS TOTAL COMPLETIONS spent $28,000 per sale 2003: $27,400, which represents approximately 10% of turnover.
During the year we researched further opportunities to develop the sale of options.
20,000 15,000 During 2005 new products and packages will be introduced along with improvements to our Signature Selection Centers and our own 15,000 10,000 procedures to increase sales and margins.
com website has 10,000 5,000 been launched which has an increased focus on providing our customers with the information they need at each stage of buying 5,000 0 a new home.
During 2004 43% more people visited our website than in the previous year.
1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 Morrison Financial Services and Morrison Title continued to be valuable parts of our business, with 61% of customers arranging their mortgages through us and in Texas and Florida, Morrison Title provided title services CUSTOMER SERVICE for 90% of customers.
Morrison Homes continues to focus on maintaining competitive advantage through GOING FORWARD its approach to customer satisfaction.
During Although short term interest rates are the year Morrisons would you recommend expected to rise, the US housing market is customer satisfaction score averaged 86.3%, forecast to remain strong throughout 2005, with five of its Divisions achieving their supported by positive demographic trends, internal goal of over 90%.
Morrison measures employment and economic growth.
Morrison customer satisfaction continuously and has is well positioned in the markets that will its own procedures to ensure lessons learnt benefit most from this.
are incorporated into the business.
Its Seven Points of Contact with the customer from Morrison Homes has achieved a rapid rate of growth in recent years and is well placed with reservation through to completion of its comprehensive two year warranty period a strong landbank, healthy market conditions and a tight control of costs to ensure this provide the basis of a continuing relationship between the company and its customers.
continues over the coming years.
OWNED AND CONTROLLED PLOTS TOTAL COMPLETIONS INNOVATIVE DESIGN FOR HIGH-DENSITY LIVING STAITHS SOUTH BANK, GATESHEAD Creating a community to share by matching local need with great design CASE STUDY The Staiths South Bank, Gateshead puts great design and community values within the reach of everyday people CREATING INNOVATIVE DESIGN FOR HIGH-DENSITY URBAN LIVING Working in conjunction with Wayne and Gerardine Hemingway, a dynamic new concept in housing has been created at Staiths.
800 homes will be built using 28 completely new house types offering customers the choice of an open-plan or a more traditional living space.
A greater emphasis has been placed on good design.
A variety of elevational concepts and treatments have been created and engineering solutions to housing have been avoided.
Creating a shared community the development is based on Home Zone principles and on shared community values.
People take priority over cars, homes are AWARDS grouped into clusters of 16-25 properties Shortlisted for the Deputy Prime Ministers with pocket parks and shared areas.
All the Award for Sustainable Communities facilities are designed to encourage social interaction and to create a sense of community.
The development received a Home Zone grant the only one to be given to new build in the Northeast which FACTS AND FIGURES helped to equip the communal areas.
Reducing the impact on the environment CREATING ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY All residents are within 400 metres Trees from the sites former use as the Garden of a bus stop Festival have been retained and replanted.
All residents are within 30 metres of a recycling point Special arrangements have been made to protect the wildlife.
The salt marsh on the edge of the Tyne which forms part of the 43 development is being protected as a nature reserve.
New footpaths have been created DWELLINGS PER HECTARE to give residents access to this area.
OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW GROUP FINANCIAL REVIEW www www.
uk 25 25 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW GROUP FINANCIAL REVIEW ANDREW CARR-LOCKE, GROUP FINANCE DIRECTOR ONCE AGAIN, GEORGE WIMPEY HAS BEEN ABLE TO REPORT A SET OF EXCELLENT RESULTS FOR THE YEAR GROUP SUMMARY With strong growth in operating profit and Group turnover, profit before tax and earnings slightly reduced interest costs, profit before per share all showed progress and yet again tax rose by 19% to 450.7 million.
profit before tax was The tax charge for the year totalled more than three times the level achieved just 139.7 million, representing an average four years ago in 2000.
Operating margins in tax rate of 31% as anticipated.
This rate both George Wimpey and Morrison Homes is expected to be sustained in 2005. continued their growth of recent years Earnings per share rose to 80.8 pence, an reaching new heights.
Reecting our stated Group turnover increased by 4% to policy of reducing our dividend cover over 3,005.7 million exceeding 3 billion for time, the Board is recommending a final the first time.
With the additional benefit dividend of 10.8 pence per share bringing of margin improvements on both sides of the full year dividend to 16.0 pence per share, the Atlantic operating profit rose by 16% to an increase of 31%.
Despite continued investment Average net debt for the year was of the order into the landbank, return on average capital of 881 million compared to 809 million employed was 27.4% and remains substantially in 2003.
However, 2003 benefited from an above our cost of capital.
average deferred payment outstanding of Interest costs totalled 49.7 million, slightly 125 million relating to the acquisition of down on 2003s expense of 51.6 million, Laing Homes.
which included 7.6 million imputed interest Interest cover stood at 10.1 times, a further on deferred consideration relating to the improvement on 2003s cover of 8.3 times.
Despite higher Another indication of the Groups growing short term market rates and higher average financial strength is a reduction in gearing net debt, a competitive banking market together debt to shareholders funds from 45% on 31 with a strengthening balance sheet enabled December 2003 to 36% on 31 December 2004. the Group to moderate the increase in its effective cost of borrowing.
The effective BALANCE SHEET CASH FLOW interest rate of 5.5% was slightly up on the Shareholders funds have continued to grow, rate of 5.4% experienced in 2003. rising strongly to 1,439.1 million.
This OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW GROUP FINANCIAL REVIEW GEORGE WIMPEY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2004 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW GROUP FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED 26 GEARING % SHAREHOLDERS FUNDS PER SHARE PENCE 31 49 40 45 36 191 210 250 304 368 350 40 300 250 30 200 20 150 100 10 50 0 0 00 01 02 03 04 00 01 02 03 04 represents a 270.7 million or 23% increase SECOND HALF RESULTS employment levels rising.
Morrison Homes In the six months ending 31 December 2004 over the value of shareholders funds at the second half completions at 2,708 increased by start of 2004.
Expressed on a per share basis, Group turnover at 1,785.8 million was broadly 26% over the final six months of 2003 despite shareholders funds increased by 64 pence to level with the corresponding period in 2003. some disruption due to the hurricanes in 368 pence.
Improved margins gave impetus to operating Florida.
Average selling prices increased to profits which grew by 13% to 319.1 million $296,000 compared with $273,000 in the The increase in net assets employed, which corresponding period in 2003, more than after absorbing a 7.8 million adverse profit rose by 262.4 million to 1,960.0 million, offsetting cost ination pressures.
Consequently translation effect of a weaker dollar.
Interest was therefore nanced by retained earnings operating profit increased by a substantial costs at 26.6 million were in line with 2003. with net debt reducing slightly in the year 74% to $127.9 million.
Consequently profit before tax for the second to 520.9 million 2003: 529.2 million.
The half rose by 14% to 292.2 million.
FINANCIAL AND TREASURY POLICIES increase in net assets employed is, in the The Group has nanced its growth in recent main, due to further investment in our land In the UK consumer sentiment was affected position, with the total value of our land assets years through a combination of retained by the cumulative effect of five successive profits, bank loans and long term loans in the rising by 211.9 million to 1,940.5 million.
interest rate increases and uncertainty on form of US$ private placements with a group Land, in accordance with accounting the future direction of house prices fuelled guidelines, is valued at the lower of historic of US insurance companies.
All loans and by comment from the Governor of the Bank banking relationships are managed centrally cost or realisable value.
We continue to make of England and media speculation.
Sales and through the Group Treasury Department.
use of deferred land payment opportunities hence completions slowed in stark contrast when it is economic to do so.
The land to the last six months of 2003 which had We continue to use derivatives to generate creditor balance of 281.5 million represents seen exceptionally buoyant conditions.
the appropriate balance between xed, a slight reduction on 2003 and stands at During this period we were careful to focus capped and oating interest rate proles.
on maintaining the improvement in margins not our policy to trade actively in derivatives achieved over the past few years rather than or to use more complex derivatives.
The Group generated a net cash inow, after pursuing volume.
As a result completions payment of dividends and nancing costs, of The Groups Treasury Committee is responsible fell by 13% compared to the second half 8.3 million.
The funds generated from our for developing and recommending policy to of 2003 whilst operating profit increased by strong earnings performance have been the Board and for monitoring our finance risks.
principally used to finance increased investment in land and work in progress, pay The main risks arising from our nancing In the US, market conditions remained our tax and interest obligations and raise our generally strong with the 30 year xed instruments are liquidity, interest rate and dividends paid to shareholders by 33%.
mortgage rate continuing below 6% and OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW GROUP FINANCIAL REVIEW www www.
uk 27 27 Currency Risk: Our principal currency risk is CASH FLOW HIGHLIGHTS 2004 M the translation exposure of our investment in Morrison Homes.
Our policy is to match as far OPERATING PROFIT 500.7 as practicable our dollar denominated assets with dollar denominated debt.
LAND SPEND 935.1 Consequently movement in the sterling dollar LAND REALISATIONS 702.1 exchange rate has had little effect on the OTHER WORKING CAPITAL MOVEMENTS 91.5 Groups shareholders funds, though it did affect the sterling value of year end debt as CASH INFLOW FROM OPERATIONS 176.2 well as reported turnover and profit before tax.
INTEREST 49.2 The Board has also given consideration to the TAX 91.3 management of risk related to major inner DIVIDENDS 33.7 city schemes.
These schemes are different in nature to normal housing or to schemes OTHER MOVEMENTS 6.3 involving smaller apartment blocks where REDUCTION IN NET DEBT 8.3 both construction and sales can be more evenly phased.
Whilst such developments represent an attractive and growing market opportunity, they involve signicantly higher financial commitment and risk, relating both to the phasing of sales and construction and to the inclusion of commercial space within Liquidity Risk:The Group maintains adequate borrowings, interest rate swaps and options.
committed borrowing facilities to ensure that The most adverse scenario for the Group is seasonal borrowing can be accommodated a significant increase in interest rates which It is therefore the Groups policy to develop whilst maintaining prudent headroom and a would weaken the housing market at the a proportion of such schemes with an range of development plans can be nanced.
appropriate joint venture partner in order same time as increasing borrowing costs.
As can be seen from note 17 to the accounts To mitigate this risk the Group has arranged to reduce the extent of our equity exposure.
the Group had committed bank facilities of In addition to an equity partner, debt facilities that approximately 79% of its year end debt 945 million at the end of 2004.
It also had long are arranged for these joint ventures on a is at xed interest rates.
term debt raised in the US private placement project specic non recourse base.
During The advent of International Accounting market of 303 million with maturities ranging 2004 two such joint venture companies were Standard 39 has caused considerable up to 14 years.
established involving a financial partner in debate within the accounting, treasury Manchester and a trade partner in London.
We took the opportunity presented by and broader business communities in the favourable conditions in the UK banking ACCOUNTING STANDARDS AND PENSIONS UK and Continental Europe.
George Wimpey market to replace some of our established The 2004 Annual Report has been produced has contributed to this debate through its bank facilities with a new 500 million in accordance with standards issued by the membership of The Hundred Group of syndicated bank facility on better terms.
There have been Finance Directors and the CBI Confederation other bank arrangements have also been no new standards issued during 2004 which of British Industry.
We have also consulted renegotiated on improved terms.
This has affect these accounts.
The accounts have widely in determining our own policy.
Some been achieved as a consequence of the been prepared on a basis which is consistent of the instruments we currently use do not Groups strengthened credit standing in the with the accounting policies adopted for 2003 meet the highly prescriptive conditions eyes of our debt providers and a record of as modied in order to comply with the needed to adopt hedge accounting.
We have delivering against our promises.
pronouncement of the Urgent Issues Tax decided to continue to use these instruments Force Number 38 Accounting for ESOP Trusts.
The combined effects of these actions has and consequently not to adopt hedge The effect of this adoption, which is not enabled the Group to maintain the average accounting for interest hedging instruments.
maturity of its committed facilities at in excess material in the context of the accounts as a Our principal focus is to manage the of five years whilst mitigating the impact of whole, is detailed in note 27 to the accounts.
underlying economic exposure rather than hardening short term interest rates.
It should be recognised We are well prepared for the adoption of Interest Rate Risk:We aim to limit our exposure that this may generate a degree of volatility international accounting standards in 2005. to uctuations in the cash interest cost of in our reported interest costs.
The Board has As commented on in last years Annual Report servicing our debt by using xed interest rate decided to keep this matter under review.
our core policies on turnover and profit OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW GROUP FINANCIAL REVIEW GEORGE WIMPEY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2004 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW GROUP FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED 28 recognition are unaffected.
In particular our Under the pension scheme rules an actuarial valuation of the scheme was carried out prudent policy of only recognising revenue based upon data as at April 2002.
This showed and profits once the sale of a house is legally a deficit of 74 million below that required to completed will continue.
There will be minor cover the benets accrued to members after changes relating to the size and recognition allowing for expected future increases in of the cost of share based incentive schemes earnings.
This valuation will be updated and accounting for long term land acquisition during 2005 based upon data as at April 2005. contracts.
Goodwill relating to the acquisitions of Richardson Homes, Denver and Laing The Company has taken several major steps Homes will no longer be amortised but subject to address the shortfall and risk exposure in to an annual impairment test.
However, the pension scheme over the last few years.
goodwill paid on these acquisitions was very The balance of the fund in UK and overseas modest and was valued at 4.7 million at the equities has been reduced and we had just end of 2004.
As commented on in the Interest 31% of funds in equities at the end of 2004.
Rate Risk section on page 27, we will be The dened benefit scheme was closed to focusing on policies which manage the new members on 1 January 2002.
Employee economic rather than the accounting risk of contributions have been increased.
The favourable arrangements for early retirement interest rate movements.
We may therefore experience some volatility in reported interest for employees and deferred members have also been amended.
The normal service cost costs under International Accounting to the company has now fallen to 13.2% of Standard 39. pensionable payroll.
In 2004 we invested an As expected the new international additional 15 million in cash 2003: 10 accounting pensions standard, IAS 19, has million to contribute towards reducing the many aspects which are similar to FRS17, deficit.
With all these measures in place, we whilst offering a number of options for remain confident that the pension deficit is implementation.
We are waiting to review being responsibly addressed.
emerging best practice in this area before deciding which option to implement.
The 2004 accounts have been prepared, consistent with previous years, by following the principles laid out in SSAP24.
Details of the accounting effect of SSAP24 and FRS17 are shown in note 8 to the accounts.
In summary, under FRS17 the UK pension Andrew Carr-Locke scheme has assets at current market value of Group Finance Director 590 million and liabilities discounted at the AA rated corporate bond yield required by the standard of 775 million.
This results in a gross deficit of 185 million which is partially offset by a deferred tax asset of 55 million giving a net deficit of 130 million.
This compares to a net deficit at the end of 2003 of 130 million.
Whilst the deficit would have been reduced as a result of the decision made early in the year to amend the terms on which deferred pensioners may take early retirement to bring them in line with the practice adopted for those retiring from employment, we have recognised the evidence of increased liability arising from greater longevity and have therefore used more conservative assumptions in this important area.
OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW GROUP FINANCIAL REVIEW www.
co. uk 29 PROMOTING EFFICIENT USE OF LAND AND RESOURCES THE METRO, SLOUGH High-density housing using environmentally friendly designs and materials CASE STUDY The Metro in Slough, Berkshire is a landmark, high-density scheme of integrated mixed tenures.
EFFICIENT DEVELOPMENT 134 new homes have been built on the 1.62 hectare site, giving a density of 97 units per hectare.
The Metro provides a range of new homes: split level live work units: two and three bedroom ats and duplexes and four bedroom townhouses.
The homes are for open market and discounted open market sale, shared ownership and rent.
Home Zone principles reduce the dominance of the car and increase the level of natural surveillance creating a safe, crime-free community.
Sustainable urban drainage INNOVATIVE USE OF MATERIALS The scheme has been constructed using systems allow rainwater to soak away back into the natural watercourse.
prefabricated timber-framed wall, oor and roof components.
Timber frames are clad Windows, glazing and insulation all exceed with maintenance-free external wall the U-values set out in current building nishes.
Two roong materials are used regulations.
Carbon dioxide intensive on site, one is 100% recyclable the other components have been avoided and is 60% crushed waste slate.
aluminium products chosen over uPVC.
Careful design and better on-site The development is designed to construction practices led to significant reduce CO emissions by providing reductions in waste materials.
Redundant 2 buildings and concrete hardstanding were good natural daylighting and maximisation of solar gain.
all reused for road bases and backll.
MINIMISING THE IMPACT ON THE ENVIRONMENT In addition energy-efficient light ttings, The development is able to reduce water space heating and some photovoltaic cells consumption by using low-capacity ush are provided.
Recycling facilities are also provided for residents use.
toilets, spray-head taps and rainwater AVERAGE SAP RATING % 10 0 OF METRO CUSTOMERS WOULD RECOMMEND GEORGE WIMPEY TO FRIENDS AND FAMILY 10 5
