BOARD OF DIRECTORS 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 40 GKN plc : ANNUAL REPORT 2004 01 Roy Brown Age 58 04 Richard Clowes Age 54 07 Helmut Mamsch Age 60 10 Nigel Stein Age 49 Chairman.
Appointed a non-executive Group Managing Director Corporate Non-executive Director.
Joined GKN in 1994 Director in 1996 becoming Chairman on Development.
Joined GKN in 1991 and 1 December 2003.
Non-executive and appointed to the Board as Finance 20 May 2004.
Non-executive Deputy appointed Chief Executive OffHighway Deputy Chairman of LogicaCMG plc Director in 2001.
Also responsible Chairman of HMV Group plc and Systems and AutoComponents in 1993. and non-executive Director of Sappi for the Groups OffHighway Systems non-executive Director of Brambles Appointed to the Board in 2001 as Limited South Africa.
Has held a range of Industries plc, Brambles Industries Managing Director Powder Metallurgy, of Supervisory Board of K S commercial, general management Limited Australia, British United OffHighway and AutoComponents, and Aktingesellschaft and Readymix AG.
and finance roles within the Group, Provident Association Ltd BUPA to his current position in October 2004.
Formerly Management Board member most recently Senior Vice President, and the Franchise Board of Lloyds of Prior to GKN, held various positions of VEBA AG now E. ON AG.
Degree Finance and Chief Financial Officer of London.
Former executive Director of with TI Group plc.
Prior to GKN, had Unilever plc and Unilever NV.
Member and Member of the Institution of extensive experience in the commercial of the CBI International Advisory Board.
Degree BSc 08 Sir Christopher Meyer vehicle and manufacturing sector.
Chartered Engineer, Fellow of the in Mechanical Engineering from Age 61 Non-executive Director of Wolseley Institution of Mechanical Engineers and Birmingham University.
Member of the Institute of Fellow of the Institution of Electrical 1 August 2003.
Chairman of the Chartered Accountants of Scotland.
Degree BSc in Mechanical 05 Sir Ian Gibson, CBE Age 58 Press Complaints Commission Degree BSc in Engineering Science Engineering from University College Non-executive Director.
Appointed in and non-executive Director of The from Edinburgh University.
London and MBA from Harvard.
Chairman of BPB plc and nonSanctuary Group plc.
Former British executive Director of Northern Rock Ambassador to the United States 11 Sir Peter Williams Age 59 02 Baroness Hogg Age 58 plc and Chelys Ltd. Former President and Germany, and also served in the Non-executive Director.
Appointed Deputy Chairman and Senior of Nissan Europe and corporate officer British Diplomatic Service in Russia, in 2001.
Chairman of the Engineering Independent Director.
Joined the of Nissan Motor Co Ltd Japan, and Spain and the UK representative office and Technology Board and the Japan Board as a non-executive Director in former Deputy Chairman of ASDA to the European Community, Brussels.
Business Network of Trade Partners 1996 and appointed Deputy Chairman Group plc.
Fellow of the Institute Former Prime Ministers Chief Press UK.
Formerly Master of St Catherines and Senior Independent Director on of Physics.
Degree BSc in Applied Secretary.
Degree MA in History from College Oxford, prior to which 1 December 2003.
Chairman of 3i Physics from Manchester University.
Chairman and previously Chief Group plc and Frontier Economics Ltd. Executive of Oxford Instruments plc.
Non-executive Director of BG Group plc, 06 Ian Griffiths Age 54 09 John Sheldrick Age 55 Non-executive Chairman of NPL Carnival plc and Carnival Corporation Group Managing Director GKN Non-executive Director.
Appointed Management Ltd and non-executive Panama.
Member of the Financial Automotive.
Joined GKN in 1975. on 20 December 2004.
Group Finance Director of W S Atkins plc.
Fellow of Reporting Council and former Head of Appointed Chief Executive GKN Director of Johnson Matthey plc since the Royal Society and of the Royal the Prime Ministers Policy Unit.
Driveline in 2000 and to the Board 1990 prior to which was Group Academy of Engineering, and Past Degree MA in Politics, Philosophy in 2001 as Managing Director GKN Treasurer of The BOC Group plc.
President of the British Association and Economics from Oxford University.
Since October 2004 Former non-executive Director of API for the Advancement of Science.
he has been responsible for the Group plc.
Fellow of the Association Degree MA in Natural Sciences 03 Kevin Smith, CBE Age 50 Groups worldwide Driveline, Powder of Corporate Treasurers and Fellow of and PhD from Cambridge University.
Joined GKN in 1999 Metallurgy and AutoComponents the Chartered Institute of Management as Managing Director Aerospace and operations.
Has been a member of Accountants.
Degrees in Natural 12 Grey Denham Age 56 appointed Chief Executive on 1 January the senior driveline management Sciences MA from Cambridge Company Secretary.
Prior to GKN, held various team since 1990 during which time University and Management 1980 and was head of the Group positions in BAE Systems over a 20 year has been responsible for operations Sciences MSc from the University Legalfunction for nine years before period latterly as Group Managing in the US and for global marketing and of Manchester Institute of Science being appointed Company Secretary Director New Business.
Non-executive Director of of The Society of British Aerospace of Ultra Electronics Holdings plc.
Holds various positions Companies Ltd, Vice President of The Degree BSc in Mechanical, Electrical on Industry and City bodies and Society of Motor Manufacturers and and Production Engineering from currently Vice Chairman of the CBI in Traders Ltd and Co-Chairman of the Coventry University.
Member of the Governments Manufacturing Forum.
Business Leadership Council of Young Fellow of the Royal Aeronautical Enterprise.
Formerly Chairman of the Society and Companion of the Primary Markets Group of the London Chartered Management Institute.
Law Degree LLB from Non-executive Director of Scottish London University and a barrister.
Degree BA in Business Studies from the University of Central Lancashire.
Member of Executive Committee The Company Secretary is secretary Member of Chairmans Committee to these Board Committees.
The Member of Audit Committee responsibilities of the Committees Member of Remuneration Committee are described on pages 75 to 77.
Member of Nominations Committee ANNUAL REPORT 2004 : GKN plc 41
