OUR TECHNOLOGY Technology is transforming GKN Technology is advancing rapidly in GKN, transforming how the Group is perceived.
Technology has always been at the heart of the leading-edge products which have won market leadership positions for GKN.
Today, however, strategic importance has been conferred on technology as an enabler of long-term growth through the creation of new products, systems and production processes.
It is GKNs technology which has created a new generation of constant velocity joints which are ahead of their competition on every important measure of performance and the Group is using its knowledge of automotive driveline dynamics to create devices and systems which deliver improved stability, traction and comfort.
In Powder Metallurgy the continuing advance of product, process and material technology will open up new opportunities, particularly in the area of automotive gears, power train components and hydraulic products.
In Aerospace GKN technology is taking the use of composites into demanding areas of airframe and aero-engine structures which were previously the preserve of conventional metals.
In opening up new applications for composites we are enabling aerospace designers to achieve the higher efficiencies and thrust-toweight ratios which are critical to the new breed of civil and military aircraft.
Much of our technology development is taking place in partnership with automotive and aerospace customers.
As our capability broadens our customer relationships deepen and become more productive.
Discover more about GKNs technology and expect more.
8 GKN plc : ANNUAL REPORT 2004 Technology at GKN OUR TECHNOLOGY AUTOMOTIVE 10 GKN plc : ANNUAL REPORT 2004 Opposite page: Power transfer unit, Nissan X-Trail This page: Detail of front sideshaft, Audi A6 ANNUAL REPORT 2004 : GKN plc 11 OUR TECHNOLOGY AUTOMOTIVE Land Rover Discovery driveline technology by GKN Front sideshafts Front premium propshaft Electronic torque manager ETM2 Rear premium two-part propshaft Land Rover Discovery 3, a Rear sideshafts premium SUV launched in 2004, features GKNs most advanced driveline products including an electronic torque manager.
GKNs third generation GI 3 tripod constant velocity joint Significant downsizing compared with previous generation technology GKNs GI Generation 3 constant Engineering emphasis velocity plunge joint, launched in on trunnion design to the Renault Master, offers classenhance durability leading advantages in terms of size and ability to handle torque.
General Motors Cadillac SRX STS driveline system by GKN Front sideshafts Front premium propshaft Geared transfer case and final drive Rear premium two-part propshaft GKN design GKN was driveline system integrator and overall programme manager for the highly acclaimed Cadillac SRX STS all wheel drive and rear wheel drive models.
Rear sideshafts 12 GKN plc : ANNUAL REPORT 2004 Driveline driveshaft and torque technology GKN groups its automotive driveline activity into two distinct but complementary product technology areas Driveshafts which includes sideshafts and propshafts that use constant velocity joint technology, and Torque Systems which includesgeared components such as power take off units, transfer cases and final drive units as well as electronic torque control technologies.
The 2005 automotive model year was an important period for GKN.
In the Driveshafts area a new third generation of constant velocity joints was launched into production and began to see applications in 2005 model year vehicles.
These joints have been designed to meet a continuous requirement from vehicle designers for smaller joint sizes which can handle higher torque outputs from more powerful engines aswell as increased steering angles and new, more compact, suspension layouts.
For certain premium and large four wheel drive vehicles these requirements can be quite extreme.
The 2005 automotive model year also demonstrated the results of GKNs newly won capability at the vehicle system level and there were three new drivelines in particular that excited the market and that were engineered completely by GKN in a total systems approach.
The new Land Rover Discovery, which is designed as a sports utility vehicle SUV with outstanding levels of off-road capability, is supported by 10 different GKN production facilities throughout Europe.
They supply two propshafts and four sideshafts incorporating 12 constant velocity joints across the model range and on the advanced option vehicle GKN is also responsible for the electronic torque manager software integration, electronic module production supply and mechanical parts.
A GKN plant also supplies the chassis frame for the vehicle.
GKN was also sourced as system integrator and overall programme manager for the Cadillac SRX STS saloon car and SUV all wheel drive and rear wheel drive vehicles.
GKN was given a similar role by Fiat for the new all wheel drive Panda 4x4 which was also launched in 2004.
In addition to its role as system integrator, GKN supplied all the driveshafts and was responsible for the geared product design release on both the Cadillac and Fiat vehicles.
