OUR TECHNOLOGY AEROSPACE 16 GKN plc : ANNUAL REPORT 2004 Opposite page: Wing for European autonomous air vehicle produced using GKNs new resin transfer moulding process This page: AE3100 jet engine casing produced by GKN in titanium and welded using the electron beam process ANNUAL REPORT 2004 : GKN plc 17 OUR TECHNOLOGY AEROSPACE GKN composite and metal alloy technology on the F135 military engine Forward fan case Forward augmentor Forward compressor case Containment case Nozzle static structure not shown GKN is a significant supplier of Inlet guide vanes composite and metallic structures on the Pratt & Whitney F135 engine Fan inlet case composite for the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter.
GKN composite technology on the Airbus A400M wing Composite wing spar 13m Composite wing spar 13m In 2004 Airbus awarded GKN the contract to design and build allcomposite primary wing structures for the A400M military airlifter.
GKN composite and metal alloy technology on civil turbofan engines Fan containment case composite Engine casing Fan blades composite blades under development Turbine exhaust casing Acoustically treated exhaust nozzle and plug not shown Fan blade spacers composite The new General Electric GEnx engine will fly on the Boeing 787 with the worlds first all-composite large turbofan containment case from GKN.
18 GKN plc : ANNUAL REPORT 2004 Transforming the role of composite materials in aerospace Advances by GKN aerospace engineers are pioneering a new generation of composite materials and production processes which are being applied to important new civil and military aircraft under development in the US and Europe.
In previous decades, advances in aircraft design focused on propulsion systems and avionics but there is now a greater emphasis on the contribution of aerostructures.
This has brought about a revolution in the use of carbon fibre composite materials.
Ten years ago composites would be used to produce secondary structures accounting for less than 5% of an aircrafts airframe.
Today all that has changed.
The Pratt & Whitney F135 powerplant on the F-35 fighter will depend on a major and all-composite primary structure produced by GKN.
When the Airbus A400M military airlifter flies in 2008, its wings, each of which carry two turboprop engines, will depend on the worlds first all-composite large wing spars produced by GKN.
No other large aircraft has used composites for such a critical part of the airframe.
On both the A400M and the F-35, only GKNs technology has allowed lightweight, high-strength composites to replace complex metal fabrications for critical applications.
GKN is working with all three of the worlds largest jet engine manufacturers General Electric, Pratt & Whitney and Rolls-Royce as part of an emerging trend to make greater use of composite materials within aero-engines.
GKN is at the leading edge of that trend.
In addition to its breakthrough work on the Pratt & Whitney F135 military engine, GKN has been selected by General Electric to develop and supply the first large turbofan containment case to be produced in composite for the new GEnx engine and is also working with Rolls-Royce on the development of all-composite blades for large turbofan engines.
GKNs new, world-class, Advanced Composite Facility, which combines materials research and development with advanced and highly automated production technology, is scheduled to become operational on the Isle of Wight in the UK during 2005.
The worlds aircraft and aero-engine manufacturers have come to expect more from GKNs technology.
ANNUAL REPORT 2004 : GKN plc 19 OUR TECHNOLOGY 20 GKN plc : ANNUAL REPORT 2004
