OUR TECHNOLOGY AUTOMOTIVE 14 GKN plc : ANNUAL REPORT 2004 GKN the world leader in powder metallurgy Powder metallurgy is making continuous progress in market growth.
Its global spread is increasing as new markets become available and the continuous introduction of new automotive and nonautomotive products broadens the range of applications of our materials and processes.
GKN is the only market participant which covers the full process from production and blending of metal powder to production of finished products meeting demanding requirements for structural strength and wear resistance.
The advantage of powder metallurgy is the ability to create net shaped products which offer advantages over competing technologies in terms of performance, quality and cost.
Todays global market for parts produced through the powder metallurgy process is worth more than 4 billion per annum.
GKN is at the forefront of new developments which could expand that market by 2.5 billion per annum.
Central to GKNs ambitions is the ability to produce highly complex shapes at levels of density and surface finish comparable to normal casting or forging but while still retaining the cost advantages of the powder metallurgy process.
The prize which is coming within the business grasp is innovative products such as automotive gears which have so far not been converted from conventional manufacturing.
Aachen University of Technology in Germany estimated recently that out of a total of 850 million gears for automotive transmissions produced annually in the world today more than 50% will be addressable by powder metallurgy.
GKN estimates the market to be worth 2 billion per annum for transmission parts and 500 million per annum for engine and hydraulic parts.
Automotive transmission components Diagram shows a locking differential for a transfer case Lock-up collar used on a four wheel drive or all wheel drive light vehicle.
Components such as the carriers, pinions, sun gears, lock-up collar Sun gear and drive sprockets are all typical geared components which have the potential to be produced by the new sintering and forming Carriers processes under development in Pinions GKNs new Global Research Centre Carriers in Radevormwald in Germany.
Sprockets Opposite page: Sprockets, pulley and oil pump rotor ANNUAL REPORT 2004 : GKN plc 15
