GlaxoSmithKline 05 Description of business The Description of business discusses the strategy, the activities, the resources and the operating environment of the business and identies developments and achievements in 2004, under the following headings: Strategy 06 Strategy 07 Build the best product pipeline in the industry 18 Achieve commercial and operational excellence 19 Improve access to medicines 20 Be the best place for the best people to do their best work 21 Invest in communities 23 Consumer Healthcare 24 Global manufacturing and supply Products and competition 25 Pharmaceutical 28 Consumer Healthcare Regulatory environment 29 Regulation 30 Intellectual property 31 Responsibility for environment, health and safety Discussion of the Groups management structures and corporate governance procedures is set out in Corporate governance pages 33 to 42.
The Remuneration Report gives details of the Groups policies on Directors remuneration and the amounts earned by Directors and senior management in 2004 pages 43 to 58.
Discussion of the Groups operating and financial performance and financial resources is given in the Operating and financial review and prospects pages 59 to 86.
In this report: GlaxoSmithKline or the Group means GlaxoSmithKline plc and its subsidiary undertakings and the company means GlaxoSmithKline plc.
GlaxoSmithKline share means an Ordinary Share of GlaxoSmithKline plc of 25p.
An American Depositary Share ADS represents two GlaxoSmithKline shares.
Throughout this report, gures quoted for market size, market share and market growth rates relate to the 12 months ended 30th September 2004 or later where available.
These are GlaxoSmithKline estimates based on the most recent data from independent external sources, valued in sterling at relevant exchange rates.
Figures quoted for product market share reect sales by GlaxoSmithKline and licensees.
Brand names appearing in italics throughout this report are trademarks either owned by and or licensed to GlaxoSmithKline or associated companies, with the exception of Baycol and Levitra, trademarks of Bayer, Hepsera, a trademark of Gilead Services in some countries including the USA, Integrilin, a trademark of Cor Therapeutics, Micropump, a trademark of Flamel Technologies, Nicoderm, a trade mark of Sano-Aventis, Elan, Novartis or GlaxoSmithKline in certain countries, Natrecor, a trademark of Scios and Janssen, Navelbine, a trademark of Pierre Fabre Mdicament, Vesicare, a trademark of Yamanouchi Pharmaceuticals, Boniva Bonviva, a trademark of Roche, Entereg, a trademark of Adolor Corporation and Pritor, a trademark of Boehringer Ingelheim, all of which are used in certain countries under license by the Group.
06 GlaxoSmithKline Description of business Strategy GlaxoSmithKlines business goal is to become the indisputable Be the best place for the best people to do their best work leader in the pharmaceutical and consumer healthcare industry.
The single greatest source of competitive advantage of any Achieving this goal will require meeting the three key challenges organisation is its people.
The Groups ambition is to make it the that face both the industry and society as a whole: place where great people apply their energy and passion to make a difference in the world.
Their skills and intellect are key improving productivity in research and development components in the successful implementation of the Groups ensuring patients have access to new medicines strategy.
The work environment supports an informed, empowered reaching consumers beyond the traditional healthcare and resilient workforce, in which the Group values and draws on professional.
the diverse knowledge, perspectives, experience, and styles of the GlaxoSmithKline has developed strategies which focus on a global community.
Further details are given on page 20. number of key business drivers in order to meet these challenges.
Invest in communities Build the best product pipeline in the industry GlaxoSmithKline continues to build on its history of community The Group is aiming to create the best product pipeline in the investment programmes.
These provide support for better industry for the benefit of patients, consumers and society.
This healthcare delivery and education in under-served communities includes developing a focused portfolio strategy to support around the world.
The Group does this through active engagement the pipeline and manage the full life cycle of compounds from with numerous external stakeholders including the World Health launch as a prescription medicine through to becoming over-theOrganisation and members of the not-for-profit community.
It counter products where appropriate.
This strategy includes funds community-led initiatives across the world and donates selective in-licensing and efficient execution of development, medicines to support humanitarian efforts and community-based commercialisation and the supply chain processes.
Many of the programmes are long-term commitments that help bring about sustainable change in communities.
Further GlaxoSmithKlines R&D organisation measures productivity by the details are given on pages 21 to 22. number and innovation of the products it creates, and also by the commercial value of the products and their ability to address the Commit to corporate responsibility unmet needs of all consumers.
This includes patients, healthcare GlaxoSmithKline is committed to connecting business decisions professionals, budget holders and regulators, each with their own to ethical, social and environmental concerns.
Thus, corporate perspective on what constitutes a valuable new product.
responsibility is an integral and embedded part of the way we Further details are given on pages 7 to 17. do business.
Achieve commercial and operational excellence In 2003, GlaxoSmithKline published a set of Corporate GlaxoSmithKline links research and commercial operations closely Responsibility Principles to provide guidance on the standards in order to maximise the value of the portfolio.
As compounds to which the Group is committed.
This sets out the approach are developed and tested, marketing campaigns and sales efforts to ten areas: standards of ethical conduct, research and are planned.
Where appropriate within markets, the Group aims innovation, products and customers, access to medicines, to build strong relationships with patients and consumers as the employment practices, human rights, community investment, ultimate users of its medicines.
caring for the environment, leadership and advocacy, and engagement with stakeholders.
The Group reports annually Common approaches to management processes and business on progress in upholding these principles in its Corporate functions are used by an internationally diverse and talented Responsibility Report, which is available on the website at management team in order to create and sustain competitive www.
Further details are given on page 18.
Improve access to medicines GlaxoSmithKline has created extensive programmes designed to improve the healthcare of people who have limited access to medicines both in the developed and developing world.
These are set out in the Improve access to medicines section of this report page 19.
Description of business GlaxoSmithKline 07 Build the best product pipeline in the industry Research and development Pharmaceuticals Finding candidate compounds Research and Development R&D operates on a global basis, Early research and the role of genetics employing over 15,000 staff at sites mainly in the UK and the USA The early stages of nding new medicines requires essentially two but also in Belgium, Canada, France, India, Italy, Japan, and Spain.
components: targets that can be shown to affect mechanisms In addition, R&D has partnerships with other companies worldwide of important pathological processes in human disease, and in order to benefit from the particular skills and expertise that are compounds able to modulate the behaviour of specic targets.
As part of this target validation process, GlaxoSmithKline aims to identify the genes most relevant to common diseases with Focus on the patient large unmet medical needs and major patient burdens.
GlaxoSmithKlines strategic intent is to become the indisputable Many diseases arise through complex interactions between a leader in the industry.
Its success is dependent on a vibrant, number of gene variants and environmental factors, so the productive R&D function supporting existing products and challenge is significant.
Identifying the genes that predispose developing new ways to help patients.
R&D is increasingly patients to a particular disease and understanding their roles in seeking the views of patients to understand the most important its progression lead to new ways to intervene in these diseases.
aspects of their disease and the impact it has on their lives.
In Genes of interest have been identied for asthma and non-insulin addition to discussions with key opinion leaders, GlaxoSmithKline dependent diabetes.
Further genetic association studies in well is devoting more resource to a dialogue with patients and their phenotyped patients are under way in schizophrenia, unipolar families.
This information may then be used to shape drug depression, obesity, Alzheimers disease, rheumatoid arthritis, development programmes.
Once a new medicine is ready for osteoarthritis, metabolic syndrome, chronic obstructive pulmonary launch, GlaxoSmithKline then knows it will bring clear benefit to disease COPD, coronary artery disease and acute coronary patients lives.
Productivity GlaxoSmithKline is justly proud of its reputation for applied A continued high priority during 2004 has been the challenge scientific excellence and is at the forefront of many advances of increasing productivity, both through improving science and which are harnessed to nd new medicines as quickly as possible.
through managing the entire R&D organisation so that its resources One example of where the Group is helping to move the are optimally focused on the discovery and development of new understanding of disease processes forward is the development medicines.
Some of the scientific initiatives that have enhanced of imaging techniques that may be validated to act as surrogate productivity are discussed below.
Programmes to identify markers for disease.
This allows increasingly accurate prediction association between diseases and genes have facilitated the linkage of the clinical effect of lead molecules and drug candidates before of cellular targets to disease, identifying for GlaxoSmithKline the embarking on the later stages of development and thus more areas of research that are most likely to produce new ways of efficient use of resources.
Increased automation in the screening of compounds has provided more lead compounds more quickly and Discovery Research of higher quality than before.
Further improvements have been Discovery Research DR produces the lead compounds that form made in imaging techniques to allow early decisions on which the basis of drug discovery efforts in the Centres of Excellence for compounds to progress.
In addition, the greater use of automation Drug Discovery CEDDs.
In 2004, DR has provided the CEDDs with in the laboratory environment and expansion of the electronic over 45 high-quality new lead compounds with activity against collection of clinical trial information allow scientists to become dened targets.
Investment in DR has been focused on increasing more productive throughout the discovery and development the quality and quantity of the lead compounds available.
This year, R&D has completed the current phase of its investment GlaxoSmithKlines product development pipeline, set out on pages in automation with the opening of a new combined facility for 14 to 17, shows considerable breadth and depth.
At the end of high-throughput screening and high-throughput chemistry in February 2005 GlaxoSmithKline had 195 pharmaceutical and Upper Providence, USA.
This has enabled the screening of over vaccine projects in development of which 140 are in the clinic.
one million compounds in 2004, with a success ratio that has consistently increased over the investment period.
In addition, a Molecular Imaging Centre of Excellence MICE in Upper Merion, USA was opened, providing a platform to develop non-invasive, multi-modal imaging technologies for preclinical applications.
08 GlaxoSmithKline Description of business Build the best product pipeline in the industry continued Compounds progressed into Phase I clinical development in 2004 During 2004 a number of discovery projects, listed in the table below, progressed through non-clinical safety testing and into early Phase I clinical development undertaken by the CEDDs.
These compounds are continuing their rigorous non-clinical, clinical and commercial assessments, leading to proof of concept decisions over the next 1218 months.
Compound Product Mechanism Indication 159802 long-acting beta2 agonist inhaled asthma COPD 189075 sodium dependent glucose transport SGLT-2 inhibitor type 2 diabetes 189254 histamine H3 antagonist dementia 423562 calcium antagonist osteoporosis 427353 beta3 adrenergic agonist overactive bladder 565154 oral pleuromutilin treatment of respiratory tract infections 642444 long-acting beta2 agonist inhaled asthma COPD 656933 interleukin8 receptor antagonist COPD 677116  phospholipase A2 inhibitor atherosclerosis 679769 NK1 antagonist urinary incontinence 705498 vanilloid receptor1 antagonist acute migraine 743921 kinesin spindle protein KSP inhibitor cancer 768974 parathyroid hormone agonist osteoporosis 813893 factor Xa inhibitor prevention of stroke in atrial brillation 825780 DNA antiviral vaccine HIV 842166 non-cannabinoid2 agonist inammatory pain 856464  hormone antagonist obesity 856553 p38 kinase inhibitor rheumatoid arthritis and COPD 876008 corticotrophin releasing factor CRF1 antagonist depression, anxiety and irritable bowel syndrome IBS Requip XR non-ergot dopamine agonist restless legs syndrome RLS Product submissions A number of significant dossiers were submitted to the regulatory authorities in the major regions during 2004 which are summarised in the table below.
Product Country Region Description Bonviva Boniva EU and USA monthly oral dosing regimen of ibandronate, a bisphosphonate for the treatment of osteoporosis Entereg USA alvimopan, a peripheral mu-opioid receptor antagonist for post-operative ileus Hepsera Japan adefovir, an RNA-directed DNA polymerase inhibitor for the treatment of hepatitis B Lexiva Japan fosamprenavir, an HIV aspartyle protease inhibitor for the treatment of HIV Product approvals In 2004, approvals were received for a number of new products, as summarised in the table below.
Country Region Product Approval Date Description Bonviva EU February daily oral dosing regimen of ibandronate, a bisphosphonate for the treatment of osteoporosis Flolan PAH Japan June epoprostenol, a prostacyclin agonist for the treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension Hepsera Japan October adefovir, an RNA-directed DNA polymerase inhibitor for the treatment of hepatitis B Lexiva Japan December fosamprenavir, an HIV aspartyl protease inhibitor for the treatment of HIV Telzir EU July fosamprenavir, for the treatment of HIV Vesicare USA November solifenacin, a muscarinic acetylcholine receptor antagonist for the treatment of over-active bladder in-licensed from Yamanouchi Description of business GlaxoSmithKline 09 Selecting the best candidate molecules Early in the development process, the metabolic rate and safety of compounds are evaluated in laboratory animals prior to testing Centres of Excellence for Drug Discovery in humans.
The testing required in both animals and humans is There are two fundamental steps in turning a lead compound mandated and is highly regulated by governmental agencies into a drug candidate: i optimising it for potency, efcacy, safety see Animals and research on page 13. and other intrinsic characteristics of the molecule, and ii demonstrating the validity of the therapeutic hypothesis through PCD researchers investigate appropriate dosage forms e. g. tablet early clinical trials of the resulting candidate.
These steps are or inhaled and develop formulations to enhance the drugs facilitated by rapid, informed decision-making and creative effectiveness and to facilitate the ease of use by the patient.
solutions to the issues that inevitably arise in this phase of Processes and supporting analytical methods for drug synthesis development.
The CEDDs are focused on specic disease areas.
and product formulation and delivery are scaled up to meet They are designed to be nimble and entrepreneurial with the increasing supply requirements, ultimately leading to the technical range of skills and resources required to drive mid-stage transfer of the processes and methods to manufacturing.
The development projects from lead optimisation through to their key New Product Supply Process, a partnership between R&D and decision point, demonstration of proof of concept, before major Global Manufacturing and Supply, ensures that a robust product investments are made to fund large-scale clinical trials.
is developed for large-scale commercial manufacturing and launch.
Also improving R&Ds productivity are new drug delivery systems, There are seven CEDDs, based in Europe and the USA: predictive technologies, particle engineering and process Biopharmaceuticals, centred in Stevenage UK innovation.
The use of particle engineering and process innovation Cardiovascular & Urogenital Diseases, centred in Upper Merion enhances the ability to manufacture consistently high-quality USA products efficiently.
Metabolic & Viral Diseases, centred in Research Triangle Park USA Worldwide development Microbial, Musculoskeletal & Proliferative Diseases, including To provide focus for the development process, all the major cancer, centred in Upper Providence USA functional components of clinical, medical, biomedical data, Neurology & Gastrointestinal Diseases, centred in Harlow UK regulatory and safety are integrated into a single management Psychiatry, centred in Verona Italy organisation, Worldwide Development WWD.
Respiratory and Inammation, centred in Stevenage UK.
During 2004 the creation of the Medicine Development Centres Each CEDD is responsible for identifying the optimal drug MDCs, which provide a focus for late-stage development, was candidate for the desired biological effect and then assessing its completed and embedded in the organisation.
The MDCs are safety and other development characteristics in preclinical screens, responsible for creating value through the delivery of full product some of which may involve using animals.
Once this is achieved, development plans, managing the day-to-day operational activities the CEDDs are responsible for proving that the compound is safe for the late-stage development portfolio, maximising the global and efcacious in patients in small-scale clinical trials the proof commercial potential of products by optimising the delivery of the of concept decision point.
portfolio, and ensuring strong partnerships with the CEDDs and Global Commercial Strategy GCS in order to deliver differentiated A decision is then made on whether the information available products of value.
to date justifies the compounds progression into late-stage drug development where the necessary large-scale clinical trials are Throughout the development process, the Regulatory function conducted to register and commercialise the product.
maintains a dialogue with the regulatory agencies in the major markets to ensure that the development programme is best A major investment was announced in September 2004 to focused to generate the data that is required for the grant of establish a preclinical research facility for neurodegenerative licences.
This dialogue also facilitates GlaxoSmithKlines ability diseases in Singapore.
The facility, which will have a team of to respond efficiently to emerging requirements for safety and 30 to 35 scientists, will focus on new therapies in the treatment efcacy data.
of neurodegenerative illnesses such as Alzheimers disease and Parkinsons disease as well as schizophrenia.
The R&D model In 2004, the CEDDs continued to progress significant numbers of new compounds into both first dosing in humans and initial Genetics Research Preclinical Global Commercial Research evaluation of efcacy in patients.
& Discovery Research Development Strategy Converting candidates to medicines Centres Preclinical development of Preclinical Development PCD participates in a wide range of Medicine Excellence activities within the drug development process from optimising Development Genetics in the selection of compounds for potential development through Centres Research Drug launch to the marketplace and enhancement of existing products & Discovery by devising more convenient formulations.
Discovery Research 10 GlaxoSmithKline Description of business Build the best product pipeline in the industry continued The MDCs are based at the major US and UK sites and are  information will provide prescribing therapeutically aligned as follows: physicians with key information to help them select the medicine and dose most likely to be of therapeutic benefit to their patients.
Cardiovascular Metabolic Infectious Diseases including Diseases of the Developing Clinical trial governance World DDW In conducting the clinical trials required to show that medicines are Musculoskeletal Inammation Gastrointestinal Urology safe and effective, GlaxoSmithKlines first priority is to protect the Neuroscience Psychiatry Neurology participants and future patients.
All clinical trials sponsored by the Oncology Group, irrespective of where they take place, are conducted Respiratory.
according to international standards of good clinical practice and These matrix teams are responsible for maximising the worldwide applicable laws and regulations.
The protocols are reviewed by the development opportunities for each product within their remit so external regulatory agencies in the relevant countries where that all the information needed to support the registration, safety required and all protocols are considered by an Ethics Review programmes, pricing and formulary negotiations is available when Committee whose remit covers the site where the study will take it is required.
Commercial input from Global Commercial Strategy place.
Safety data is routinely collected throughout development ensures that at an early stage regional marketing needs are fully programs and is reported to national and regional regulatory integrated into any development plans.
Careful prioritisation across agencies in line with applicable regulations.
Additionally it is all phases of development ensures that a high potential and reviewed internally for any safety signals.
The GlaxoSmithKline integrated portfolio is achieved in the context of patient needs.
Global Safety Board is responsible internally for both approving pivotal studies and investigating any issues related to patient safety The MDCs collaborate at an early stage with the CEDDs to define that arise during the development programme.
In addition, the target product proles for new molecules and with integrated Clinical Compliance department monitors compliance with Good technical development and manufacturing functions to ensure Clinical Practice standards during the conduct, analysis and rapid, effective launch and delivery of the product to patients.
Its remit covers GlaxoSmithKline sites Innovative clinical programmes for lead molecules from the running trials as well as Clinical Research Organisations CROs and CEDDs are developed using cross-functional project teams.
In investigators performing clinical research on the Groups behalf.
these programmes, one key measure of productivity is the number The results of these audits are regularly reviewed by the R&D of active subjects in clinical trials each year.
WWD has increased Global Risk Management Compliance Board and by the Audit the number of active subjects in clinical trials signicantly over Committee.
the last three years in order to keep up with the increasing need to demonstrate the safety and efcacy of its products.
During 2004 GlaxoSmithKline took another step to make information from its clinical trials widely and easily available when The Gold Pass designation for assets of high value and strategic it established its Clinical Trial Register as a public website on which importance to GlaxoSmithKline, requiring specic organisational clinical trials data is published.
Regulatory authorities around the visibility and urgency to meet patients needs, continued through world will continue to be fully informed of the data that are 2004.
Because of the way in which the organisations resources generated so that they can be reassured as to the safety and are focused on these developments, only a small number of assets efcacy of GlaxoSmithKlines products but the Clinical Trial Register receive Gold Pass status at any one time, enabling the organisation will enhance the ability of clinicians to make informed clinical to be fully aligned.
Two products, radafaxine 353162 for judgements to benefit their patients.
depression and lapatinib 572016 for cancer continued to progress and three further projects received the Gold Pass status during Global commercial strategy the year.
The Global Commercial Strategy GCS organisation provides One of these combines 159797, a new long-acting beta-agonist integrated global commercialisation and strategic direction within and 685698, a new inhaled corticosteroid for the treatment of R&D, as well as supporting the development of regional marketing asthma and COPD.
The second is the chemokine receptor campaigns for products emerging from R&D to maximise portfolio antagonist 873140 for HIV infection and the third project is the value through the full product life cycle.
In addition, data are cyclo-oxygenase 2 inhibitor 406381. generated supporting the added value of products through assessments of improvements to the quality of patients lives and Development and the role of genetics reductions in the overall costs of healthcare from the use of GlaxoSmithKline believes that pharmacogenetic research, which GlaxoSmithKlines products.
is the correlation of genetic data with response to medicine, will provide valuable information to help improve decision making Extending the use of existing products during drug development, thus having a positive impact on key Once a product has been launched, it is important to establish causes of pipeline attrition i. e. lack of efcacy and adverse drug additional ways in which patients can be helped through reactions and clinical trial design.
As a result, R&D is collecting investigating whether any other illnesses may be treated or by samples in clinical development studies to identify the development of additional dosage forms which are more pharmacogenetic information that can help predict a patients convenient for patients.
Some of these developments reect response.
Prospectively collected efcacy and safety studies during feedback from patients and the medical professions: others are clinical trials have become standard elements of development.
the result of continuing research into disease and its causes.
This information is intended to define patient groups who are likely to respond best to treatment, or individuals who are most likely to suffer an adverse event, as the compound progresses through development in the clinic.
Description of business GlaxoSmithKline 11 Line extension submissions A number of product line extensions were submitted to the regulatory authorities in the major regions during 2004, which are summarised in the table below.
Product Country Region Description Arixtra EU and USA fondaparinux, a synthetic factor Xa inhibitor for the prevention of deep vein thrombosis after abdominal surgery Arixtra EU and USA fondaparinux, for the prevention of deep vein thrombosis in medical conditions Augmentin ES Japan a syrup formulation of amoxicillin a beta-lactam antibiotic and clavulanate a beta lactamase inhibitor for the treatment of otitis media in children Boniva USA labelling for an intermittent intravenous dosing regimen of ibandronate, a bisphosphonate for the treatment of osteoporosis Epzicom Japan xed dose combination of 2 reverse transcriptase inhibitors for the treatment of HIV infections Imigran STAT dose Japan the hydroxytryptamine agonist sumatriptan in a self-injection device for the treatment of migraine Requip Japan an additional strength of ropinirole, a non-ergot dopamine D2 agonist for Parkinsons disease Seretide EU labelling for use as initial maintenance therapy in asthma for the combination of salmeterol, a long-acting beta-blocker, and uticasone, a corticosteroid Seretide Diskus Japan use in the treatment of asthma and COPD for the combination of salmeterol and uticasone in a dry powder inhaler Serevent EU a  formulation of the pressurised aerosol containing salmeterol for the treatment of asthma and COPD Ventolin USA a  formulation of salbutamol, a short-acting beta agonist in a pressurised aerosol with a dose counter Wellbutrin XL USA indication for the treatment of seasonal affective disorder with the dopamine noradrenaline re-uptake inhibitor bupropion Zex Japan labelling for use of lamivudine, a reverse transcriptase inhibitor for the treatment of liver cirrhosis Ziagen QD Japan reverse transcriptase inhibitor abacavir for the treatment of HIV Zovirax Japan a cream formulation of the DNA polymerase inhibitor aciclovir for use in the treatment of herpes simplex infections Line extension approvals In 2004 approvals were received for a number of significant new indications and formulations for existing products, which are summarised in the table below.
Product Country Region Description Approval date Advair Diskus USA April labelling for paediatric twice-daily dosing in asthma of the combination of salmeterol, a long-acting beta-blocker, and uticasone, a corticosteroid in a dry powder device Arixtra USA June fondaparinux, a synthetic factor Xa inhibitor for the treatment of deep vein EU November thrombosis Flovent USA May a  formulation of the pressurised aerosol with a dose counter containing uticasone, a corticosteroid for treating asthma Kivexa Epzicom USA August a xed dose combination of two reverse transcriptase inhibitors for the treatment of EU December HIV infections Japan December Paxil CR USA January controlled release formulation of paroxetine, a selective serotonin re-uptake inhibitor for intermittent treatment of pre-menstrual dysphoric disorder Requip EU June ropinirole, a non-ergot dopamine D2 agonist for restless legs syndrome Seretide EU January labelling for paediatric twice-daily dosing of the combination of salmeterol, a longacting beta-blocker, and uticasone, a corticosteroid in a pressurised aerosol for the treatment of asthma Seretide EU March a dose counter formulation of salmeterol for the treatment of asthma and COPD Serevent Diskus Japan February a dry powder formulation of salmeterol for the treatment of asthma and COPD Zex Japan October labelling for use of lamivudine, a reverse transcriptase inhibitor in combination with Hepsera for the treatment of hepatitis B Ziagen QD Japan December the reverse transcriptase inhibitor abacavir for the treatment of HIV.
12 GlaxoSmithKline Description of business Build the best product pipeline in the industry continued Examples of lifecycle management include the new indication for Collaborative ADI partnerships from earlier are: Cytokinetics Inc. Seretide Advair making this important asthma medicine available oncology: mitotic kinesin inhibitors, Shionogi & Co. HIV and for use in children between 411 years and Kivexa Epzicom, neurology programmes: potential broad-based discovery a single tablet combining the active molecules used in two collaboration in antimicrobials, oncology, metabolic and neurology, successful treatments for HIV in order to simplify dosing for Tanabe Seiyaku Co. Ltd. broad-based: neurology, GI, urology, patients.
Line extensions form a significant part of the overall diabetes, respiratory, Exelixis Inc. oncology, inammation, portfolio: recent examples such as Augmentin ES XR, Seroxat Paxil Theravance Inc. asthma, Ranbaxy Laboratories Ltd. broad based CR and Wellbutrin XL, achieved 1,038 million sales in 2004. and NeuroSearch central nervous system.
ADI partnerships have also been established with three academic institutions to A number of product line extensions were submitted to the supplement internal target validation activities and provide better regulatory authorities in the major regions during 2004.
These access to tissue samples and patient populations for clinical studies.
submissions are summarised on page 11.
GlaxoSmithKline has one academic ADI partner in the UK and two In 2004 approvals were received for a number of significant in the USA.
These are long term collaborative relationships to new indications and formulations for existing products.
These which the Group has committed funding for two years, with approvals are summarised on page 8. option to renew for an additional three years.
Managing the portfolio In-licensing and research collaborations The resources available to exploit opportunities arising from within GlaxoSmithKline has continued to identify compounds that would the Group will always be limited.
Improving productivity progresses enhance the portfolio and to create innovative collaborations to more compounds into later phases of development, consequently ensure that the Group is regarded as the partner of choice for both putting demands on R&D resources.
It is therefore that much more large and small companies.
important to look objectively at the portfolio and ensure that the The subjects of in-licensing or co-marketing co-promotion progress of assets is prosecuted as efficiently as possible.
The key agreements in 2004 were: projects reaching significant milestones are reviewed each month by the Product Management Board PMB, which is responsible for AlbugonTM, a GLP-1 albumin fusion protein in pre-clinical determining whether an individual asset has achieved the pre-set development for type 2 diabetes from Human Genome Sciences criteria to pass into the next phase of development.
This body Exclusive marketing of Integrilin in Europe, a glycoprotein GP is led jointly by the chairman of R&D and the president of llb-llla inhibitor currently used to treat patients with unstable Pharmaceutical Operations and includes the presidents of the angina and non-ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction, Regions and Global Manufacturing and Supply, in addition to with Millennium Pharmaceuticals Inc. the heads of the major functions within R&D.
A broad alliance to develop and commercialise novel medicines across a variety of therapeutic areas, including bacterial The PMB also actively manages the overall portfolio through the infection, respiratory, urinary incontinence and gastrointestinal annual portfolio review exercise.
This thorough and careful with Theravance Inc. assessment of all of the assets in Drug Discovery and Worldwide Development leads to a prioritisation of projects on the basis not In addition, GlaxoSmithKline has already entered into a number of only of commercial value, but also of unmet medical need.
This agreements with third parties to co-develop and then co-market also allows the identication of alternative approaches to balance certain compounds.
These arrangements range from milestone the Groups assets most efficiently, including the use of external payments to third parties to acquire rights to their intellectual partners in development and out-licensing products that no longer property, to joint ventures to develop and commercialise specified t within the strategic portfolio.
Under many of these agreements the Group has obligations to make payments in the future if specified milestones Following the annual portfolio prioritisation reviews, the CEDDs are are achieved.
These financial commitments are summarised in able to select which programmes to pursue internally.
Other assets Note 26 to the Financial statements, Commitments.
may be developed through a novel partnership scheme known as the Alternative Discovery Initiative ADI.
GlaxoSmithKline and its Discontinuations partners can share risk and reward through various business All R&D carries a risk of failure commensurate with the extension arrangements.
of scientific knowledge of a compound and its effects.
Not all lead The ADI partnerships with biotechnology companies and other compounds that are identied to possess positive activity against a pharmaceutical companies to explore different approaches to drug validated target will prove to be safe enough to introduce to discovery that were formed in recent years continue to provide humans or feasible to manufacture on a commercial scale.
increased opportunities to exploit the productivity from our new GlaxoSmithKline R&D endeavours to ensure that as far as possible technologies.
In 2004, additional focus was placed on ADIs by these risks are ameliorated by extensive predictive testing as early adding to the Tanabe collaboration and forming new partnerships as possible in the development process.
Despite these efforts, the with NiKem Research central nervous system, Diversa Corp. ultimate test for a product remains the point at which it is anti-infectives, Toyama Chemical Co Ltd antibacterials and administered to large numbers of patients with the disease.
Meiji Seika Kaisha Ltd. Late-stage projects terminated during 2004 in Phase II include 493838 for neuropathic pain, vestipitant 597599 for dyspepsia, depression and anxiety, piboserod for atrial brillation and talnetant for over-active bladder.
Description of business GlaxoSmithKline 13 Research and development - vaccines The Group currently has 14 R&D projects and programmes of relevance to the developing world, seven of which are aimed All vaccines R&D is conducted at GlaxoSmithKlines biologicals at producing vaccines and medicines for diseases that centre in Rixensart, Belgium, including other related activities such disproportionately affect developing countries.
as clinical development, regulatory strategy, commercial strategy, scaling up, packaging and all support functions and primary The Group also works in close collaboration with external partners production of all vaccines with the exception of inuenza vaccine, worldwide in the search for new treatments for diseases of the which is produced at the Groups state-of-the-art facility in developing world.
Partnerships here are key in order to maximise Germany.
Over 1,000 scientists are employed who are devoted to the combined expertise and talent of the pharmaceutical industry discovering new vaccines and developing more cost-effective and and academia in discovering and developing new medicines for convenient combination vaccines to prevent infections that cause the developing world.
Discovery work involves many Public private partnerships remain essential to fund research where collaborators in academia and the biotech industry worldwide and there is no commercially viable market for a potential product.
The allows identication of new vaccine candidates which are then Group continues to work closely with many Governments, expressed in yeast, bacteria or mammalian cells and puried to a United Nations agencies and other global funding bodies in this very high level.
For example, in 2004, GlaxoSmithKlines pyridone project This is followed by formulation of the vaccine, which involves was awarded the Medicines for Malaria Venture Project of the mixing antigens with selected novel proprietary adjuvants, which Year for its rapid and successful progress in nding a drug are designed to stimulate a good and appropriate immune candidate.
The newly selected candidate has since moved into response in humans.
The next step is to evaluate safety and pre-clinical development.
efcacy of the candidate vaccine, which may involve using animals.
Animals and research Once preclinical proof of concept has been established, the candidate vaccine is then tested in clinical trials in healthy For ethical, regulatory and scientific reasons, research using animals individuals to evaluate safety and how effective the vaccine is in remains a small but vital part of research and development of new inducing an immune response to protect the body from disease medicines and vaccines.
GlaxoSmithKline only uses animals where encountered later in a natural setting.
Large-scale eld trials in there is no alternative and only in the numbers required for each healthy individuals follow to establish safety and efcacy in a test.
The Group strives to exceed regulatory standards in the care cross section of the population.
The results obtained during and use of the animals it uses and undergoes internal and external clinical trials and the development of a quality production process review to assure these standards.
and facilities are then combined into a regulatory le which is The vast majority of the experimental methods do not use animals submitted to the authorities in the various countries where the and GlaxoSmithKline is actively engaged in research to develop and vaccine is to be made available.
validate more tests that either avoid the use of animals in research In 2004 biologicals, which has a long track record of developing or reduce the numbers needed.
When animals are used in research and making vaccines available to the developing world at unnecessary pain or suffering is scrupulously avoided.
preferential prices, pioneered a new South First vaccine strategy GlaxoSmithKline understands that use of animals for research for its new rotavirus vaccine.
This involved developing a totally purposes commands a high level of public interest.
The unique and novel clinical and regulatory strategy to ensure this GlaxoSmithKline Public Policy Position The care and ethical use vaccine was first registered and made available to those areas of of animals in research, and further information and reports, are the world where the medical need is greatest.
available on the website, www.
Recently, Cervarix, a vaccine for the prevention of cervical cancer received Gold Pass status.
See page 10 for further details of the Gold Pass programme.
Diseases of the developing world Continued investment in research into diseases that affect the developing world is essential if there is to be a long-term improvement in the healthcare of people who live in these regions: this will include the resolution of challenges such as drug resistance and poor patient compliance.
As part of GlaxoSmithKlines response to this challenge the Microbial, Musculoskeletal & Proliferative Diseases CEDD has responsibility for a drug discovery unit, dedicated to nding new medicines for these diseases, based at Tres Cantos, Spain.
The work undertaken in Tres Cantos focuses on malaria and tuberculosis which, together with work elsewhere in the Group on HIV AIDS and vaccines, means GlaxoSmithKline is addressing the prevention and treatment of all three of the World Health Organizations WHO top priority diseases.
14 GlaxoSmithKline Description of business Build the best product pipeline in the industry continued GlaxoSmithKlines pipeline The chart below shows GlaxoSmithKlines new chemical entities NCE, product line extensions PLE and vaccine pipeline evolution for projects in the clinic since 2001.
It shows increased levels of productivity particularly in Phase II.
This is expected to lead to an increase in Phase III and registrations in the coming years.
Phase I NCEs with multiple indications are only counted once.
NCEs in later phases are counted by each indication.
160 140 11 26% of pipeline 120 118 39% of pipeline 43 Late Stage 12 Growth 19 80 25 34 NCE Phase III registration 41 NCE Phase II 40 32 NCE Phase I PLEs 21 20 Vaccines 0 2001 2004 Product development pipeline The product development pipeline, set out on the following three pages shows considerable breadth and depth.
At the end of February 2005, GlaxoSmithKline had 195 pharmaceutical and vaccine projects in development, of which 140 are in the clinic comprising 88 new chemical entities, 32 product line extensions and 20 vaccines.
The content of the drug development portfolio will change over time as new compounds progress from discovery to development and from development to the market.
Owing to the nature of the drug development process, many of these compounds, especially those in early stages of investigation, may be terminated as they progress through development.
For competitive reasons, new projects in pre-clinical development have not been disclosed and some project types may not have been identied.
Key v Vaccine Phase I Evaluation of clinical pharmacology, usually conducted p Pharmaccine in volunteers Compounds in  Pharmaceuticals Phase II Determination of dose and initial evaluation of LLC joint venture efcacy, conducted in a small number of patients In-license or other alliance relationship with third party Phase III Large comparative study compound versus placebo S Date of first submission and or established treatment in patients to A Date of first regulatory approval for MAA, this is the first establish clinical benefit and safety EU approval letter AL Approvable letter MAA Marketing authorisation application Europe NDA New drug application USA Description of business GlaxoSmithKline 15 Estimated ling dates Compound Product Type Indication Phase MAA NDA Cardiovascular, Metabolic & Urogenital 659032 Lp-PLA2 inhibitor atherosclerosis I 677116 Lp-PLA2 inhibitor atherosclerosis I 681323 p38 kinase inhibitor atherosclerosis also rheumatoid arthritis & COPD I 813893 factor Xa inhibitor prevention of stroke in atrial brillation I 480848 Lp-PLA2 inhibitor atherosclerosis II 493838 adenosine A1A agonist dyslipidaemia II 501516 PPAR delta agonist dyslipidaemia II odiparcil indirect thrombin inhibitor prevention of thrombotic complications of II cardiovascular disease & deep vein thrombosis DVT prophylaxis Arixtra synthetic factor Xa inhibitor treatment of acute coronary syndrome III 2006 2006 Coreg CR beta blocker hypertension & congestive heart failure once daily III N A 2005 Noratak recombinant B-type natriuretic peptide acute heart failure lll 2007 N A Arixtra synthetic factor Xa inhibitor prevention of DVT abdominal surgery Submitted S:Jul04 S:Jul04 Arixtra synthetic factor Xa inhibitor prevention of DVT medical conditions Approved A:Jan05 S:Feb04 Arixtra synthetic factor Xa inhibitor treatment of DVT Approved A:Nov04 A:Jun04 Metabolic projects 189075 sodium dependent glucose transport type 2 diabetes I SGLT2 inhibitor 856464 melanin concentrating hormone antagonist obesity I 677954 PPAR pan agonist type 2 diabetes II 823093 DPP IV inhibitor type 2 diabetes II 869682 SGLT2 inhibitor type 2 diabetes II solabegron 427353 beta3 adrenergic agonist type 2 diabetes also over-active bladder II Avandamet XR PPAR gamma agonist plus metformin type 2 diabetes extended release III 2005 Avandaryl PPAR gamma agonist plus sulphonylurea type 2 diabetes xed dose combination Approvable 2005 AL:Aug04 Infectious Diseases 565154 oral pleuromutilin treatment of respiratory tract infections I 270773 phospholipid anti-endotoxin emulsion sepsis II chlorproguanil, dapsone antifolate artemisinin treatment of uncomplicated malaria II 2007 N A artesunate CDA 275833 topical pleuromutilin bacterial skin infections III 2006 2005 sitamaquine 8-aminoquinoline treatment of visceral leishmaniasis III N A Etaquine 8-aminoquinoline malaria prophylaxis adults III TBD 2007 Anti-virals 825780 DNA antiviral vaccine HIV infections I 640385 aspartyl protease inhibitor HIV infections II 695634 non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor HIV infections II 2007 2007 873140 CCR5 antagonist HIV infections II 2007 2007 Epzicom Kivexa reverse transcriptase inhibitor HIV infections combination tablet Approved A:Dec04 A:Aug04 Musculoskeletal, Inammation, Gastrointestinal & Urology 423557 calcium antagonist osteoporosis I 423562 calcium antagonist osteoporosis I 462795 cathepsin K inhibitor osteoporosis & osteoarthritis I 679769 NKI antagonist urinary incontinence UI also depression & anxiety, chemotherapy induced & postoperative nausea & vomiting I 681323 p38 kinase inhibitor rheumatoid arthritis also atherosclerosis & COPD I 768974 parathyroid hormone agonist osteoporosis I 856553 p38 kinase inhibitor oral rheumatoid arthritis also COPD I 876008 corticotrophin releasing factor CRFI antagonist irritable bowel syndrome IBS also depression & anxiety I Entereg peripheral mu-opioid antagonist IBS I solabegron 427353 beta3 adrenergic agonist over-active bladder also type 2 diabetes I 2007 2007 270384 endothelial cell adhesion molecule inhibitor inammatory bowel disease II 274150 selective iNOS inhibitor rheumatoid arthritis also migraine, asthma II 683699 dual alpha4 integrin antagonist VLA4 inammatory bowel disease also multiple sclerosis II talnetant NK3 antagonist IBS also schizophrenia II 2007 2007 Avandia PPAR gamma agonist rheumatoid arthritis II Entereg peripheral mu-opioid antagonist chronic opiate induced bowel dysfunction & constipation II 2007 2007 mepolizumab anti-IL5 monoclonal antibody hypereosinophillic syndrome also asthma & eosinophilic esophagitis III 2006 2006 Avandia PPAR gamma agonist psoriasis III Avodart alpha blocker 5-alpha reductase inhibitor plus alpha blocker benign prostatic hyperplasia xed dose combination III 2007 2007 Avodart 5-alpha reductase inhibitor reduction in the risk of prostate cancer III Boniva Bonviva bisphosphonate treatment of postmenopausal osteoporosis Submitted 2005 S:Dec04 intermittent i. v. dosing Boniva Bonviva bisphosphonate treatment & prevention of postmenopausal osteoporosis Submitted S:Sep04 S:May04 monthly oral dosing Entereg peripheral mu-opioid antagonist post operative ileus Submitted 2005 S:Jun04 Vesicare muscarinic antagonist overactive bladder Approved N A A:Nov04 16 GlaxoSmithKline Description of business Build the best product pipeline in the industry continued Estimated ling dates Compound Product Type Indication Phase MAA NDA Neurosciences 189254 Histamine H3 antagonist dementia I 234551 endothelin A antagonist stroke I 274150 selective iNOS inhibitor migraine also rheumatoid arthritis, asthma I 406725 gap junction blocker migraine, epilepsy & neuropathic pain I 2007 2007 644784 dual acting COX-2 inhibitor acute & chronic pain conditions including neuropathic I pain also schizophrenia 705498 vanilloid 1 antagonist acute migraine I 737004 endothelin A antagonist stroke I 742457 5HT6 antagonist schizophrenia & dementia I 773812 mixed 5HT dopaminergic antagonist schizophrenia I 823296 NK1 antagonist depression & anxiety I 842166 non-cannabinoid CB2 agonist inammatory pain I 876008 corticotrophin releasing factor CRF1 antagonist depression & anxiety also IBS I radafaxine 353162 noradrenaline dopamine re-uptake inhibitor bromyalgia & neuropathic pain I Requip XR non-ergot dopamine agonist restless legs syndrome RLS I 2006 2006 radafaxine 353162 noradrenaline dopamine re-uptake inhibitor depression II 2007 radafaxine 353162 noradrenaline dopamine re-uptake inhibitor RLS II 372475 NS2359 triple 5HT noradrenaline dopamine re-uptake depression II inhibitor 406381 dual acting COX-2 inhibitor acute & chronic pain & migraine II TBD TBD 468816 glycine antagonist smoking cessation II re-uptake inhibitor 679769 NK1 antagonist depression & anxiety also chemotherapy induced II & postoperative nausea & vomiting and UI 683699 dual alpha4 integrin antagonist VLA4 multiple sclerosis also inammatory bowel disease II vestipitant 597599 paroxetine NK1 antagonist selective serotonin depression & anxiety II talnetant NK3 antagonist schizophrenia also IBS II Avandia PPAR gamma agonist Alzheimer's disease II Lamictal sodium channel inhibitor bipolar disorder acute treatment III N A 2006 Lamictal XR sodium channel inhibitor neuropathic pain epilepsy, NDA only once daily III 2006 2006 Lamictal XR sodium channel inhibitor schizophrenia III 2007 Requip CR non-ergot dopamine agonist Parkinsons disease once daily controlled release III 2005 2005 formulation Trexima 5HT1 agonist naproxen migraine xed dose combination III N A 2005 Wellbutrin XL noradrenaline dopamine re-uptake inhibitor seasonal affective disorder Submitted S:Dec04 Requip non-ergot dopamine agonist RLS Approved A:Jun04 A:Dec03 Wellbutrin XL noradrenaline dopamine re-uptake inhibitor depression Approved 2006 A:Aug03 Oncology 743921 kinesin spindle protein KSP inhibitor cancer I elacridar oral bioenhancer cancer I 497115 thrombopoietin agonist thrombocytopaenia II 2006 2006 485232 recombinant human IL18 immunomodulator  cancers melanoma & renal cell II 2007 2007 679769 NK1 antagonist chemotherapy induced & postoperative nausea & II vomiting also depression & anxiety and UI 715992 kinesin spindle protein KSP inhibitor non small cell lung cancer & other tumours II 786034 vascular endothelial growth factor 2 solid tumours II tyrosine kinase inhibitor vestipitant 597599 NK1 antagonist postoperative nausea & vomiting also chemotherapy II 2006 2006 induced nausea & vomiting ethynylcytidine selective RNA polymerase inhibitor solid tumours II lapatinib ErbB-2 and EGFR dual kinase inhibitor breast cancer also renal, lung, bladder, gastric, III 2006 2005 head & neck cancers Hycamtin topo-isomerase I inhibitor ovarian cancer first line therapy III 2006 2006 Hycamtin topo-isomerase I inhibitor small cell lung cancer second line therapy III 2006 2006 oral formulation nelarabine guanine arabinoside prodrug acute lymphoblastic leukaemia & lymphomas III 2005 2005 Hycamtin topo-isomerase I inhibitor small cell lung cancer second line therapy Approved 2005 A:Nov98 Description of business GlaxoSmithKline 17 Estimated ling dates Compound Product Type Indication Phase MAA NDA Respiratory 159802 long acting beta2 agonist asthma & chronic obstructive pulmonary disease COPD I 642444 long acting beta2 agonist asthma & COPD I 656933 IL8 antagonist COPD I 681323 p38 kinase inhibitor oral COPD also rheumatoid arthritis & atherosclerosis I 856553 p38 kinase inhibitor oral COPD also rheumatoid arthritis I 159797 long acting beta2 agonist COPD, also COPD & asthma in combination with II a glucocorticoid agonist 202405 muscarinic antagonist COPD II 274150 selective iNOS inhibitor oral asthma, also migraine & rheumatoid arthritis II 597901 long acting beta2 agonist COPD, also COPD & asthma in combination with II a glucocorticoid agonist 678007 long acting beta2 agonist COPD, also COPD & asthma in combination with II a glucocorticoid agonist 685698 glucocorticoid agonist asthma & COPD in combination with a long acting II beta2 agonist also allergic rhinitis 766994 chemokine 3 CCR3 antagonist oral asthma & allergic rhinitis ll 799943 glucocorticoid agonist asthma & COPD in combination with a long acting II beta2 agonist 842470 PDE IV inhibitor inhaled COPD II mepolizumab anti-IL5 monoclonal antibody asthma also hypereosinophillic syndrome and II eosinophilic esophagitis Avamys Allermist 685698 glucocorticoid agonist allergic rhinitis III 2006 2006 Seretide Advair beta2 agonist inhaled corticosteroid COPD mortality claim III 2006 2006 Seretide beta2 agonist inhaled corticosteroid asthma initial maintenance therapy Submitted S:Aug04 N A Serevent beta2 agonist asthma & COPD non-CFC inhaler Submitted S:Apr04 N A Ario PDE IV inhibitor oral COPD Approvable AL:Oct03 Seretide Advair beta2 agonist inhaled corticosteroid asthma non-CFC inhaler Approved A:Jun00 AL:Oct01 & Oct02 Hepatitis Vaccines Hepatitis E recombinant hepatitis E prophylaxis II Fendrix Extra Strength recombinant extra strength hepatitis B prophylaxis pre-haemodialysis Approved A:Nov04 A:Feb05 Hepatitis B and haemodialysis patients Paediatric Vaccines Rotarix live attenuated oral rotavirus prophylaxis lll 2005 Streptorix conjugated S. pneumoniae disease prophylaxis for children III 2007 2007 N. meningitidis conjugated meningitis prophylaxis Submitted S:2005 combinations Priorix-Tetra live attenuated measles, mumps, rubella and varicella prophylaxis Submitted S:Apr04 Other Vaccines HIV recombinant HIV prophylaxis I flu improved subunit inuenza prophylaxis I S. pneumoniae elderly recombinant S. pneumoniae disease prophylaxis I Varicella Zoster recombinant Varicella Zoster prevention I Dengue fever attenuated tetravalent vaccine prophylactic use Il Epstein-Barr virus recombinant EBV prophylaxis II Mosquirix recombinant malaria prophylaxis II Staphylococcal antibodies monoclonal antibody prevention of staphylococcal infections II Cervarix recombinant prophylaxis of human papillomavirus HPV infections IIl 2006 Simplirix recombinant genital herpes prophylaxis III Boostrix subunit adolescent adult booster for diphtheria, tetanus and Approved A:Oct00 S:Jun04 pertussis Pharmaccines breast cancer therapeutic recombinant treatment of breast cancer I Her 2 Neu P501 recombinant treatment of prostate cancer l mage 3 249553 recombinant treatment of lung cancer melanoma II 18 GlaxoSmithKline Description of business Achieve commercial and operational excellence GlaxoSmithKline undertakes a range of activities to maximise the GlaxoSmithKline also complies with relevant industry codes of commercial potential of its intellectual property, by introducing practice.
Training is provided for all employees whose position innovative products into as many markets as possible, accelerating requires an understanding of Group marketing requirements, the process to bring new products to market, increasing brand particularly sales representatives.
There is a monitoring process recognition and ensuring that patients have access to new for marketing activities which includes Group internal audit and medicines.
Both the pharmaceutical and consumer healthcare independent reviews and approvals.
businesses focus on ways to improve existing performance through commercial and operational excellence initiatives.
Patient advocacy The Patient advocacy initiative has demonstrated significant Worldwide sales force excellence progress since its inception in 2002.
The rationale for the strategy GlaxoSmithKline sales force has always ranked high on surveys centres on both enhancing access for the Groups medicines in with healthcare professionals.
Worldwide sales force excellence markets where public and private payers influence availability as WSFE aims to improve customer satisfaction even further.
well as improving the reputation as a patient-centric group.
The time available for physicians to learn about new medicines Initially launched as a US programme, it has now been expanded and clinical studies is precious.
Through the WSFE initiative, sales to be a critical initiative in strategic plans throughout the world.
representatives strengthen product knowledge and learn to deliver This years Patient Advocacy Leaders Summit in Philadelphia was patient-specic treatment options more efficiently and more attended by over four hundred people representing twenty three effectively.
Research shows that a sales visit is highly effective when countries from six continents.
Additionally, Patient Advocacy teams a representative engages the physician in dialogue around patient in both the US and Europe have shared best practices and types and supports the message with visual aids that illustrate established processes to optimise interaction with patient groups.
European Centres of Excellence In 2004, the Group introduced a single global sales call model that Pharmaceuticals Europe has introduced a new business model to focuses on treating the patient through a dialogue about when enhance its ability to compete in an increasingly challenging a GlaxoSmithKline medicine is appropriate, why it is effective environment.
The model has established Centres of Excellence for and how to administer it safely.
By the end of the year, all eld key therapeutic areas, such as respiratory and metabolic and for people in the Groups key markets had been trained in the new business capabilities such as commercial excellence and portfolio When?
These centres develop pan-European strategies The entire sales organisation is immersed in WSFE to bring about which are implemented consistently across the region.
The model a cultural change that raises ethical standards and helps build is driving the swift adoption of brand strategies and campaigns, long-term, trusting relationships with the healthcare community.
while reducing costs and duplication.
The new model also focuses on ensuring that new assets may be launched in Europe with the Marketing excellence optimal data to support their approval and reimbursement.
Goals of the global Marketing excellence initiative are first, to help undiagnosed patients seek a physicians help and, second, Procurement to ensure they receive appropriate treatment.
For example, in the GlaxoSmithKline annually spends around 5 billion on nonUK, ofcials estimate that 2.4 million people suffer from type 2 production related third party purchases: worldwide this covers diabetes, yet about 25 per cent of them remain undiagnosed, all areas including media, travel, R&D, IT and marketing.
These and of those diagnosed, another 25 per cent remain untreated.
purchases are managed by procurement, on behalf of their internal Of those treated, a significant number is under-treated in some customers and focus on delivering the best value to the Group.
way that is, these patients do not achieve the level of health This approach covers assurance of supply, service, quality, cost that the treatments could provide under optimal circumstances.
The process has delivered savings in excess of GlaxoSmithKlines marketing initiative implements programmes to 200 million per year since the merger.
overcome the barriers to proper diagnosis and treatment.
As these programmes begin to show effects, the societal costs of disease Improving processes will decrease.
To the extent that a GlaxoSmithKline product is The Group has ongoing improvements in processes to increase chosen for patients treatment, the Group will benefit as well.
the quality of goods and services, improve speed and reliability of performance and deliver savings.
The procurement function GlaxoSmithKline has been recognised by the industry for its initiates rigorous supplier selection and monitoring processes across excellence in marketing and has received a variety of awards all key areas of expenditure and compliance with the use of acknowledging the success of its campaigns.
Each award preferred suppliers is high.
In 2004, operational excellence experts programme is independently judged by experts.
from Global Manufacturing and Supply supported a number of GlaxoSmithKline is committed to marketing that is ethical, other businesses and functions by helping to solve problems in a responsible and patient-centred.
There is a corporate policy rigorous, controlled and structured way and to focus efficiently governing marketing activities that applies to all employees, on those activities adding the greatest value to GlaxoSmithKline.
This policy requires that all marketing and promotional activities are based on valid scientific Project Future evidence, and comply with applicable laws and regulations.
Each In 2003, Project Future, a fundamental review of the Consumer business sector has policies that include additional requirements Healthcare business model to increase competitiveness and, and guidance.
thereby, sales growth was undertaken.
This model was implemented in 2004.
Further details are given on page 23.
Description of business GlaxoSmithKline 19 Improve access to medicines Access to healthcare in the developing world Voluntary licences During 2004, GlaxoSmithKline granted five voluntary licences to Access to healthcare in developing countries remains a major African generics companies for the manufacture and sale of ARVs challenge to the global community.
The problem, which is rooted to both the public and private sectors in sub-Saharan Africa.
These in poverty and a lack of political will, continues to demand a licences build upon the Groups agreement with Aspen significant mobilisation of resources and a true spirit of partnership.
Pharmacare, sub-Saharan Africas largest generic company, first It must be tackled as a shared responsibility by all sectors of global signed in September 2001, and demonstrate GlaxoSmithKlines society.
The Group does not have the mandate, expertise or ongoing commitment to increasing access to essential medicines resources to address the underlying problems that exist.
GlaxoSmithKline continues to play a vital role, through its commitment to R&D into diseases particularly prevalent in the Looking ahead developing world, through its programme of preferential pricing GlaxoSmithKline will continue to build on its products, pricing and for its anti-retrovirals ARVs, anti-malarials and vaccines, and partnership commitments to help improve healthcare in the through its willingness to seek innovative solutions, such as developing world.
However, a significant increase in funding from voluntary licencing arrangements.
the global community is still needed.
It is also important to maintain incentives for R&D through protection of intellectual Preferential pricing arrangements property.
There is, for example, neither a cure nor a vaccine for GlaxoSmithKline has offered its vaccines to key organisations for HIV AIDS.
vaccination programmes in developing countries at preferential prices for over 20 years.
The Group also sets a single, sustainable, While much was achieved in 2004, sustainable progress will only not-for-profit price for each of its ARVs and anti-malarials to a wide occur if the significant barriers that stand in the way of better range of customers in Least Developed Countries UN denition access to healthcare are tackled as a shared responsibility by all and sub-Saharan Africa, as well as projects fully-funded by the sectors of global society governments, international agencies, Global Fund to Fight AIDS, TB, and Malaria and the US Presidents charities, academic institutions, the pharmaceutical industry and Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief.
This means that the not-for-profit others.
prices are offered in a total of 100 countries.
Access to healthcare in the developed world GlaxoSmithKline is committed to contributing to health improvements in a sustainable manner.
The prices for its ARVs and GlaxoSmithKline plays an active role in improving the healthcare anti-malarials are therefore set at levels at which no profit is made, of people who have limited access to medicines.
During 2004, the but direct costs are covered, allowing supply to be sustained for Groups Bridges to Access and Commitment to Access programmes as long as required.
The Group has undertaken to reduce these provided over $372 million worth of medicines to qualifying lowprices whenever possible.
Although two reductions were income US residents.
For Medicare beneciaries, there is the announced in 2003, no price reductions were possible in 2004.
GlaxoSmithKline Orange Card programme which offers qualifying US senior citizens 20 to 40 per cent discounts off their outpatient Preferential pricing is improving access.
The Group has signed over GlaxoSmithKline medicines.
More than 175,000 individuals have 200 agreements, covering 57 of the worlds poorest countries, to signed up for the programme.
The Group is committed to supply ARVs at preferential prices.
Customers include governments, maintaining this programme until a Medicare prescription benefit non-governmental organisations NGOs, hospitals, academic is in place in 2006. institutions and private employers.
The Group is also a founding member of Together Rx, a multiThe offer of not-for-profit prices requires a sustainable framework, company card programme through which seven major participating combining the Groups commitment to preferential pricing with pharmaceutical companies offer savings in the USA on more than commitments from governments of the developed world to avoid 155 widely prescribed medicines.
Together Rx participants can save price referencing against preferentially priced medicines and to up to 40 per cent off the usual amount for their prescriptions.
GlaxoSmithKline has taken steps to By the end of 2004 over 1.4 million people had joined this minimise the threat of diversion and is now able to supply over 50 programme.
countries with Combivir, Epivir and Trizivir in special access packs.
Similar efforts are underway to secure widespread regulatory In addition, GlaxoSmithKline and nine other pharmaceutical approval for Retrovir and Epivir Syrup access packs and to register companies created Together Rx Access, a savings programme for differentiated red as opposed to traditional white Combivir and qualied individuals in the USA who lack prescription drug Epivir tablets across a number of International markets.
Through Together Rx Access, the participating companies 2004, the Group successfully registered nine of its ARVs under offer savings of about 25 to 40 per cent off the usual pharmacy the European Unions Anti-Diversion Regulation.
It also continued cost on over 275 medicines.
to encourage other countries to take the necessary steps to ensure the introduction and strict enforcement of appropriate anti-diversion measures.
20 GlaxoSmithKline Description of business Be the best place for the best people to do their best work GlaxoSmithKline people Individuals are developed for global leadership positions through targeted job moves in different businesses and geographies.
A GlaxoSmithKline is committed to creating the best place for the variety of programmes are offered internally to develop leaders best people to do their best work.
and managers who innovate, inspire and execute well.
Performance and reward Communication and involvement Reward philosophy and programme development underscore A senior management conference, held in February 2004, allowed GlaxoSmithKlines commitment to a performance culture.
more than 1,000 delegates to be briefed directly by members of Performance based pay, share awards, share options and the Corporate Executive Team on key challenges facing the Group performance and development planning contribute to retention and to debate strategies for addressing them.
The event also of key talent, superior performance and accomplishment of recognised individuals who made outstanding contributions business targets.
The annual performance and development planning PDP In May 2004, a second Global Leadership Survey was conducted process ensures that individuals set business goals aligned among more than 10,000 managers to gauge opinion on critical with corporate strategies, set behavioural goals, and create a issues such as culture and confidence in the Groups future.
PDPs are reviewed throughout the year, showed significant improvement on 29 of 31 items compared with culminating with an end of year review that is factored into 2002 results.
Compared with global benchmarks, managers rate compensation decisions.
highly on fostering alignment between personal goals and the Performance with Integrity is central to operating at GlaxoSmithKline mission and fostering an environment of ethics GlaxoSmithKline.
The recent Leadership Survey showed over and integrity.
In the survey, 80 per cent of managers were proud 90 per cent believe that people in their department show to be part of GlaxoSmithKline and would gladly refer a friend commitment to performance with integrity.
or family member to work for GlaxoSmithKline.
A commitment to exible working through exi-time, With regard to improvement areas, managers report that teleconferencing, remote working and exible work schedules, GlaxoSmithKline should continue to enhance our environment as recognises that employees work best in an environment that a place where people are able to do their best work and engage helps them integrate their work and personal lives.
managers in making the changes necessary to compete effectively.
Each business and function has developed action plans to address Diversity areas for improvement.
The GlaxoSmithKline diversity initiative focuses on improving The Group continually seeks ways of improving the efficiency and performance by responding to the diverse needs of employees, effectiveness of employee communications, in order to maximise customers, and external stakeholders.
At the second annual awareness of critical information within a diverse global audience.
Multicultural Marketing and Diversity Awards, 80 entrants from A streaming video project is underway, which will allow senior five countries highlighted innovative activities that demonstrated executives to communicate more frequently with employees.
In 2004, the global management population by gender was 65 per cent male, 35 per cent female.
For more details Health and well-being on diversity measures, see the Corporate responsibility report in Global policies on Employee Health are supported by mandatory the section, Employment Practices.
standards that integrate employee health and safety and The Group is committed to employment policies free from environmental requirements.
These standards are applied to all discrimination against potential or existing staff on the grounds the Groups facilities and operations worldwide.
of age, race, ethnic and national origin, gender, sexual orientation, Based on the first year data from the global health experience, faith or disability.
GlaxoSmithKline is committed to offering people three health areas have been identied for additional focus.
These with disabilities access to the full range of recruitment and career are musculoskeletal, mental health and conditions related to opportunities.
Multidisciplinary teams are working to set baselines, align reporting and develop interventions.
This effort Recruitment will help to reduce the incidence and impact of these conditions Whilst voluntary turnover is only four per cent, GlaxoSmithKline in the future.
is committed to continuing to enhance its recruitment processes.
Candidate Care transforms the recruitment process into a customer Human resources services and information systems experience, aiming to build positive relationships with those who GlaxoSmithKlines human resource delivery strategy is designed to seek to join and stay with the Group.
make the most of technology.
Human resources services and information are delivered through low cost, highly effective Talent management and leadership development channels that make it easy for job candidates, employees and Every individual creates a development plan yearly as part of the retirees to access information about employment, compensation PDP process.
Key talent is then identied through Talent Reviews and benets, policies and programmes.
These include intuitive conducted by each business and function.
Individuals are given personalised web based tools, available to employees in many feedback on development needs, and key talent is developed locations.
through new positions, assignments and courses.
A pool of successors is identied for all Vice-President positions and other critical positions in the organisation.
Description of business GlaxoSmithKline 21 Invest in communities Success through partnership GlaxoSmithKline does not operate a single charitable foundation but has a number of small country-based foundations in Canada, GlaxoSmithKline continues to build on its history of community the Czech Republic, France, Italy, Romania, Spain and North investment programmes and support for better healthcare delivery Carolina in the USA.
The grants made by these foundations and education in under-served communities around the world.
in 2004 are included in the investment total.
The Group does this through active engagement with numerous external stakeholders including the World Health Organization GlaxoSmithKline is a member of the PerCent Club, giving over WHO and members of the not-for-profit community.
It funds one per cent of its profit before tax to good causes, and has community-led initiatives across the world and donates medicines been recognised as the largest giver of any FTSE 100 company to support humanitarian efforts and community-based healthcare.
for the previous three years.
Many of the programmes are long term commitments that help bring about sustainable change in communities.
Global health programmes Eliminating Lymphatic Filariasis Community investment The Groups effort to help rid the world of the disabling disease, lymphatic lariasis LF, continued in close partnership with the GlaxoSmithKlines global community investment activities in 2004 governments of endemic countries, the WHO and over 40 partner were valued at 328 million, equivalent to 5.4 per cent of Group organisations.
The Group has committed to donate as much of profit before tax.
This comprised product donations of 260 the anti-parasitic drug albendazole as required to treat the one million, cash giving of 48 million, in-kind donations of 2 million billion people at risk in 80 countries by 2020. and costs of 18 million to manage and deliver community programmes in more than 100 countries.
In 2004, the sixth year of the programme, 67 million albendazole treatments, worth 7 million at wholesale acquisition cost, were Product donations in 2004 were as follows: donated to 34 countries.
Since the global elimination programme started in 2000 over 85 million people have received donated Product donations total 260 million albendazole a cumulative total of 307 million treatments.
Patient Assistance Programs 2004, Egypt and several Pacic Islands completed the minimum 3 203 million five rounds of mass drug administration and preliminary results look impressive.
Albendazole for LF 2 7 million In addition to donating albendazole tablets, the Group gave grants of 1 million and staff expertise to support the activities of the 3.
Humanitarian Product Donations Global Alliance to Eliminate LF.
50 million 1 GlaxoSmithKlines Positive Action on HIV AIDS Positive Action is GlaxoSmithKlines 12-year pioneering global programme working with communities affected by AIDS.
It GlaxoSmithKlines cash giving was targeted primarily at health supports community-based organisations to deliver effective HIV and education initiatives.
and AIDS education, prevention and healthcare services.
New programmes were launched in Latin America, Asia and central Breakdown of cash giving total 48 million and eastern Europe to address the emerging epidemic.
During 2004, Positive Action worked with 23 partners to support 1.
Health 44% programmes in 35 countries, including: 5 4 raising awareness about AIDS among men in Kenya 2.
Education 38% 3 providing UK prisoners with education on preventing blood- 3.
Arts and Culture 2% 1 borne diseases training more than 350 trainers of health and social care 4.
Environment 2% workers in 130 African organisations 5.
Other 14% promoting partnerships in Asia to improve patients 2 understanding about treatment providing support for thousands of community delegates at regional and international AIDS conferences.
In the UK, GlaxoSmithKline contributed 4 million in 2004 to its continuing corporate programme of charitable activities supporting The GlaxoSmithKline African Malaria Partnership over 70 organisations in health, medical research, science The GlaxoSmithKline African Malaria Partnership supports three education, the arts and the environment.
In addition Group behavioural development programmes working in eight African companies in the UK provided a further 4 million for community countries, following the addition of Senegal to the programme purposes.
Corporate programmes in North America focused on in 2004.
During 2004, the Group disbursed further grants in a improving public education and access to better healthcare for $1.5 million three year commitment to its partners: Freedom From children and senior citizens with funding of $12 million.
In Hunger, the African Medical and Research Foundation AMREF addition nearly $16 million was donated by the Groups US-based and Plan International.
The programmes are expected to benefit businesses to regional community activities.
nearly two million people and focus particularly on young children and pregnant women, encouraging effective prevention measures, prompt treatment and antenatal malaria management.
22 GlaxoSmithKline Description of business Invest in communities continued PHASE The Group supported the British Lung Foundations Baby Breathe The PHASE initiative Personal Hygiene and Sanitation Education Easy programme with a two year grant of 386,000, funding is providing education to thousands of school children in Kenya, a pilot scheme which will be run in nine regions across the UK.
Zambia, Nicaragua and Peru to improve their health and hygiene This supports parents and carers of babies and children under to ght infectious diseases.
In 2004, the Group committed threefive, with recurring chest problems.
year funding of 226,000 to extend the programme into Uganda in partnership with the Ministry of Health and AMREF.
The Education initiatives achievements of PHASE were again recognised with a World The Groups efforts to improve public and science education Business Award in support of the Millennium Development Goals included a three year grant of $300,000 to the National Board and an industry award for disease prevention and education.
for Professional Teaching Standards to increase the number of science teachers pursuing certication in North Carolina and Humanitarian product donations Philadelphia.
During 2004, GlaxoSmithKline donated essential products such A grant of $50,000 to the Center for Corporate Citizenship of the as antibiotics, through non-profit partners including AmeriCares, US Chamber of Commerce links the Department of Education into MAP International and Project HOPE, in response to humanitarian a programme to review how education impacts the economy.
The relief efforts and community healthcare.
For example, the Group Philadelphia Education Fund received a grant of $129,000 for the donated products following the oods in Bangladesh, hurricanes Middle Grade Matters campaign to improve middle-level education in the USA and the Caribbean, typhoons in the Philippines, the for children aged 11-16. conict in Sudan, and the Asian tsunami.
GlaxoSmithKline continued to support the INSPIRE INnovative In 2004, the total value of the Groups humanitarian product Scheme for Post-doctoral researchers in Research and Education donations was 50 million.
This excludes albendazole donated scheme, developed in partnership with Imperial College London to the lymphatic lariasis elimination programme.
Product and the Specialist Schools Trust, with a 1 million donation over donations are valued at wholesale acquisition cost which is the four years.
INSPIRE places post-doctoral researchers in specialist wholesale list price, not including discounts, and is a standard science schools to assist with science teaching.
Science in the Summer, a free library-based science education Community initiatives programme in the Philadelphia area teaching basic scientific GlaxoSmithKline is dedicated to strengthening the fabric of concepts, continued to receive support with a grant of $365,000.
communities where it operates through providing health Now in its 19th year, more than 68,000 children have participated and education initiatives and support for local civic and cultural in the programme.
Science Across the World, an award-winning institutions that improve quality of life.
GlaxoSmithKlines international education programme that uses web-based resources contribution to improve healthcare includes a three-year grant of to promote discussion of science issues between 90,000 children more than $2 million which has helped to expand The Childrens in schools in over 100 countries, received a grant of 100,000.
Health Funds Referral Management Initiative RMI into seven US states, ensuring continuity of specialist medical care for high-risk Employee involvement children who are often homeless.
GlaxoSmithKline employees are encouraged to contribute to their local communities through employee volunteering schemes.
The Group supported the Arthur Ashe Institute for Urban Health Support varies around the world but includes employee time, with grants totalling $350,000 over three years for core funding cash donations to charities where employees volunteer and a and the Community Health Empowerment Program to provide matching gifts programme.
In many countries, GlaxoSmithKline health education for low-income neighbourhoods in nonoffers tax-efficient methods for employee giving in accordance traditional venues, such as churches and shops.
GlaxoSmithKline continues its 10 year partnership with Barretstown In 2004, in the USA, the Group matched more than 15,000 in Ireland and LEnvol in France which provide life-changing activity employee and retiree gifts at a value of over $4 million.
The programmes backed by the medical community for European Group also matched the $1.3 million of employee donations to children with cancer and life-threatening illnesses, helping them to the GlaxoSmithKline and United Way campaign giving a combined rediscover their confidence, self-esteem and participate fully in contribution of $2.6 million.
In addition, GlaxoSmithKlines their everyday lives.
They received 250,000 Investment in Volunteer Excellence GIVE programme provided and 100,000, respectively.
grants to 700 charitable organisations where employees or their The annual Impact Awards recognise excellence in the work of partners have volunteered at least 50 hours in the year.
non-profit community health organisations across the UK and in GlaxoSmithKlines Making a Difference programme in the UK the Greater Philadelphia area of the USA.
Over 20 charities provided grants of 269,000 to over 400 non-profit organisations received unrestricted awards for their work dealing with diverse or registered charities based on employee involvement.
issues such as domestic and community violence, sexual health for young people and child abuse.
To further medical research, over 500,000 was provided to UK medical charities such as Breakthrough Breast Cancer, Cystic Fibrosis Trust, DEBRA, Ehlers-Danlos Support Group and the Motor Neurone Disease Association.
Description of business GlaxoSmithKline 23 Consumer Healthcare Current business The five Global brand concepts and teams are: GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare manufactures and markets Aquafresh consumer brands in the healthcare industry.
The organisation has Sensodyne structure and responsibility at global, regional and local levels.
Dental care & cold sore Operations span the majority of the worlds geography and are Panadol sold principally across two major trade channels, grocery and Smoking Control pharmacy.
Brands are marketed across the full regulatory The Future Group also includes centres of excellence in global spectrum from prescription through to free sale.
project management, medical marketing and e-marketing.
Support The environment in which the Consumer Healthcare business functions have also reorganised to more effectively serve the new operates has become ever more challenging: model.
consumers are demanding better quality, better value and Lead market brands 30 per cent of global sales improved performance These brands are large and marketed in several territories but retailers have consolidated, globalised and therefore generally with one anchor market that can lead the development strengthened their negotiation power of these businesses for other markets.
They still enjoy central R&D competitors are nding conditions equally challenging and resource, and include such brands as Lucozade, Ribena, Horlicks, therefore competing more aggressively across all elements Tums and Dr Best.
of the marketing mix Enterprise brands 30 per cent of global sales cycle times for innovation have been reduced.
The remaining valuable local brands are managed in a new model which retains local responsibility for the brand, communications New strategy and innovation.
The enterprise brands are also supported by The vision of the Consumer Healthcare business is to be the global, regionally-focused resources, to enable application of fastest growing consumer healthcare group, through the best practice and the cross-pollination of innovation.
innovation centred on consumers and delivered by science.
The success of Consumer Healthcares new business model will In order to conduct business more effectively in the current be reected in the sales growth of the Global, Lead market environment the Consumer Healthcare business strategy and and Enterprise brands.
operating model have been redesigned.
The new model was implemented in 2004 and is now operational and targeted to Research and development Consumer Healthcare deliver faster sales growth.
It will achieve this through a vigorous focus on delivering new product developments, tightly aligned R&D has aligned itself closely with the new Consumer Healthcare with consumer needs.
The new model more effectively welds operating model and structure.
For the Global brands, it now together R&D, marketing and commercial operating units with mirrors the commercial structure with R&D teams paired with a new culture providing: Future Group teams and located in the principal centres for Consumer Healthcare R&D at Weybridge in the UK and in greater focus, alignment and simplicity less proliferation, Parsippany in the USA: with this co-location, these sites are duplication and bureaucracy now termed Innovation Centres.
The focus of R&D is on the better, faster ways of working together and no dilution identication and rapid development of novel products that of local knowledge or implementation power.
bring benets to consumers in the over-the-counter OTC, oral care and nutritional healthcare markets.
New structure The focus of the new operating model is on brands and growth opportunities.
Consequently brands are split into three categories and the business structure is centred on: Global brands Lead market brands Enterprise brands Global brands 40 per cent of global sales For those brands that have sales in multiple markets and similar positioning such that they may be developed most effectively using a global approach, a new team called the Future Group has been created.
This group assumes responsibility for consumer and market understanding, brand equity and strategy, innovation pipeline and communication.
The Future Group comprises dedicated resources for idea generation and innovation development covering both product packaging and the whole communications mix.
24 GlaxoSmithKline Description of business Global manufacturing and supply GlaxoSmithKline has a large portfolio of products, ranging from Regional pharma supply tablets and toothpaste to inhalers and complex capsules, in over Regional pharma supply focuses on several key activities, the 28,000 different pack sizes and presentations.
supply of products that are key in one or more regions, the supply of products that are important in a particular market, and the Manufacture of medicines begins with the development of a tailoring of packaging to meet specic local requirements.
A key therapeutic active ingredient bulk active in a selected formulation.
focus for the regional pharma supply team is on reducing costs Global Manufacturing and Supply GMS develops manufacturing so that GlaxoSmithKline can compete more effectively in all its processes for full scale volume production of active compounds at markets.
There are 31 sites in 23 countries in Regional pharma primary manufacturing sites.
Converting active compounds into a supply.
nished dosage formulation is the responsibility of the secondary manufacturing sites.
New product and global supply GMS operates as a single global network of 82 sites in 37 New product and global supply focuses on ensuring that the countries.
Each year GMS produces around 6,000 tonnes of bulk appropriate technical competencies exist to support rapid and actives and over four billion packs, which are packaged and successful new product introduction.
It works closely with R&Ds delivered for sale in over 160 countries.
Throughout the world it development team to do this.
It also ensures secure supply of the also supports approximately 2,000 new product and line extension key brands that are sold across many markets and have global launches a year.
This division is the focal point for developing and introducing new secondary manufacturing technologies for GMS.
By adopting leading edge practices and developing its people GMS It co-ordinates with Primary supply operations to ensure optimal expects to derive benets from: alignment between the two divisions and a full value stream a secure source of supply of high quality products approach to introducing new products.
There are eight sites in six countries in New product and global supply.
compliance with regulatory requirements and customer expectations Operational excellence best in class cost.
GMS has developed a set of metrics and a common methodology for driving improvement: in particular these have focused on Organisation increasing the robustness of the manufacturing processes to reduce waste and maintain the highest quality standards.
Extensive Supply divisions leadership education has been carried out to reinforce a culture of The former five geographic and supply chain structures are now continuous improvement, with staff empowered to solve problems four supply divisions, with sites grouped together based upon in a rigorous, controlled and structured way.
All this has given the common business drivers, areas of expertise and the commercial capability to drive step-change in performance, and to implement activities that they support.
These four divisions are described improvements rapidly across the manufacturing network.
below: Since the formation of GlaxoSmithKline, merger rationalisation Primary supply and Antibiotics and operational excellence initiatives have reduced the number Primary supply and Antibiotics focuses on ensuring the supply of of manufacturing sites by 33 29 per cent.
high quality and competitively priced bulk actives and on driving improvements in primary technologies and processes.
It also External suppliers supports the delivery of maximum value from the antibiotics Manufacturing spends over 2 billion with many external suppliers franchise through a combined primary and secondary approach every year, including the purchase of active ingredients, chemical to cost competitive supply and response to market opportunities intermediates, part-nished and nished products.
GMS takes and customer needs.
There are 18 sites in eight countries in appropriate steps to protect its supply chains from any disruption Primary supply and Antibiotics.
resulting from interrupted external supply through appropriate stock levels, contracting and alternative registered suppliers.
Consumer Healthcare supply Consumer Healthcare supply focuses on delivering high-quality, Vaccines supply chain  products and offering the capability Vaccine manufacturing is located primarily at Rixensart and Wavre for rapid new product introduction in a highly innovative and in Belgium, with three other sites in France, Germany and Hungary competitive business which has far shorter time frames than and two joint ventures in China and Russia.
New technologies have become a fundamental supply chain involves anticipating market needs and using a exible platform for lowering costs and providing exibility in operations.
approach to be able to meet uctuations in demand.
These are There are 25 sites in 18 countries in Consumer Healthcare supply.
based on forecasts from the different markets and rm orders from health authorities for mass vaccination campaigns.
Bulk, lling and packaging are carefully balanced and stocking of vaccines helps manage short-term increases in demand.
Such increases are prompted by disease outbreaks or increased demand from the public owing to disease awareness campaigns.
Description of business GlaxoSmithKline 25 Products and competition Pharmaceutical products Anti-virals Combivir, a combination of Retrovir and Epivir, has consolidated GlaxoSmithKlines principal pharmaceutical products are presently the position of these two reverse transcriptase inhibitors as the directed to nine therapeutic areas.
An analysis of sales by these cornerstone of many multiple anti-HIV product regimens.
therapeutic areas, and a description of the principal products, are Physician acceptance has clearly demonstrated the value placed set out below: on minimising the pill burden faced by patients.
2004 2003 2002 Turnover by therapeutic area m mm Ziagen is a reverse transcriptase inhibitor.
The products potency, ease of use and resistance prole allow it to play a significant Respiratory 4,415 4,417 3,987 role in a variety of highly active, well tolerated and simplied HIV Central nervous system 3,463 4,455 4,511 treatment regimens.
Anti-virals 2,360 2,349 2,299 Anti-bacterials anti-malarials 1,561 1,815 2,210 Trizivir is a combination of Combivir and Ziagen, combining three Metabolic 1,253 1,079 960 anti-HIV therapies in one tablet, for twice daily administration.
Vaccines 1,196 1,123 1,080 Epzicom Kivexa, approved by the FDA in August 2004, is a Oncology and emesis 934 1,001 977 combination of Epivir and Ziagen that is taken as one tablet with Cardiovascular and urogenital 933 771 661 once-daily dosing for HIV AIDS in combination with at least one Other 1,031 1,171 1,310 other anti-HIV drug.
17,146 18,181 17,995 Lexiva Telzir is a protease inhibitor for the treatment of HIV, that is Products and their versions may not be approved for all indications well tolerated and more convenient than Agenerase which it in all markets where they are available.
Lexiva may be taken twice daily or once daily when boosted with ritonavir.
Respiratory Zefx has been approved for marketing in the USA, Europe, China Seretide Advair, a combination of Serevent and Flixotide, offers and other markets for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B. a long-acting bronchodilator and an anti-inammatory in a single inhaler.
It is approved for the treatment of asthma and COPD.
Valtrex is a treatment for episodic genital herpes as well as the long term suppression and reduction of transmission of genital Flixotide Flovent and Becotide Beclovent are inhaled steroids for herpes, zoster shingles, cold sores and chicken pox.
Valtrex the treatment of inammation associated with asthma and COPD.
supersedes Zovirax, which is also used to treat herpes infections.
Serevent is a long-acting bronchodilator used to treat asthma and COPD, and Ventolin is a selective short-acting bronchodilator used Anti-bacterials and anti-malarials to treat bronchospasm.
Augmentin is a broad-spectrum antibiotic suitable for the treatment of a wide range of common bacterial infections and Flixonase Flonase and Beconase are intra-nasal preparations for is particularly effective against respiratory tract infections.
the treatment of perennial and seasonal rhinitis.
Augmentin ES-600 is an extra strength suspension specifically designed to treat children with recurrent or persistent middle ear Central nervous system CNS infections.
Augmentin XR is an extra strength tablet form for Seroxat Paxil is a selective serotonin re-uptake inhibitor SSRI for adults to combat difficult to treat infections.
the treatment of depression, panic, obsessive compulsive disorder, post traumatic stress disorder, social anxiety disorder, premenstrual Zinnat is an oral antibiotic used primarily for community-acquired dysphoric disorder, and general anxiety disorder.
infections of the lower respiratory tract.
Wellbutrin is an anti-depressant, available in the USA in normal, Malarone is an oral anti-malarial used for the treatment and sustained-release SR and once daily formulations.
prophylaxis of malaria caused by Plasmodium falciparum.
Imigran Imitrex is a 5HT1 receptor agonist used for the treatment Lapdap is an effective and well tolerated therapy for the treatment of severe or frequent migraine and cluster headache, and has of malaria, which has been developed through a become the reference product in this sector.
Naramig Amerge is public private collaboration.
Lamictal, a well established treatment for epilepsy, is now also indicated for bipolar disorder.
Requip is a specic dopamine D2 D3 receptor agonist indicated for the treatment of Parkinsons disease.
26 GlaxoSmithKline Description of business Products and competition continued Metabolic Cardiovascular and urogenital Avandia is a potent insulin sensitising agent which acts on the Coreg is an alpha beta blocker which has been proven to be underlying pathophysiology of type 2 diabetes.
effective in treating patients with mild, moderate and severe heart failure, heart attack or hypertension.
GlaxoSmithKline has sole Avandamet is a combination of Avandia and metformin HCI: it marketing rights in the USA and Canada.
Generic versions of the is the first medicine that targets insulin resistance and decreases product are available in Canada.
glucose production in one convenient pill.
Levitra is a PDE-5 inhibitor indicated for male erectile dysfunction.
Avandaryl, a xed-dosed combination of Avandia, and Amaryl, GlaxoSmithKline has co-promotion rights in the USA and more a Sano-Aventis product, was approved in Canada in than 20 other markets.
An FDA approvable letter was received in 2004.
GlaxoSmithKline is working with the FDA to bring Avodart is a 5-ARI inhibitor currently indicated for benign prostatic about a resolution of the outstanding issues.
A large clinical outcome study is underway examining its efcacy in the prevention of prostate cancer.
Vaccines Arixtra and Fraxiparine were acquired in 2004 as part of the GlaxoSmithKline markets a range of hepatitis vaccines.
Havrix divestitures required for the merger of Sano and Aventis.
protects against hepatitis A and Engerix-B against hepatitis B. Arixtra, a selective Factor Xa inhibitor, is indicated for the Twinrix is a combined hepatitis A and B vaccine, protecting against prophylaxis of deep vein thrombosis, which may lead to pulmonary both diseases with one vaccine and available in both adult and embolism, in hip fracture surgery, knee replacement and hip paediatric strengths.
It is also indicated for the treatment of deep Infanrix is a range of paediatric vaccine combinations.
Infanrix vein thrombosis and pulmonary embolism.
provides protection against diphtheria, tetanus and pertussis Fraxiparine is a low-molecular weight heparin indicated for whooping cough.
Infanrix PeNta Pediarix provides additional prophylaxis of thromboembolic disorders particularly deep vein protection against hepatitis B and polio, and Infanrix hexa further thrombosis and pulmonary embolism in general surgery and adds protection against haemophilus inuenzae type b, which in orthopedic surgery, treatment of deep vein thrombosis and causes meningitis.
prevention of clotting during hemodialysis.
GlaxoSmithKline also markets Priorix, a measles, mumps and The European marketing rights to Integrilin were acquired in 2004. rubella vaccine, Typherix, a vaccine for protection against typhoid A GP IIb-IIIa inhibitor, it is approved in the EU for the prevention fever, and Varilrix, a vaccine against varicella or chicken pox.
In of early myocardial infarction.
addition, the Group markets a range of vaccines to prevent meningitis under the umbrella name Mencevax.
Other This category includes Betnovate, the higher potency Dermovate Oncology and emesis and the newer Cutivate, which are anti-inammatory steroid Zofran is used to prevent nausea and vomiting associated with products used to treat skin diseases such as eczema and psoriasis, chemotherapy and radiotherapy for cancer, and is available in Relafen, a non-steroidal anti-inammatory drug for the treatment both oral and injectable forms.
It is also approved for use in the of arthritis, and Zantac, for the treatment of peptic ulcer disease prevention and treatment of post-operative nausea and vomiting.
and a range of gastric acid related disorders.
Hycamtin is a second line treatment both for ovarian cancer and for small cell lung cancer.
Bexxar is a treatment for patients with CD20 follicular, nonHodgkins lymphoma with and without transformation whose disease is refractory to rituximab and who have relapsed following chemotherapy.
Description of business GlaxoSmithKline 27 Pharmaceuticals competition Anti-virals Major competitors in the HIV market include Gilead, Bristol Myers The pharmaceutical industry is highly competitive.
Squibb, Abbott, Merck and Pzer.
GlaxoSmithKlines principal competitors are large international pharmaceutical companies with substantial resources.
Some of GlaxoSmithKline has a pioneering role in the HIV market, with these companies and their major products are mentioned below.
Retrovir and Epivir acting as the cornerstone of combination therapy and available as Combivir in a single tablet.
The launches Pharmaceuticals may be subject to competition from other of Ziagen, Agenerase, Trizivir, Lexiva and Epizcom have broadened products during the period of patent protection and, once off the Groups portfolio of HIV products.
The manufacturers of generic products typically do not bear significant research and development Valtrex has strengthened the Groups position in the anti-herpes costs and consequently are able to offer their products at area.
Zovirax faces competition from generic aciclovir.
Both Valtrex considerably lower prices than the branded competitors.
A research and Zovirax compete with Novartis Famvir.
Zefx was the first and development based pharmaceutical company will normally anti-viral on the market to treat hepatitis B. Gileads Hepsera was seek to achieve a sufciently high profit margin and sales volume the second.
GlaxoSmithKline has marketing rights to Hepsera in during the period of patent protection to repay the original some key markets.
investment, which is generally substantial, and to fund research for the future.
Competition from generic products generally occurs Anti-bacterials and anti-malarials as patents in major markets expire.
Increasingly patent challenges Generic versions of both Augmentin and Ceftin Zinnat are available are made prior to patent expiry, claiming that the innovator patent in the USA.
Augmentin has also lost patent protection in various is not valid and or that it is not infringed by the generic product.
Augmentin XR and Augmentin ES compete Following loss of patent protection, generic products rapidly against a broad range of other branded and generic antibiotics.
capture a large share of the market, particularly in the USA.
Malarones safety prole and convenient dosing regimen have helped put this product in a strong position versus meoquine GlaxoSmithKline believes that remaining competitive is dependent for malaria prophylaxis.
upon the discovery and development of new products, together with effective marketing of existing products.
Within the Metabolic pharmaceutical industry, the introduction of new products and The major competitor for Avandia is Takeda Chemicals Actos, processes by competitors may affect pricing levels or result in which is co-promoted with Eli Lilly in the USA.
changing patterns of product use.
There can be no assurance that products may not become outmoded, notwithstanding patent or Vaccines trade mark protection.
In addition, increased government and GlaxoSmithKlines major competitors in the vaccine market include other pressures for physicians and patients to use generic Sano Pasteur SP, Merck and Wyeth.
Engerix-B and Havrix pharmaceuticals, rather than brand-name medicines, may increase compete with vaccines produced by SP and Merck Comvax and competition for products that are no longer protected by patent.
Recombivax HB for hepatitis B, and Vaqta and Avaxim for hepatitis A. Infanrixs major competitor is SPs range of DTPa-based Respiratory combination vaccines.
GlaxoSmithKlines respiratory franchise is driven by the growth of Seretide Advair, gaining patients from competitor products and Oncology and emesis the cannibalisation of Serevent and Flixotide Flovent.
Major Zofran presently provides GlaxoSmithKline with a leadership respiratory competitors are Singulair from Merck, especially in the position in the anti-emetic market where competitor companies USA and in Europe, Symbicort from AstraZeneca and Spiriva from include Roche, Sano-Aventis and more recently Merck.
competitors in the diverse cytotoxic market include Bristol Myers Squibb, Sano-Aventis, Pzer and Novartis.
GlaxoSmithKlines CNS disorders cytotoxic portfolio, led by Hycamtin and Navelbine, currently holds Major competitors in the USA to Paxil are its generic forms, as a relatively small market position.
well as generic uoxetine, the generic form of Eli Lillys Prozac, Zoloft from Pzer, Forest Laboratories Celexa and Lexapro.
The Cardiovascular and urogenital principal competitors in the USA for Wellbutrin are generic forms GlaxoSmithKline markets Coreg in the USA where its major of bupropion, the generic forms of SSRIs and Effexor XR, a Wyeth competitors are Toprol XL and generic betablockers.
Paxil CR and the once-daily Wellbutrin XL help to retain competes directly with Mercks Proscar within the BPH market.
a strong presence in the anti-depressant market, given the GlaxoSmithKline has co-promotion rights in the USA and over availability of generic paroxetine in the USA.
Generic competition 20 other countries for Levitra, which faces competition from for Seroxat Paxil has also commenced in the UK and a number Pzers Viagra and Lilly Icos Cialis.
28 GlaxoSmithKline Description of business Products and competition continued Consumer Healthcare products Oral care The leading Oral care products are toothpastes and mouthwashes GlaxoSmithKlines principal consumer healthcare products are in under the Aquafresh, Sensodyne, Macleans and Odol brand three major areas.
An analysis of sales by these areas is set out names, and a range of toothbrushes sold under the Aquafresh, below: and Dr Best names.
In addition, denture care products are available 2004 2003 2002 principally under the Polident, Poligrip and Corega brand names.
m mm OTC medicines 1,489 1,556 1,586 Nutritional healthcare Oral care 1,088 1,082 1,052 The leading products in this category are Lucozade glucose energy Nutritional healthcare 636 622 579 and sports drinks, Ribena, a blackcurrant juice-based drink rich in vitamin C, and Horlicks, a range of milk-based malted food and 3,213 3,260 3,217 chocolate drinks.
In 2004 sales were three per cent higher in CER terms than in 2003 but declined one per cent in sterling terms.
Consumer Healthcare competition GlaxoSmithKline holds leading global positions in all its key Major products which are not necessarily sold in all markets are: consumer product areas.
Worldwide it is the second largest in Category Product Oral care and the third largest in OTC medicines.
In Nutritional healthcare it holds the leading position in the UK, India and Over-the-counter medicines Ireland.
Analgesics Panadol Dermatologicals Zovirax The main competitors include the major international companies Abreva Colgate-Palmolive, Johnson & Johnson, Pzer, Procter & Gamble, Gastro-intestinal Tums Unilever and Wyeth.
In addition, there are many other companies Citrucel that compete with GlaxoSmithKline in certain markets.
Respiratory tract Contac The major competitor products in OTC medicines are: Beechams Smoking control Commit in the USA: Metamucil laxative, Pepcid indigestion and Nicorette private label smoking control products NicoDerm CQ in the UK: Lemsip cold remedy, Nurofen and Anadin NiQuitin CQ analgesics, and Nicorette and Nicotinell smoking control Nicabate CQ treatments.
Natural wellness support Abtei Oral care Aquafresh In Oral care the major competitors are Colgate-Palmolives Colgate Dr Best and Procter & Gambles Crest.
Macleans In Nutritional healthcare the major competitors to Horlicks are Odol Ovaltine and Milo malted food and chocolate drinks.
The Odol Med 3 competitors to Ribena are primarily local fruit juice products, while Polident Lucozade competes with other energy drinks.
Poligrip Sensodyne Nutritional healthcare Lucozade Ribena Horlicks Over-the-counter medicines The leading products are Panadol, a widely available paracetamol acetominophen analgesic: Nicorette gum in the USA: the NicoDerm, NiQuitin CQ and Nicabate range of smoking control products: Tums, a calcium-based antacid: Citrucel laxative: Contac for the treatment of colds: Abtei, a natural medicines and vitamin range: and Zovirax and Abreva for the treatment of cold sores.
In 2004, the Group obtained the OTC marketing rights to orlistat in the USA, an FDA approved prescription product for obesity management, marketed by Roche as Xenical.
Description of business GlaxoSmithKline 29 Regulatory environment Regulation Pharmaceuticals Across International markets, countries outside the USA and Europe, the regulatory environment continues to be extremely GlaxoSmithKline operates within a highly regulated environment.
GlaxoSmithKline anticipates that the Regional and country-specic laws and regulations define the data introduction of new products will continue to require substantial required to show safety and efcacy of pharmaceutical products, effort, time and expense to comply with regulatory requirements.
as well as govern testing, approval, manufacturing, labelling and marketing of drugs.
These regulatory requirements are a major Price controls factor in determining whether a marketable product may be In many countries the prices of pharmaceutical products are successfully developed and the amount of time and expense controlled by law.
Governments may also influence prices through associated with this development.
their control of national healthcare organisations, which may bear a large part of the cost of supplying products to consumers.
Recent Regulation process Government healthcare reforms in countries such as France, Spain In 2004 GlaxoSmithKline adopted the Common Technical and Germany may restrict pricing and reimbursement.
Document format for marketing applications and major supplements.
This is a single format for registering a product that In the USA, recent legislation on healthcare reform, cross-border is accepted by regulatory authorities in many regions.
These trade, the acceleration of generics to market and increased patient applications are being prepared and submitted electronically.
contributions have further increased the focus on pricing.
Currently there are no government price controls over private sector Other harmonisation activities at a global and regional level are purchases, but federal legislation requires pharmaceutical ongoing with some success at standardisation.
However, the manufacturers to pay prescribed rebates on certain drugs in order regulatory environment is varied and changes rapidly.
The national to be eligible for reimbursement under Medicaid and other federal regulatory authorities in many jurisdictions have high standards of healthcare programmes.
technical appraisal and consequently the introduction of new pharmaceutical products generally entails a lengthy Medicare approval process.
The US Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and In the European Union, there are currently two procedures for Modernization Act of 2003 provides limited immediate benets obtaining marketing authorisations for medicinal products: to Medicare patients the disabled and those over 65 years old in the form of government sponsored discount cards to be The Centralised Procedure, with applications made direct to replaced with a comprehensive out-patient drug benefit in 2006. the European Medicines Evaluation Agency and leading to an The benefit is intended to be administered by a number of private authorisation valid in all member states, is compulsory for organisations that will construct benefit structures consistent with products derived from biotechnology and optional for new federal law and will market the benefit to Medicare patients.
active substances and other innovative medicinal products While the law provides strong incentives for manufacturers to The Mutual Recognition Procedure, which is applicable to the negotiate prices with plan sponsors, the bill does not provide for majority of conventional medicinal products, operates by explicit government price controls.
As most senior citizens already mutual recognition of national marketing authorisations.
have some drug coverage, the greatest increase in demand is likely Where agreement cannot be reached, it is resolved by a to be in the population of low-income senior citizens who have no procedure of binding arbitration.
Those low-income senior citizens will receive subsidies New EU legislation is to be implemented by the end of 2005, for the premiums, deductible and co-payments associated with the which will improve the Centralised Procedure and increase the comprehensive benefit.
range of products for which it is compulsory.
The Mutual This law also changes the way that drugs administered in surgeries, Recognition Procedure the decentralised procedure, which is clinics and hospital outpatient departments will be reimbursed.
intended to facilitate agreement between the member states, will Instead of reimbursement based on prices published by also be amended.
The implementation of the new legislation will independent pricing services, doctor and clinic reimbursement will bring with it a number of other changes, for example, increased be based on actual market prices as reported by manufacturers post marketing safety monitoring and new types of conditional and audited by the government.
The formula used for hospital product approvals.
outpatient reimbursement will not change in 2005, but the US Grant of a marketing authorisation affords the Group a protection Government is directed to devise a new, cost-based methodology period during which a competitor cannot rely on condential data for 2006 and beyond.
in the regulatory le as a basis for its own marketing authorisation.
The new EU legislation will, for the first time, harmonise the data protection period for both submission routes.
The FDA has introduced a new focus called the Critical Path Initiative.
This is intended to enable innovation in drug development, hopefully allowing for more rapid development and approval of needed medicines.
This initiative will investigate the use of pharmacogenomics and surrogate markers of efcacy, among other things, such as manufacturing innovations, as tools for rapidly developing and producing safe and effective drugs for unmet medical needs.
30 GlaxoSmithKline Description of business Regulatory environment continued Value for money The basic patent position with respect to significant products is It is becoming increasingly necessary to demonstrate the value for as follows: money of new products, in particular the impact on drug budget Augmentin.
The patent on the key active ingredient, potassium expenditure and the burden of the disease that will be treated.
b clavulanate has expired in all markets except Italy 2006 and In some markets, the need to satisfy healthcare purchasers as to generic competition exists in most markets.
value for money is becoming an additional hurdle for product Avandia and Avandamet.
The patent on the active ingredient acceptance over and above the regulatory tests of safety, efcacy a, c rosiglitazone is not due to expire until 2012 in the USA and and quality.
This can delay bringing effective and improved b 2013 in Europe.
Patents on the commercial form of the active medicines to the market and reduce their effective patent ingredient rosiglitazone maleate are not due to expire until 2015 protection time.
Litigation challenging the validity e In many markets, especially in the USA and Europe, it is becoming of the patents protecting these products is ongoing in the USA.
increasingly difficult for even a signicantly improved therapy to Avodart.
The patent on the active ingredient dutasteride has a obtain a premium price over existing medication.
Value-based a b normal expiry of 2015 in the USA and 2017 in Europe.
pricing may be difficult to apply in such circumstances, although in the USA it is still possible to price products to reect their value.
The patent on the specic combination of lamivudine It is not possible to predict whether, and to what extent, the and zidovudine is not due to expire until 2012 in the USA and b Groups business may be affected by future legislative and 2013 in Europe.
regulatory developments relating to specic pharmaceutical Coreg.
GlaxoSmithKline is the exclusive licensee under the US products or their price.
patent on the active ingredient carvedilol, which is not due to a expire until 2007.
The patent on the active ingredient lamivudine is not due a, c b The consumer healthcare industry is subject to national regulation to expire until 2010 in the USA and 2011 in Europe.
for the testing, approval, manufacturing, labelling and marketing Flixotide Flovent and Flixonase Flonase.
In the USA, the patent on of products.
In many countries, high standards of technical the active ingredient uticasone propionate expired in May 2004. appraisal entail a lengthy approval process before a new product b In most European countries protection expires in March 2005. is launched.
The patent on the active ingredient sumatriptan National regulatory authorisation is also required to approve the c b is not due to expire until 2009 in the USA and 2006 in Europe switch of products from prescription to OTC.
Litigation challenging the validity of the patent include long-term experience of the quality, safety and efcacy e protecting this product is ongoing in the USA.
of the product in a wide patient population and data to confirm that the relevant condition is both self-limiting and easily Lamictal.
The patent on the active ingredient lamotrigine is not a, c diagnosed by the consumer.
due to expire until 2009 paediatric extension pending in the b USA and 2005 in most countries in Europe.
Litigation challenging e Intellectual property the validity of this patent in the USA has recently been settled.
d Intellectual property is a key business asset for GlaxoSmithKline.
GlaxoSmithKline has co-promotion rights under the US The effective legal protection of intellectual property is critical in patent on the active ingredient vardenal which is not due to ensuring a reasonable return on investment in R&D.
Intellectual expire until 2018 in the USA.
property can be protected by patents, trade marks, registered Lexiva Telzir.
GlaxoSmithKline is the exclusive licensee under the designs, copyrights and domain name registrations.
Patent and patent on the active ingredient fosamprenavir, which is not due trade mark rights are regarded as particularly valuable.
b to expire until 2017 in the USA and 2019 in Europe.
In many cases generic manufacturers launch, or attempt to Paxil Seroxat.
The patent on the commercial form of the active launch, generic versions of patented drugs prior to normal patent c ingredient paroxetine is not due to expire until 2007 in the USA expiry, arguing that the relevant patents are invalid and or are not and 2006 in Europe.
Litigation relating to the validity and infringed by their product.
significant litigation concerning these infringement of the patents protecting this product is ongoing challenges is summarised in Note 30 to the Financial statements, e in the USA.
Generic competition has commenced in the USA, Legal proceedings.
Europe and certain other markets.
Paxil CR is protected by a formulation patent that is not due to expire until 2012.
Patents GlaxoSmithKlines policy is to obtain patent protection on all Retrovir.
There are no patents on the active ingredient zidovudine.
significant products discovered or developed through its R&D Patents covering pharmaceutical formulations containing activities.
Patent protection for new active ingredients is available zidovudine and their medical use are not due to expire until 2005 in all significant markets.
Protection can also be obtained for new in the USA and 2006 in Europe.
pharmaceutical formulations and manufacturing processes, and for new medical uses and special devices for administering products.
Description of business GlaxoSmithKline 31 Seretide Advair.
The patent on the specic combination of active Responsibility for environment, health and safety ingredients salmeterol xinafoate and uticasone propionate is Environment, health and safety EHS is a key element of corporate b not due to expire until 2010 in the USA and 2013 in Europe.
responsibility for the Group and has a high priority.
Responsibility An application for re-issue of the US patent has been led by for EHS is at the highest level.
There is a corporate group reporting e GlaxoSmithKline.
The UK patent has been revoked by the UK to the General Counsel that has overall responsibility for providing courts.
Patents on the individual ingredients do not expire in the governance and leadership on EHS issues.
The head of this group UK until 2005.
In the USA, the patent on salmeterol xinafoate makes regular reports to the Corporate Executive Team CET and does not expire until 2008. the Audit and Corporate Responsibility Committees of the Board Serevent.
The patent on the active ingredient salmeterol xinafoate of Directors.
Within the businesses, operations managers are b b is not due to expire until 2005 in most of Europe 2008 in responsible for EHS and are supported by site-based EHS and b France and 2009 in Italy and until 2008 in the USA.
The patent on the specic combination of lamivudine, EHS strategy zidovudine and abacavir is not due to expire until 2016 in the GlaxoSmithKline has a ten-year strategic plan for managing EHS USA and 2016 in Europe.
and sustainability throughout the business, the EHS Plan for Valtrex.
The patent on the active ingredient valaciclovir is not due Excellence.
It is aligned with the Groups strategy and each year a b to expire until 2009 in the USA and 2009 in Europe.
In 2004, the theme was on responding to challenging the validity of the patent protecting this product is external challenges.
At the same time continued focus on themes e ongoing in the USA.
from previous years continues to drive improvements in programmes in key risk areas.
Wellbutrin SR, Wellbutrin XL and Zyban.
The patent on the active ingredient has expired.
There is now generic competition for the Responding to external challenges SR and instant release IR forms in the USA.
In Europe, regulatory Society expects GlaxoSmithKline to take responsibility for the data exclusively provides protection until at least 2005, and until environmental impact of its products as well as those from its 2009 in some markets.
In the USA, Wellbutrin XL is protected by operations.
The focus of attention has expanded from production two formulation patents that are not due to expire until 2018. to products and environmental impact that can arise at any stage Litigation relating to the validity and infringement of one of these e in the product life cycle.
The theme of the EHS Plan for Excellence patents is ongoing in the USA.
in 2004, responding to external challenges, focused on three key Ziagen.
The patent on the active ingredient abacavir is not due areas: pharmaceuticals in the environment: chemicals policy: and a, c b to expire until 2012 in the USA and 2014 in Europe.
The patent on the active ingredient ondansetron is not c b b Completing core programmes due to expire until 2005 in the USA and 2005 in Europe, 2007 b The EHS Plan for Excellence in 2005 will focus on completing core France and 2010 Italy.
Patents on use in treating emesis expire programmes measured by improved audit scores and by in 2006.
Litigation challenging the validity of the emesis use e achievement of the performance targets that were set in 2001. patent is ongoing in the USA.
Business drivers and EHS Trade marks All of GlaxoSmithKlines pharmaceutical products are protected by New product development registered trade marks in major markets.
In general, the same Product stewardship and environmental aspects of sustainable mark is used for a product in each market around the world, but development principles have been introduced into all aspects of there may be local variations.
For example in the USA the trade new product development.
The entire life cycle impact of the mark Paxil is used instead of Seroxat and Advair is used instead of product is considered in order to address adverse impacts, to Seretide.
optimise resources consumed and to reduce waste produced.
Alternative chemistries and processes are reviewed to build safety Trade mark protection may generally be extended for as long into the processes and to improve mass productivity, which not as the trade mark is used by renewing it when necessary.
only optimises resource consumption and waste generation but GlaxoSmithKlines trade marks on pharmaceutical products also addresses triple bottom line considerations.
generally assume an increasing importance when the patent for that product has expired in a particular country and generic Product commercialisation versions of the product become available.
EHS helps to speed products to market by addressing regulatory The Consumer Healthcare trade marks are particularly important, concerns during their development.
By incorporating EHS in as the business is very brand orientated and many products decision-making on design, packaging and labelling, it is possible do not have patent protection.
to reduce costs, differentiate products and extend product life.
a Including patent term restoration under the Hatch-Waxman Act b Including extension of term by national or European supplementary protection certicates c Including extension of term for paediatric exclusivity d A registered trademark of Bayer AG e See Note 30 to Financial statements Legal proceedings.
32 GlaxoSmithKline Description of business Regulatory environment continued Global competitor EHS improvement Competitive advantage may be gained by improving public trust Objectives for 2004 focused on the emerging issues of based on applying best business processes globally and fostering pharmaceuticals in the environment, chemicals policy and climate a culture of continuous improvement.
By optimising processes change, with a theme of responding to external EHS challenges.
and making them more economically viable, potential is created Numerical targets for EHS performance improvements set in 2001 for lowering the price of medicines which can contribute to the are to be accomplished over five years.
Progress toward meeting social benefit of allowing greater access to global markets.
these targets is tracked every year and will be published on the website www.
To date significant progress has been made GlaxoSmithKline people towards achieving the EHS targets.
Many of the EHS programmes are focused on protecting people.
GlaxoSmithKline is committed to working towards designing a GlaxoSmithKline selects its measures of performance improvement workplace that minimises work-related risks to safety and health based on the potential for adverse impact on people or the and provides a shirt-sleeve environment, so that personal safety environment, business continuity or business reputation.
Most equipment will not be required on a routine basis to protect of the measures selected are similar to those reported by other employees health in laboratory or manufacturing operations.
companies and are recommended by the Global Reporting Initiative, a long-term, multi-stakeholder, international undertaking EHS management to develop and disseminate globally applicable sustainability GlaxoSmithKline takes a systematic approach to managing EHS reporting guidelines.
A framework of information and programmes based on the global EHS standards guides the management of Sustainability key aspects, impacts and risks throughout the organisation.
In the work towards eventual sustainability GlaxoSmithKline is addressing economic, environmental and social issues in research, EHS audits manufacturing, sales and distribution of our medicines.
As part of its governance responsibility, GlaxoSmithKline conducts Sustainability starts with healthcare solutions found by research EHS audits of its sites, assessing performance against the EHS and development and continues with sustainable solutions in standards and assigning quantitative performance scores.
The Group is currently looking into 33 sites were audited.
As part of the continuous improvement improving operational efficiency and in the future will investigate process, progress was monitored on actions arising from issues the use of renewable resources and the overall balance of its raised on all audits.
impact on society and the environment.
The Group seeks dialogue with external stakeholders and considers their views when As part of the commitment to corporate social responsibility and developing our approaches to sustainable development.
More the pro-active management of the GlaxoSmithKline manufacturing information on EHS programmes and performance may be found and supply base, 35 of the key contract manufacturers and on the website.
This process evaluated the management of human rights and EHS risks and impacts based on the Groups requirements for contract manufacturers.
Recommendations were made for improvements where needed.
