GREGGS plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 89 The growth of Greggs has been based on the quality of our business ingredients.
These include a proven strategy, enjoyable products, strong brands and a commitment to giving customers great service and good value.
Our most important ingredient of all is our excellent team of people.
Once again they have been a pleasure to work with over the Sir Michael Darrington year, and have delivered results ahead of expectations.
Managing Director Managing Directors Report Healthy.
Trading performance Our good progress during 2004 reflects the benefits of increasing volume uplift of 3.7 per cent.
The like-for-like sales increase for the core volumes through our established shops, the addition of a net year as a whole was 5.1 per cent, including core volume growth 32 new units and our continued focus on controlling costs.
slow start like-for-like sales growth improved during the late spring Our selling price inflation was 2.1 per cent in the first half and 2.3 per and summer, when our performance compared with a period of cent in the second, averaging 2.2 per cent for the year.
This again exceptionally hot weather in 2003.
Although progress then returned reflected a continuing programme of product upgrades as well as the to more normal levels, a good consumer response to our marketing recovery of significant cost increases.
The most important of these campaigns and generally favourable weather helped us to achieve was in wages, as we responded to market pressures throughout the better than expected like-for-like sales growth in the final quarter, retail sector and sought to ensure that our remuneration would despite the widely reported weakness of high street retailing over continue to attract and retain high quality people.
Including the benefit of new shop openings in the current and prior After a like-for-like sales increase of 4.1 per cent in the first half year, total sales rose by 10.3 per cent, comprising increases of 7.5 24 weeks, which included core volume growth of 2.0 per cent, per cent in the first half and 12.6 per cent in the second, which this performance improved in the second half 29 weeks, when we year included the benefit of a 53rd trading week.
achieved like-for-like sales growth of 6.0 per cent, including a core The latest Bakers Oven shop design reinforces the brands core values and is driving significant sales growth.
GREGGS plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 10 1 1 Fresh.
Managing Directors Report continued Bakers Oven brand As the Chairman has noted, inclusion of the 53rd week actually had The four Bakers Oven divisions showed a very good improvement a small negative effect on operating profit, which nevertheless rose in both their like-for-like sales performance and their contribution to by 14.0 per cent to 44.7 million as operating margin benefited from Group profits.
Like-for-like sales for the year grew by 6.3 per cent, our higher volume throughput.
Including the benefit of increased including a core volume increase of 4.8 per cent.
The brand interest receivable on our growing average cash balances, pre-tax enjoyed a good first half, in which like-for-like sales grew by 5.0 per profit improved by 15.3 per cent to 46.7 million.
cent and core volumes by 3.9 per cent.
Growth accelerated in the second half, which produced a like-for-like sales increase of 7.2 per Greggs brand UK cent including a core volume gain of 5.5 per cent.
Selling price The nine Greggs divisions in the UK represent more than 80 per cent inflation over the year was below the Group average at 1.5 per of our retail portfolio and naturally remain the major contributor to cent, reflecting our successful initiatives to enhance consumer Group profits.
Like-for-like sales for the year grew by 4.9 per cent, perceptions of the brands value credentials, notably in sandwiches.
including core volume growth of 2.4 per cent.
This comprised a The improved performance of Bakers Oven follows the like-for-like increase of 3.8 per cent in the first half and 5.7 per cent appointment of a new managing director and a strengthening of the in the second, including core volume gains of 1.4 per cent and 3.2 per senior team last year.
The management team has taken determined cent respectively.
action to drive sales through improvements in the product offer, The improvement in like-for-like sales performance was assisted by service standards and retail environment.
It has also addressed areas a major brand re-launch in April, with the introduction of an updated of past underperformance, notably through the rationalisation of the identity designed to re-emphasise our heritage as a baker.
This featured retail chain in Scotland.
in point of sale material and in-shop promotions, and was backed by We are particularly pleased that this improvement in profitability is a major media campaign that included TV advertising in most of our broad based, encompassing all four Bakers Oven divisions.
regions, using the slogan Its the way we bake it that makes it.
This is helping us to achieve growing national awareness of Greggs Greggs Continental Europe as the leading brand in the bakery arena, including takeaway food.
We opened additional shops in Antwerp and Leuven during the All divisions made pleasing progress during the year.
year, giving us two in each city and a total of four in Belgium.
We continue to refine and develop our product range as the learning process continues.
Our savoury products are at the core of our business, they are a vital part of our brand difference and they continue to be our strongest-growing category.
GREGGS plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 12 13 Savoury.
Managing Directors Report continued Retail profile Product profile We opened a total of 56 new shops during the year and closed 24, Sales growth under both our brands continued to be driven including 10 which were re-sited in better locations.
This produced predominantly by the takeaway food categories of savouries and a net increase of 32 shops to a total of 1,263 at the year end.
Savouries showed the strongest growth, though beginning of 2005 we had 1,045 units under the Greggs brand in sandwiches also made good progress, benefiting from the Greggs the UK, a net addition of 38: four under the Greggs fascia in Belgium, brand relaunch and improvements to the Bakers Oven range.
a net addition of two: and 214 under the Bakers Oven brand, a net Cakes and confectionery products continued to generate modest reduction of eight.
We completed 24 comprehensive shop like-for-like sales growth.
The traditional bakery staples of bread and refurbishments and 8 minor refits during the year.
rolls continued their long term decline as a proportion of our sales, though we believe that their quality and their presence in our shops Further work was undertaken to refine the new Greggs shop format, is an important contributor both to the success of our sandwich with the aim of reinforcing our credentials as a baker, softening ranges and to positive consumer perceptions of our entire offer.
some aspects of its takeaway orientation and reducing the costs of its implementation.
Investment in shop refurbishments was Enjoyability and customer choice remain key criteria in our approach deliberately restrained as this process continued.
Although some to product development.
We have continued to widen the Lifestyle work remains to be done, I am pleased to report that the results Choice range of healthier-eating sandwiches and wraps, and are of our latest trials have been sufficiently encouraging to permit a seeing a gradual and progressive improvement in sales.
significant acceleration of the refurbishment programme in the Strategic principles current year, when we expect to refit some 60 shops.
We attach great importance to the Mission, Vision and Values We also plan to increase the pace of new shop openings in 2005, statement set out on page 3, and have continued to make progress and expect to add a net 45 shops to our chains during the year.
Although these will predominantly be under the Greggs brand in the UK, we also plan a number of openings for Bakers Oven and the addition of two further shops in Belgium.
Managing Directors Report continued A Great Place to Work.
Greggs began as a small family bakery and best practice.
The adoption of EFQM total quality management we have always striven to maintain the ethos of a caring business that standards has helped us in the process of systematically targeting, puts its people first.
By treating our people correctly, we aim to benchmarking and measuring progress, by facilitating self-assessment ensure that they will treat customers well and help us to deliver good and the identification of critical areas for improvement.
results for the benefit of all our stakeholders.
We have borne a Challenging Targets.
Our growth has always been based on setting substantial increase in our wage bill to ensure that we can continue to and attaining stretching targets.
Since 1998 we have had a published recruit and retain high quality staff, particularly in our shops.
We are goal of expanding the Group to achieve sales of 1 billion through also seeking to improve the working environment for all our people 1,700 shops by 2010.
As I noted last year, our planned growth has through investment in improved staff facilities in our shops and been constrained by our search for the right formula to permit us to bakeries, and the progressive upgrading of our offices.
During the year drive expansion of the Bakers Oven chain.
Latterly we had also we undertook an extensive consultation exercise to develop a new slowed the Greggs shop opening programme as we focused on statement of our culture, in words with which everyone in the refining and developing its new concept.
I am pleased that we are Group can identify.
This underlines our commitment to treating all our now in a position to accelerate our retail expansion and look forward people in a friendly and informal way.
While we are committed to to making more rapid progress towards our targets in the current hard work and achievement, we also want everyone to know that year and beyond.
In the longer term, I remain confident that there they matter and to enjoy what they do.
is significant further potential for the Group, with scope for at least Enjoyable Experience.
Our business is all about producing tasty 2,000 shops under our existing brands in the UK and additional fresh food for daily purchase.
Customers will only return to us day opportunities on the Continent.
after day if we provide them with something that gives them real Caring for the Community.
We remain strongly committed to pleasure and satisfaction.
The consistent focus of our investment in making a contribution to the communities where we operate, product development is therefore on making everything we sell even particularly in areas of social deprivation.
The Greggs Breakfast Clubs more enjoyable.
We are aided in this by the substantial resources in selected primary schools have proved of real value in improving available in our state-of-the-art Group Technical Centre in Newcastle pupils attendance and concentration in the morning, as well as upon Tyne, where our technologists and chefs are also applying encouraging family involvement in their childrens schools.
We have themselves to the reduction of salt and fat in our products, in line with expanded the Clubs to 82 locations and expect to have 120 in Government guidelines.
We are strongly committed to the principle operation by the end of 2005.
Their development has been aided of customer choice, and lower fat alternatives to a number of our key by the recruitment of a new Community Initiatives Manager, who lines are currently under trial.
The facilities at the Group Technical also works closely with Greggs Trust.
The Trust is our principal Centre for the rapid microbiological testing of ingredients and products channel for the distribution of the Groups charitable donations, are also helping us to ensure the highest standards of food safety.
which last year totalled 615,000 2003: 420,000, in line with our Business Excellence.
We are determined to achieve continuous commitment as a founder member of the Per Cent Club.
We gave improvement in every area of our business by simplifying what we 100,000 to the DEC appeal after the horrific Asian tsunami and do and ensuring that all our people understand our corporate I am pleased to report that this Group donation has been more objectives and how they can help to realise them.
Great emphasis than matched by the fund-raising efforts of our staff.
We also remain is placed on effective two-way communication with everyone in the an active supporter of Business in the Community.
Group and on continuously raising standards through the sharing of GREGGS plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 14 15 Our commitment to corporate social responsibility extends to People ensuring proper care for the environment, and we have continued We have an excellent team, which it is a real privilege to lead.
I am to pursue a range of initiatives to reduce our environmental impact glad to report that our genuine commitment to our people is fully by promoting efficient energy utilisation, maximising the recycling of matched by their commitment to doing an excellent job.
Thus once packaging and minimising waste.
again it is a great pleasure to be able to thank all our 18,240 employees Capital investment for their individual contributions to another record result for the Group.
Capital expenditure during the year totalled 25.0 million, compared I am also delighted to welcome the 335 additional staff we were with our original budget of 34.0 million and actual expenditure of able to recruit through our continued expansion in 2004, and look 32.4 million in the prior year.
This reduction principally reflected a forward to the creation of a further 650 jobs in the current year.
lower number of shop refurbishments than we had originally expected.
The future In total we spent 13.4 million 2003: 14.3 million on new shops and refurbishments, 8.3 million 2003: 13.8 million on land, As the Chairman has noted, the Group faces significant pressures buildings and plant, and 3.3 million 2003: 4.3 million on vehicles.
from rising wage and energy costs during 2005.
The challenge to us Expenditure on major bakery projects was at a lower level than in 2003, as managers is to absorb these increases while accelerating our shop though we completed extensions of our facilities in Leeds and Edinburgh.
refurbishment and opening programmes and continuing to enhance our products, service and marketing.
I am confident that we have During 2005 we expect a major increase in capital expenditure to the right team in place to handle all these issues successfully, and to nearly 50 million.
This reflects the acceleration of our shop deliver a year of further progress towards our strategic targets and refurbishment and opening programmes, together with increased our vision of being Europes finest bakery-related retailer.
investment in our manufacturing and distribution facilities to support the growth of our retail chains.
The largest such project is the Sir Michael Darrington construction of a second central savouries facility at Balliol Park, Managing Director Newcastle upon Tyne, close to the original factory we opened in 14 March 2005 1998 and employing the same, proven technologies and processes.
This will involve a total investment of 13 million over the next two years, and will enable us to meet growing demand for our successful savouries ranges under both the Greggs and Bakers Oven brands.
Cash flow and balance sheet Our strong operating cash flow combined with lower than expected capital expenditure resulted in an increase in net cash on the balance sheet to 62.6 million at the year end.
This compared with 36.4 million in December 2003, and 46.7 million at the end of our first half in June 2004.
