Ralph Bernard Executive Chairman Digital radio Digital revenue m The Livetime venture has 2002 5.2 the potential to generate 2003 6.5 a substantial new 2004 8.1 revenue stream for GWR at little cost and risk The incorporation of digital radio capacity into hand-held devices such as PDAs Personal Digital Assistants and mobile phones offers considerable potential to accelerate the take-up of digital radio 22 GWR Group plc Annual report and accounts 2004 GWR is the UKs leading digital radio company.
GWR has invested 4.5 million, including 2.5 million It holds 63% of the national commercial multiplex in the year to 31 March 2004 in the development operator, Digital One, which has 83 transmitters of its Livetime project, a means of exploiting the covering more than 85% of the population.
GWR data-carrying capacity of the Digital One multiplex.
operates three national services on Digital One: In May 2004, GWR and BT Wholesale announced a simulcast of Classic FM, and two digital-only an agreement to develop and launch this digital services, the chart hit service Core, and Planet multi-media broadcast operation.
It will use digital Rock, the classic rock channel which is the number radio capacity to transmit, simultaneously and at one commercial national DAB station.
high speed, substantial amounts of multi-media content such as news, sports and entertainment to GWR owns 11 local digital radio multiplexes through mobile phones, PDAs and other hand-held portable its wholly-owned subsidiary Now Digital.
it is the majority shareholder in the company operating two Midlands-based multiplexes, in The operation will utilise a proportion of Digital Ones association with Capital Radio, Chrysalis, and Sabras broadcasting capability, running alongside the eight and in the company operating the South West national digital radio stations, and paying fixed and multiplex in association with UKRD Group.
GWR also variable fees to Digital One.
The datacasting services has a minority interest in and operates the London III will complement existing mobile communications, multiplex in association with a number of partners encouraging users to increase the number of their including The Wireless Group and SMG.
On each interactions with their telephone company service of these local multiplexes, GWR operates The Storm, providers, thus enhancing the telephone companies a regional digital-only rock radio service.
In turn, these companies will pay the have increased profits by 1.5 million during the operation for the services provided to their users.
year, earning income from programme service providers.
The net investment in digital radio GWR has licensed its datacasting activities to BT excluding the Livetime project during the year Wholesale in exchange for a share of revenues was 3.0 million.
The first revenue share is expected in the year ending March 2007, with The roll-out of digital receivers in the marketplace a projected pre-tax revenue share in excess of over the last 12 months has been excellent, with 5 million by the year ending March 2008 if the over 500,000 already in use.
The industry body the business plan expectations are met.
Digital Radio Development Bureau has forecast one million digital receivers to be in use by December The operation will be managed as a division within 2004.
Of the 75 models on the market, the most BT Wholesale by a board comprising BT and GWR successful is the Pure Evoke, which has now sold representatives.
During the next eighteen months, 200,000 units to become the biggest selling radio BT Wholesale will invest in the datacasting venture, ever.
It has recently been joined on the market by partly to strengthen and enhance Digital Ones the Pure Bug, designed by Wayne Hemingway to broadcasting network in the M25 area of South East appeal to a younger sector of the market.
Our chart England, where the business is being launched, and hit station Core played a major part in the launch partly to develop devices and build the systems of the Bug, including the provision of exclusive required to deliver the service.
GWR will be investing programming elements designed to highlight the a further 2.75 million in the project over the same downloading, recording and rewinding capabilities period, in the form of Digital Ones data spectrum of the unit.
In the important car radio market, capacity.
This investment is capped: any further Vauxhall are now installing digital radios as a line-fit investment requirement will be met by BT, without option in the Astra, and radio modules for 3GSM change to the share of the projects annual mobile telephones were demonstrated by two revenues that GWR is set to receive.
There is a further potential spin-off to GWR from the The first RAJAR figures for digital radio were released datacasting project.
The incorporation of digital during the year, and the latest results show Planet radio capacity into the various hand-held devices Rock eclipsing its BBC rival 6 Music with a weekly will significantly increase the number of potential reach of 242,000, compared to the BBCs 187,000, receivers of existing digital radio broadcasting.
For while our teenage chart music station Core example, there are over 40 million mobile phones achieved a reach of 129,000 weekly.
The Storm currently in use in the UK, and their replacement is also becoming increasingly popular, as cycle is only eighteen months, so that phone contemporary rock audiences get behind bands owners could quickly become digital radio users.
such as The Darkness and Franz Ferdinand.
Datacasting thus offers considerable potential to accelerate the take-up of digital radio devices, and as the leading UK digital radio company, this will be of particular benefit to GWR.
23 GWR Group plc Review of operations Annual report and accounts 2004
