Digital radio industry review Regional & Local Multiplex Ownership In 2003 sales of more GWR than 350,000 DAB Capital receivers were recorded Chrysalis EMAP SMG The Digital Radio SRH TWG Development Bureau GMG 04 1 2 3 5 6 78 9 10 1112 13 14 15 16 currently forecasts total Number of Multiplexes DAB device sales of one Wholly Owned Majority Controlled Minority Interest million receivers by RAJAR Q1 2004 Split by hours December 2004 Total listening Digital listening Commercial Local analogue 35% Commercial National analogue 7% BBC Local analogue 11% BBC National analogue 41% Other listening analogue 2% Commercial Digital 75% Digital listening 4% BBC Digital 25% 24 GWR Group plc Annual report and accounts 2004 DAB Digital Radio has been developing fast in the Total Hours of Digital Only Services past year.
The technology provides new business Rajar Q1 2004 v Q4 2003 opportunities for radio companies in operating The Hits multiplexes and developing new radio brands.
For listeners, it offers a much broader choice of services, with more than 30 channels available throughout Kerrang most of the country and more than 50 on air in London.
For advertisers, digital radio is a multimedia technology, reaching listeners not only through Smash hits conventional audio advertising but also with text messages on the digital display on the receiver.
With 1 Xtra the advent of rewind and record facilities in sets such as the Pure Digital The Bug, listeners will be able to review advertisements they are interested in, BBC 7 or even record them for later reference.
The GWR BT Livetime project should lead to DAB receivers Planet Rock incorporated into mobile phones and PDAs, greatly increasing the speed of take-up of DAB digital radio.
Q In the automotive market, digital radios single frequency network which removes the need to re-tune whilst travelling is a significant benefit.
The 6 Music new Vauxhall Astra is the first mass-market car to offer DAB digital radio as a line-fit option, and the Primetime Daewoo Lacetti also offers a DAB option.
In the home market, there are currently over 75 Mojo receiver products on sale.
In 2003 sales of more than 350,000 DAB receivers were recorded, bringing the Heat total in the market to over 500,000, equal to 1.5% of households.
The Digital Radio Development Bureau currently forecasts total DAB device sales of one Core million receivers by December 2004 and we are confident that by March 2005 around 4% of all The Storm households will have a DAB digital radio.
Multiplex ownership is a key new business Oneword opportunity from digital radio.
With income from channel operators which can be linked to their The Arrow revenue and audience success GWRs multiplexes are already profitable, and by taking an active landlord role, the multiplex operator can drive Capital Disney digital take-up, leading to increased audiences and opportunities for advertisers.
Q4 2003 Q1 2004 Total Hours '000 25 GWR Group plc Digital radio industry review Annual report and accounts 2004 0 1,000 2,000 3,000 4,000 Multiplexes operate on a number of geographical scales.
There are two national multiplexes the BBC, which covers 80% of the UK population, and Digital One 63% owned by GWR which covers 87% of the population.
Regional multiplexes cover large regional areas, usually with more specialist music channels, and local multiplexes cover the heritage commercial radio areas, carrying simulcasts of the market leading commercial local stations as well as new digital services.
There are currently 46 regional and local multiplexes, of which GWR has interests in 15.
Digital radio The first RAJAR audience figures for DAB digital radio industry review were released at the start of 2003.
Over the last year, RAJAR has demonstrated growing digital audience in which the commercial radio advantage in continued channel numbers is already showing through.
In a typical area, analogue radio offers listeners 6 BBC stations and 6 commercial radio services.
With DAB digital radio, listeners can choose between 12 BBC Digital radio industry stations and up to 24 commercial services.
Regional & Local Multiplex Ownership For most digital radio services audience growth has been rapid as listeners discover the new digital brands, although RAJAR has recorded falls in listening to some multi-platform services which also exist as television or magazine brands.
The future speed of development of digital radio will be influenced by a number of factors, including the rate at which DAB chips are incorporated into devices with a rapid replacement cycle such as mobile phones and PDAs, and the addition of DAB digital radio to products where the DAB component is a very small part of the overall cost, such as cars.
The industry now has a clear understanding of the factors that drive the conventional radio receiver market.
Research with digital radio buyers shows that increased choice is the major attraction of buying a DAB radio, and as local multiplexes NOWdigital GWR continue to launch around the country, the SCOREdigital SRH increased choice will speed digital take-up.
EMAP Digital Capital Digital MXR Digital Chrysalis, Capital, GMG A significant driver of take-up will be increased CE Digital Capital EMAP brand-building activity by digital radio channel Switch Digital TWG, SMG operators.
The BBC has done a great deal of TWG London CE Digital, Switch Digital, DRG London cross-promotion of its digital radio services on No current coverage television, and has recorded excellent RAJAR figures for 1 Xtra and BBC 7.
As DAB digital radio reaches audience levels that are relevant to advertisers, the commercial value of these channels will increase and commercial operators will be justified in promoting these brands more vigorously.
The combined effects of new services, more promotional activity, new receiver launches and DAB moving into new areas such as mobile phones will accelerate DAB digital radio throughout 2004.
26 GWR Group plc Annual report and accounts 2004
