Steve Orchard Operations Director, Local Radio Local radio group Local radio group revenue m 2004 has been another 2002 83.7 very successful year for 2003 81.0 2004 89.2 the Local Radio Group LRG has secured overall growth in revenue of 10.2%, with national revenue up by 12.0% and local revenue up by 7.9% LRG contributed 69.3% of GWRs revenue during the year 2004 has been another very successful year for the Local Radio Group LRG, with listener numbers holding up well, and revenue growth outstripping the industry as a whole.
The quarterly RAJAR figures released on 6 May 2004 for the final quarter of the reporting year confirmed the trend apparent from earlier in the year: despite fluctuations over individual quarters, LRG continues to be the commercial market leader in all but 2 of the areas to which it broadcasts.
LRG has secured overall growth in revenue of 10.2% to 89.2 million, while for the radio industry as a whole, revenue grew by only 7.8%.
10 GWR Group plc Annual report and accounts 2004 The priorities for Creation have been the six sites most popular with national advertisers, and a focus on improving the breakfast shows in LRG 33 UK local stations GWR coverage 6 most popular sites 11 GWR Group plc Review of operations Annual report and accounts 2004 MFM 103.4 FM Lantern FM Severn Sound 102.4 FM Beacon FM Wyvern FM 102.8 RAM FM 96 Trent FM Northants 96 FM FM103 Horizon Chiltern 97.6 FM Hereward FM Champion 103 FM Q103 Coast 96.3 FM Broadland 102 FM The Buzz 97.1 FM Plymouth Sound FM South Hams Radio Gemini FM Orchard FM GWR FM Bristol Leicester Sound GWR FM Wiltshire 2CR FM Mercia FM 2-T 2-Ten FM en FM Chiltern 96.9 FM Mercury FM Herts SGR FM Essex FM Ten 17 101.7 FM Mercury 102.7 FM SGR Colchester FM Local radio group continued Within this total, LRGs national revenue has grown The LRG stations main competitive asset is their by 12.0%, which was a very pleasing result.
Equally heritage: that is their vital and deep-rooted links satisfactory was that local revenue, for which less with their communities.
It is a key objective for each inventory was made available this year, grew by station to maintain its heritage position as the leading 7.9%.
As a result, LRG contributed 71% of GWRs UK local communications medium, because that helps revenues during the year.
ensure that demand for advertising remains strong despite short-term fluctuations in listener numbers.
Much of the reason for this strong performance can Local Advisory Boards and detailed listener research be found in the restructuring of the management help the stations understand local needs and of LRG carried out last year into Opus sales and concerns.
Interactive communication is encouraged Creation programming and content.
Opus has by some of the more innovative marketing introduced a dynamic airtime pricing system, which campaigns, for example the Toast campaign, along with a restructuring of the sales teams and the which asks listeners to vote for the favourite aspects adoption of whole company targets, has been key of their city, increasing local awareness, generating to this years revenue success.
The dynamic pricing local pride, and bringing people into direct contact system links the price charged for an advertising with their local station.
campaign to the demand for airtime, and revises prices according to demand.
Thus the potential LRG achieved four nominations and won Gold and yield of each advertising slot is maximised.
This Silver in the 2004 Sony Radio Academy Awards.
system, linked to the recovery in the advertising In presenting the Gold Award for Competitions to market, has been a significant factor in the growth GWR Wiltshires Live with Matt and H, the judges of profits.
complimented the station on the originality of the idea and the conviction of the presenters, and in The priority for Creation has been the six LRG sites giving a Silver DJ of the Year Award to Trent FMs most popular with national advertisers, and a focus Jo and Twiggy the judges said they were An on improving the breakfast shows in LRG.
This is also industry benchmark for a presentation duo who where competition from other stations is greatest, own their community.
Their listeners and and Creation has focused on mounting promotional contributors sound more like stakeholders in the and programming campaigns, often highlighting show indeed the judges were so impressed by the local issues, to maintain audience figures in the face sense of local pride that most are now thinking of of launches or re-launches by competing stations.
These awards are a tribute The most recent RAJAR results show that LRGs to the strength of the heritage of these LRG stations combined breakfast show audience increased by a key defence against the new competitors now 3.9% in the three months to 31 March 2004. being licensed in LRG areas.
12 GWR Group plc Annual report and accounts 2004 Local news also helps cement listener loyalty and Creation is also responsible for developing LRGs is one of the clearest ways in which a station can output in other media.
The aim is to provide a make its commitment to the local area obvious.
greater depth of coverage than is possible over the This year, LRG took the decision in certain areas to airwaves, and to create opportunities for interactive separate the tasks of field reporting and bulletin communication between a station and its audiences.
reading, so that its journalists could become more visible in the community.
Previously, journalists were For example, each LRG station has its own website, too constrained by having to read hourly bulletins with voting systems and e-commerce links, sharing to spend enough time investigating news stories of a common infrastructure on www.
Now that bulletin reading is located The importance of SMS text messaging as a link with in a small number of news cluster centres, field radio stations has grown rapidly.
Sponsored first by reporters can do interviews face-to-face rather than Nestles KitKat brand and now by food company over the telephone, and follow up stories that need Bachelors, GWR was the first radio group to launch human contact rather than desk research to a commercially viable interactive text request develop them.
As a result, stations are achieving system, and our stations now handle more than a consistently local profile to their news stories, and 8,000 text messages each day.
Listeners text their are exceeding the targets they set themselves, that requests to the station, and receive a text in return 60% of the stories in news bulletins should be local when their requests are about to be played.
Not and that field reporters should broadcast five only does this increase listeners loyalty to the station, original stories each day.
it also provides GWR with a growing audience database.
SMS can also cover weather emergencies: Talent development is an important priority for in the winter of 2003 04, when snow caused school Creation.
Since potential audience numbers are closures, GWRs SMS system sent text messages to greatest at breakfast time, it is critical to find and those parents who were registered for this service, train the best Morning Crew teams.
Talent spotting telling them which schools were closed.
is a high priority for Programme Controllers.
Once people with potential have been identified from New media bring new revenues to GWR.
In April other stations, from student and community radio, 2004, GWR launched Hear it, Buy it, Burn it, a or from other areas of GWRs staff they receive web-based service for downloading music, which detailed performance coaching, go through enables listeners to download songs while they are Morning Crew Boot Camp training events, and are being played live.
By making it easier to identify the promoted within a clear career structure, moving song they wish to buy, this new service will attract from LRGs smaller stations to the Big Six sites.
In order people who have not previously downloaded music to maintain a leading position, it is critically important over the internet, encouraging them to enter the to be able to react swiftly to changes in audience market for the first time.
Creation is also now starting preferences by moving the right talent to the right to generate bespoke music streams for private place, using proven on-air teams.
Developing future networks of users.
Five branded music streams and programme controllers is also a priority: the a pop video channel are already being produced Programme Controller School runs a year-long for over 350 gyms in the health and fitness industry.
course to prepare potential candidates, and then Creation has also completed a successful trial for places them strategically in posts as they arise.
Woolworths, and other private network clients mainly in the retail sector, are expected to sign contracts in the new financial year.
13 GWR Group plc Review of operations Annual report and accounts 2004 The effects of the upturn in the advertising cycle have become apparent Roger Lewis Managing Director and Programme Controller, Classic FM 14 GWR Group plc Annual report and accounts 2004 In London, Classic FM now offers advertisers the third largest commercial audience In RAJAR audience figures for Quarter 1 2004, Classic FMs London market share rose from Source: RAJAR 4.7% to 5.4%.
15 GWR Group plc Review of operations Annual report and accounts 2004
