Classic FM Consumer Panel Report Classic FMs Consumer Panel continues to perform a unique role in commercial radio.
We have no We want at the outset to statutory authority, but we are a group of listeners to Classic FM with the ability and duty to question, congratulate Classic FM probe, guide and monitor the actions and plans of the management of the station.
The Members on its success in of the Panel throughout the year have been: Rt Hon Chris Smith MP, Chairman, former attracting more than Culture Secretary: Margaret Ainsworth, a Conference Programme Director from Scotland: 6.5 million regular Sally Anderson, a GP from Yorkshire: Dick Fong, a retired Physics Lecturer from Durham: listeners to classical Sam Jackson, a Music Student from Surrey, studying at York University: music Martin Johnston, an Environmental Scientist from Northern Ireland: Kirsty Young, Director of an Opera Company from Harrow.
We are pleased to note We want at the outset to congratulate Classic FM continued progress on on its success in attracting more than 6.5 million regular listeners to classical music.
We also believe all the objectives we that the station should continue to excite and challenge that audience with fresh and different have set music in addition to the perennial favourites, and seek to broaden musical horizons.
We meet regularly with the management team of Classic FM, to discuss and monitor progress: and in preparation we look carefully at the comments of listeners in their letters and e-mails.
We have pursued three particular issues arising from these.
First, the sometimes inappropriate nature of advertisements played.
We accept of course the need for advertising income for the station to exist and survive, but we are concerned that sometimes a jarring advert can sit ill alongside the music being played.
In order to promote better practice, we have proposed that a quarterly and annual award for best advert should be instituted, and we are pleased to report that Classic FM now intends to launch this in the autumn.
18 GWR Group plc Annual report and accounts 2004 Second, the amount and nature of self-promotion Objective 3: Work with a range of people and for Classic FM and its programmes, that takes place organisations to develop new audiences for at times during the listening day.
At our request, classical music in the concert hall, on-air and in Classic FM included questions on this issue in their education by fostering partnerships within the wider detailed market research.
We will continue to arts community.
propose further specific questions to be tested in this way.
We are pleased to note that partnerships with particular orchestras and venues now cover most Third, the importance of presenters ensuring that regions of the UK, something we have constantly they do not talk over the beginning or end of a urged.
This is an area of Classic FMs work which has piece of music, allowing it instead to carry its full seen substantial development over the past year.
Objective 4: Continue to develop an even more Our other major role is to propose and agree a balanced geographical spread of radio audience number of formal objectives for Classic FM, and to for Classic FM throughout the UK in the context of monitor these through the year.
These are: all national radio listening patterns.
Objective 1: To ensure the interests of listeners of all We constantly urge Classic FM to consider listeners ages are represented in the spectrum of music that in the whole of the UK, not just London.
In our last is played, and within that objective to encourage Report, we noted that a system of regional more younger listeners especially at early ages, advertising of events was being introduced, using including pre-school to sample classical music via regional transmitters to distinguish appropriately Classic FM.
Progress is being made on this, although we believe more work still needs We have noted the increase in numbers of younger to be done.
listeners to the station as evidenced in recent RAJAR figures.
We are keen to see the station actively Objective 5: Aim to give the audience greater promoting musical experience for listeners at a very information about and insight into the music played, early age, perhaps as a shared experience with at appropriate times, on Classic FM, building on the parents, and we welcome the release of the new success of recent programmes setting a broader CD of music for babies.
We also note the research context for classical music.
done on the diversity and range of Classic FM listeners: it is important for the station to reach an At our request, Smooth Classics at Seven now audience that fully reflects the nature of gives a brief immediate identification of the piece contemporary Britain.
of music that has just been played, and we welcome this.
We are pleased at the descriptive Objective 2: Expand Classic FMs involvement with context often provided by presenters such as music written over the course of the past 100 years Natalie Wheen and David Mellor: and we have in addition to the repertoire of the past 1400 years.
urged that this good practice should extend to other times of the week too.
We have welcomed two initiatives in particular: the close involvement of Classic FM in Masterprize, and In general, we are pleased to note continued the appointment of Joby Talbot as Composer in progress on all the objectives we have set.
A Residence: we hope both will be recurring projects number of the issues we have particularly pressed for the future.
We continue to stress the importance a greater regional focus, more contemporary of not solely interpreting modern or contemporary music, the development of partnership work, more music in terms of film scores.
We hope that Classic information for listeners about the music being FMs music policy will continue to be firmly rooted in played have been actively taken up and pursued the classical tradition.
We will continue to raise these and other issues, and to urge further progress.
19 GWR Group plc Classic FM consumer panel report Annual report and accounts 2004 The roll-out of digital receivers has been excellent, with sales of one million forecast by the end of 2004 Ralph Bernard Executive Chairman 20 GWR Group plc Annual report and accounts 2004 GWR has the biggest slice of UK digital radio GWR holds 63% of Digital One, and operates 50% of the music services on the commercial national multiplex 21 GWR Group plc Review of operations Annual report and accounts 2004
