Roger Lewis Managing Director and Programme Controller, Classic FM Classic FM Classic FM revenue m Finance, telecoms and 2002 28.3 the motor trade were 2003 28.0 2004 28.2 the strongest sectors for Classic FM, as many industries began to restore their advertising spend This has been a year of strong recovery for Classic FM, as listener numbers continued to grow and the effects of the upturn in the advertising cycle have become apparent.
The May 2004 RAJAR figures confirmed that Classic FMs share of the national market had improved to 4.5% and that the audience had increased over the first quarter of 2004 to 6.54 million.
Particularly pleasing within this trend has been the growth of the London audience.
In London, Classic FM now has the third largest commercial audience, behind only Capital FM and Heart FM.
Classic FMs revenue grew to 28.2 million, 21.9% of the GWR total.
Finance, telecoms and the motor trade were the strongest sectors for Classic FM, as a number of industries began to restore their advertising spend.
Sponsorship and promotion income increased particularly strongly, following the launch of a new Media Partnerships team.
These revenues increased during the last two quarters by an average of 33.4% per month.
One key to success was booking Media Partnership campaigns across the full range of media opportunities offered by Classic FM, including radio, Classic FM TV, the web, the Classic FM Magazine, CD recordings and live events.
16 GWR Group plc Annual report and accounts 2004 The increasing appeal of Classic FM stems largely Essential to maintaining Classic FMs position in the from programme developments during the previous classical music community is its comprehensive eighteen months, including a range of new series of partnerships.
The station has links with more presenters.
Simon Bates has taken over Classic FMs than seventeen organisations, including the London Breakfast Show, which continues to attract larger Symphony Orchestra, Welsh National Opera and audiences than any other commercial radio the National Childrens Orchestra.
A policy of using presenters well-known in other fields has seen singers Lesley Garrett and These help the station keep up-to-date with Aled Jones front regular programmes, alongside audience tastes, and enable Classic FM to bring TV news personalities Mary Nightingale and John the experience of a live concert whether from Suchet.
Former US President Bill Clinton made his the point of view of a performer or an audience debut in August 2003 as the narrator of a new member to radio listeners.
In Arts and Kids Week version of Peter and the Wolf.
Classic FMs October 2003, a group of students from the innovative approach to programming has been Guildhall School of Music and Drama created recognised by a number of awards, including five Classic FM Vision, performing live to over 6,000 Sony Radio Academy Award nominations and a school children during the week.
Silver Award for the Masterprize 2003 event.
In 2001, responding to Ofcoms remit to encourage Extending the Classic FM brand into a variety of self-regulation, the station set up the Classic FM new media has continued to widen its appeal Consumer Panel, under the chairmanship of the and establish new revenue streams, reflected by former Culture Secretary the Right Honourable the Media Week Media Brand of the Year award.
Chris Smith MP its independent report can be Classicfm.
com has around 300,000 unique users found on page 18.
The Panels views, like those per month and its competitions regularly attract of the equivalent Local Advisory Boards for the more than 20,000 entrants.
This on-line presence LRG stations, continue to make a key contribution boosts advertising campaigns by raising audience to programme development, and the independent awareness through active participation, and by report demonstrates both to the regulator and to building dedicated mailing lists.
listeners that Classic FMs relationship with its audience is critical to the stations success.
Classic FM TV, launched free-to-air on Sky and NTL Digital eighteen months ago, attracted 4.4 million viewers in 2003, 85% of whom had an ABC1 profile.
Of the regular 1.2 million monthly viewers, 80% are under 54 and 25% are under 24.
This success in extending the audience base has led directly to the production of more classical music videos for showing on the channel, as well as a Classic FM compilation DVD giving potential viewers the chance to sample the channels output.
Other sources of revenue for Classic FM include CDs, now increased from three to four per boxed set compilation, making them even better value.
CDs generate over 2 million of revenue each year, and over 1.2 million boxed sets have been sold since the compilations were launched, with an increasing number selling through supermarkets.
The sales of two successful Classic FM Pocket Books of Music and of Quotes are approaching 50,000 across both titles.
The circulation of Classic FM Magazine increased by 7%, bucking the downward trend in the sector, and Classic FM promoted three sell-out concerts in the Royal Albert Hall and Westminster Abbey.
Perhaps the most unusual brand extension of the year was the Classic FM special edition of the Pure Evoke DAB Digital Radio.
Featuring a dedicated tuning button for Classic FM, 10,000 sets were sold through WH Smith in two months.
17 GWR Group plc Review of operations Annual report and accounts 2004
