36 Alliance UniChem Plc Report of the Directors The Directors submit their Report and Directors Share capital audited financial statements for the year The Directors of the Company are Jeff At 31 December 2004, there were ended 31 December 2004.
For the purposes Harris Chairman, Ian Meakins Chief 358,189,373 ordinary shares in issue held by of this report, Company means Alliance Executive, Stefano Pessina Executive 8,685 shareholders on the register.
UniChem Plc and Group means the Deputy Chairman, George Fairweather, Company and its subsidiary and associated Ornella Barra, Per Utnegaard, Steve Details of shares allotted during the year undertakings.
Duncan, Ken Clarke Deputy Chairman, are given in note 23 to the financial Neil Cross, Adrian Loader, Patrick Ponsolle, statements.
Principal activity, business review and Paolo Scaroni, Manfred Stach and Etienne development Jornod.
Biographical details of the Two trusts exist in connection with the The Company is the holding company for Directors are shown on pages 30 and 31. discretionary 1997 Share Option Scheme, the Group.
The principal activity of the the long-term incentive plan and Group is to operate as wholesalers and Claude Berretti retired as a Director on long-term incentive plan for Ian Meakins, retailers of pharmaceutical, medical and 22 April 2004 and Geoff Cooper resigned to facilitate the holding of shares in healthcare products within Europe.
Ian Meakins the Company by employees and the was appointed a Director on 1 December executive Directors.
As Ian Meakins was appointed after review and Financial review contain details the last AGM held in April 2004, he will The 1992 Employee Trust did not acquire of the development of the business of the seek election as a Director at the 2005 any shares in the Company during the year Group during the year, the position at the AGM.
Stefano Pessina, Steve Duncan, and held 2,788,366 shares in the Company end of the year, events since the end of the Neil Cross and Paolo Scaroni will retire as on 31 December 2004 which it also held on year and likely future developments.
Directors by rotation at the AGM and will 21 February 2005.
Under the terms of this seek re-election at the meeting.
Neil Cross, trust, the dividend receivable on shares The Group carries out research and who was appointed to the Board in held is 0.001 pence per share.
development to support existing activities February 1997 and will have completed and to ensure the adoption of best practice nine years service in February 2006, will The Alliance UniChem Employee Share in business processes used throughout seek re-election until the conclusion of the Trust was established on 1 December 2004. the Group.
Jeff Harris will step down as It acquired 119,946 shares in the Company Chairman of the Company and retire from from the 1992 Employee Trust on Annual General Meeting the Board at the conclusion of the 2005 17 December 2004, which it also held on The fifteenth Annual General Meeting AGM.
Paolo Scaroni, who was appointed as 31 December 2004 and 21 February 2005.
AGM will be held in the Companys an independent non-executive Director of These shares relate to the grant of office at 2 The Heights, Brooklands, the Company on 10 December 2002, will an option to Ian Meakins, details of Weybridge, Surrey KT13 0NY on Friday replace him as Chairman.
which are given in the Board report 22 April 2005, starting at 2:00 pm.
Details of Directors service contracts and a The notice convening the meeting is given statement of their interests in the share As at 21 February 2005 the Company has in a separate document accompanying this capital of the Company are set out in the been notified of the following major Annual Report and includes a commentary Board report on remuneration.
interests in its issued ordinary share capital, on the business of the AGM, notes to help disclosed to it in accordance with Sections shareholders exercise their rights at the Auditors 198 to 208 of the Companies Act 1985: meeting and details of the venue.
A resolution to re-appoint Deloitte & Percentage Touche LLP as auditors of the Company of present Results and dividend and to authorise the Directors to fix their issued The Group profit for the year remuneration will be proposed at the AGM.
ordinary attributable to shareholders amounted Number of shares share capital to 167.1 million 2003 128.5 million.
Charitable and political donations Stefano Pessina 107,446,101 30.0% An interim dividend of 6.25 pence per Charitable donations of 248,000 were share was paid on 11 October 2004 to made during 2004, of which 186,000 shareholders registered at the close of were in the UK.
The UK donations include 107,350,000 shares of the interest of business on 6 August 2004, and the 150,000 made to the Disaster Emergency Stefano Pessina are held by Alliance Sant Directors are recommending the payment Committee as a specific response to the Participation S. A.. Stefano Pessina indirectly of a final dividend of 12.25 pence per Tsunami earthquake disaster.
The Group wholly owns Alliance Sant Participation share, making a total dividend in respect of has no affiliation to any political party or S. A. registered in Luxembourg, and the the financial year of 18.50 pence per share.
group in any country and makes no directors include Stefano Pessina and political donations.
If approved by shareholders at the AGM, the final dividend will be paid on 10 May 2005 with an ex-dividend date of 2 March 2005 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 4 March 2005.
Shareholders will be able to elect to receive additional shares in lieu of the final dividend through the Companys scrip dividend offer.
Further details of this offer are given in a separate document accompanying this Annual Report.
37 Alliance UniChem Plc Directors responsibilities statement Employment policies, communication and This statement, which should be read in involvement conjunction with the independent The Groups employment policies are auditors report, is made with a view to designed to ensure that it can attract the distinguishing for shareholders the highest calibre of employee and to provide respective responsibilities of the Directors equal opportunity in the selection and and of the auditors in relation to the advancement of a diverse workforce of financial statements.
employees regardless of race, creed, colour, nationality, gender, age, marital status, The Directors are required by United sexual preference or disability.
Kingdom legislation to prepare financial statements for each financial year that give Employment policies are fair, equitable and a true and fair view of the state of affairs consistent with the skills and abilities of the of the Company and the Group as at the employees and the needs of the Groups end of the financial year and of the profit business.
If any employee becomes or loss for the financial year then ended.
disabled, the objective is the continued provision of suitable employment either in In preparing these financial statements, the the same or an alternative position with Directors are required to: appropriate training if necessary.
select suitable accounting policies and Communication with employees takes then apply them consistently: place through regular staff briefings.
make judgements and estimates that are A works council exists to brief and consult reasonable and prudent: with elected employee representatives on pan-European issues.
Subject to state whether applicable United practical and commercial considerations, Kingdom accounting standards have employees are consulted and involved in been followed, subject to any material decisions that affect their employment or departures disclosed and explained in the future prospects.
financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on The Group operates a number of share a going concern basis unless it is option and bonus schemes to encourage inappropriate to presume that the employees to contribute effectively to the Group will continue in business.
creation of long-term shareholder value for the Companys shareholders.
The Directors are responsible for ensuring that the Company keeps proper Creditors and supplier payment policy accounting records which disclose, with The Group applies a policy of abiding by reasonable accuracy, at any time, the the payment terms negotiated with each financial position of the Company and of its suppliers, whenever it is satisfied that which enables them to ensure that the the invoiced goods or services have been financial statements comply with United ordered and have been supplied in Kingdom legislation.
accordance with agreed terms and conditions.
The Company is a holding Legislation in the United Kingdom company and has no trade creditors.
governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may Approved by and signed on behalf of the differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Board of Directors The Directors are also responsible for: Marco Pagni Company Secretary safeguarding the assets of the Company 24 February 2005 and the Group: taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities: and ensuring the maintenance and integrity of the Companys corporate website.
