06 Alliance UniChem Plc A look at our business We are rolling out efficiency programmes across Europe Management of product flow For those products which must Hand-held scanning devices throughout the depot provides be manually picked, planned read bar codes for customer optimum use of technology to and careful product placement orders.
The devices screen ensure the greatest efficiency.
ensures that the most highly information on type and demanded items are the number of products required most accessible.
to fill orders and the location from which to source them.
07 Alliance UniChem Plc A look at our business Warehouse best practice Initiated in 2001, our project to establish A key strength of the model is that, Due to the constantly evolving nature best practice for the operation of although it sets specific standards, its of the project, operations are being wholesale warehouses has evolved as implementation is tailored to meet fine tuned in those warehouses where it has been rolled out across Europe.
the demands and issues faced by each best practice was first implemented to Detailed analysis of the flow of products warehouse.
In some, this may require incorporate the latest thinking.
through each stage of the warehouse has complete re-laying with structural work In 2004, the best practice model was enabled us to identify the most efficient or new equipment, while in others it may implemented in six warehouses across our layouts, improve operating procedures simply involve minor changes or updates wholesale network: Preston, Livingston and and update technology and equipment.
to working practices and management Letchworth in the UK: Verona in Italy: and Re-laid warehouses show substantial reporting systems.
Each implementation two warehouses serving the Barcelona improvements in customer service, plan is designed with local management market in Spain.
Implementation is productivity and operational efficiency, involvement to achieve optimum underway in South Normanton in the UK, realising significant cost savings and performance and minimise disruption with plans drawn up for implementation in avoiding the need to move to larger during the implementation process.
an additional seven warehouses in the UK, premises.
Given that most of our facilities France, Italy, The Netherlands and Spain stock between 10,000 and 25,000 product during 2005. lines, even small improvements in the handling of products can reduce errors and stock turnaround days.
08 Alliance UniChem Plc A look at our business Almus is already one of the UKs leading generic brands As its popularity grows, Almuss unique design concept Almus is introducing such goes beyond the dispensing high volume medicines process with information sheets as Bendroflumethiazide specially designed for ease of and Warfarin.
Almus designed to aid dispensing Since its launch in April 2003, Almus, The Almus range includes blockbuster The success of Almus in the UK has made our exclusive range of generic drugs, has formulations such as generic Warfarin, the it a favourite of pharmacist and patient developed into a leading generic brand in worlds leading anti-coagulant product, alike, thanks to its unique award-winning the UK, and is already a core component and Bendrofluazide, a widely prescribed colour-coded packaging, consistency of of our service offering to both pharmacists treatment for water retention.
specification, ready availability and and manufacturers.
The initial range of competitive pricing.
This is set to be Almus has manufacturing arrangements in 39 products grew to 129 by the end of replicated in other markets.
With the active place with licensed manufacturers ranging 2004, with over 70 products expected to be encouragement of our pharmaceutical from local generic producers to global added during 2005.
Almus is now one of suppliers, the international rollout of generic and branded pharmaceutical the top five best selling generic brands in Almus will begin with launches in a companies, including Roche, Sanofi the UK, the rate of gross sales increasing to number of European countries during Aventis and Alpharma.
Discussions are 6.3 million per month by December 2004.
taking place to extend the number of manufacturers supplying existing and new Almus products.
09 Alliance UniChem Plc A look at our business 76m Approximate annualised gross sales December 2004 18m Approximate annualised gross sales January 2004 10 Alliance UniChem Plc A look at our business Our suite of services add value across the entire supply chain Around 33% of telephone calls made by our skilled telesales teams result in sales orders from pharmacies, illustrating the success of the Pressuma concept.
11 Alliance UniChem Plc A look at our business Direct one-to-one contact detailed and comprehensive between our telesales operators information on the range of and the pharmacist gives the products and services available opportunity to provide more from manufacturers.
Manufacturer services At the heart of our business models is a In keeping with this focus on innovation A pilot is under way with GlaxoSmithKline recognition that the manufacturer is as and development, a number of projects Sant Grand Public involving 3,700 much a customer for our services as the have been designed to aid the penetration pharmacies targeted for a large pharmacist or patient.
The market is of manufacturers ethical, generic and over promotional campaign for several shifting from product to patient focus, the counter products into the marketplace.
leading products including cold sore and pharmacists require new tools to One such example is our Pressuma treatment, Activir, smoking cessation aid, offer services to their customers.
We are concept, initially created and implemented Niquitin, and the painkiller, Synthol.
therefore well positioned to work closely in Spain and now adapted for the French Many manufacturers have expressed with manufacturers on new ways to market.
Pressuma provides manufacturers an interest in this innovative service and market their products and add value with a suite of services focused around a the pilot schemes already under way to their businesses.
contract sales force supported by highly are enabling us to refine our commercial skilled telesales teams dedicated to In 2004, we established a Commercial offering.
promoting complete packages of retail Affairs Department, responsible services to pharmacies, including sales for evolving our service offering to services, promotions, product information, manufacturers on a pan European basis.
advice on how to carry out surveys and on how to target customers effectively.
12 Alliance UniChem Plc A look at our business We continue to develop new ways to help independent pharmacists The your portfolio programme incorporates a variety of initiatives to improve dispensing effectiveness.
Appropriately equipped consultation areas together with suitable training available as part of the your portfolio programme, can help independent pharmacists meet the challenges of the new pharmacy contract.
The scope within the your Through the programme, portfolio programme, which independent pharmacists can ranges from front of shop access detailed training and signage through to advanced support to offer their patients training and dispensing a wider range of specialist protocols, allows independent services and advice.
pharmacists to reflect the needs of their local communities.
13 Alliance UniChem Plc A look at our business The your portfolio scheme provides assistance with store layout including professionally designed signage customised to each pharmacy.
Pharmacists are offered advice on the categorisation and grouping of products to enhance their display and maximise sales potential.
Product placing is supported by signage options ranging from window posters, promotional marketing materials to shelf signage.
Provision of healthcare advice and patient information forms a core element of the your portfolio concept.
your portfolio In June 2004 our UK wholesale business, Business supporting customers The challenges we face as a professional UniChem, made available to over 2,000 to manage their business and staff service to our local community go far customers its your portfolio initiative, more profitably.
beyond the requirements of a general a unique combination of added value retailer.
Maintaining professional standards Customers are rewarded for their loyalty.
services to provide independent through regular training both for myself Each customer is allocated to one of four pharmacists with the tools they need and my team and adequately resourcing value zones depending on the product to meet the challenges of the future my pharmacy to provide an increasingly mix and size of their purchases.
A zone and build a better business.
complex range of patient services is a corresponds to a monthly allowance that daunting task.
UniChems your portfolio your portfolio covers three key areas: can be used to access your portfolio scheme has created within my pharmacy services from UniChem.
By improving Dispensary supporting customers a more welcoming and efficient the mix of products they buy, customers to meet the challenges of the new environment and has made a material can earn higher monthly rewards pharmacy contract with a wide range difference to the level of service we are and discounts.
of patient-focused healthcare services: now able to offer.
Both my customers and Independent pharmacist, Mr. Ososami, staff are impressed with the improvements Retail supporting customers to improve shown here in his pharmacy in Streatham and I, as a manager, feel very pleased with their pharmacies image, thereby Hill, has chosen to implement your the changes.
It is an excellent programme.
maximising sales and profit through portfolio services: more effective merchandising and retail support: and 14 Alliance UniChem Plc A look at our business We are constantly finding innovative ways of interacting with patients Above Automated alerts tied into our pharmacy management systems provide our highly trained pharmacists with a back up prompt for situations where a prescription intervention may be appropriate as part of the clinical role they play in patient healthcare.
15 Alliance UniChem Plc A look at our business Above Moss is actively installing consultation areas across its chain with a large number of pharmacies now offering clearly signposted in-store facilities where patients may be treated in comfort and privacy without being overheard by fellow customers.
Above Moss is trialling the use of specially designed dispensing pods to give every patient direct access to the dispenser.
Pharmacy of the future The new pharmacy contracts about to take prescription service, making the dispensing new pharmacy contract.
The pharmacist effect in the UK require pharmacists to process more open and allowing the also has facilities in place to provide take a more clinical and proactive role in patient to become more involved.
This will become patient healthcare.
As a result, pharmacists Patients can see their prescriptions being increasingly important as pharmacies are working to build closer relationships made up and ask any questions they may are commissioned to provide even more with their patients to understand their have.
The individual consultation with enhanced services.
In order to pharmacy staff ensures that patients get To date 200 pharmacies have been fitted achieve this, Moss Pharmacy has developed the advice they need on common illnesses out with private consultation areas, 25 of an enhanced store format, including a and health matters, as well as information which are to Moss Pharmacys latest design.
consultation room, designed to facilitate about the medicines they are taking.
Around a further 400 will be fitted out communication with patients and enable Moss Pharmacys new consultation rooms by the end of 2005, with all pharmacies the provision of more advanced services.
have been designed to allow a more operating consultation facilities by the The new pharmacy layout focuses on direct private discussion between pharmacist end of 2006. dispensing and aims to bring the patient and patient.
The pharmacist can discuss closer to the dispensing process, creating healthcare issues without being overheard an environment more akin to clinical by other pharmacy visitors and can conduct evaluation than a mechanical check.
advanced services, such as medicines The concept offers patients a face-to-face use reviews, as specified under the 16 Alliance UniChem Plc A look at our business Our community pharmacies are increasingly focusing on patient services Left and below Our pharmacies have specialist training and resources necessary to provide enhanced services to patients such as this carbon monoxide monitor, used to motivate and inform patients during a typical four-week quit programme.
Above Patients are advised on their most appropriate cessation aid and given practical guidelines on its use.
Pharmacy services Moss Pharmacy in the UK is working Targets stipulate that the average PCT Julie Tipton of St. Helens PCT comments: hard to ensure that patients have access must identify at least 900 smokers per Smoking cessation is a key target for to the healthcare services they need.
year who have been treated by a smoking Primary Care Trusts to achieve in the next In partnership with local Primary Care cessation service and who stopped three years, and the programmes we Trusts PCTs, Moss plays an active role smoking after four weeks of treatment.
implement need to be done effectively in assessing the healthcare needs of the to reduce or prevent the occurrence of At the Moss pharmacy in Whiston Health local communities in which it operates and smoking related disease and ill health.
Centre near Prescot, Merseyside, our in developing new services to address Working with independent advisors pharmacist, Sue Stone, runs a successful these needs.
like Sue Stone and her team at Whiston smoking cessation programme.
Sue and is key to helping us reach our targets.
Mosss smoking cessation programmes two counsellors offer one-on-one People unable to attend our sessions, are part of a wider campaign focused on consultations to patients during their because they cant make timings or reducing coronary heart disease in local quit programme, providing information because sessions are over full, can go to communities.
These programmes are and support.
Carbon monoxide monitoring alternative programmes held at Moss aligned with local PCT requirements to during these sessions helps to motivate Pharmacy.
This ensures that people with meet quit targets set by the Department patients to persevere.
During 2004, Sue a strong commitment to quit have the of Health and are therefore generally and her team worked with over 50 patients, necessary support structure available to funded by the local PCT.
helping them to stop smoking.
A number help them achieve their goals.
of the patients Sue counsels are referred to her directly by her local PCT, which runs a smoking cessation project called Support in the local community.
Sues programme is an integral part of that project.
17 Alliance UniChem Plc A look at our business Prescriptions are usually dispensed while the customer waits.
Any items that are not in stock are ordered in for later that day or on a next day basis.
Medicines left around the home can be dangerous, especially if discovered by children or taken when out of date.
Moss is happy to collect unwanted medicines and dispose of them in the correct manner.
Moss can collect repeat prescriptions directly from patients GP surgeries and dispense them, ready for collection at the pharmacy or delivery to the patients home saving customers both time and effort.
Our pharmacists give advice on over-the-counter or prescription medicines, including effective medicines management and potential side effects.
They can also offer practical advice on how to lead a healthy lifestyle.
Being thoroughly prepared is important when travelling abroad.
Moss offers advice to customers based on their travel destinations including information on anti-malarials, vaccinations and strength of sun cream.
Help and support to prepare people for stopping smoking, including setting a quit date, preparing for the quit day, and dealing with cravings.
