Corporate social responsibility Economic Social Our Shareholders dont want We exist to make money for our As one of the worlds largest producers us chasing short-term profits shareholders, both now and in the longof alcoholic drinks we have always been term.
But companies are increasingly going aware that our business has responsibilities at the expense of long-term to be judged by how they behave as well that go well beyond our duty to make money prosperity.
Rather, they want as how much they earn.
Through the jobs for shareholders.
we create, the taxes we pay and the services us to build a sustainable Alcohol can be life enhancing, and brings they help to fund, we have an impact on pleasure to millions of people.
So we have the wider economies of every place we abused it can cause damage.
And experience tells us that being to balance three different responsible in our approach to society and Were in regular touch with the scientific, sets of priorities: economic, the environment makes sound business medical and public health communities, sense in the long-term.
and encourage active debate on the environmental and social.
development of public health policies Environmental for alcohol that balance government We strive to make a positive difference in legislation, industry self-regulation and the places where we operate to the people individual responsibility.
who live and work there as well as to the natural environment.
What weve already As a company that operates all over the achieved in this area has put us at the world, were highly sensitive to the different forefront of our industry.
The Makers Mark attitudes to alcohol in different societies.
distillery in Kentucky, for example, this year The age at which young people are first achieved three international standards for introduced to alcohol varies widely, as do quality, environmental, and health and legal drinking ages.
But all young people safety ISO 9001:2000: ISO 14001: and should be protected from the ill-effects of OHSAS 18001 and Allied Domecq is inappropriate or under-age drinking, and working towards all production units every year we support suitable programmes.
Whenever and wherever we market our Were the leader in our sector for the products we take enormous care not eighth consecutive year in the Business to encourage excessive drinking, or in the Environment index.
And were doing inadvertently target people under the legal more every year though our commitment drinking age.
We believe in sticking to our to ISO14001 as our global production own marketing code, even when its more standard.
Over 80% of our production restrictive than local legislation.
sites have plans in place to minimise water Indeed, as far as we know, were the only use, reduce waste and CO emissions 2 major alcoholic drinks company in the and save energy.
world that asks an independent review Examples of the practical impact of our board to check the integrity of its marketing.
environmental policy can be found in the The Marketing Review Board advises us our responsibilities section of our website on whether we are abiding by our own www.
standards and helps us identify and address We scored 92% in any risks that a particular campaign might the 2003 Business in the pose to our reputation locally or across Community UK index the world.
The board is also helping us of corporate responsibility, compared with 78% in develop our standards so that we will be 2002.
This places us able to anticipate issues and act before in the premier league of problems arise.
These figures establish us as sector leaders, ahead of both Diageo 34th and Scottish and Newcastle 82nd in the Top 100 Companies that Count.
Were also listed in the FTSE4Good and the Dow Jones Sustainability Index.
36 1 3 2 1 Allied Domecq We want to lead our industry in the move Also in April 2004, we published our first Social Report 2004. towards a more sustainable and selfSocial Report.
This describes Allied regulatory approach to advertising, and Domecqs performance in respect of the 2 Nori Arienza European POS the Marketing Review Board shows that broader responsibilities of the business Lead Buyer this can be done.
and towards the people who work for it.
Spain Once again a copy can be found in the our In April 2004, we enhanced our ethical 3 Allied Domecqs responsibilities section of the corporate trading policy, the ownership of which corporate advertisement website www.
rests ultimately with the main Board Director responsible for our social Our people determine what sort of place accountability.
To assess compliance Allied Domecq is and what it feels like to we issued a self-assessment questionnaire work here.
As a company we have values to current suppliers and, by August 2004, that we try to live by, that reflect how we are 715 suppliers, equating to an annualised and what we aspire to.
And we like to think spend of 680m, had completed it.
The that ours are more than just words.
new policy is now part of all new and We pay attention to the work life balance: renewed contracts.
were investing in better data collection We believe our suppliers have a role to play systems to measure our health and safety, in ensuring that we build a truly sustainable and environmental performance.
High workplace standards, good make decisions we want them to be based health and safety, fair pay and employment on facts not gut feelings.
conditions, no discrimination or bribery, and We carry out six-monthly surveys of our care for the environment are elements of staff to find out what they think and feel any successful, professionally-run business.
about the Company and if they say we Were a big company and that means we need to change things, we do.
can have an influence on the ethical and These surveys have been carried out environmental standards in place since 1997 and we have seen an overall throughout our supply chain though improvement over that time.
Our most where we buy on open commodity markets recent results were again higher and we arent in direct control of the impact we also benchmark well against we have.
But some raw materials, such as other companies.
agave and grapes, do come direct from farmers, and in these cases we can work We know we dont have all the answers with our suppliers to improve conditions.
yet and there are a lot of things we need to do better.
The next steps will include extending the coverage of the policy and resolving areas of non-compliance.
We recognise, however, that within our supply chain, there are many different national cultures, with their own laws, norms and traditions, which we must respect.
Some suppliers will face more complex issues than others in implementing the policy.
In these areas, we are committed to working with all relevant bodies to deliver effective action plans for change.
37 Corporate social responsibility UK US US Spain Mexico New Zealand Allied Domecq, Our Hiram Walker plant The Makers Mark distillery By employing people Workers at the Sauza In order to enable the employment charity in Fort Smith, Arkansas, in Kentucky has achieved with disabilities in the distillery are teaching people of Auckland to Tomorrows People, held an Earth Day three international Asprodema workshops their colleagues to enjoy the beauty of the and The Salvation Army celebration for employees standards for quality, in La Rioja to stick the jute read and write after indigenous bush and have have launched an and their families.
environmental and sackcloth covering on research indicated access to the regions innovative new project health and safety with to bottles of Siglo Saco, that only 26% of field largest stands of ancient There was a colouring to help Bristols homeless flying colours.
Bodegas y Bebidas is workers had completed kauri trees, Allied Domecq contest for kids, a trivia and unemployed helping to overcome the secondary education.
Wines New Zealand quiz about recycling The lead auditor from a difficult-to-reach basic hurdle these people provided $200,000 over and the environment, and Lloyds Registrar of Quality Parts of the warehouses group, many of whom face finding a job.
two years to enable the an Energy Conservation Assurance, which carried have been turned into are unable to find a job construction of an eightTree where employees out the assessments, Working helps to improve a school to provide free as they have no home, kilometre walking trail.
hung up their own ideas was so impressed with the quality of life of these numeracy and literacy and cant find a home about how to save energy the work the Makers Mark people and their families, classes for our employees, Using environmentally as they have no job.
team had done he said by tackling the problem their families and others sensitive structures to The initiative is being it was the first time he of social exclusion.
And protect the land and flora, Everyone went home funded by the European had ever conducted 18 of our staff from park rangers have now with a sapling to plant in Social Fund and Allied such an audit without warehouse managers completed a project that their yard, and hundreds Domecq, and will run recording any nonto a tractor driver saw 62,000 visitors to the of young trees are now for two and a half years.
conformities or issuing have been trained as park last year.
Hundreds of people will any improvement notes.
teachers by the Institute be helped to rebuild of State Education.
This, he said, is a their lives and eventually remarkable achievement.
Mosaic We call this approach our Mosaic We want to inspire every individual who thousands of small pieces that together works for us, and every one of our business add up to something truly worthwhile.
units, to find their own way to do something Here are just a few examples of the 4.5m positive for the world around them, as part spent on local projects by our companies of their everyday business life.
around the world half of which is on Because weve found that we make the projects in the local community, a quarter most positive contribution to a local on alcohol education and responsible neighbourhood when we allow our people drinking, and the rest on a variety of arts who live and work there to decide how and environmental initiatives.
38 1 1 At Dunkin Donuts, we have introduced in-store information on healthier choices and the nutritional content of our products.
2 Steve Bennett Finance JC Nierle Administration US 2 Marketing Review Board Lisa Graham Keegan, US Wellness and nutrition Our Marketing Review Board meets four Ms Keegan is the CEO of Education Leaders There is growing concern about the times a year to go over our advertising, Council ELC, and one of Americas most issues of obesity, health and wellness marketing and sponsorship material prominent educational reformers.
and give its view on whether it meets member of the Arizona House of As a major provider of foodstuffs through both the letter and the spirit of the Allied Representatives, she was seriously our Quick Service Restaurants businesses Domecq code.
considered for the post of US Secretary Dunkin Donuts, Baskin-Robbins and Togos of Education.
The five independent external members we have a role to play in addressing this of the board have extensive knowledge Allied Domecqs approach to issue by encouraging nutritional awareness of our key markets, and broad expertise ABI Guidelines among consumers.
in consumer issues, marketing and the Allied Domecq complies with the Balance, moderation, health awareness regulatory environment.
They are: Association of British Insurers and physical activity are key to a healthy Guidelines, which recommend that Jodie Bernstein, US lifestyle, and these should be considered social, environmental and ethical SEE Ms Bernstein has recently completed six alongside nutritional factors, not in isolation matters be addressed in the Annual years as Director of Consumer Protection from them.
at the US Federal Trade Commission FTC.
But we have a responsibility to support She was part of the 1999 FTC review of The Board regularly reviews these industry efforts on issues of wellness and self-regulation in the alcohol industry matters and has an Executive Director, nutrition, and are working hard to ensure that reported to Congress.
David Scotland, who is responsible we do so.
Hugh Burkitt, UK Our strategy has three key elements: Currently Director of the UK Marketing The Board regularly examines the business Society.
Previous Chairman of Burkitt DDB, and strategic risks posed by SEE matters Offering healthier choices to consumers a London-based advertising agency with an and Directors are trained in risks to the whenever possible: involvement in alcohol advertising for 20 reputation of the business.
Emphasising moderation in our outlets years.
As a regulator, Mr Burkitt spent In addition to the information included and marketing materials: and six years on the Advertising Standards here, we publish our health and safety, Authority complaints panel and has Developing alliances with other environmental and supply chain policies, previously sat on the UK Portman Groups organisations with experience and our marketing code and employee code independent complaints panel.
credibility in the fight against obesity.
of practice, and details of our quality Guillermo Cabanellas, Argentina systems in the our responsibilities Sr Cabanellas has worked as a lawyer for section at www.
com more than 30 years, in Argentina and the US.
He has experience with the Argentine Ministries of Economics and of Justice and in the 1980s helped to draft Argentinas Antitrust Law.
He served as Commissioner of the Argentine International Trade Commission between 19941996.
Jose Massaguer, Spain Sr Massaguer is a professor of law in Spain, and a partner in the law firm Uria & Mendendez.
Allied Domecq is one of its clients.
Even though he has a relationship with the Company, he is President of the Second Chamber of the Jury on selfregulation in advertising and is a respected international expert in intellectual property law.
