a fresh twist Lets be straight about this.
There has to be a point to being different.
And for us thats being brave.
People said you couldnt make money out of it.
Producing in five countries on four continents.
investing in brands Our business is about brands.
Were spending more on our core brands, and spending better, because consumers will pay a premium for a brand that they know and they trust.
Increased sales, premium prices, higher margins, and faster growth mean more cash to continue investing.
Its where the value comes from.
getting connected Its good to talk.
Like what sort of coffee they want.
And how they want it at a good price.
And how it tastes better when the language is simple like small, medium and large.
And thats why Dunkin Donuts sells more cups of coffee in the US than anyone else.
round thinking We bottle bubbles.
We find out what consumers want.
See a need, like super-premium vodka in the US.
Or we see an opportunity in flavoured white spirits.
And bottle Malibu in mango.
Or maybe tempt Spain with a premium Scotch?
switched on Dont get us wrong, we know what were doing.
But we also know that whatever you do theres a better way of doing it.
And thats what were always looking for.
The way beyond best practice.
The process, the thinking, the structure to give us an edge.
No one here gets fired for challenging the status quo.
handle with care You cant be too careful selling alcohol.
Its not just another product.
Of course we want people to enjoy our brands but responsibly.
And we lead by example, acting responsibly, promoting our brands to a stringent code of standards.
Then we let an independent panel guard the code.
They wont let us challenge even the spirit of those standards.
the world over Theres just one bottle of money and the whole world to spend it in.
So we put some into markets like China where growth is high.
We like the look of Russia and South America too.
Europe and the US have different needs.
But we see where the best opportunities are and pour our resources accordingly.
working together It doesnt matter if youve got the greatest brands which we have and the greatest strategy which we do.
Unless youve also got the best people, youre like a day-old doughnut.
Its people who unlock the value in the brands.
Its people who take the strategy and make it work.
We know what our people are worth and where wed be without them.
