Directors reports Directors report Communications and involvement The Directors are pleased to present their Annual Report and Considerable emphasis is placed by the Group on communications Accounts for the year ended 31 August 2004. with its employees.
In addition to obtaining a comprehensive range of attitudes and views from employees through employee opinion Business review and future developments surveys, Group companies involve and consult them with regard to The Chairmans Statement and the Operating and Financial Review the activities and performance of their businesses and any matters on page 7 and pages 24 to 35 provide a review of the business of concern to them.
It is normal practice to use formal joint consultative and likely future developments.
bodies locally for one-to-one and group meetings.
Allied Domecq has a European Council which acts as a forum for Pan-European Main trading activities consultation and discussion.
The Groups main trading activities are the production, marketing and sale of Spirits & Wine and the franchising Health, safety and welfare of Quick Service Restaurants.
The Group recognises that occupational health and safety management is among one of our highest corporate responsibilities.
Dividends Group companies are now establishing health and safety management An interim dividend of 5.83p per share was paid on 30 July 2004 systems based on OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health and Safety and the Directors are pleased to recommend a final ordinary dividend Assessment Series and have achieved, or are working towards, of 9.67p per share, making a total for the year of 15.5p.
Our global programme to benchmark our health dividend will be paid on 2 February 2005 to shareholders on the and safety performance and practice bi-annually, using independent register on 7 January 2005. external facilitation, is continuing with the next benchmark due at the beginning of 2005.
This enables us to measure our impact and further Annual General Meeting progress our targets and key performance indicators, towards our The AGM will be held on 28 January 2005 at the Landmark London goal of continual improvement.
The Groups full health and safety Hotel, 222 Marylebone Road, London NW1 6JQ.
Details of the report is posted on the Companys website at www.
com business to be considered at the AGM and the Notice of Meeting are included in the accompanying Chairmans Letter.
Research and development The amount spent by the Group on research and development during Share capital the period was 1m but this does not include the full cost of new Details of the Companys share capital and options over the product development.
Companys shares under the Groups employee share plans are given in note 22 of the accounts on pages 74 and 75.
As at 31 August Creditor payment policy 2004 the Company had authority to purchase up to 10% of its The Companys policy, in relation to all of its suppliers, is to settle Ordinary Shares.
Shareholders approval is being sought for the the terms of payment when agreeing the terms of the transaction, renewal of this authority.
to ensure that suppliers are aware of the terms of payment and to abide by those terms provided it is satisfied that the goods or services Substantial interests were supplied in accordance with the agreed terms and conditions.
The Company has been notified of the following disclosable interests The Company does not follow any particular code or standard on in Allied Domecq Ordinary Shares: payment practice.
Creditor days have not been calculated as the Company had no trade creditors at 31 August 2004.
The Companys Suntory Limited 37,834,591 shares 3.42% invoices for goods and services are settled by subsidiaries acting as Aviva plc 33,451,589 shares 3.02% agents for the Company.
FMR Corp. Fidelity International Limited 43,139,248 shares 3.9% Directors 33,382,252 of the shares are held by Morley Fund Management Limited, a subsidiary The names and brief biographical details of the Directors as at of Aviva plc.
20 October 2004 are given on page 40.
During the year Paul Adams and John Rishton were appointed and Sir Ross Buckland, Peter Employees Jacobs and David Malpas retired as Non-Executive Directors.
Allied Domecq operates a policy of equal opportunity and continues In accordance with the Articles of Association, Graham Hetherington, to give full and fair consideration to applications for employment David Scotland and Richard Turner retire at the forthcoming AGM made by disabled persons.
Employees who become disabled will, and offer themselves for re-election.
wherever possible and practicable, be retained in employment and, where necessary, appropriate training will be provided.
Employees are encouraged to become Shareholders in the Company.
Grants of options over a total of 13,159,067 Ordinary Shares including options over American Depositary Shares, representing underlying Ordinary Shares were made to eligible employees under the Companys employee share option plans during the year.
