Political and charitable contributions Corporate governance The Groups continuing policy is not to make political donations or Introduction contributions within the EU.
However, to be certain that we comply The Directors of Allied Domecq PLC are committed to the high with the Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000 we standards of corporate governance set out in the Principles of Good disclose the following activities by Allied Domecq Holdings PLC Governance and Code of Best Practice, which together comprise individually valued over 200 that could be considered as affecting the Combined Code appended to the Listing Rules of the Financial public support for European Union based political parties: Services Authority.
The Directors are accountable to the Shareholders for ensuring that these principles are understood and implemented Sensible drinking advertisement for two days in the Labour Party throughout the Companys operations and this statement describes Conference daily Newsletter: 3,500 plus VAT: the manner in which Allied Domecq PLC has applied the Principles Sensible drinking advertisement in the Conservative Party and Provisions of the Code during the financial year.
In July 2003, a Conference daily Newsletter: 1,175 plus VAT: New Combined Code was issued by the Financial Reporting Council.
The Directors support the spirit of the New Combined Code and Fees for attendance of two employees at Labour Party Annual comply with the majority of its provisions.
They are not, however, Conference Corporate Day: 2,600 plus VAT: and required to report on their compliance with the New Combined Code Gift of champagne at cost for the Labour Party Gala Dinner: 340. until they report to Shareholders in respect of the financial year ending 31 August 2005.
Charitable contributions in the UK totalled 183,000.
In addition, the Allied Domecq Trust gave 52,000 to charitable causes, and As a Company listed on the New York Stock Exchange NYSE, charitable contributions of over 4.3m were made outside the UK.
as well as being subject to UK legislation and practice, Allied Domecq is subject to the rules of the US Securities and Exchange Commission Auditor SEC.
We continually monitor our compliance with such rules as KPMG Audit Plc has expressed its willingness to continue in office applicable to foreign registrants and are in compliance with the as Auditor of the Company and the Audit Committee has approved rules that are currently in force.
The Company follows UK corporate its reappointment.
Resolutions for the reappointment of the Auditor, governance practice and its practice does not differ significantly at a rate of remuneration to be determined by the Directors, acting from the corporate governance standards set out in section 303A through the Audit Committee, will be proposed at the AGM.
of the NYSE Listed Company Manual, except that the Nomination Committee required by section 303A.
4. of the NYSE Listed Company By Order of the Board Manual is comprised of a majority, rather than entirely, of independent Leonard Quaranto Directors and it does not have responsibility for corporate governance, General Counsel & Company Secretary which is dealt with by the full Board and the Audit Committee.
20 October 2004 Executive and Non-Executive Directors The Executive Directors are engaged on employment contracts subject to 12 months written notice given by either party.
Non-Executive Directors are appointed for three-year terms and are generally limited to six years of service.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, all Directors are subject to election by Shareholders at the first opportunity after their appointment, and to re-election thereafter at intervals of no more than three years.
The Non-Executive Directors excluding the Chairmans fee levels are determined by the Board of Directors with reference to market practice, whilst the Executive Directors salary levels and the Chairmans fee level are determined by the Remuneration Committee.
Directors do not participate in decisions regarding their own remuneration.
The remuneration policy and the terms and conditions of service of the Executive and Non-Executive Directors appear in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 46 to 53.
Allied Domecq is in compliance with Schedules A and B of the Combined Code relating to remuneration.
43 Directors reports Organisation and functions of the Board The Board has established a number of Board Committees, each and key Board Committees of which has formal terms of reference.
Membership of Board The Board is responsible for the overall direction, strategy, Committees and details of individual attendance at meetings performance, values, standards and leadership of Allied Domecq PLC is shown below.
It is currently comprised of four Executive Directors and five independent Non-Executive Directors Attendance at meetings including the independent Chairman.
Throughout the financial year, The following table identifies the number of scheduled meetings the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive officer have been held of the full Board, Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee and separately.
Nomination Committee held during the year ended 31 August 2004 and the attendance of each individual Director: The Board and its Committees have formal terms of reference setting Audit Remuneration Nomination out their authorities and duties and there is a formal written division Board Committee Committee Committee of responsibilities between the Chairman and Chief Executive.
Number of meetings in the year8231 All Board members have access to the advice and services of the Sir Gerry Robinson 8231 General Counsel & Company Secretary and, in accordance with Philip Bowman 8 1 agreed procedures, are also able to obtain independent professional Graham Hetherington 8 advice as required at the Companys expense.
David Scotland 8 On appointment, new Directors are given the opportunity to participate Richard Turner 7 in an external professional programme for Directors and are offered 1 Paul Adams 511 other appropriate induction and training.
Bruno Angelici 8 2 3 All of the Non-Executive Directors bring a wide range of experience Donald Brydon 8231 to the Board and participate fully in decisions on key issues facing 2 John Rishton 512 the Group.
All Non-Executive Directors including the Chairman are considered by the Board to be independent of management and Notes 1 Appointed 5 December 2003 and has attended all scheduled meetings since free from any business or other relationship which could materially appointment, except one Board meeting and one Remuneration Committee meeting.
interfere with the exercise of independent judgement.
The particular 2 Appointed 5 December 2003 and has attended all scheduled meetings since role of the Non-Executive Directors includes constructively challenging appointment, except one Board meeting.
and contributing to the development of strategy: scrutinising the performance of, and where necessary removing, management: The Audit Committee monitors and reviews the system of financial ensuring the Groups systems of risk management are robust and operational controls of the Group.
It also considers the Groups and defensible: determining appropriate levels of remuneration compliance with the Combined Code and oversees the objectivity, for Executive Directors: and challenging and contributing towards effectiveness and independence of the auditors.
The Committee management succession planning.
is comprised of the five independent Non-Executive Directors, including the independent Chairman.
The Committee can request The Board generally meets at least six times a year focusing on the external auditors, Executive Directors and any other officers of the strategic issues and financial performance.
The Board has a formal Group to attend its meetings.
Additionally, the Groups internal and schedule of matters reserved to it for decision and decisions are external auditors have direct access to the Committee to raise any communicated widely throughout the Allied Domecq Group of matters of concern.
Going forward the Committee is required to meet companies.
Included within this formal schedule of matters is at least three times each year and met twice during the financial year responsibility for the Groups risk management strategy.
The Committee receives periodic reports members are provided with sufficient information on a timely basis from the internal audit function, the external auditors and management in order to ensure their ability to discharge their duties.
summarising audit issues noted and corrective actions planned.
The evaluation of the performance of the Board, Board Committees, It also approves the provision of audit, audit-related and non-audit the Chief Executive and the individual Non-Executive Directors is the services to the Group by the external auditors.
The Committee has responsibility of the Chairman.
The Chairmans performance is approved detailed procedures regarding up the ladder reporting of evaluated by the full Board.
The performance of the individual violations of US securities laws and procedures to ensure compliance Executive Directors, excluding the Chief Executive, is formally with the auditor independence provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act evaluated by the Chief Executive.
of 2002 to generally safeguard auditor objectivity and independence.
The Group has a formal Code of Business Conduct which applies The Remuneration Committee is comprised of the five independent to all Directors and employees.
Non-Executive Directors and is responsible for determining the remuneration policy and the terms and conditions of service of The Board of Allied Domecq Spirits & Wine Limited and the Quick the Executive Directors and the Chairman.
The Chairman does Service Restaurants Executive generally meet monthly.
These groups, not participate in decisions regarding his own remuneration.
It also together with the Executive Committee of the Board, implement the reviews external appointments offered to Executive Directors.
strategy set by the main Board and oversee day-to-day operations of The Committee generally meets at least twice per year.
Committee the Group, approve projects within capital expenditure limits delegated members are not eligible for any share options, bonuses or pension by the main Board, and lead the management development process.
The Committee has access to the services of independent advisers as required.
44 The Nomination Committee has responsibility for leading the process Through these mechanisms, risk assessment and internal control have for Board appointments and making recommendations to the Board.
been embedded in ongoing operations.
Business performance is It is comprised of a majority of independent Non-Executive Directors continually monitored, risks identified in a timely manner, their financial and meets from time to time, as required.
The Committee met once implications assessed, control procedures re-evaluated and corrective during the year to approve the appointments of Paul Adams and John actions agreed and implemented.
Prior to the appointment of a new Director, the The Company will be required to comply with section 404 of the Nomination Committee will generally utilise the services of an executive Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 for the financial year ending 31 August search consultancy to identify suitable candidates who match the role 2005.
This will require the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer specification prepared and have the experience required.
Members to conclude on the effectiveness of internal controls over financial of the Nomination Committee interview potential candidates prior reporting to meet US SEC reporting requirements.
Further testing and to formal consideration by the full Committee and the decision being monitoring procedures are being put in place to enable these reporting made to make an appointment.
In addition, our external Auditor, KPMG Audit The Turnbull guidance for directors on internal control was issued Plc, will be required to report on the procedures established by in September 1999. management to enable compliance and also to conclude on the effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting.
The Board confirms that it has established a process that meets the Turnbull guidance.
The process has been in place for the whole of In addition, throughout the year, the Company has operated the year to 31 August 2004 and, as part of this process, the Board a Disclosure Committee, as recommended by the SEC, which has received and reviewed regular reports during the year on internal is responsible for considering the accuracy, completeness and control and risk and has reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups materiality of information to be included in its financial reports system of internal control.
or other public statements as well as determining the Groups disclosure obligations on a timely basis.
The Disclosure Committee Internal control reports to the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer.
The Board of Directors has final responsibility for the system of internal control maintained by the Group.
The responsibility for establishing Relations with Shareholders and operating detailed control procedures within each operating The Board believes it is important to respond adequately to all the business lies with the operating Board and local management.
The queries of both institutional and private Shareholders.
At the AGM, approach to internal control is risk based, with risk management Shareholders are offered an opportunity to raise with the Board processes including an evaluation of the likelihood and impact of risks.
and the respective Board Committee Chairmen any specific questions This system provides reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against they have concerning the Group.
In addition, meetings are also held material loss and includes the safeguarding of assets, the maintenance between the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer and of proper accounting records, the reliability of financial information, institutional Shareholders at various times during the year, and compliance with appropriate legislation, regulation and best practice, the Chairman and Senior Independent Director will respond as and the identification and mitigation of business risks.
appropriate to requests from institutional Shareholders for meetings.
The Directors develop an understanding of major Shareholder views Group and local management are responsible for the identification about the Company through receiving regular updates on broker and evaluation of key applicable business, operational, compliance forecasts, media commentary and feedback from institutional and financial risks.
These risks are assessed on a continual basis, meetings.
At the AGM the Company conducts the formal business taking into account the overall risk environment, and may be of the meeting by a poll on each separate resolution and the notices associated with a variety of internal or external sources including covering each AGM are sent to the Shareholders at least 20 working control breakdowns, disruption in information systems, competition, days before the meeting.
natural catastrophe and regulatory requirements.
Group businesses participate in periodic strategic reviews which Going concern include consideration of long-term financial projections and the After making enquiries, the Directors, at the time of approving evaluation of business alternatives.
Operating units prepare annual the financial statements, have determined that there is reasonable budgets: performance against budget is actively monitored both at expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate the level of the Board of Allied Domecq Spirits & Wine Limited and resources to continue operating for the foreseeable future.
the Quick Service Restaurants Executive and the main Board, For this reason, the Directors have adopted the going concern supported by regular forecasts.
basis in preparing the financial statements.
A process of annual control self-assessment and hierarchical reporting Compliance with Combined Code provides for a documented and auditable trail of accountability from the The Company was in compliance throughout the financial year with local business unit to regional management to executive management.
the Code provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code This process includes an internal control questionnaire which is except that Executive Directors were engaged on employment completed for all business units and Group functions and reviewed by contracts subject to 24 months written notice given by either party regional management.
The questionnaire is tailored by region to reflect until new employment contracts with a 12 months written notice the potential risks and the control environment of the region and each period were entered into on 20 October 2003. region has appointed a business risk champion to challenge, validate and collate the responses into regionally owned reports.
These selfOur Auditor, KPMG Audit Plc, has reviewed the Directors statement assessment tools provide for successive assurances at increasingly on the Companys compliance to the extent required by the Listing higher levels of management and, finally, to the Board.
Rules and its report appears on page 54.
The process and the supporting documentation are reviewed by the internal auditors for completeness, accuracy and compliance with Combined Code requirements.
Planned corrective actions, where applicable, are independently monitored for timely completion.
