Accounts 26 Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Directors Report The directors present their annual report and the audited Directors financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2004.
The names of the directors of the company at the date of this report and biographical details are given on page 24.
A complete Principal activity list of directors who served during the year is shown within the The groups principal activity is the wholesale distribution and remuneration report on page 38.
The two directors standing for supply of floorcoverings and flooring accessories.
The principal re-election at the next AGM are Graham Waldron and Tom subsidiary undertakings are listed on page 78.
As Graham Waldron is 74 years of age, the ordinary resolution for his re-election will expire at the conclusion of the Review of the business next AGM.
Details of directors service contracts are given in the A review of the groups trading operations and future report on Corporate Governance.
No other person has acted as developments is contained in the Chairmans Statement, the a director of the company during the financial year ended Group Chief Executives Review and the Financial Review on 31 December 2004. pages 10 to 23.
Directors remuneration and interests Dividends A statement of directors remuneration and their interest in An interim dividend of 4.00p per share 2003: 3.60p was paid the shares and options of the company is set out in the on 3 January 2005 and your board is recommending a final remuneration report on pages 35 to 40. dividend of 12.25p per share 2003: 10.25p, making a total dividend of 16.25p per share 2003: 13.85p for the year.
Substantial shareholdings At the date of this report, the following interests in 3% or more The final dividend, if approved, will be payable on 4 July 2005 to of the issued ordinary share capital had been notified to the shareholders whose names appear on the register at the close of company.
Number of shares % Share Capital Changes in the companys share capital during the year are Prudential plc 4,177,924 4.85 given in note 20 to the accounts.
The directors have received Legal & General authority from shareholders to allot ordinary shares for cash Investment Management 3,346,519 3.89 otherwise than on a pro-rata basis.
The authority is limited Aviva plc 2,715,594 3.15 to allotting up to 4,213,000 ordinary shares, representing approximately 5% of the issued share capital at that time.
Although no such issues have been made, the directors will Policy on payment of creditors seek renewal of these two authorities from shareholders at the The group agrees the terms of payment as part of the conditions Annual General Meeting AGM.
of supply of goods and services.
The group seeks to strictly comply with these payment terms whenever it is satisfied that Purchase of own shares the supplier has provided the goods and services in accordance The directors are authorised by the shareholders to purchase with the agreed terms and conditions.
The payment policy has the companys shares, as is permitted under the companys been and will continue to be developed to meet the groups Articles of Association.
The purchase of the companys own specific requirements and is not based on any particular code or shares would only be made if the directors regarded such standard relating to payment practice.
The number of creditor purchase as earnings enhancing.
Although no such purchases days of the company at 31 December 2004 was 41 days have been made, the directors will seek to renew the authority 2003: 41 days.
from shareholders at the AGM.
Accounts 27 Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Directors Report continued Environmental Employees The group is committed to sound environmental practices The group remains committed to providing a workplace that is implemented through management systems, including the sharing safe and environmentally sound which complies with applicable of best practice.
The group monitors the nature and extent of those laws and regulations.
The group expects employees to respect activities that have a bearing on the environment on a continuous confidential information and company time and assets and basis.
The managers of the individual businesses are primarily believes in open and honest communication, fair treatment and responsible for environmental management.
The group seeks to equal opportunities.
The group supports the fundamental reduce the effect of its activities on the environment by measuring principles of good governance.
and evaluating its performance and implementing changes where benefits can be achieved.
This evaluation takes account of a It is the groups continued practice to maintain employee number of elements including the general environment, energy participation and involvement in matters which affect their consumption, transportation, hazardous materials and waste.
The group places considerable value on the involvement of its employees and has continued to keep them The group continues to replace older and less efficient premises informed on matters affecting them as employees and on the by investing in new facilities.
These incorporate energy efficient various factors affecting the performance of the group.
This is features such as improved insulation, low energy lighting, fuel achieved through formal and informal meetings and through the efficient heating and modern plant and machinery.
annual and interim financial statements.
Employee representatives are consulted regularly on a wide range of Commercial vehicles are regularly serviced and driver awareness matters affecting their current and future interests.
encouraged to promote maximum operating and fuel efficiency.
In addition commercial vehicles are normally replaced after five The directors encourage employee interest in the groups years, recognising the operational efficiencies achievable with performance through the executive and savings related share improvements in vehicle design and technology.
The principal forms of waste material in the normal course of Employee turnover remains low and as a result the employee base business arise in respect of packaging used to protect stock.
The group is firmly committed to developing the These are primarily wooden pallets and cardboard boxes in potential of its people and regularly reviews its succession respect of unitised stock and protective polythene sheet for rolls planning processes.
Recruitment, training and development is of carpet and vinyl.
These are segregated and recycled where designed to ensure the group has suitably skilled and qualified possible.
Investment in waste management equipment continues employees to meet the operational needs of the business and to improve the levels of recycling achieved.
offer the opportunity for employees to develop and grow.
The group recognises the potential environmental and health The group gives equal consideration to applications for and safety impact of solvent based adhesives and assesses and employment from able-bodied and disabled people having monitors their usage and storage.
The availability of alternative regard to local conditions and their particular aptitudes and water based adhesives has resulted in a reduction in the abilities.
It is group policy wherever practicable to continue to stockholding of solvent based adhesives.
employ, train and promote the career development of existing employees who become disabled.
The group considers it important that its employees provide for their retirement and accordingly provides opportunities for them to participate in retirement programmes.
Accounts 28 Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Directors Report continued Donations The groups Charities Committee considers requests for charitable donations within a set criteria.
The group contributed charitable donations of 26,705 2003: 37,180 during the year.
The board has maintained its policy of not making political donations.
Going Concern The directors report that, after making enquiries, they have a reasonable expectation that the group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
AGM Notice of this years AGM to be held on Friday 27 May 2005 is set out on pages 80 to 82.
Auditors KPMG Audit Plc has expressed its willingness to continue in office as auditor of the company and a resolution to propose its re-appointment and to authorise the directors to agree its remuneration will be submitted to the AGM.
Auditors remuneration and fees paid are set out in note 5 to the financial statements.
By order of the board Geoff Duggan Company Secretary 14 March 2005
