24 Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Directors, Officers and Advisors Auditors Trevor Larman uln Roger Dickens, CBE, DL uln KPMG Audit Plc 59, non-executive Chairman 57, non-executive director 2 Cornwall Street Appointed a non-executive director in Appointed a non executive director in Birmingham B3 2DL March 1994 and became Chairman on February 2004.
He is the non-executive 1 January 2000.
He was formerly the Chairman of West Bromwich Building Taxation Advisers Finance Director of NFC plc, now Exel plc.
Society, Chairman of ASSA Training and Deloittes In addition he is a director of Exel Trustees Learning Limited and a non executive Four Brindleyplace Limited and a Trustee of Help the Aged.
director of Carillion plc and National Birmingham B1 2HZ He is a fellow of the Institute of Chartered Exhibition Centre Limited.
He was formerly Certified Accountants and a fellow of the Chairman of iSOFT Group plc and formerly Principal Bankers Institute of Chartered Tax Accountants.
deputy UK Senior Partner and Senior Barclays Bank PLC Partner Midlands Region for KPMG.
PO Box 34 Tony Brewer n 15 Colmore Row 44, Group Chief Executive Geoff Duggan Birmingham B3 2BY Appointed an executive director in June 44, Company Secretary 1991, became Managing Director of the Joined the company in April 1998.
He is The Royal Bank of Scotland plc Floorcoverings Division in January 1992 an associate of the Institute of Chartered Corporate and Institutional Banking and was subsequently appointed Group Secretaries and Administrators and a fellow 5th Floor Chief Executive in November 2000.
He of the Chartered Institute of Management 2 St Philips Place has 27 years experience in the Accountants.
Andrew Simpson s Solicitors Graham Waldron i 52, Managing Director UK operations Eversheds 74, executive director Joined the company during September 115 Colmore Row Appointed executive Chairman in June 1991 and is the Managing Director of Birmingham B3 3AL 1991 until succeeded by Trevor Larman in UK operations.
He remains an executive experience in the floorcovering industry.
He is the non-executive Chairman Arden Partners Limited of Tandem Group plc and was formerly a Gary Phillipss Arden House non-executive director of Ryland Group plc.
42, Finance Director operations 17 Highfield Road He has 52 years experience in the Joined the company in June 1992 and is Edgbaston floorcovering industry.
He is an Birmingham B15 3DU associate of the Chartered Institute of Stephen Wilson Management Accountants.
Registrars 50, Group Finance Director Capita Registrars Appointed Group Finance Director in Tony Judge s Northern House December 1991.
He is the non-executive 40, Managing Director Coleshill businesses Woodsome Park Chairman of Synergy Healthcare plc.
Joined the company in May 1992 and Fenay Bridge He is a fellow of the Institute of Chartered is Managing Director of all businesses Huddersfield HD8 0LA Accountants.
operating from the Coleshill distribution centre.
Tony has 24 years experience in Tom Anderson uln the floorcovering industry.
66, non-executive director Appointed a non-executive director in Keith Yatess u Audit committee August 1998.
He was formerly a non- 49, Managing Director Mercado l Remuneration committee executive director of Azlan Group PLC Joined Mercado in April 1983 and was n Nomination committee and a group general manager of subsequently appointed Managing Director s Executive management Electrocomponents Plc.
Keith has 22 years experience in i Charities committee engineer and a member of the Institute of the floorcovering industry.
