Directors report 45 HMV Group plc Annual report and accounts 2004 The Directors submit their report and audited financial statements for the 52 weeks ended 24 April 2004, which were approved on behalf of the Board on 29 June 2004. Review of the Group The principal activities of the Group are the retailing of pre-recorded music, DVD and VHS video and electronic games under the HMV brand and the retailing of books principally under the Waterstones brand.
The Group has operations in 10 countries, with the principal markets being those of the UK, Japan and Canada.
The Chief Executives Statement, Operating Review and Financial Review on pages 10 to 31 contain details of the principal operations of the Group during the year and likely future developments.
Results and dividends The consolidated profit after deducting taxation amounted to 82.2m 2003: 47.0m.
The Board of Directors recommends a final dividend of 4.5p per Ordinary Share.
This together with the interim dividend of 1.3p, already declared and paid, makes a total for the year of 5.8p per Ordinary Share 2003: 4.5p per Ordinary Share.
Subject to the approval at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting the final dividend will be paid on 8 October 2004 to those shareholders whose names are on the register of members on 10 September 2004.
The retained profit for the period under review of 58.8m 2003: 13.6m has been transferred to reserves.
Directors The present Directors of the Company are listed, together with their biographical details, on page 32.
All served throughout the year with the exception of Robin Miller who was appointed a Director on 2 February 2004.
On the same date Eric Nicoli resigned voluntarily as a Director of the Company and Steven Tadler resigned voluntarily as a Director on 29 September 2003.
In accordance with the Articles of Association, Robin Miller will offer himself for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Companys Articles of Association also require one third of the Directors to retire by rotation each year, and in any event each Director must offer himself or herself for re-election at least once every three years.
Accordingly David Kappler and Neil Bright will offer themselves for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Since the year end the Company has announced the resignation of Brian McLaughlin as an Executive Director of the Board with effect from 31 December 2004.
The Board of Directors, recognising Mr McLaughlins valuable knowledge and experience of the Group and the Groups specialist retailing business, has asked Mr McLaughlin to remain on the Board as a Non-Executive Director.
Mr McLaughlin has accepted this position with effect from 1 January 2005.
The Directors interests in the shares of the Company, together with their remuneration where applicable and further details of their service agreements are detailed in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 37 to 43.
No Director, at any time during the period under review, had a material interest in any contracts with the Company or any of its subsidiary undertakings, other than the Executive Directors who had such an interest through their service agreements with the Company, details of which are summarised on page 42.
None of the Directors nor their families at any time during the period under review, or subsequently, were interested in any shares of the Companys subsidiary undertakings.
Principal shareholders As at 28 June 2004 the Company had been advised of the following holdings representing 3% or more in its issued Ordinary Shares: Number of Percentage Ordinary of issued Name Shares share capital Barclays PLC 51,568,209 12.75 ISIS Asset Management plc 28,346,342 7.01 Standard Life Group 18,371,807 4.54 HBOS plc 15,561,594 3.85 Aviva plc 15,149,305 3.74 HSBC Asset Management Europe Ltd 14,752,650 3.65 Legal & General Investment Management Limited 14,194,092 3.51 Policy on payment of creditors The Group does not impose standard payment terms on its suppliers but agrees specific terms with each and ensures that each supplier is made aware of such terms.
It is the Groups policy to pay its suppliers in accordance with the terms that they have agreed.
The Company is a holding company and therefore has no trade creditors.
Directors report continued 46 HMV Group plc Annual report and accounts 2004 Employee policies The Group is a decentralised organisation with the aim of employing and developing the best people, putting them in the right positions with a significant level of delegated authority and supporting them with the infrastructure and technology required to perform at the highest levels and at the lowest costs with the quickest response time.
Responsibility for employment matters therefore rests primarily with each business operation under the general guidance of central policy and procedural guidelines.
The Group companies are committed to the maintenance of a work environment free of discrimination on the grounds of gender, nationality, ethnic or racial origin, non-job related disability, sexual orientation or marital status.
The Group gives full consideration to applications from disabled persons where a disabled person can adequately fulfil the requirements of the job.
Where existing employees become disabled, it is the Groups policy, wherever practicable, to provide continuing employment under normal terms and conditions and to provide training, career development and promotion to disabled employees wherever appropriate.
In order to promote employee involvement in the Group, regular meetings are held between local management and employees to allow a free flow of information and ideas.
The Company encourages staff involvement in the Groups performance via a combination of employee bonus and share schemes.
The Group has established a Share Incentive Plan, details of which are set out on page 38, in which nearly all the Groups employees are entitled to participate provided they meet certain service conditions.
Share capital Details of the Companys share capital, together with the number of shares issued during the period under review, can be found in note 24 on page 69.
Since the end of the period under review the Company has increased its issued share capital by a further 156,721 Ordinary Shares, which were issued pursuant to the exercise of options under the Companys share option schemes.
Charitable donations The Group made charitable donations of 25,000 in the period under review 2003: 16,000.
It is Group policy not to make donations to political parties and therefore no political donations were made during the period.
The Group is also involved in charitable fundraising, details of which can be found on page 44.
Auditors Ernst & Young LLP has indicated its willingness to continue in office and resolutions for their reappointment and to authorise the Directors to fix their remuneration will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at 2.30 pm on 29 September 2004 at the Lincoln Centre, 18 Lincolns Inn Fields, London WC2A 3ED.
The special business to be proposed at that meeting will be the renewal of the Directors authority to allot new Ordinary Shares and to disapply pre-emption rights in certain circumstances: the renewal of the Directors Authority to buy back the Companys shares in the market: and, to avoid an inadvertent breach of the Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000, the renewal of the Groups authority to make donations.
The Notice of Meeting and details of the special business to be proposed can be found in the accompanying letter to shareholders.
By order of the Board Elaine Marriner Company Secretary 29 June 2004 Shelley House 2-4 York Road Maidenhead Berkshire SL6 1SR
