0145 MFI 26 Board of directors tp 4 4 05 8:53 pm Page 26 Board of directors Ian Peacock age 57 : Non-executive Chairman Tony fide Nunzio age 43 : Non-executive Deputy Chairman Ian joined the Board in January 2000, having previously held Tony joined the Board in September 2000 and also serves senior management positions at BZW and Kleinwort Benson.
as Chairman of its Audit Committee and Senior independent He is also a non-executive director of Norwich and director.
On 24 February 2005 Tony was appointed as Deputy Peterborough Building Society, deputy chairman of Lombard Chairman.
Tony is currently president and chief executive Risk Management and chairman of Mothercare.
For the period officer of Asda Stores and will shortly become executive 1998 to 2002, Ian was a special adviser to the Bank of England.
chairman of Royal Vendex, a leading Dutch retailer.
Leading up to the takeover by Wal-Mart, Tony was group finance director John Hancock age 55 : Chief executive officer of Asda Group, his career with the company beginning in 1994 John became Chief executive officer in March 1999, having after a spell as finance director of Allied Maples.
Prior to this he served as a non-executive director since December 1998.
John was planning director for central Europe at PepsiCo in the early was previously an executive director of WH Smith and his 1990s after having been group financial controller for LOral career includes senior posts with Associated British Foods and UK.
Tony started his career with Unilever.
John is also non-executive director of Manchester Airport, and holds two voluntary posts with the Lesley Knox age 51 : Non-executive director National Retail Federation in the USA and the British American Lesley was appointed non-executive director in May 2001 and Business Council.
also serves as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Lesley was a founder director of British Linen Advisers, a specialist Mark Horgan age 38 : Executive director MFI Retail corporate finance adviser focusing on growth companies.
She Mark joined MFI in September 1999 from Mars Confectionery was previously head of institutional asset management and then Europe where he was effectively responsible for the global group director at Kleinwort Benson.
She joined the corporate marketing of the Mars bar.
In 1996 he took up the position of joint finance division of Kleinwort Benson in 1981 and has advised marketing director of McVities UK, responsible for corporate many domestic and international clients on strategic issues.
She communications, marketing and product development.
is also chairman of the Alliance Trusts and a non-executive director of HMV Group and Hays.
Matthew Ingle age 50 : Managing director Howdens Matthew, previously managing director of the Magnet Trade Ian Smith age 50 : Non-executive director operation, joined MFI in 1995 to set up the successful Howden Ian was appointed non-executive director in September 2001.
He was elected to the Board of MFI in 1998 He was appointed chief executive officer of the General and is responsible for the growth of the Howdens business.
Healthcare Group in September 2004 and was previously CEO, Europe for Exel, group commercial director of Ocean Group Shaun OCallaghan age 36 : Strategy and development director before its merger with NFC to form Exel and prior to that, interim Chief financial officer managing director of Monitor Company Europe, a strategy Shaun was appointed to the Board in March 2004 after having consulting rm.
Ian began his business career with the Royal joined the Company in December 2003 as planning and Dutch Shell Group of companies, working with Shell UK Oil in development director.
Prior to that he was a partner at KPMG various commercial sales roles and then moving to the middle and provided advice to the Company.
Shaun has held a number east: first as marketing director of Shell Oman and then setting of senior posts within finance at Norwich Union and KPMG up and managing the Shell joint venture in Jordan.
Ian received and his specialisms have been in the areas of performance an MA from Oxford University and received an MBA with high improvement, business strategy and restructuring.
Shaun started distinction from Harvard Business School.
his career as a chartered accountant with Arthur Andersen.
Peter Wallis age 57 : Non-executive director Bob Wilson age 50 : Manufacturing and purchasing director Peter is senior partner and founder of the respected SRU Bob has been with Hygena since 1977, a member of its board strategy and market research consultancy.
His specialty is since 1982 and became managing director in 1993.
He was advice to CEOs on strategic direction.
Peter was appointed appointed to the MFI Board in 1998, and has been largely a non-executive director in January 2001. responsible for directing the investment programme that has confirmed MFI as one of the most efficient furniture manufacturers in the world.
