Directors report The years results Employment policies The Group profit and loss account is shown on page 48.
Group The Group continues to support employee involvement at all profit before tax, exceptional items and goodwill amortisation levels in the organisation.
A formal joint consultative process is amounted to 155.4 million 2003: 136.9 million and profit operated in all except the smallest units where it is strongly before taxation amounted to 100.7 million 2003: 117.2 million.
encouraged on an informal basis.
During the year consultative Earnings applicable to shareholders of IMI plc amounted to arrangements, including formal committees and team briefings, 47.5 million 2003: 71.0 million.
were used to consider and discuss employees views, to develop understanding of business aims, to increase awareness of Dividends financial and economic factors affecting performance, and to The directors recommend a final dividend at the rate of 10.2p improve effectiveness.
The Group has a European Works Council per share on the ordinary share capital payable on 27 May 2005 which meets at least once a year to exchange views on panto shareholders on the register at the close of business on European issues facing the Group.
Together with the interim dividend of 6.3p per share paid on 22 October 2004, this final dividend brings the The Annual Report is available to all employees.
The Company total distribution for the year to 16.5p per share 2003: 15.5p operates an All Employee Share Ownership Plan covering all UK per share.
employees of certain operations, under which an annual bonus worth up to 3,000 can be awarded to employees in shares and Shareholders funds employees can invest their own money to acquire additional Shareholders funds decreased from 539.4 million to 534.2 shares in a tax efficient manner.
A savings-related share option million at 31 December 2004. scheme, which is available to the majority of UK employees, has Principal activities operated since 1984.
An executive share option scheme, available During 2004 the Groups businesses were organised under the to selected executives, including executive directors, has following main classes: Fluid Controls, Retail Dispense and operated since 1985 and a long term incentive plan for senior Building Products.
Subsidiary companies operating within these executives was introduced in 2002. classes of business are listed on pages 80 and 81.
The A number of management development initiatives are coturnover, profit and capital employed attributable to each of ordinated across the Group, including the IMI Academy and a new these classes of business are shown in note 1 on page 55. senior talent management programme called Aspire.
Aspire is a Review of activities merit based scheme and the starting point for entry is selfThe activities of the Group in 2004, together with indications of nomination, with managers from across the Group free to put likely future developments, are reviewed on pages 6 to 19. their own names forward for a series of assessment and Details of acquisitions and disposals are given in note 1 on selection activities.
Those managers achieving the benchmark pages 55 and 56. have been invited to join Aspire and take part in a range of Research and development tailored development activities.
The Group encourages its Expenditure on research and development in the year was operating units to train and develop employees at all levels and a 27 million compared with 28 million in 2003. wide range of business-related education and training Share capital opportunities are made available.
During the year 1,416,842 new ordinary shares were issued It is Group policy to promote equal opportunities in employment under employee share schemes: 774,242 under the all employee consistent with the requirements of the countries in which the share ownership and save as you earn plans and 642,600 Group operates.
The policy extends to employees and applicants under executive share options.
The Company has been notified for employment and requires companies in the Group to eliminate of the following substantial interests 3% or more in its issued discrimination and communicate and promote the policy to all share capital: employees.
Presidents of operating units have responsibility for Legal and General Investment Management Ltd 4.16% complying with the policy and each employee is required to Standard Life Investments 4.98% participate in the policy.
Every effort is made to ensure that applications for employment from disabled persons are fully and Corporate social responsibility fairly considered and that disabled employees have equal The Board has adopted a code of business principles and opportunity in training and promotion.
As a matter of policies reflecting the high standards of conduct it sets for longstanding policy, where appropriate, employees who become itself and employees across the Group.
The code is available disabled have been given suitable training for employment within from the Company Secretary and on our website the Group or elsewhere.
The Group also supports charities for www.
Further information on corporate social assisting disabled people into work.
responsibility matters is set out below and on pages 24 to 27.
30 Directors report Health, safety and the environment Directors interests It is Group policy to maintain healthy and safe working The interests of the persons including the interests of their conditions and to operate in a responsible manner with regard families who were directors at the end of the year in the share to the environment.
A summary of the relevant Group policies capital of the Company, and their interests in the Companys and performance is set out on pages 24 to 27 and further share option schemes, are shown on pages 42 and 45. information is available on our website www.
Directors responsibilities for the financial statements Policy and practice on the payment of trade creditors The directors are required to prepare financial statements for Operating units are responsible for making their suppliers each financial period which comply with the provisions of the aware of the terms of payment and agreeing such terms with Companies Act 1985 and give a true and fair view of the state their suppliers for each business transaction.
It is Group policy of affairs of the Company and the Group as at the end of the that payments to suppliers are made in accordance with these accounting period and of the profit or loss for that period.
The Company is not a trading entity.
Suitable accounting policies, consistently applied, supported by reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates, have been Donations used in the preparation of the financial statements and 285,000 was given during 2004 for community and similar applicable accounting standards have been followed.
The purposes including 215,000 for charitable purposes.
The directors are responsible for maintaining adequate accounting Group supports a range of selected national charities and records, for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the smaller charitable organisations operating in communities Group, and for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and where the Group has a presence.
A sizeable proportion of total detection of fraud and other irregularities.
donations went into education including establishments in engineering and technology.
In the arts, IMI is a founder patron Annual general meeting of Symphony Hall, Birmingham, and sponsors the City of The annual general meeting will be held at the Hilton Birmingham Symphony Orchestra and the Birmingham Royal Birmingham Metropole Hotel, National Exhibition Centre, Ballet.
IMI also supports numerous community art and welfare Birmingham on Friday 13 May 2005, commencing at noon.
No donations to political parties were made during Notice of the meeting will be sent to shareholders as a the year.
Directors Auditor The persons who were directors throughout the year were Resolutions for the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as Mr G J Allen, Mr T M Gateley, Mr M J Lamb, Mr J W Leng, and auditor of the Company and to authorise the directors to Mr T J Slack.
Mr B L Staples was a non-executive director determine the auditors remuneration are to be proposed at until his retirement on 14 May 2004.
Mr D C Nicholas and the forthcoming annual general meeting.
Mr W R Whitney joined the Board on 1 March 2004 as executive directors and Mr R B Pointon retired on 31 March 2004.
Mr G J Allen retired from the Board on 31 December 2004.
By order of the Board Mr L Browne and Mr K S Beeston have been appointed as John OShea Company Secretary non-executive directors with effect from 1 January and 7 March 2005 8 March 2005 respectively.
Under the Companys articles of association, Mr M J Lamb and Mr J W Leng retire by rotation at the conclusion of the forthcoming annual general meeting.
As previously announced, Mr Leng does not intend to stand for re-election.
Mr Lamb however is recommended for re-election at the annual general meeting.
In addition, Mr Browne and Mr Beeston will be standing for re-election at that meeting, being the first annual general meeting since they were appointed.
Biographical details appear on page 28.
Mr Browne and Mr Beeston are non-executive directors with a letter of appointment and do not have a service contract.
Mr Lamb is an executive director and has a service contract terminable on one years notice.
