Retail Dispense Cornelius enables us to serve more customers in less time while maintaining our exacting quality standards during the peak rate demand of the 15 minute breaks during ice hockey matches.
Jan Boros On-trade and Off-trade Development Manager Staropramen Brewery The Czech Republic Brand-driven beverage dispense solutions.
Cornelius supplies With our focus on strengthening key account the worlds leading beverage brand owners and major retailers relationships, we combine innovative new products with with solutions that combine beverage merchandising and long-term holistic support programmes in markets dispensing in a total package, that we can and do roll out across the world.
Bevcore, our US-based on-line parts in major programmes on their behalf.
Our customer-focused business, for example, is setting new industry standards approach and proven brand awareness, help us to lead the for after-sales support.
Our ability to undertake complex market in delivering still and carbonated beverage dispensing facilities management projects is also helping our solutions, food service equipment systems and associated customers to meet the changing demands of their point of purchase displays.
Our deep-rooted partnerships with key customers, together The Cornelius reputation for excellent technical with our commitment to innovation and unrivalled global innovation has been reinforced by the success of our support network, are critical.
We understand their need for UltraFlow high throughput system, which dispenses beer cutting edge solutions that guarantee their brand promise.
more than three times faster than standard systems.
Amongst other big projects, we installed 168 UltraFlow taps at The Czech Republics new high-tech Sazka Ice Hockey Arena in record time for the 2004 Ice Hockey World Championship.
Across Europe, our Pearlmax III water cooling and dispense activity is growing and we Beverage Dispense are co-operating with a major Russian brewery in a full Turnover m Profit m outlet survey.
As our customers expand, particularly in fast-growing 278 267 21.5 24.4 Asian markets, our unique blend of technical expertise and market awareness enables us to deliver tailored solutions specifically designed to meet local needs and deliver our customers ambitions.
16 Retail Dispense 2003 2004 2003 2004 With our understanding of the Brewery's stringent performance requirements for the Sazka Stadium, we were able to customise our UltraFlow system to a very tight timetable and meet the demand.
Ben Luyten Regional Sales Director Cornelius Europe 17 IMI plc Annual Report 2004 Retail Dispense Our dealers expect their showrooms to reflect the same high quality as our precision-engineered vehicles.
Thats why we tapped DCI for their automotive expertise to implement the interior environment of our nationwide facility image program.
Mark Perry Director Marketing Strategy Nissan North America Driving profitability at the point of purchase.
clear benefits to both brand owners and retailers in sales Our Merchandising Systems business helps retailers and global uplift and margin improvement.
brand owners increase their sales and profits by engineering In our established business units, Display Technologies is permanent point-of-purchase solutions that influence bringing new products to market in bulk bin food systems, consumer purchase decisions.
This value proposition is based pilfer-resistant merchandisers and new visi-slide designs on the knowledge we gain from consumer, retailer and for different product categories.
Cannon Equipment distribution channel research and enables us to market our delivered improvements for major US retail chains H-E-B sector expertise to many clients within a given industry.
and Publix in 2004, and expanded into a new market We continue to invest in research into sectors which lend segment of Hardware DIY with Home Depot stores.
themselves to our business model and are developing a value Artforms expertise in cosmetics merchandising led to the proposition managing brand, space and finance for in-store new Urban Connection display which reinforces customer merchandising programmes.
We are currently managing a Maybellines strong brand image in Europe.
DCI Marketing number of pilot programmes, which we believe will demonstrate continues to build both its relationships with automotive manufacturers and its consumer electronics and wireless communications business with significant programmes for LeapFrog and Nokia in 2004.
These and other strong relationships with international cosmetic, beverage and automotive clients are increasingly Merchandising Systems enabling us to leverage our market-sector expertise Turnover m Profit m globally and to extend our powerful merchandising systems proposition around the world.
170 188 18.2 22.2 18 Retail Dispense 2003 2004 2003 2004 Our automotive experience and depth of resources allowed us to meet the high expectations of Nissan.
Mark Nelson Vice President DCI 19 IMI plc Annual Report 2004
