Fluid Controls In the production and selling of liquified natural gas LNG in a safe and environmentally conscious way, complete reliability is critical.
B. Sri Raja Vijayan Plant Engineer RasGas Company Limited Qatar Controlling critical processes.
CCI provides superior custom CCIs unique Valve Doctor approach matches technologies engineered valve solutions that enhance performance and exactly to individual process plant applications and ensures reliability in critical plant applications.
By providing the means that our support continues for the life of the plant.
to handle extreme fluid and gas velocities and pressures in Combined heat and power applications using steam power, oil, natural gas, petrochemical, pulp & paper and conditioning technologies, and key high pressure and petroleum facilities, our valve solutions are vital to our erosive applications in liquified natural gas production, are customers operations.
particularly strong growth areas where the value of this Our severe service control valve, desuperheating, actuation and approach is increasingly recognised.
New technologies, like noise reduction technologies give our customers peace of mind Rotary Drag and the QuickTrak intelligent digital valve that the extended plant life, increased efficiency and safety actuator, help maintain our market leadership.
that they can expect by partnering with CCI will benefit their CCIs business is split nearly equally between the Americas, bottom line results.
Europe Africa Middle East and Asia, serving many global customers, such as KHNP, Krupp and Alstom, who are themselves leaders in their field.
Emerging markets including China, Russia and India provide further opportunities for CCIs severe service products to add value to both established and new customers, particularly in power and oil and gas markets.
In existing Severe Service critical applications where a track record of problem Turnover m Profit m solving has already been established, our strong customer service network is able to support every valve we have 168 169 20.3 21.5 ever installed.
10 Fluid Controls 2003 2004 2003 2004 We see it as our role to help Rasgas maintain their world lead in LNG production.
Peace of mind comes from advanced technology like our custom-designed compressor antisurge valves fitted with QuickTrak valve positioners.
Ken McWhirter Regional Manager - Middle East Oil & Gas CCI 11 IMI plc Annual Report 2004 Fluid Controls Our long-standing and close partnership with FAS has been integral to the continuing drive towards miniaturising our critical care ventilators.
We value their understanding of our markets and technology, their speed of response and the innovative approach of their design engineers.
Philippe Chalvignac Research and Development Director SAIME, France Competitive advantage in motion and fluid control.
Creating account management techniques, and developing competitive advantage for original equipment manufacturers innovative design-engineered solutions which add value to OEMs and their end users lies at the heart of Norgrens our customers operations have proved critical factors in strategy.
Our simple promise is that our sophisticated, this success.
customised motion and fluid control solutions will help OEMs In July the acquisition of Fluid Automation Systems FAS, to increase their sales or to reduce their total cost of an inventive and high-technology Swiss company ownership, or both.
Major customers include Volvo, General specialising in miniature solenoid valve solutions, generated Motors, Heidelberg and Krones.
significant new opportunities and gains in a number of key Developing intimate working relationships with OEMs, market sectors.
FAS substantially increases our particularly in targeted market sectors such as commercial capabilities in specialised applications such as respiration vehicles, medical, print, packaging, electronics and in-plant and in-vitro diagnostics.
The acquisition of Syron, a automotive, has helped to accelerate our customers US-based specialist, in February 2005 similarly enhances businesses and to grow our own.
Applying professional key our ability to provide end-of-arm tooling solutions to automotive manufacturers.
Norgren continues to place a strong emphasis on achieving operational excellence and managing its cost base to enhance still further the advantage delivered to our customers around the world.
Fluid Power Turnover m Profit m 410 439 31.0 44.3 12 Fluid Controls 2003 2004 2003 2004 The combination of FAS and Norgren technologies will bring many new advantages to Saime as we continue to develop optimum fluid control solutions which meet their needs exactly.
Alain Crampon Key Account Manager FAS 13 IMI plc Annual Report 2004 Fluid Controls In the Musikverein renovation we needed experts who could deliver the complex hydronic balancing to give the perfect indoor environment for both ancient manuscripts and major concert performances.
Dr. Jochen Kferhaus Managing Director Technisches Bro Kferhaus GmbH Austria Perfecting indoor climate.
Our indoor climate business Europe, where there has been a relatively flat level of designs and delivers products and services that are essential new building construction over the last twelve months.
to the provision of problem-free, energy efficient and costTo defend and grow our sales in these difficult markets we effective heating, ventilation and air conditioning HVAC have increased our investment in new product development.
Broadening our range of premium products gives greater For our core brands, TA and Heimeier, our reputation for levels of environment controllability, ease of installation quality and reliability is a powerful force, but it is our deep and commissioning, as well as HVAC system design, for understanding of customers needs and applications that wins both new construction and refurbishment markets.
Our understanding ensures that engineering The premium quality of our products and customer services consultants, installers and, increasingly, developers and owners is also helping us to develop and expand our business in the can specify, construct, own and manage better buildings.
worlds fastest growing economies like China, parts of Our indoor climate business is concentrated in Western Eastern Europe and the Middle East.
An increasing proportion of our sales comes from large capital projects.
Major project wins in 2004 included Ciudad fide Telefnica Madrid, Spain, Derby hospital and Walsgrave hospital UK, Tribunal fide Justia Rio fide Janeiro, Brazil, Jumeriah Beach residence - Dubai Marina Dubai and Turning Torso Sweden, once again helping to establish Indoor Climate us as a clear leader around the world in this strong Turnover m Profit m niche market.
169 168 23.8 24.2 14 Fluid Controls 2003 2004 2003 2004 Our partnership with architects, engineers and construction teams enabled us to deliver a noise-free balancing system capable of coping with the many unusual requirements of one of Vienna's most famous buildings.
Norbert Ramser Managing Director TA Austria 15 IMI plc Annual Report 2004
