Board of Directors Non-executive directors Executive directors pictured opposite pictured left to right above James W Leng, Chairman Martin J Lamb, Chief Executive Age 59: non-executive Chairman: joined the IMI Board Age 45: joined IMI in 1985: appointed to the Board in 1996 in December 2002.
He has extensive experience in and as Chief Executive in January 2001.
Mr Lamb has international manufacturing industry.
He is currently nonextensive experience of engineering and managed several executive Chairman of Corus plc and non-executive director major businesses within the Group before his present of Pilkington plc, Hanson plc, and Alstom SA.
Non-executive director of Spectris plc.
Lance Browne CBE Trevor J Slack, Finance Director Age 55: non-executive: joined the IMI Board in January 2005.
Age 58: joined IMI in 1976: appointed to the Board in 1997.
Mr Browne is non-executive Chairman of Standard Chartered Mr Slack has broad experience of operational and financial Banks Chinese operations, of which he was chief executive management and accounting matters.
As Finance Director between 1996 and 2001, and has held a range of senior he is also responsible for the company secretarial, legal, positions in banking and engineering businesses.
He has lived investor relations, human resources, risk management and in China for over 20 years, is an Honorary Citizen of Shanghai property functions.
and has received a CBE for his work in China.
David C Nicholas, Executive Director Terry M Gateley Age 55: joined the IMI Board in 2004.
He is responsible for Age 51: non-executive: joined the IMI Board in 2003.
He began Fluid Controls, which comprises Fluid Power, Indoor Climate his career as a chartered accountant and was a senior and Severe Service.
His recent past directorships include partner with KPMG until moving into investment and business Tyco Flow Control Europe.
He has extensive experience in management in 1999.
He is a member of the Industrial managing engineering businesses.
Advisory Board of Alchemy Partners LLP and his current Wayne R Whitney, Executive Director directorships include Open and Direct Limited, Kestrel Age 55: joined IMI in 1987, and was appointed to the Board Holdings Limited and Jennings Holdings Limited.
in 2004, responsible for Retail Dispense, which comprises Kevin S Beeston IMIs Beverage Dispense and Merchandising Systems Age 42: non-executive: joined the IMI Board in March 2005. businesses.
He has wide experience of managing Group He has been Executive Chairman of Serco Group plc since businesses, particularly in Retail Dispense.
He is a member of the CBIs Presidents Committee, Deputy Chairman of the CBIs Public Services Strategy Board, Director of the Board of Companions of the Chartered Management Institute and a director of Ipswich Town Football Club plc.
28 Board of Directors Executive directors left to right Martin Lamb, David Nicholas, Wayne Whitney and Trevor Slack at the Norgren Plant in Brno in The Czech Republic.
