DIRECTORS REPORT Directors report 41 The Directors of Imperial Chemical Industries PLC have pleasure ICI manages its global organisations through both its International in presenting their Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended Businesses and its Regional and Industrial Business, each of 31 December 2004. which is responsible for determining its own employees terms and conditions and employment policies within the framework of Principal activities the following Employment Principles agreed by the ICI Executive The principal activities of the Company are research, manufacture Management Team.
and sale of specialty chemicals and paints.
A review of the Company and its subsidiaries businesses, including research These Employment Principles are fully consistent with the and development and an indication of likely future developments commitments given in both the ICI Sustainability Policy and is given on pages 4 to 31 of this Report.
Dividends Health and safety of employees The Directors have declared the payment of a second interim The health and safety of employees is a core value of ICI.
Our dividend of 3.9 pence per Ordinary Share to be paid on 15 April policy is to ensure that all activities are conducted safely and that 2005 to Ordinary shareholders on the Companys Register on the health of our employees is protected.
A first interim dividend of 3.4 pence per Ordinary targets and monitors progress to ensure continuous progress Share was paid on 1 October 2004 making a total of 7.3 pence in this area.
We require every employee, and those who work on 2003 6.25 pence.
our behalf, to exercise personal responsibility in preventing harm to themselves and others.
We communicate openly with our Share capital employees about our health and safety activities and performance Changes in the Companys ordinary share capital during the year and provide them with training to drive continuous improvement.
are given in note 23 to the Accounts.
Development of people Purchase of own shares ICI is committed to providing support to help release the full The Directors are authorised by the shareholders to purchase, in potential of all its employees, whilst recognising that the ultimate the market, the Companys own shares, as is permitted under the responsibility for personal development must rest with the individual.
Although no such purchases have been made, the Directors will seek to renew the authority The Company seeks to help every individual understand the from shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
personal strengths they can leverage whilst providing the support they need to grow and develop further, in line with the needs of Directors the business.
The names of the Directors of the Company at the date of this Report and biographical details are given on pages 32 to 34.
Diversity Our ability to become a high performing organisation depends on Corporate governance our inclusion of people who come from diverse backgrounds and A review of the Groups corporate governance arrangements who think in different ways about creating value for our customers is given on pages 36 to 40 of this Report.
The individuality and creativity that every person Directors remuneration and interests brings to the work place is welcomed and appreciated and A statement of Directors remuneration and their interests in everyone should be treated in a fair, open and honest manner.
the shares, debentures and options of the Company and its ICI will provide equal opportunity for all employees irrespective subsidiaries is set out in the Remuneration Report on pages of their race, colour, creed, religion, gender, ancestry, citizenship, 43 to 54. sexual preference, marital status, national origin, age, pregnancy, ICI Employment Principles or any other reason prohibited by the laws of the individual The ICI Group employs over 33,000 people in more than countries in which it operates.
This will apply with respect to 50 countries.
recruitment, promotion, compensation, transfer, retention, training, benefits, and any other employment actions.
ICI ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 DIRECTORS REPORT Respect for the individual Payment to suppliers It is the right of all people to be treated with dignity and respect.
The Company agrees terms and conditions for its business ICI is committed to providing and fostering a working environment transactions with suppliers.
Payment is then made to these terms, that is free from harassment, discrimination, victimisation or subject to the terms and conditions being met by the supplier.
bullying, and where all employees are treated with dignity and Payment terms can differ in the many markets in which ICI trades.
Verbal or physical conduct that unreasonably interferes Trade creditors of the Company at 31 December 2004 were with another individuals work performance, creates an intimidating, equivalent to 61 days 2003 60 days purchases, based on the hostile, or offensive working environment, or adversely affects average daily amount invoiced by suppliers to the Company during opportunities will not be tolerated.
Allegations of bullying or this year.
harassment will be taken seriously at all levels and will be dealt Political and charitable donations with in a sensitive manner.
The Groups worldwide charitable donations in 2004 amounted Work life balance to 2.1m 2003 2.4m.
Of this total, 0.2m was spent in the UK ICI aims to create a more productive and efficient workforce that 2003 0.5m.
The Group made no donations for political purposes.
will meet business requirements while supporting employees in Auditor 42 managing successfully their personal and family commitments.
KPMG Audit Plc has expressed its willingness to continue in We aim to exploit the opportunities offered by new technologies office as auditor of the Company and resolutions proposing its to improve our ability to accommodate more flexible patterns of re-appointment and authorising the Directors to agree its working, where the nature of the work makes this possible.
remuneration will be submitted to the Annual General Meeting.
Our success in achieving this relies on the co-operation and The remuneration and expenses of the Auditor in respect of the shared responsibility of the Company and its employees, who are statutory report to the members of the Company for the year 2004 partners in the process of managing the balance of work life issues.
The total figure for the Group was 3.1m 2003 3.1m which includes fees for audits of subsidiary Organisational change companies in the UK and overseas, both for the purposes of Change is an important and inevitable feature of the world in which consolidation into the Group accounts and to meet statutory we live, and responding positively to change is vital to our success requirements of the countries in which subsidiaries operate.
and growth as an organisation and as individuals.
From time to time, this will also include changes to the structure of our businesses.
Fees paid to the Auditor and its associates of the Company for services other than statutory audit supplied to the Group during ICIs commitment is: 2004 totalled 1.9m 2003 1.8m of which 1.2m 2003 0.9m to ensure that employees are kept informed about the issues was for audit-related services, 0.7m 2003 0.8m was for and challenges facing the business taxation services and nil 2003 0.1m for other services.
These fees have been fully reviewed by the Audit Committee.
to be sensitive to the implications of change from the perspective of our employees Going concern The operation of the Groups control procedures gives the to be understanding and supportive of their needs and to seek Directors a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate to mitigate the effects of necessary business restructuring.
resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable future.
Communication and consultation Accordingly they continue to adopt the going concern basis in The Company is committed to effective consultation.
It believes preparing the Group accounts.
that knowledgeable and well-informed employees are critical to its Post balance sheet events success and that there should be clear channels of communication On 7 February 2005 the Group completed the disposal of its US, and opportunities for dialogue on issues which affect employees Canadian and European Vinamul Polymers business to Celanese working lives.
The transaction resulted in a profit after tax The principal aims of communication and consultation are: of 5m before the recycling of 140m of previously written off goodwill.
to improve employees understanding of the business and its goals Annual General Meeting The Notice of Annual General Meeting to be held on Wednesday to increase mutual trust and commitment 25 May 2005 is contained in a separate letter from the Chairman to highlight any concerns which might have an adverse impact accompanying this Annual Report and Accounts.
on the business On behalf of the Board to allow people to contribute their opinion and experience Michael Herlihy Company Secretary Performance and reward Pay structures for employees at all levels should be designed to 17 February 2005 reinforce the link between performance and reward.
Employees will Registered Office wherever possible be set performance objectives which support the 20 Manchester Square achievement of overall team and business goals, and their individual London W1U 3AN reward will reflect their performance against these objectives.
Registered number: 218019 Reward will also recognise the prevailing business climate and the circumstances of the relevant local labour market.
ICI ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004
