GROUP STRATEGY 6 History Balance of activities Background and recent history Spread and balance of ICIs activities Over the past eight years ICI has established ICI is headquartered in the UK, where it also a portfolio of specialty chemicals and coatings has a number of major manufacturing activities.
businesses through a number of acquisitions and Outside the UK, operations are conducted by disposals.
Since 1997 the Group has bought and locally managed subsidiary companies staffed sold businesses worth in excess of 12bn and almost entirely by nationals of the country has repositioned itself towards higher addedconcerned.
Eighty-six per cent of the employees value sectors of the chemicals industry.
of ICIs businesses are located outside the UK.
The transformation of ICIs core operations is The Group has operations in over 50 countries now essentially complete.
However, the Group around the world and its customers are spread will continue to seek opportunities to grow its across a diverse range of product sectors: from business both organically and through small, foods and beverages to detergents and other strategic bolt-on acquisitions, thereby domestic products: from semi-conductors and strengthening its portfolio.
mobile phones to paper and packaging.
No one sector dominates ICIs customer base and no one customer represents a material proportion of Group turnover.
1 Contribution to Group turnover 12 by businesses Regional and Other 2% Industrial 7% 2 Turnover by customer location National Starch Asia Pacific Europe 3 Turnover by market sector 33% 24% 33% Paints 39% Latin America 7% Quest 10% North America Uniqema 34% 11% 2004 2004 2004 2004 3 Electronics 4% Construction 4% Paper & packaging 10% Decorative & architectural 35% Personal care 13% Food & beverages Diverse industrial 14% products 20% 2004 2004 ICI ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 GROUP STRATEGY Strategy 7 ICI strategic matrix Differentiated resource allocation ICIs vision is to develop leadership in formulation science.
Central Investing in technology and marketing in those businesses to this vision is building a portfolio of businesses that are leaders where sustainable competitive advantage can be created.
within their respective industries, bringing together outstanding Cost and capital effectiveness knowledge of customer needs with leading edge technology Achieving a step-change in cost and capital effectiveness for platforms to provide a distinctive competitive advantage for ICI overall: in the near term through the successful delivery of ICIs customers.
the 2003 restructuring programme, and sustainably through As part of the 2003 strategic review, the individual business units of changing organisational, cultural, and behavioural norms in ICI ICI were reviewed and evaluated in terms of market attractiveness, to consistently improve effectiveness.
competitive position, and financial characteristics.
Each business Strategy execution was then mapped onto a two by two matrix.
This strategic matrix A greater focus on strategy execution: delivered by upgrading now drives generic strategy development across ICI.
Strategies operational capabilities and enhancing rewards for short-to for those businesses within the grow aggressively segment are medium-term performance delivery.
focused on profitable sales growth, whereas those for businesses within the maintain selectively segment emphasise improvement Strategic plan targets in cost and capital effectiveness.
Underpinned by a set of specific strategic thrusts, the delivery of sustained performance improvement and the achievement The strategic review identified significant opportunities for creating of clear financial targets should enable ICI to deliver significant and capturing additional value from three principal sources: improvements in shareholder return.
ICI strategic matrix Strategic plan targets Targets Paints North America Fragrances Sales growth Average sales turnover growth at, or better Pan-Atlantic Flavours than, the growth in real GDP over the four-year Adhesives Electronic period 2004 to 2007.
Pan-Atlantic Starch Materials Starch Asia Group trading Increase by an average of 0.5% per annum Adhesives Asia margin expansion from 2003 to 2007.
Paints Asia Packaging Coatings Paints Europe Improved return on Improve by an average of 1% per annum, Down Emulsions Paints Latin America capital employed to around 10% in 2007.
4% Base Oleochemicals Base Surfactants Cash flow Generate positive cash flow before acquisitions and divestments on a sustainable basis from 2005 onwards.
Maintain Grow Strategic approach Only major business units shown Definitions of terms appear on page 131.
ICI ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 Strategic stance Selective Aggressive GROUP STRATEGY 8 Strategic progress in 2004 ICI made good progress in 2004, with the Group The increased focus on cost and capital starting to derive benefits from implementing its effectiveness underpinned the improvement in revised strategy.
Progress towards the strategic Group trading margins from 7.4% in 2003 to plan targets was strong, aided by the improved 8.6% in 2004.
In particular, delivery of cost external environment.
savings from the restructuring initiatives first announced in 2003 remained on track overall, Group comparable sales growth for the year with savings of 72m achieved in 2004. Notable was 7%.
Within that, comparable sales for developments included the closure of two starch businesses which we intend to grow manufacturing facilities in the UK and Canada, aggressively increased by 11%.
Comparable and a major product rationalisation and supply sales for businesses in the grow selectively chain re-engineering programme in Uniqema.
"and maintain aggressively segments grew by 7% and 5%, respectively, whereas comparable A further improvement in working capital sales growth for businesses which we intend to efficiency and continued tight control of capital ""maintain selectively"", and where the strategic expenditure contributed to an improvement in emphasis is on improving cost and capital the Groups return on capital employed from effectiveness, grew by 2%."
They were also improved in all segments.
critical in the delivery of a positive cash flow before acquisitions and divestments in 2004, Regionally, the strategy emphasises development a year ahead of the strategic plan target.
of the Groups businesses in Asia.
In 2004, comparable sales growth in Asia for the Reshaping of the portfolio also continued during International Businesses of 14% was achieved, the year.
In April the Quest Food Ingredients reflecting a buoyant external environment, the business was sold to Kerry Group plc for well developed market positions of the Groups 249m: in October 18.9% of the issued shares adhesives and paints businesses, and further of Pakistan PTA Ltd were sold by private investment in people, marketing and fixed placement, raising 26m: and, also in October, assets.
As a consequence, in 2004, sales in ICI exited from Ineos Chlor, eliminating further Asia were 1.325bn, 24% of the Group total.
Finally, in December, we announced the sale of National Starchs Vinamul Polymers business to Celanese for 111m.
The Sales International Businesses transaction was completed in February 2005.
2004 Up Up 5% 11% Up Up 2% 7% This chart shows the change in comparable sales for the International Businesses by strategic quadrant from 2003 to 2004.
Maintain Grow Sizes reflect proportion of total International Businesses Strategic approach sales in the quadrant.
ICI ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 Strategic stance Selective Aggressive
