DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS 1 2 1 Turnover by market sector Other 2% Construction 12% 2 Turnover by customer location Food 24% Asia Pacific Europe 28% Electronics 27% 13% Personal & Latin homecare America 5% Paper & 16% packaging 18% North America 38% Diverse industrial products 17% 2004 2004 2004 2004 National Starch 9 Background businesses in Asia.
The disposal of the Vinamul National Starch, which accounted for 33% of emulsion polymers business a maintain the Groups sales in 2004, is a global leader in selectively business was announced in 2004. industrial adhesives and specialty food starches.
Brief description of activities In addition, the business has strong positions National Starch is one of the largest producers in electronic materials and specialty polymers.
of specialty adhesives in the world, including It provides many specialty ingredients for those based on both natural and synthetic attractive, relatively non-cyclical markets.
polymers, water-borne, hot melts and 100% National Starch produces thousands of solids products.
technically advanced products and operates an The adhesives divisions products are used international network of 154 manufacturing and to seal cases and cartons and to fix labels to customer service centres, located in 37 countries bottles and cans.
Paper applications include on six continents.
The Group believes that laminating, bag making, tissue, paper tube National Starchs position in these markets winding and box manufacturing.
Adhesives are has been achieved through its strong polymer also used in bookbinding, envelopes, magazines, technology and application understanding, and remoistenable stamps.
Adhesives are also both natural and synthetic, and a high degree critical components in the performance of of technical support for its customers.
disposable nappies diapers, personal sanitary National Starch is headquartered in Bridgewater, products and disposable hospital supplies.
New Jersey, USA, with regional offices in the Pressure sensitive adhesives are used to UK Europe and Singapore Asia.
Major manufacture self-adhesive tapes, labels, decals, manufacturing facilities are located in the USA, and transdermal drug delivery patches.
Canada, the UK, Germany, the Netherlands, Poland, Japan, Thailand, Korea, China and National Starchs adhesives and primers are Brazil, with further manufacturing facilities located used in the assembly of sports shoes and in 21 other countries around the world.
for assembly operations in the woodworking, construction, recreational vehicle and Strategy transportation industries.
National Starchs strategy focuses on delivering value through three main activities: For the corrugating industry, specialty carrier starches provide bond strength for adhering board building on strengths in areas where it has to corrugating medium and contribute to increased good opportunities for profitable growth production and reduced waste.
They improve the delivering innovative new products to its overall quality and water resistance of shipping customers, and cases.
Specialty synthetic polymer products add increased water resistance for more demanding continually improving cost efficiency particularly applications.
in its more mature businesses National Starch also manufactures a wide Consistent with the ICI strategic matrix, National range of specialty starches, focused principally Starch allocates resources preferentially to those on food and industrial applications.
In food businesses within the grow aggressively applications they enhance texture and segment.
These include the Electronic Materials appearance and provide effects which enable business, and the Starch and Adhesives end-consumer products to withstand the rigours ICI ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS 10 of ultra-high temperature processing, microwave the adhesion, flexural strength, insulation cooking, freeze thaw cycles and extended properties and shrink-resistance of cements, storage.
Principal industrial applications include grouts, adhesives and other construction the pulp and paper industry where starches products.
provide strength and contribute to productivity The electronic and engineering materials enhancements.
Specialty surface size starches division manufactures, markets and sells increase runnability in the size press and adhesives, encapsulants, specialty coatings printability on the end users printing press, and process lubricants used in the manufacture while replacing more costly additives.
of electronic, automotive, medical, aerospace In the specialty food ingredients area Nationals and other equipment and components.
products are used for fruit preparations, canned Within the division, Ablestik supplies adhesives foods, binders for meat and fish products and and encapsulants used for semiconductor pet foods and a range of coating agents to packaging and microelectronic assembly.
control texture, crispiness and appearance Products include adhesive pastes, printable in battered foods.
Products are also used to paste and films, and underfill encapsulants.
improve the quality and stability of a range of Acheson electronic materials supplies thick dairy foods.
National Starchs stabilisers and film materials and specialty coatings used in thickeners are used to control the viscosity, keyboards and switches, printed circuits, and stability, mouth-feel and texture of a wide variety other electronic components.
Emerson & of sauces and salad dressings.
In the bakery Cuming supplies adhesives, encapsulants, market, the divisions ingredients are used to and coatings used in circuit assembly and control moisture retention, texture and structure in fabrication of electronic, electrical, and of baked doughs and their fillings.
Tra-Con products encapsulate flavours and fragrances provides adhesives and coatings in single-use and stabilise flavour emulsions.
and other specialty packages serving a broad National Starch has multiple capabilities in range of industrial customers.
Acheson DAG specialty synthetic polymers, resins and supplies process lubricants and application redispersible powders for markets as diverse systems used in metalworking and casting.
as personal care, construction, water treatment, Markets and distribution detergents, paper coatings and apparel.
Specialty products manufactured by National Specialty polymers improve the holding power in Starch are sold mainly by direct sales forces, hair sprays and gels and the manageability and alliances and distributors.
Customers are softness of mousses, conditioners, shampoos primarily other manufacturers, in a range of and other styling aids.
They are also used to markets from consumer-oriented manufacturers thicken and emulsify cosmetic and beauty of branded goods in the food and personal care products and increase the functionality of sectors to those involved in papermaking and sunscreens, hand and body creams and lotions.
Products also include dispersants, anti-scalants and detergent builders, as well as thickeners for the carpet, adhesive and detergent industries.
The divisions Elotex operation also manufactures redispersible powder polymers, which improve ICI ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS 11 Revenue investments included the development Raw materials and launch of a number of important new products.
In 2004, the adhesives division The primary raw materials used by National Starch introduced its Cool-Lok hot melt adhesives are petrochemical based raw materials, corn and in pastille form, which is expected to improve tapioca.
National Starchs main chemical raw material product performance in customers manufacturing is vinyl acetate monomer.
Other new products included the Aerobond 12-200A adhesive, developed to Developments in 2004 provide board laminators with a formulation that National Starch made good progress in 2004 will maximize line speed and adhesion.
developing its businesses through selected New food starch products introduced in 2004 capital and revenue investments.
The food starch included Novation Prima, an exceptionally stable business expanded its manufacturing capability functional native starch that delivers superior in Asia with a new world-class production facility freeze-thaw and shelf-life stability.
The clean-label in Shanghai, China.
It also opened a Process Prima products enable food manufacturers to Innovation Centre in Bridgewater, New Jersey, make simple starch declarations on their labels to facilitate the development of a range of in the U. S. and ingredient rather than additive specialized carbohydrate-based ingredients for classifications in the European Union.
National natural, clean-label foods and nutrition products.
also introduced Elleggance, an egg In mid 2004, the food starch division increased replacement system designed to replace whole the production capacity for Hi-maize resistant eggs, egg yolks and egg whites in a wide range starch by a third.
Hi-maize, the only natural, of baked goods.
Elleggance exhibits superior granular resistant starch available in the United textural and organoleptic properties, typical of States, has been formulated into many lowhigh-quality baked goods containing eggs, is carbohydrate foods because of its ease of use, easy to use, lowers production costs, eliminates its natural identity and its strong clinical support.
egg-related processing safety issues and The food starch business also expanded its crop lowers cholesterol content.
 programme and In the US, the division introduced Novomega implemented Truetrace to verify the nonencapsulated Omega-3, an encapsulated longgenetically modified organism non-GMO status chain Omega-3 fatty acid in powder form, of food ingredients made from corn grown in the extending the range of food applications for United States.
Truetrace provides customers the heart-healthy ingredient.
Novomega is the with traceability for Nationals food ingredients at result of joint agreement between National Starch all stages of their development, from seed to and Omega Protein.
The product can be easily crop, to production and distribution.
added to baked goods without affecting their taste, texture or aroma.
New products introduced by the specialty synthetic polymers division, included Nsight natural clarification polymers, a new generation of naturally sourced starch chemistries designed for the water and wastewater treatment market.
ICI ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS 12 Quest Within electronic materials, Ablestik introduced Background Ableflex 6200 series printable paste adhesives Quest is one of the world leaders in the creation, to meet customer requirements for increased application and production of flavours and performance and lower package costs in boardfragrances for a wide variety of consumer on-chip assemblies, which are expected in the brands.
In 2004 Quest accounted for 10% of the next two years to become the mainstream for Groups sales.
The business is headquartered in high speed DRAM devices used in computer Naarden, the Netherlands, and is organised memory.
Ableflex 6200 adhesives offer around two operating divisions, Flavours and customers higher reliability and reduce overall Fragrances.
Each division accounts for around packaging costs by 20% compared with tape half of Quests ongoing turnover excluding sales adhesives currently used.
Emerson & Cuming of the divested food ingredients business.
introduced the new E 1218 series of CSP The Flavours division is also headquartered in underfill encapsulants, targeted at high volume Naarden.
The Fragrance divisions headquarters manufacturers in the handheld and computer is in Ashford, in the UK.
E 1218 series underfills facilities are located in the Netherlands, the UK, not only improve the quality and life of laptop USA, Mexico, France, Australia and Indonesia, computers and giga-byte sized digital audio with smaller manufacturing facilities in eight other players, but also help customers increase their countries.
Quest has its own sales distribution yield and throughput, reduce cost, and enable network in 32 countries and is represented rework of failed components.
Emerson & Cuming elsewhere by sales agents.
also introduced a new termination coating, Eccocate C 910-3, for use in multi-layered Science, innovation and creativity are the key ceramic capacitors.
pillars of Quests research effort, with innovation at the heart of Quests business.
It designs and develops new flavour and fragrance ingredients and compounds that create a distinctive sensory impact.
This demands a complex, artistic and technical process, combining the knowledge and skill of Quests perfumers and flavourists with the expertise of its application and research chemists.
Quest has research centres at Ashford and Naarden, and product development teams at six other sites around the world.
Quest also benefits from being part of the wider ICI Group and the science base that is available to support innovation.
Strategy Quest operates in markets that ICI believes present attractive growth opportunities.
Within the ICI strategic matrix, both the Flavours and Fragrances business are therefore positioned in the grow aggressively segment.
The Group believes that Quests competitive position is based on four distinctive strengths.
ICI ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS 12 1 Turnover by market sector Other 7% 2 Turnover by customer location Personal & Asia Pacific homecare 20% Europe 40% 49% Food 51% Latin America 9% North America 24% 2004 2004 2004 2004 13 These are: In both divisions finished products are manufactured through a compounding process the quality of its customer relationships and that, whilst relatively non-capital intensive, consumer understanding: demands high degrees of precision in dosage the creative skills of its perfumers control, ingredient traceability and cleanliness.
and flavourists: Proprietary knowledge of formulae and processes is retained by the business and secures strong the technological advances resulting from its product differentiation.
Critical to the success research and development: and of the business is researching consumer trends, the customer service and support provided by developing successful molecules and ingredients its marketing and application groups as well as and delivering the expertise of the flavourist or its global network of servicing units.
perfumer to the customer in the finished product.
These strengths enable Quest to assist its customers in making their products and brands Raw materials successful.
Within the overall Group strategy, Quests strategy is to continue to build on these Quest purchases thousands of different raw materials strengths, while: from sources across the world.
The main natural raw materials are extracts and concentrates from fruits, focusing on growth with key customers: vegetables and other flora as well as animal products and essential oils.
Synthetic raw material purchases investing in consumer understanding: are mostly organic chemicals.
creating and making best use of an effective and efficient innovation process: and The flavours business is organised around several working to ensure operational excellence in key markets and global customer accounts.
The both service levels and costs by focusing principal markets are sweet and savoury foods on appropriate parts of the value chain and and beverages.
Similarly, the fragrance business is organised Brief description of activities around key product applications and accounts.
Quests innovative flavours and fragrance The principal markets are personal care, homecare products consist of compounds of blended products, fine fragrance, and oral care.
ingredients created by expert flavourists, Developments in 2004 perfumers and scientists.
Certain of these In the second quarter of 2004 Quest divested its compounds contain molecules which have been food ingredients business, which together with created by Quests chemists and which add the flavours business had previously made up distinctive characteristics to its products.
The food ingredients business also has a strong presence in nature-identical had been categorised within ICIs strategic flavours for sweet and culinary applications.
Fragrance ingredients are the scented building The flavour product portfolio was enhanced blocks of the fragrance formulae.
They can also with a number of new product launches in 2004. contribute additional technical characteristics, Dairy Designer, a range of fermented dairy such as deodorisation or insect repellence, extracts, was launched to enable modification of to the finished compound.
taste and aroma characteristics of dairy products ICI ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS 14 Uniqema that are incompatible with current flavour systems.
Background Within Citrusense, Quests range of citrus Uniqema is a leading manufacturer of surfactants, flavours, new cultivars, add backs and topnotes oleochemicals and derivates with major were developed to help beverage customers to operations in North America and Europe.
In launch distinguishable products, underpinning 2004 Uniqema accounted for 11% of ICIs sales.
Quests position and progress in the citrus market The business supplies a broad range of base segment.
Coffeesense was launched globally and specialty chemicals into a wide range of to facilitate the ongoing diversification in coffee end markets and applications.
Its market scope flavours both for coffee and other beverage includes polymers, lubricants, personal care, health applications.
Quisine is a new range of culinary care, process intermediates, crop protection, flavours that give authentic taste to industrial oilfield, textiles, polymer additives and cleaning.
The Quisine range demonstrates Quests creativity in capturing different cooking Strategy techniques in authentic taste profiles, respecting ICI believes that Uniqemas strength is its strong culture and local preferences of consumers market position in the synthetic lubricants, around the world.
personal care and the European and US oleochemicals sectors.
Within the overall Group During 2004 Quest completed a new Research strategy, Uniqemas businesses are and Development centre in Naarden.
In September predominately within the maintain selectively a significant customer event was organized to segment of the strategic matrix.
As such, showcase the new facilities, focusing on Quests Uniqemas strategy includes growth in selected, flavour application and research capabilities niche markets, but focuses on improving its under the theme Quest is back and better.
operational cost base through manufacturing site In the fragrance business, Quest continued to rationalisation and reducing overhead costs.
The consumerBrief description of activities understanding programme proved to be a key ICI believes that Uniqema has a strong position differentiator with clients in terms of insight into in synthetic lubrication.
It manufactures and their fragrances and brands.
The tool has been markets a wide range of synthetic basestocks extended from fine fragrance for use in research and ingredients which are formulated into engine, in home and personal care products, allowing compressor, gear hydraulic and process oils and targeted development of perfumes and fluids, where high performance or environmental marketing for these areas.
Products are In 2004, the business extended its position frequently tailored to specific customer further with a number of key clients.
ICI also believe that Uniqema is the fine fragrance business was sustained by a leader in synthetic refrigeration lubricants, to successfully winning a number of high profile which it provides worldwide technical support.
brands such as Beyond Paradise Men and As a prominent player in the personal care True Star from the Estee Lauder Companies, market, Uniqema provides ingredients for skin Curious from Elizabeth Arden and Echo care, hair care, oral care and toiletries.
include new vegetable-based products for skin care formulations, mild ingredients for cleansing formulations and functional ingredients for skin repair products and UV protection products.
ICI ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS 1 2 1 Turnover by market sector Food, agriculture, Other 4% paper & packaging 2 Turnover by customer location 7% Asia Pacific 15% Latin Personal & America 3% homecare 27% Europe 49% North Diverse industrial America 29% products 66% 2004 2004 2004 2004 15 Uniqema also supplies process intermediates A rationalisation of Uniqemas product range based on natural fats and oils such as coconut, commenced and has yielded good returns, palm kernel and rape seed, which are split to reducing the complexity of Uniqemas product yield fatty acids and by-product glycerine.
Work also commenced on developing Further processing of fatty acids yields a range a new channel strategy for supplying Uniqemas of higher added-value products, such as customers across Europe, with the principal surfactants, soaps, lubricants and polymers.
Selected new products were also launched during the year, reflecting the differentiated Raw materials resource allocation strategy applied to the The raw materials for Uniqema include a wide range business.
Where opportunities exist, because of of both renewable palm oil, rape-seed oil and tallows proprietary knowledge and patented products, and petrochemical based ethylene oxide and further value can be created within the portfolio.
The headquarters and one of the major operating centres of Uniqema is in Gouda in the Netherlands.
The other major operating centres of Uniqema are in Wilton in the UK, Newcastle Delaware, USA and Kuala Lumpur in Malaysia.
Uniqema has a total of 15 manufacturing sites in Europe, North America and Asia Pacific.
Developments in 2004 Uniqema made good strategic progress in 2004 in market conditions that were improved in the USA but remained generally weak in Europe.
The restructuring programme launched in 2003 yielded significant benefits from improved manufacturing efficiencies, lower inventories and reduced operating costs.
The business commenced a plant rationalisation programme that is expected to be completed in the middle of 2005 with the closure of a manufacturing site in New Jersey, US and the relocation of its production to a larger Uniqema site in Delaware.
ICI ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS 1 Turnover by market sector 1 2 Paper & Other 1% 2 Turnover by customer location packaging 9% Asia Pacific 14% Europe 37% Latin America 8% North America 40% Decorative & architectural 91% 2004 2004 2004 2004 16 Heading Heading ICI Paints Background Key competencies, which ICI Paints employs ICI Paints is a leading international paint business across its businesses include: and accounted for 39% of the Groups sales in Marketing identifying areas of significant 2004.
It concentrates primarily on decorative potential through market understanding and paint over 90% of ICI Paints sales in 2004 and exploiting these through highly professional packaging coatings for food and beverage cans.
category and brand management skills.
ICI Paints global business headquarters Research and development supporting the is located in Slough, in the UK.
Major increased emphasis on innovation in products, manufacturing facilities are located in the USA, packaging and services, and targeting high UK, Brazil, Argentina, Germany, the Netherlands, impact cost reductions through leading edge France, China, India and Malaysia.
Additional colour, polymer and formulating science.
manufacturing facilities are located in 15 other countries.
ICI Paints maintains its own sales Operations implementing process distribution network in over 30 countries, and improvements and improved delivery reliability sells elsewhere through agents and distributors.
by sharing expertise and best practice across its businesses.
Strategy The Decorative Paints strategy is essentially one of Procurement optimising the mix of central organic growth, supported by initiatives to improve contracts using ICIs total purchasing power the quality of the business by leveraging ICI and local contracts bringing the advantages Paints international capabilities.
ICI Paints also of tailored solutions flexibility.
uses its global knowledge and capabilities and The regional markets for decorative paint are at applies these effectively in each of the regional different stages of growth and maturity and the and national markets in which it operates.
ICI Paints strategy reflects this.
The strategy of ICI Paints is to maintain and The Asia region is one of generally high growth, develop its branded leading market positions in with paints markets tending to be fragmented, the global paints and coatings industry.
ICI Paints and the real competitive landscape restricted expects to further develop its strategy by: to the country level.
To obtain competitive Profitable growth channelling scarce resource advantage in the region requires the leveraging revenue expenditure, capital and people to of capabilities by transferring best practice in those areas which will generate best rewards.
innovation, purchasing, marketing and channel development.
The key focus of the business is Innovation driving for new major differentiated to maintain accelerated profitable growth, with products and services, linking strategic particular focus on China, Vietnam and Thailand.
marketing with world leading technical skills.
The European region contains some large mature Operational excellence implementing key markets and a number of developing growth restructuring plans and improving planning markets in Eastern and Central Europe.
In the operating processes to reduce costs and mature markets, ICI Paints has a leading position inventory while improving customer delivery in the UK, with strong brands underpinned by a reliability.
There is significant brand People and organisation capability equity with Dulux, Hammerite, Cuprinol and development.
The focus of the European business is on improvement of product range, expansion in ICI ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS 17 developing markets, reduction of its cost-base Brief description of activities and the improvement of operational efficiency and The decorative paints business has wellprofitability of the Continental European operations.
established brands in paint, woodcare, metalcare, adhesives and fillers and these The Latin American business has strong include Dulux, Glidden, Devoe, Valentine, positions in Brazil, Argentina and Uruguay where Coral, Alba, Xyladecor, Hammerite, brand strength is maintained through capability Polycell, Polyfilla and Alabastine.
in marketing and a focus on innovation.
Paint is manufactured through a mixing process In North America markets are generally mature that requires a high degree of control over and ICI has a strong presence in both trade and product measurement, quality control and retail markets.
In trade markets the focus is on continuous assessment.
Typically manufacturing a marketing strategy which establishes insights operations are relatively non-capital intensive to end user needs, and in securing distribution and activities can be scaled through additional density within metropolitan areas.
business, the value chain is highly consolidated with a few retailers controlling 80% of distribution.
ICI Paints has a significant relationship in this Raw materials market with The Home Depot.
Key raw materials for ICI Paints include resins, ICI Paints is also a leader in the sale of internal solvents and pigments supplied by major chemical and external coatings for food and beverage companies.
It manufactures and distributes a broad product offering of packaging coatings and has significant market positions in both the Paints are sold through a range of distribution established markets of Europe and North channels.
Branded architectural paints are sold America and the emerging markets of Asia and through a combination of both independent Latin America.
The focus of this business is on retailers and stores and the Groups own retail profitable growth in South East Asia and Latin concerns, particularly in North America and the America, exploring opportunities for growth in UK.
Can coatings are supplied directly to non-metal packaging, in particular with PET beverage and food manufacturers in Europe, bottle coatings, and in supply chain optimisation.
Technology and innovation are also important factors in the growth of ICI Paints.
Success is enhanced by being first to the market with innovative, value-adding products and services that meet market needs.
ICI Paints benefits technologically from the colloid, polymer and particle related science base and research carried out by other parts of the Group.
ICI ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS 18 Developments in 2004 During 2004 ICI Paints has continued to focus on strengthening its brands and developing innovative products and services which meet and anticipate customers needs around the world.
In 2004, ICI Paints launched a number of new and innovative products and services to strengthen its brands across all key markets.
There has been a successful international roll-out of Magic White including an extension to trim products, Easycan Polycell Basecoat and CuprinolRollable.
These were all innovations that were brought to market initially in 2003, but have been exploited internationally during 2004.
In 2004 key innovations brought to market have been: Pyroshield, a water-based flame retardant that achieves the highest levels of regulatory compliance with no hazardous combustion products Once Ready to Roll, offering the convenience of a ready to use product, Sublime Touch, a sensorial new wall finish introduced in Latin America A new colour display for the UK Retail market A re-designed web-site to assist colour scheming and other customer service needs Extensions to Point of Sale Tinting in Asia The Paints business has also benefited from significant cost savings as a result of the restructuring programme announced in 2003.
ICI ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS 1 1 Turnover by customer Europe 5% location Other 1% North America 2% Latin America 11% Asia Pacific 81% 2004 2004 Regional and Industrial 19 Background The Regional and Industrial businesses sell into Regional and Industrial comprises several a wide range of industries including engineering, businesses which are essentially local in their textiles, pharmaceuticals, aerospace, electronics scope, the most significant of which are located and the extractive industries.
Products are either in Pakistan, Argentina and India.
The businesses marketed directly or through independent accounted for 7% of the Groups sales in 2004. merchants, wholesalers and distributors who In Pakistan and India, ICI operates through non resell to small users.
Commodity products are wholly-owned subsidiary companies, quoted on sold through a direct sales force or through the local stock exchanges.
distributors primarily to other operators in the chemical industry.
Strategy ICI has divested many of the Regional and Developments in 2004 Industrial businesses in recent years, and During 2004, the Group sold 18.9% of the further divestments will be made if they issued share capital of Pakistan PTA Limited by enhance value.
The strategies of most of the private placement.
Gross proceeds from the businesses are focused on selective areas of disposal amounted to 26m.
growth, with an emphasis on improving cost and capital effectiveness.
Brief description of activities ICI Pakistan has interests across a number of different market sectors.
The more important of these are the manufacture of polyester staple fibre for the textile industry and soda ash for soaps, detergents, glass and paper.
Other businesses of ICI Pakistan include pharmaceuticals, specialty products and trading.
Pakistan PTA Limited, located at Port Qasim near Karachi, manufactures purified terephthalic acid PTA for the fibre industry.
ICI India sold its nitrocellulose business in March 2004 and its Regional and Industrial business operations now comprise a rubber chemicals business which has manufacturing facilities near Kolkata.
ICI Argentina manufactures a range of products of which wine chemicals and sulphur related products are the most important.
The wine chemicals business is located near Mendoza, whilst the sulphur related products are manufactured at San Lorenzo, near Rosario.
ICI ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004
