BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT TEAM Lord Butler Peter B Ellwood Charles F Knott Baroness Noakes John D G McAdam 8 1 4 11 2 32 Board of Directors 1.
Peter B Ellwood, CBE believes that the combination of knowledge, drive and leadership that Chairman he is bringing to bear on the issues facing ICI is serving both the Appointed a Non-Executive Director and Deputy Chairman on 27 June Company and its shareholders well.
2003 and Chairman with effect from 1 January 2004.
John McAdam is a Non-Executive Director of Severn Trent Plc, a Peter Ellwood joined Barclays Bank in 1961 where he held a number of member of the University of Surrey Business Advisory Board and a senior roles including Chief Executive of Barclaycard from 1985 to 1989. member of the University of Cambridge Chemistry Advisory Board.
In 1989 he joined TSB Bank as Chief Executive, Retail Banking, was appointed a Director of TSB Group in 1990 and became Group Chief 3.
Following the merger with Lloyds Bank in 1995, Director he became Deputy Group Chief Executive of Lloyds TSB Group plc, Appointed a Director on 8 December 2003.
He is Chairman and Chief subsequently becoming Group Chief Executive in 1997 until his Executive of ICI Paints.
He was Chairman of Visa International from David Hamill joined the Company from Royal Philips Electronics where 1994 to 1999. he was a member of the Group Management Committee.
A graduate Peter Ellwood was made a Commander of the Order of the British in production engineering and management from Strathclyde University, Empire for services to banking in 2001 and is a Fellow of the Chartered David Hamill worked for Honeywell and General Instruments before Institute of Bankers.
He has received Honorary Doctorates from both joining Philips Semiconductors as product manager in 1986.
He held Leicester University and the University of Central England.
He is a number of senior positions within Philips Power Semiconductors and Chairman of the UK Royal Parks Advisory Board, The Royal Parks Lighting businesses, becoming President of Philips Lighting Asia Pacific Charitable Foundation and The Work Foundation of Great Britain.
He is in 1996 and Executive Vice President of Philips Lighting and Chief also a Director of the Royal Philharmonic Orchestra and Deputy Chairman Executive Officer of the Lamps business group two years later.
of the Royal College of Music.
In May 2001 he became President and Chief Executive Officer of Philips Lighting.
In his business career Peter Ellwood has been a leader in driving structural change and efficiency improvement and he brings to his role David Hamill has held senior management roles in Europe and Asia as Chairman extensive business experience, energy and determination.
where he has gained considerable production, commercial, marketing Aged 61. and finance experience.
Whilst his experience with large retail customers has specific relevance for ICI Paints, his broader business expertise, and 2.
John D G McAdam in particular his understanding of Asian markets, is of value to the Group Chief Executive as a whole.
Appointed a Director on 1 March 1999 and Chief Executive on 9 April 2003.
He joined the Company in 1997 following the acquisition of the David Hamill was appointed a Non-Executive Director of BPB plc on Speciality Chemicals businesses from Unilever.
John McAdam graduated from Manchester University with a first class 4.
Charles F Knott honours degree in chemical physics and, after completing his doctorate, Director was awarded a research fellowship.
He is Chairman and Chief Executive of Quest International.
In 1974 he joined Unilever as a management trainee and held a variety of managerial positions within Birds Eye Foods before joining the Board Charles Knott graduated from Newcastle University in 1976 with an of Unilevers flavours and fragrance business, PPF International, as honours degree in Mathematics and Statistics.
He joined National Starch Technical Director.
In 1987, he joined the Board of Quest International and Chemical Company in 1984 as Commercial Director of Laingas Senior Vice President in charge of Manufacturing, Logistics and National in Manchester and subsequently served in Germany and the Procurement before returning to Birds Eye Walls, where he assumed Netherlands before returning to the UK in 1990 as Managing Director of Board responsibility for Manufacturing, Research and Development.
National Starchs UK Adhesives operations.
In 1993 he was appointed Chairman of Unichema International and, Charles Knott was appointed Divisional Vice President, Performance following ICIs acquisition of the Unilever Speciality Chemical businesses Adhesives, in the United States and in 1994 became Senior Divisional in 1997, became Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Quest and a Vice President and General Manager for the US Adhesives business.
member of the ICI Executive Management Team.
In January 1998 he was In 1995 he relocated to Singapore to lead National Starchs Asia-Pacific appointed Chairman and Chief Executive of ICI Paints and the following operations as Corporate Vice President.
He was appointed National year he was elected to the Board of ICI with additional responsibility for Starch Chief Operating Officer in January 2001.
In March 2003 he Research, Development and Technology and ICIs activities in Asia.
became Chairman and Chief Executive of Quest International, and John McAdam is a business leader with a strong focus on results and Executive Vice President and member of the Executive Management extensive knowledge of ICIs operations around the world.
ICI ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT TEAM Richard N Haythornthwaite Timothy A Scott Adri Baan William H Powell Joseph T Gorman David C M Hamill 10 6 7 5 9 3 33 5.
Adri Baan Director Non-Executive Director Appointed a Director on 2 February 2000.
He is Chairman and Chief Appointed a Non-Executive Director on 25 June 2001.
He has a Executive of National Starch and Chemical Company and has Board masters degree in physics from the University of Amsterdam and joined responsibility for Sustainability which includes Group Safety, Health and Philips as a project manager in 1969.
He has held a series of senior positions with Philips in Europe and North William Powell joined National Starch and Chemical Company in 1976, America.
From 1984 to 1986 he was Vice Chairman of Philips Industrial gaining extensive experience in production, planning and general Electronics in Eindhoven and two years later was appointed Executive management.
In 1981, he was appointed Divisional Vice President of Vice President, North American Philips.
He was Managing Director of Manufacturing for Adhesives and Resins.
He was promoted to Philips Business Electronics from 1993 to 1996 and Chief Executive Corporate Vice President of the Resins and Specialty Chemical Division Officer and a Member of the Group Management Committee from 1996 in 1984: Corporate Vice President, International in 1986: Group Vice to 1998.
In 1998 he was appointed Executive Vice President, Royal President, Industrial Starch and Food Products division in 1989: and Philips Electronics and Member of the Management Board, a position Executive Vice President in 1997.
In 1999, he was appointed Chairman which he held until 2001. and Chief Executive Officer.
In addition he was formerly the Chairman of Integrated Production and William Powell has a degree in chemistry and a masters degree in Test Engineering N. V. and a Director of Medquist, NPM Capital, PSA chemical engineering from Case Western Reserve University.
In addition Corporation Limited Port of Singapore Authority and Hesse-Noord he has a Masters in Business Administration from the University of North Natie, Port of Antwerp.
He is a past Chairman of the Corn Refiners Association and He is currently a Director of: Wolters Kluwer N. V. : ASM International N. V. : currently an Honorary Director.
He is a Non-Executive Director of Granite International Power plc: the Trust Office of KAS BANK NV: OCE NV: PSA Construction Inc. and a member of the Institute of Food Technologists Europe Limited: and AFM the Authority for Financial Markets in the and the American Institute of Chemical Engineers.
He is also a member Netherlands.
He is also Vice Chairman of Koninklijke Volker Wessels of: the Board of Directors of the American Chemistry Council: the Stevin N. V. Aged 62.
Executive Committee of the Society of Chemical Industry, American Section: the Board of Overseers of the New Jersey Institute of 8.
Lord Butler of Brockwell, KG, GCB, CVO Technology: and the Board of Trustees of the State Theatre of New Senior Independent Director Jersey.
Appointed a Non-Executive Director on 1 July 1998.
He is the Boards Senior Independent Director.
Timothy A Scott Chief Financial Officer After graduating with a double first in Mods and Greats from University Appointed a Director and Chief Financial Officer on 23 May 2001.
College, Oxford, Robin Butler joined the Treasury in 1961 where he He is Chairman of the ICI Charity Trust and Appeals Committee.
held a succession of posts before becoming Private Secretary to the Financial Secretary in 1964 and Secretary of the Budget Committee A graduate of St Catherines College, Oxford with a degree in chemistry, from 1965 to 1969.
He was seconded to the Bank of England in 1969 he is a member of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants.
and subsequently acted as Private Secretary to three Prime Ministers.
Timothy Scott joined the Company in 1997 following the acquisition of In 1985 Robin Butler became second Permanent Secretary, Public the Speciality Chemicals businesses from Unilever.
He joined Unilever in Expenditure and in 1988 he was appointed as Secretary of the Cabinet 1983 and during the first six years of his career worked in a variety of and Head of the Home Civil Service.
businesses in the UK, US and the Netherlands in a range of financial positions.
In 1989 he joined Unilevers UK-based Mergers & Acquisitions He is currently Master of University College, Oxford and a Non-Executive department and three years later moved to Unichema in the Netherlands Director of HSBC Holdings plc.
In 1999 he served on the Royal as Senior Vice President Commercial, becoming Group Vice President, Commission on Reform of the House of Lords and in 2004 chaired the Europe in 1995.
In 1998 he was appointed Chief Administrative Officer UK Review of Intelligence on Weapons of Mass Destruction.
He is also for ICI Paints in North America and the following year became ICIs Vice a trustee of the Globe Trust, a trustee of the Rhodes Trust and Chairman President Strategy and Performance.
Aged 42. of the Churchill Museum UK Appeal Committee.
Joseph T Gorman Non-Executive Director Appointed a Non-Executive Director on 20 September 2000.
He is Chairman of the ICI Audit Committee.
A graduate of Kent State University and holding a doctorate from Yale Law School, Joseph Gorman practised law for 5 years before joining the ICI ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT TEAM 34 Board of Directors continued legal department of automotive safety systems manufacturer, TRW Inc. 11.
Non-Executive Director Appointed a Non-Executive Director on 1 March 2004.
A law graduate He became Secretary of TRW in 1970 and Vice President in 1972.
He of Bristol University, Baroness Noakes has extensive experience both in served as Vice President and General Counsel from 1976 to 1980 when the City, as a senior partner of KPMG, from which she retired in 2000, he was elected Executive Vice President and given responsibility for the and as an adviser to the UK Government.
In 1985 he was appointed President and Chief Operating Officer of the Company and three years later She joined Peat Marwick Mitchell & Co now KPMG in 1970 and became Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.
Her experience was a combination of corporate and public sector work and she led KPMGs international A past Chairman of the US-Japan Business Council, he received Japans government practice.
1994 Prime Ministers Trade Award for his contribution to promoting improved US-Japan trade relations.
He has served on the Boards of the From 1979 to 1981 she was seconded to HM Treasury.
In a further US-China Business Council and the Prince of Wales Business Leaders secondment in 1988, she joined the Department of Health as Director of Forum and was a member of the Presidents Export Council.
He is a Finance and Corporate Information on the NHS Management Executive, trustee of the Centre for Strategic and International Studies and also the Board chaired by the NHS Chief Executive.
She was a Director of serves the Council on Competitiveness as a co-industry vice chair and the Bank of England from 1994 to 2001 becoming the Senior Nonmember of the executive committee.
She was a Non-Executive Director of John Laing plc from 2002 to 2004 and has also served as President of the Joseph Gorman is a Director of Alcoa, Inc.
The Procter & Gamble Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
Company and National City Corporation.
Baroness Noakes is currently the Senior Independent Director at 10.
Richard N Haythornthwaite Carpetright plc and is a Non-Executive Director of Hanson plc and the Non-Executive Director English National Opera.
She is also a Shadow Economic Affairs Minister Appointed a Non-Executive Director on 20 February 2001.
He is in the House of Lords and is a trustee of the Reuters Founders Share Chairman of the ICI Remuneration Committee.
A graduate of The Queens College, Oxford with a degree in Geology and a Sloan Fellow of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Richard Haythornthwaite has over twenty five years of international industry experience covering a broad mix of strategic and operational roles.
He has extensive experience in organisational and cultural change leadership, cost reduction programmes, results-driven performance initiatives and executing and negotiating acquisitions and divestments worldwide.
New Directors appointed between Annual General Meetings to fill Richard Haythornthwaites career began with BP plc where he held a casual vacancies, or as additional Directors, retire at the Annual variety of positions in its European and American operations from 1978 General Meeting following their appointment and are eligible for to 1995, including General Manager of the Magnus Oilfield and President election.
At each Annual General Meeting of the Companys of BP Venezuela.
shareholders one third of the other Directors being those longest in In 1995 he joined the Board of Premier Oil, where he was responsible for office since their last election also retire and are eligible for re-election.
corporate and commercial affairs, and two years later joined Blue Circle Charles Knott retires under Article 76 of the Companys Articles of Industries plc as Chief Executive of Heavy Building Materials in Europe Association.
He is recommended for election to the Board.
He was appointed Group Chief Executive of Blue Circle in Adri Baan, Joseph Gorman and William Powell retire under Article 96 1999.
Following its acquisition of Blue Circle in 2001, he became a Nonof the Companys Articles of Association.
All three Directors are Executive Director of Lafarge S. A. standing down from that Board in recommended for re-election.
From 1999 to 2003 he was a Non-Executive Director of Cookson Group plc.
In addition, Robin Butler retires in accordance with the policy set out on page 54.
He is recommended for re-election.
Richard Haythornthwaite has, since 2001, been Group Chief Executive All Executive Directors are employed on rolling contracts subject to no of Invensys plc.
In addition he is the Chairman of the Centre for Creative more than one years notice.
Communities and the Almeida Theatre Company Limited as well as a board member of the British Council and the National Museum of No Director or Officer has a family relationship with any other Director Science and Industry.
ICI ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT TEAM Rolf Deusinger Leonard J Berlik Michael H C Herlihy 14 12 13 Executive management team 35 The Executive Management Team comprises the Executive Directors Date first appointed as an Officer and the following: 12.
Leonard J Berlik 1 April 2000 Appointed a member of the Executive Management Team in 2000.
He is Executive Vice President, Uniqema.
He also has regional oversight responsibilities for Group activities in Europe, the Middle East and Africa.
He joined National Starch and Chemical Company in 1972 and, prior to his appointment with Industrial Specialties now Uniqema in 2000, served as Executive Vice President of the Adhesives Division.
He is a Non-Executive Director of NIZO food research B. V. Aged 57.
Michael H C Herlihy 1 January 1996 Appointed a member of the Executive Management Team in 1996.
He is General Counsel, Executive Vice President Mergers and Acquisitions and Company Secretary.
A graduate of St Catherines College, Oxford, Michael Herlihy qualified as a solicitor in 1977 and joined ICI in 1979, gaining broad experience in the Petrochemicals and Plastics and Agrochemicals Divisions.
In 1992 he was appointed Group Taxation Controller before being appointed General Counsel in 1996.
In 2000 he assumed the role of Executive Vice President Mergers and Acquisitions and became Company Secretary on 1 November 2003.
Rolf Deusinger 1 July 2002 Appointed a member of the Executive Management Team in 2002.
He is Executive Vice President Human Resources.
He joined the Company in October 1999 as Senior Vice President Human Resources for ICI Paints.
Previously he was Head of International Human Resources for Messer Griesheim GmbH based in Germany.
He has nearly 20 years international experience in the field of Human Resources, predominantly in consumer businesses, including PepsiCo, covering the Americas, Europe and Central Asia.
The persons listed above together with David J Gee, Executive Vice President, Regional and Industrial Businesses, are regarded as the Officers of the Company for the purposes of the Annual Report and Accounts.
ICI ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004
