Corporate Responsibilities Board of Directors 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14.
28 Corporate Responsibilities We have long recognised that transparency, dealing fairly with stakeholders, exercising good stewardship and behaving responsibly are all consistent with building long term value for our shareholders.
FRANK ROGERSON BSC, PHD, AGED 51 3.
IAIN NAPIER ACMA, AGED 55 Chairman and a Member of the Corporate Affairs Director Non-Executive Director, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Remuneration Committee and a Member of the Appointed to the Board in June 2003, having Audit Committee Appointed Non-Executive Chairman on our joined Imperial Tobacco in 1977, he has held Appointed a Non-Executive Director in 2000.
London Stock Exchange Listing in 1996.
He a number of senior management positions He is currently Group Chief Executive of is currently Non-Executive Chairman of including Managing Director of Cigar and Roll Taylor Woodrow plc.
As a former main board CamAxys Group plc and Songbird Estates Your Own Tobacco.
Appointed Business Director of Bass PLC, he was Chief plc and a Non-Executive Director of TXU Development Director in 2000, he was Executive of Bass Leisure and then Chief Corp USA.
He has a wide range of instrumental in negotiations for the Executive of Bass Brewers and Bass managerial and financial experience gained acquisition of Reemtsma.
Following the sale of as a former Executive Chairman of The the Bass beer business in 2000, he became Energy Group PLC, Non-Executive Chairman 5.
BRUCE DAVIDSON B COM, AGED 48 Vice President UK and Ireland for Interbrew of Cadbury Schweppes plc and Marconi plc Sales & Marketing Director SA until his resignation in August 2001.
He is and Deputy Chairman of Hanson PLC, Appointed to the Board in October 2003, he a Non-Executive Director of BOC Group plc.
having previously held a number of senior has been part of the senior management management and financial positions.
team transforming the scale and reach of the 6.
PIERRE JUNGELS CBE HON ING GEOL, PHD, Groups international business since joining 4.
ANTHONY ALEXANDER FCA, AGED 66 C ENG, FELLOW EL, AGED 60 Imperial Tobacco in 1998.
Prior to joining Non-Executive Director and a Member of the Vice Chairman, Senior Independent Director and Imperial Tobacco he held a number of senior Remuneration Committee and the Audit a Member of the Audit Committee management positions with British American Committee.
Appointed Vice Chairman on demerger and Tobacco and Inchcape plc, including as Appointed to the Board in August 2002.
He acts as senior independent Non-Executive Chief Executive of Timberland Asia Pacific.
has held numerous senior international Director.
He also serves as a Non-Executive positions within the oil industry with Shell Director of Misys plc and Platinum 8.
SIMON DUFFY MA, MBA, AGED 54 International, Petrofina SA and British Gas Investment Trust plc.
He is a former Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the PLC.
He became CEO of Enterprise Oil in Executive Director of Hanson PLC and as Audit Committee 1996, leading the business to substantial Chief Operating Officer he had responsibility geographic and financial growth until his for all their UK operating companies.
Appointed to the Board in 1996 as a Nonretirement in November 2001.
He is Executive Director and Chairman of the Audit Chairman of Offshore Hydrocarbon Mapping Committee.
Currently Chief Executive Officer of 7.
GARETH DAVIS BA, AGED 54 plc and a Non-Executive Director of ntl Inc, he was formerly Chief Executive Officer Chief Executive Woodside Petroleum Ltd and Offshore of End2End Holdings Limited and of World Appointed Chief Executive in 1996 and led Logistics Inc. Online International BV and Chief Financial the successful demerger of the Company Officer of Orange SA and of EMI Group plc, from Hanson PLC and its listings on the where he was also Deputy Chairman.
London and New York Stock Exchanges.
Previously Operations Director of United With wide experience across all aspects of COMPANY SECRETARY Distillers, he is a Non-Executive Director of Imperial Tobaccos business gained from GWR Group plc.
RICHARD HANNAFORD BSC, FCA, over 30 years with the Company, he has AGED 57 retired 30 09 04 played a key role in the development of both 11.
DAVID THURSFIELD, AGED 58 Joined Imperial Tobacco in 1973.
Appointed general strategy and the ongoing expansion Non-Executive Director and Member of the Company Secretary in 1988 and Company programme.
In 2003 he was appointed as a Remuneration Committee Secretary of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC in Non-Executive Director of Wolseley plc.
Prior to this he held a number of Appointed a Non-Executive Director in management posts in finance and internal November 2003.
ROBERT DYRBUS BSC, FCA, AGED 51 audit functions.
Company in 1979, from British Leyland, and Finance Director was Executive Vice President, Ford Motor Appointed Finance Director of Imperial Company and President, International 12.
MATTHEW PHILLIPS, LLB, AGED 34 Tobacco Limited in 1989 and was one of the Operations and Global Purchasing responsible from 01 10 04 three-man Hanson team involved in the for the Premier Automotive Group, Mazda Appointed Company Secretary in October strategic reorganisation of the Group.
He Motor Company, Ford of Europe, Ford Asia 2004, he joined Imperial Tobaccos legal became Finance Director of the Group on Pacific operations and Global Purchasing department in 2000 having previously demerger in 1996 and has since played an organisations until his retirement in May 2004. worked for the law firms Linklaters and integral part in shaping the strategic direction He remains a consultant to the Company.
He was closely involved in of the Group.
Previously he was financial negotiations for Imperial Tobaccos controller with Hanson PLC, responsible for acquisitions of Tobaccor and Reemtsma.
SIPKO HUISMANS BA, AGED 63 Imperial Tobacco, Ever Ready and Allders.
Non-Executive Director and a Member of the Remuneration Committee 13.
DAVID CRESSWELL C ENG, MIEE, AGED 59 Appointed a Non-Executive Director in 1996.
Manufacturing Director He joined Courtaulds in Southern Africa in Joined Imperial Tobacco in 1961 and was 1961 and moved to the UK in 1968.
He appointed to the Board in June 2003.
An became a Director of Courtaulds in 1984 and electrical engineer by background, he has was responsible for the Chemical and undertaken a number of senior management Industrial business from 1986 until the roles and has previously held the position of demerger of Courtaulds Textiles in 1990, Managing Director for each of Imperial when he became Managing Director.
He was Tobaccos major operating divisions namely appointed Chief Executive of Courtaulds from Cigarette, Rolling Paper and Roll Your Own 1991 until his retirement in 1996.
