Statutory Reports and Financial Statements Report of the Directors The Directors submit their report together with the audited consolidated accounts for the Group for the year to 30 September 2004. Review of activities and future developments The Group remains highly focused on its core business - the manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco and tobacco related products.
A review of the Groups various activities and future developments in the Groups business is included on pages 12 to 33.
Note 1 to the financial statements gives an analysis of turnover, duty in turnover, turnover excluding duty, operating profit and capital employed.
The principal operating subsidiaries within the Group are shown on pages 102 and 103.
Acquisitions On 11 May 2004 the Group acquired the business and assets of the CTC Tube Company of Canada.
Financial results and dividends The profit attributable to shareholders for the financial year was 445m as shown in the consolidated profit and loss account set out on page 58.
An operating and financial review is included on pages 12 to 27.
The Directors have declared dividends as follows: In s million 2004 2003 Ordinary shares Interim paid, 15.0p per share 2003: 12.0p 109 87 Proposed final, 35.0p per share 2003: 30.0p 253 217 Total ordinary dividends, 50.0p 2003: 42.0p 362 304 The final dividend, if approved, will be paid on 18 February 2005 to shareholders whose names are on the Register of Members at the close of business on 21 January 2005.
Share capital Details of the Companys share capital are shown in note 17 to the financial statements.
At 4 November 2004 the Company had been notified that the following persons had interests in 3 per cent or more of the Companys issued share capital.
Number of Percentage of ordinary shares issued share millions capital Franklin Resources, Inc 22 3.002 Legal & General Investment Management Limited 22 3.01 The Company has not received notification that any other person holds 3 per cent or more of the Companys issued share capital.
Board of Directors Mr B C Davidson joined the Board as Sales and Marketing Director on 1 October 2003 and Mr D W Thursfield joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director on 17 November 2003.
The current Directors of the Company are shown on pages 28 to 29.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, Messrs A G L Alexander, D C Bonham, G Davis and R Dyrbus retire at the Annual General Meeting and being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
Employees The Groups employment policies are designed to attract, retain, train and motivate the very best people, recognising that this can be achieved only through offering equal opportunities regardless of gender, race, religion or disability.
To ensure employees can share in our success, the Group offers competitive pay and benefit packages and, wherever possible, links rewards to individual and team performance.
Employees are encouraged to build a stake in the Company through ownership of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC shares.
A further opportunity to join the Sharesave Scheme was offered during the year and 82 per cent of eligible UK employees now participate.
International employees were also offered a further opportunity to join the International Sharesave Plan and 31 per cent of eligible international employees now participate.
The Group is committed to providing an environment that encourages the continuous development of all our employees through skills enhancement and comprehensive training programmes.. 37 Report of the Directors Employees continued Using their own consultative and communication methods each of the Groups businesses is encouraged to keep their employees informed on Group and individual business developments and to make its employees aware of the financial and economic factors affecting the performance of their employing company.
To progress this aim further employee representatives are briefed on pan-European issues through a European Employee Forum.
Information concerning employees and their remuneration is given in note 4 to the accounts and in the Directors Remuneration Report.
Charitable and political donations During the year the Group made charitable donations in the UK of 667,000 2003: 464,000, much of which was distributed through the Charities Aid Foundation in accordance with the Groups charities policy.
No political donations or expenditure were made or incurred by the Company or its subsidiaries during the year 2003: Nil.
Creditor payment policy The Companys current policy concerning the payment of the majority of its trade creditors is to follow the CBIs Prompt Payers Code copies are available from the CBI, Centre Point, 103 New Oxford Street, London.
For other suppliers, the Companys policy is to: a settle the terms of payment with those suppliers when agreeing the terms of each transaction: b ensure that those suppliers are made aware of the terms of payment by inclusion of the relevant terms in contracts: and c pay in accordance with its contractual and other legal obligations.
The payment policy applies to all payments to creditors for revenue and capital supplies of goods and services without exception.
Wherever possible UK subsidiaries follow the same policy and international subsidiaries are encouraged to adopt similar policies, by applying local best practices.
The number of days purchases outstanding as at 30 September 2004 for Imperial Tobacco Group PLC was 27 days.
Research and development The Group recognises the importance of investing in research and development, which brings innovative improvements to the Group, both in the products supplied to the consumer and in production and marketing techniques.
Auditors A resolution to reappoint  LLP as Auditors to the Company will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Annual General Meeting Full details of the Annual General Meeting to be held on 1 February 2005, together with explanations of the resolutions to be proposed at the meeting, appear in the notice of meeting enclosed with this report.
By order of the Board Matthew R Phillips Company Secretary 8 November 2004.
