24 Corporate social responsibility continued Working for Inchcape We want all our colleagues at Inchcape to be proud of who they Learning and development work for and to take pride in their contribution to the Group.
We have We are dedicated to facilitating the advancement of our colleagues therefore built a clear set of statements, which outline our values, in every market we operate in, and consequently we have a number highlight learning and development opportunities and define our of development schemes, for all levels of staff, in operation employment policy.
In 2004 our colleagues participated in c. 24,000 training days.
Our values The variety of courses attended ranged from leadership development Inchcape recognises that success depends on maintaining the to customer service training and technician skills.
quality, motivation and commitment of its employees in every Atkins Kroll, our Toyota business in Guam, sources its customer market it operates in.
The Groups employment policies and service training programme through the University of Guam.
practices are designed to support and achieve this goal.
All customer facing staff are required to attend the course and this has contributed to our very high levels of customer satisfaction.
Underpinning this commitment are the Inchcape values.
In the UK we have entered into an agreement with These values are central to the way we work and are fundamental Loughborough Universitys Automotive Business School to create to our relationship with customers, principals and employees.
The Academy will develop and They are as follows: train our workforce endorsing leading automotive retail skills.
Service We constantly seek to enhance our service standards Initially, this will cover the UK and our developing Retail markets for our customers and for the companies we represent.
in Europe but we will extend the scheme in late 2005 to our other international business units.
Teamwork We work as a team within our individual businesses, across the Group as a whole and with our principals and partners.
Communication Inchcape is always looking for ways in which it can improve Innovation We strive to remain at the forefront of our industry communication with employees across the Group, regarding the by anticipating market changes and developing new products business and the issues affecting them.
We currently have a number of formal and informal channels Respect We respect all our stakeholders: our customers, principals, to do this but one of the most effective methods is our worldwide partners, colleagues, shareholders and we work hard to earn intranet system, the Pulse.
The latest version of the intranet was their respect.
launched in February 2004, and features a number of improved services for staff.
Dedicated areas for employees to access details Results We set ourselves challenging targets and endeavour to of benefits and advantages available to them have proved to pass them.
In addition the share price data is useful Our values are explained to all our new colleagues when they for those members of staff who hold shares in the Company.
join Inchcape and are regularly reinforced through all employee Colleague Opinion Survey in the UK 2004 In February 2004 communications.
Appraisals are largely based on the five principles we surveyed our colleagues in our UK businesses, asking them and individuals are asked to provide examples of how they have for feedback on their jobs and how they felt about working for demonstrated the values in their work.
We have put a number of action plans in place and will review progress through a follow up survey in early 2005.
This will now be an annual activity.
A survey was also completed in our Belgian business in late 2004, where 70.0% of our colleagues completed the survey, and the results will be followed through in 2005.
We are dedicated to facilitating the advancement of our colleagues in every market we operate in, and consequently we have a number of development schemes, for all levels of staff, in operation throughout the Group.
Inchcape plc Annual report 2004 25 UK reward and recognition scheme In early 2004 we introduced a reward and recognition scheme for staff in the Employment policy UK.
The objective behind this was to Inchcapes employment philosophy is simple: we want to attract, encourage our employees to recognise motivate and retain the best people for our business.
each other for exceptional work and nominate their colleagues for an award.
Our remuneration and benefits policies have been designed This scheme was designed in line with to do this and the framework for these are overseen by the Board the UKs overall strategy to be the best Remuneration Committee.
The Committee regularly reviews and nominations ranged from levels of customer service to overall team work.
our policies in the context of market best practice and consults, Three levels of awards were designed: where appropriate, with our major shareholders on remuneration gold, silver and bronze.
Gold award winners for the senior executive team.
are invited to enjoy a celebratory event with the UK senior management team, as well We offer a range of attractive share based incentive schemes as receiving a personal reward presented and, at 31 December 2004, c. 1,320 of our colleagues were to them by Graeme Potts, Managing shareholders in the Company, an increase of 20.0% over 2003.
Director, Inchcape UK and Europe pictured here on the left.
Inchcape carefully observes best practices in employment Over 400 employees in the UK policy and legislation and is committed to providing a workplace free received awards in 2004, demonstrating of discrimination that gives equal opportunities to all our employees.
the excellent levels of commitment and professionalism of our staff.
In all our operating countries, we observe local employment law as a minimum standard, and Inchcape ensures that Group standards High standards are met with regard to equal opportunities and non-discrimination.
at Crown Motors We have in place a Business Ethics Policy, and in 2004 we Crown Motors, our business in Hong Kong, is dedicated to maintaining and introduced a Group Whistle Blowing Policy, as well as an Employee developing high levels of skill and service Assistance Programme which provides a confidential no cost in its people, and so, in 2004, organised advisory service twenty four hours a day to UK employees.
the first ever Inchcape Asia Pacific Vacancies are first made available to internal candidates, via the Regional Technicians Skills Contest.
Twenty five highly skilled contenders intranet, so as to encourage career opportunities and advancement entered the competition from our for our colleagues.
businesses in Singapore, Guam, Brunei, Saipan, Hong Kong and Macau.
Their goal was to complete mechanical service and Colleague numbers at 31 December 2004 body paint tasks in a specified time with Market Numbers % the minimum amount of errors.
The winner, top technician Mr Che UK 5,001 48.0 Chin Wa, was then chosen to represent Greece Belgium 983 9.4 Crown Motors at the annual Toyota Asian Australia New Zealand 783 7.5 Technicians Skills Grand Prix, which was Hong Kong 1,159 11.1 held in the Philippines.
Competing against nine other top Singapore Brunei 1,111 10.7 Toyota technicians from around the region, Other 1,383 13.3 Mr Che excelled in the written and practical Total10,420 100.0 tests, which covered every aspect of Toyota technical service.
Proving his own expertise and reflecting the high standards Overall split by gender of skill delivered by our Crown Motors Male Female colleagues, Mr Che won the Silver Award.
Market Numbers % Numbers % The Kaizen philosophy UK 3,835 76.7 1,166 23.3 The Toyota Motor Corporation has long Greece Belgium 692 70.4 291 29.6 advocated the use of the Kaizen philosophy Australia New Zealand 555 70.9 228 29.1 in its business practices around the world.
Hong Kong 946 81.6 213 18.4 Kaizen, which translates as continuous improvement, comes from the Japanese Singapore Brunei 827 74.4 284 25.6 words Kai, meaning school, and Zen, meaning wisdom.
This philosophy has been Managers fundamental to the Japanese way of thinking for many decades and has also provided Male Female the foundation to numerous successful Market Numbers % Numbers % business ideas for Inchcape, particularly UK 390 82.6 82 17.4 throughout our Asia Pacific businesses.
On 1 June 2004, a six month Kaizen Greece Belgium 158 80.6 38 19.4 programme was developed for our parts Australia New Zealand 134 91.8 12 8.2 specialists at Borneo Motors in Singapore.
Hong Kong 62 84.9 11 15.1 The programme focused on improving job Singapore Brunei 71 79.8 18 20.2 efficiency as well as the overall working environment.
The objective was to equip our specialists with advanced inventory and warehousing knowledge.
