3 4 1 Framework agreements with the Home Office A major 3 The MoD in the South Atlantic Over 300 local and player in the custodial market, Interserve won its first expatriate UK Interserve staff deliver a range of services framework contract to design and construct houseblocks at supporting the military activities, accommodation and HMP Hull in 2001.
Seven further houseblocks have followed at leisure facilities on the Falklands and Ascension Island.
prisons across the country, using modularised construction 4 Bab Al Shams Desert Retreat, UAE A spectacular techniques to deliver a total of 1,698 new cells.
new desert resort and spa near Dubai, host to the 2005 2 Office for National Statistics Interserve staff work across World Endurance Horse Racing Championships, was built the five main ONS sites in the UK, generating service by Interserve's UAE associate company.
improvements and cost savings for over 4,000 ONS employees.
We further extended our existing Project Services We performed well in each of relationships to new sites with BP Project Services performed our principal UK markets, the through a new contract with the strongly, delivering 13.3 per cent highlights being: oil & gas transportation business at growth in divisional operating in Health we have now secured Dimlington, Humberside and with profit to 17.9 million, slightly around 20 per cent of the British Nuclear Group at Springfield.
Turnover schemes assigned under the was 545.3 million 2003: 475.7 ProCure21 framework Increasingly, clients see the benefit million, the majority of volume programme, representing well of our integrated service offering growth coming from resilient over 100 million of work: and are willing to explore with us activity levels from amongst our opportunities to extend the remit established regional framework in the custodial market we were of our operations by bolting on contracts together with a number chosen by the Home Office for other facilities management services of new wins.
UK divisional its new-build prison framework relating to the built environment in operating margin was 2.6 per cent programme covering the whole Project Services profit addition to those supporting their 2003: 2.6 per cent, whilst the of England and Wales: up 13.3% process plant operations.
contribution from overseas grew we extended our relationship by 8.3 per cent to 3.9 million with BT: 85% of Project Services Our work profile is dominated by 2003: 3.6 million.
long-term, maintenance-led we added two new framework activity based on longactivities.
We now have over 60 Our strategy in the UK remains to agreements for the Highways substantial term maintenance focus our efforts on sustainable Agency in south-east and northterm relationships contracts.
In a quarter of these, and higher quality revenue streams east England respectively: and we have had continuous presence such as framework agreements, we were selected as a framework on site for over ten years.
During accommodation PFI projects and partner by Severn Trent Water 2004, over 60 per cent of our negotiated work with repeat and are preferred bidder for revenue was earned from such clients.
In 2004, 85 per cent of Thames Water to provide a sustainable sources.
The growth in our activity came from these 100 million desalination plant, this type of higher quality, lower work types, which underlines the the first such facility to be risk earnings stream, which has successful transformation that we built in the UK.
doubled proportionately since have achieved from traditional 2000, has displaced the historic contractor to being a value added over-dependence on one-off partner to clients and to our projects and on townwork tube supply chain in integrating project & fittings activities that formerly solutions through long-term characterised this part of our relationships.
Our ability to tailor business.
A further reflection of an individual service to clients progress is our future workload, needs and to deliver on time and which reached 690 million at the to budget, through a network of end of 2004, an increase of some local offices, provides us with a 21 per cent on the position at the competitive edge.
