Our profile Interserve is an infrastructure and Service integration individual client needs by Design facilities management group.
We harnessing expertise from across Although Interserves design Direct delivery and supply provide services across the whole the Group differentiates us and activities account directly for chain management life of many types of buildings and means that we can achieve growth relatively little of our turnover, infrastructure such as hospitals, Productivity improvement with existing clients by delivering they play a key role in our ability schools, offices, industrial plant, additional services.
For example, to get the best out of an asset Development of long-term bridges, waterworks or roads.
in a number of cases we are across its whole life.
A successful working relationships We offer our services at each stage developing facilities management project must, of course, be based of the asset lifecycle: we build, Driving and managing change FM services from our existing on a sound architectural and we help others build by hiring construction framework engineering design.
Its success also them equipment, we maintain, Increasingly our customers wish agreements.
depends on taking into we support operations and we to buy more services from fewer consideration at the outset the replace.
Around 70 per cent of suppliers.
With our breadth of Interserves value chain shows specific operational and our services are delivered into skills and services, we are able to how our services support the maintenance issues the facility will the built environment and 30 per respond to that customer need creation and management of face throughout its working life.
cent to plant and infrastructure.
and to deliver a one-stop-shop, assets throughout their lives and In addition to the conventional integrated service.
Private Finance how we add value at each stage.
design skills residing in our Project A common theme throughout Initiative PFI projects are an Our strategy is to build long-term Services division, therefore, our services is that we manage excellent example of where the relationships, and these can relate Interserves input to the process complex environments to enable customer wants to work with to any of the links in the value incorporates insights from across our clients businesses to run more an organisation that can design, chain, although our longest the Group gained from our effectively.
The core competencies build, operate, maintain, replace contracts are for operational extensive, first-hand experience of that enable us to deliver the and finance their asset.
Our ability and maintenance services.
managing a wide range of facilities services our customers need are: to tailor our services to meet across the public and private sectors.
In PFI, for instance, our facilities managers produce briefs to bring out design features that Value chain will enhance our ability to operate and maintain the assets effectively.
Lifecycle stage Design New Build Refurbish Operate Design is also the principal factor that differentiates our Equipment Services division so strongly in the market.
Our formwork and Key Interserve Project manage Specify Manage Complex HR issues falsework systems form the roles Procure Interface Architecture Hard FM temporary support frameworks Deliver Deliver Engineer fabric services used during the creation of Soft FM substantial concrete structures, occupancy support and it is the design, both of these Lifecycle management highly engineered, integrated systems and of their application in Divisional Project Services Project Services Project Services Project Services specific projects, that optimises involvement Equipment Services Equipment Services Equipment Services Industrial Services the construction process and saves Industrial Services Industrial Services Facilities Services time and space compared to Facilities Services Facilities Services traditional technologies.
2 Interserve Plc Annual Report 2004 New Build with our partners market usually a live working environment.
and environmental performance Equipment Services business knowledge and access to the Our activities must be planned to makes a direct contribution to our model is based on the hire and sale supply chain.
run alongside those of our client success and is a key differentiator of its equipment in meeting the in a way that minimises disruption on which clients will increasingly challenges of often demanding Refurbish while delivering high quality base their buying decisions.
infrastructure projects, and our Many of the abilities we need improvements.
engineering advice in the use of to manage new-build projects We have also developed particular the equipment is offered as part in Project Services are equally Operate expertise in human resources as of each hire transaction.
So while applicable to refurbishment, Interserve is one of the leading we change working practices and much of the added value comes from bridges and motorways to players in the growing UK organisational culture to align from the design skills outlined hospitals and offices.
In each outsourcing market and the them with our goals and those of above, the turnover is directly case we bring together and comajority of our services are our clients.
The breadth of our attributable to the building and ordinate a range of skills to create provided in support of our services, not only for a single refurbishment phases of our or regenerate a valuable asset clients ongoing business client but also across several value chain, with the majority on behalf of our client.
Our approach is to different contracts, enables us in the former.
focus on opportunities offering to create career opportunities, This is also the link in Interserves significant long-term revenue increase our employees It is also at these stages that we value chain in which our Facilities streams where we can build a motivation and develop their deploy most of our expertise in Services and Industrial Services detailed understanding of our skills, to the mutual benefit of Project Services: the balance, divisions become significantly clients operations and generate the individual, Interserve and its besides the design aspects already involved, the former primarily in continuous improvements in their clients.
The knowledge transfer mentioned, is in maintaining the public sector and the latter support processes.
We add value that this entails also means that operational assets, allowing us to largely in the private.
Often through integrated single-point we enhance our ability to identify perform a cradle-to-the-grave refurbishing a building or client relationships, managing and situations where we can offer service for the structures industrial plant forms part of the controlling the interfaces within a additional services and apply concerned.
The division specialises planned management of the asset suite of services thereby delivering best practice.
And as the range in delivering building and through its operational life.
effective solutions to our clients of services we deliver grows, infrastructure projects in the UK individual needs.
Our preference is Interserve becomes increasingly and the Middle East through For instance, in PFI contracts for complex outsourcing projects, integral to the infrastructure framework agreements, PFI we undertake to hand over the where our change-management support needs of our clients, contracts and negotiated facilities at the end of our tenure skills, integrated management, which we believe helps to relationships.
In the UK our in a well-maintained condition, direct-delivery capabilities and extend the length of our approach is to work with our therefore we refurbish buildings willingness to structure risk and client relationships.
clients in long-term relationships, throughout their lives.
Similarly, reward innovatively set us apart increasingly through open-book where we manage the ongoing from our competitors.
arrangements providing supply maintenance of complex chain transparency and processing plant for an industrial Wherever we deliver operational demonstrating the added value of customer, from time to time we services, especially in certain our co-ordination, planning and plan and undertake major hazardous environments, safety management role.
In the Middle equipment overhauls involving the and environmental concerns are East we work through our tightly-controlled interaction of paramount and the ability to associate companies almost hundreds of people in a number of provide effective safety and entirely on negotiated and or different technical disciplines.
In quality management assurance is a repeat business contracts to both examples one of our key skills prerequisite.
Our aim is to deliver deliver business development and is managing the interface with the continual improvement in the project management in concert client and its operations in what is knowledge that sustainable safety Interserve Plc Annual Report 2004 3
