1 2 Chief Executives review continued Interserve adds value by driving Our client retention rate once again We add value by delivering a structural, cultural and performance remained above 90 per cent.
complementary range of change into the processes that maintenance-led services, support the occupancy of the built Future workload at the end of 2004 coordinated through a single environment.
Increasingly our grew by 21 per cent to 3.2 billion point relationship with our client.
clients and prospective clients are 2003: 2.7 billion.
The proportion Much of our work is undertaken seeking to consolidate their supply of our activities that are in safety-critical environments, chain solutions into larger, broaderundertaken through long-term where our ability to combine based contracts as the UK contracts continues to dominate continuous safety and productivity outsourcing market continues to our work mix in this part of the improvements sets us apart from become more sophisticated.
Over 85 per cent of our competitors.
Our growth combining an anticipation of turnover excluding Works Bills comes, in broadly equal measure, these trends with our integration, was generated through long-term from incrementally expanding our management and delivery relationships, with our longest existing relationships through 2 Prime contracts in capabilities, we believe we are well contracts extending more than bolting on additional services and Facilities Services worth positioned to deliver on growing 30 years into the future.
through adding new sites and by client expectation and to maintain securing new clients.
an aggregate 500m our competitive advantage.
Industrial Services Our strategy for Industrial Services During the year we secured Continuing increase in During the year we secured a is to focus on improved visibility contracts with a number of number of significant new and reduced risk by establishing new clients, notably: longer-term relationships business wins, particularly in sustainable client relationships International Power a three-year, in Industrial Services the defence sector: through which we deliver a range renewable multi-disciplinary of maintenance-led services.
In Appointed preferred bidder on term agreement at Rugeley 2004 we were successful in two Prime contracts worth in power station : increasing the proportion of aggregate 500 million: the lower-risk, non-cyclical work won, General Electric a three-year, South Atlantic on which enhancing our margin predictability renewable term agreement at contracts were finalised in June : and expanding future workload.
Baglan Bay for access, insulation and the South East Regional Operating profit of 10.8 million and painting : Prime in the UK.
2003: 11.6 million on turnover of Uniqema a two-year, renewable Also appointed preferred bidder 164.5 million 2003: 148.4 million multi-discipline term agreement : for two PFI projects, one in reflected a recovering margin and defence and one in education, performance in the second half in which the aggregate facilities when we achieved a margin of Corus, Kimberley Clark and Total, services values total some 7.3 per cent, in line with our target.
each of which offer prospects 150 million.
A number of contracts were extended, notably the Office for National Statistics extended term and the Metropolitan Police Service extended term and scope.
