Building long-term relationships Custodial construction Of all the sectors where co-operative the production of cell blocks through HMP Peterborough, due to open in spring working practices have delivered real savings structural innovations and using off-site 2005, the countrys first ever facility to in time and money for the client while prefabrication which allows just-in-time accommodate both male and female simultaneously enhancing quality, there is delivery to site.
inmates probably no better example than the custodial market.
Interserve first became For HM Prison Service HMPS and for Among the key factors in this success story significantly involved with prisons seven Interserve the knowledge and skills earned are the involvement of our operational years ago when our consortium was awarded through this experience are paying further partner deep in the design process, the the PFI contract to design and build the dividends beyond the PFI arena.
In 2004 we stability both of our supply chain and of 800-place HMP Forest Bank on the site of the were appointed an Alliance Constructor for the clients team and our drive for making old Agecroft power station.
Since then this the New Build HMPS framework programme continual improvements in our construction partnership has won several PFI contracts covering the whole of England and Wales.
progressing further up the learning curve The programme will last for five years and with each successive one: covers works up to 20 million.
This award The insights we have gained have proven was followed in early 2005 with the invaluable in, for example, redesigning the new Harmondsworth immigration announcement that we had won a place on prison cells to maximise visibility, minimise detention centre a completely new the companion framework programme opportunities for self-harm and reduce development at the same location as involving refurbishment, alteration, search times.
And stability in our supply the previous one extension, planned maintenance and minor chain and of the clients team means we works.
It is likely that, in providing the can make major time savings at all stages HMP Bronzefield at Ashford, Middlesex, country with much-needed custodial facilities of procurement.
As for our construction opened in 2004, the first new womens through these two programmes, we shall methods, we have been able to reduce prison to be built in the UK in over generate around 200 million of turnover.
project duration significantly by streamlining 30 years Interserve Plc Annual Report 2004 17
