3 45 1 Hadley Learning Community Project, Telford Interserve will 3 Mall of the Emirates, UAE 80kN Rapidshore supporting the provide all-inclusive accommodation to the Hadley Learning slope construction on the Snow Dome at the Mall of the Emirates.
Community Project in Telford, comprising primary, secondary 4 Melbourne Cricket Ground, Australia The construction of and special schools, together with a Children's Centre, Lifelong the new Northern Grandstand at the Melbourne Cricket Ground Learning and leisure facilities.
utilises 80kN Rapidshore and 120kN Alshor Plus.
2 Specialist Coatings Interserve offers a comprehensive range 5 Armoured Vehicles Training Service Services to be provided of specialist coating application techniques for use both by Interserves consortium will include turnkey driver, gunnery internally and externally on vessels, tanks, bridges, pipe linings, and command information systems training.
ships, process plant and offshore structures.
In the Far East, a number of major Whilst the available rates of return In December we sold our 25.5 per infrastructure projects have come are attractive and investment cent interest in the Neath Port to fruition, enabling much activity is, in its own right, a Talbot Hospital project.
Having improved trading, predominantly considerable undertaking, our completed the construction of in the second half of the year.
primary motive for investing in this very successful facility in Hong Kong and South Korea in and managing PFI projects is to 2002 Interserve had no ongoing particular have benefited from support the development of core operational role in the project.
this long-awaited upturn, whilst in operational earnings streams in We received a cash consideration Taiwan and the Philippines we have the facilities management and the of 4.3 million on disposal, which injected new ideas and approaches design & build phases of the project created an exceptional profit of to our sales teams and to our lifecycle.
product range with some success.
activities associated with our In South America, our Chilean PFI PPP Public Private Partnership Demand for infrastructure projects operations had a record year.
project investments represent some delivered through public-private PFI investment 2.4 billion, 50 per cent of our total partnerships is strong in the UK portfolio at 43m Contract durations and sales future workload, and provide an and our bidding pipeline reflects lead-times are generally shorter in excellent source of high visibility, that positive market dynamic.
PFI 2.4 billion future Equipment Services than in other high quality earnings flow.
projects remain an attractive parts of our business: however, channel to market for our facilities workload from PFI forward visibility of our workload is We achieved financial close on and projects businesses and we improving as we invest more effort two projects during the year, are well positioned in our chosen contracts in predicting market trends and in those being Project Armada sectors, offering whole-life tracking opportunities.
Our analysis the redevelopment of the Fleet accommodation solutions.
suggests that our overall trading Accommodation Centre for the environment should continue to Navy in Devonport and a project provide growth potential, with to provide 17 schools for Cornwall easing in the buoyant Australian County Council.
In both cases market more than compensated Interserve will design, build and for by continued strength in the operate the facilities over the Middle East and in the Far East length of the concession.
This during 2005. takes the total committed value of our PFI investment portfolio to PFI Investments 43 million 2003: 35 million.
PFI Investments activity continued to perform well.
The operating In addition we were appointed profit from our investments in preferred bidder on two projects: PFI PPP special purpose companies the Armoured Vehicles Training was stable at 1.8 million 2003: Service project for the Ministry of 1.8 million but pre-tax profit Defence: and a group of schools Adrian Ringrose grew by 29 per cent to 2.7 million and related facilities for the Chief Executive 2003: 2.1 million.
7 March 2005 Interserve Plc Annual Report 2004 13
