1 2 Chief Executives review continued Our international operations Equipment Services Results were strong in Australasia, successfully pursue a parallel Equipment Services showed delivered through good trading in strategy of focusing on highly consistently improving performance healthy market conditions.
Notable selective work-types and benefit during the year.
The various projects included the West Link M7 from a number of valuable longchanges made to management, motorway in Sydney, the term client relationships together organisational structure, development of the Melbourne with a consistently buoyant set of procurement and logistics have Cricket Ground and Victoria Point market conditions: re-focused the business and are shopping centre.
Secondin Dubai we have won a number half margins improved to We delivered an excellent of prestigious contracts 18.2 per cent which, together performance in the Middle East.
including the Endurance City with encouraging volume growth, In Dubai we have provided desert resort: resulted in divisional operating considerable volumes of equipment in Qatar we have undertaken a profit of 15.1 million 2003: on the new airport project, one of Equipment Services range of infrastructure projects 12.6 million, an increase of the largest construction projects operating profit for the Doha Asian Games and some 19.8 per cent.
currently underway in the world, have continued our partnering and also on the Mall of the Emirates up 20% arrangement with the Our focus is predominantly on retail development one of our own Commercial Bank of Qatar in the providing equipment for complex construction projects.
We have Strong Equipment roll-out of a branch renovation infrastructure projects in most also continued to expand our crossand remodelling programme: and major construction economies.
border activities, especially into Services performance We differentiate ourselves on the Qatar where demand is very strong.
the success of our project on the in Australasia and basis of our design and engineering Sohar Refinery in Oman has led expertise, focused client We performed well in Europe, Middle East to a significant new contract, relationship management and particularly in the UK where, under awarded just after the year end, through the breadth of our new leadership, activity levels for building and infrastructure integrated product range.
We improved and we were successful works on a desalination plant on continue to invest in new product on a number of important the same site.
development and have, during infrastructure projects such as 2004, experienced substantial Phase 2 of the St Pancras Channel Consistent with our emphasis on growth from the introduction of Tunnel Rail Link, the Bishops Bridge longer-term relationships and work Alshor Plus, a high performance project at Paddington station and streams, our client retention rate aluminium shoring system, which the M77 in Scotland.
Our Irish and was again above 90 per cent and has up to 50 per cent increased Iberian operations grew well, as a our future workload stood at 930 loading capacity over its result of improved sales focus.
We million at the end of 2004 2003: predecessor system and offers are developing a new depot in 1,025 million.
improved versatility, productivity Spain, due for completion shortly, and safety benefits.
which should enable us to introduce a broader product range into this market and to improve our operational efficiency there considerably.
