Directors report for the year ended 31 December 2004 The directors of Interserve Plc present their report and the audited financial Authorities to renew for one year the power of directors to allot shares statements for the year ended 31 December 2004. pursuant to sections 89 and 95 of the Companies Act 1985 will be sought from shareholders at the AGM.
Principal activities and business review Interserve Plc is the holding company of a group of integrated businesses Directorate and directors interests providing facilities services, industrial services, project services and The following unless otherwise noted have been directors throughout equipment services in the United Kingdom and overseas and with a range of the year: PFI investments.
M C Bottjer Group Chairman The principal companies of the Group, together with details of their J M F Padovan Deputy Chairman individual activities and their locations, may be found on pages 72 to 77 A M Ringrose Chief Executive and in the Chief Executives review on pages 9 to 13.
The Chairmans G P Balfour statement on page 8 covers prospects for the future.
S B Hagerty A R Hannah left the Board on 10 June 2004 Group results and dividends T C Jones The Group profit from ordinary trading activities before taxation and after N F Keegan exceptional items and amortisation of goodwill was 36.0 million 2003: D A Trapnell loss of 2.9 million.
The detailed results of the Group are given in the J H Vyse financial statements on pages 44 to 71 and further comments on divisional Non-executive director Senior Independent Director results are given in the Chief Executives review.
An interim dividend of 4.4p per 10p ordinary share was paid on 1 November 2004 and the Board As required by the Companys Articles of Association, Messrs Balfour, recommends a final dividend of 9.7p per 10p ordinary share, making a total Bottjer and Padovan retire by rotation and, being eligible, offer themselves distribution for the year ended 31 December 2004 of 14.1p per 10p ordinary for re-election.
The directors beneficial interests in, and options to acquire ordinary shares Subject to approval of shareholders at the Annual General Meeting AGM, of, the Company and Company loan stock at the year end are set out in the the final dividend will be paid on 9 June 2005 to shareholders appearing on Directors remuneration report on pages 39 and 40 of this Report and the register at the close of business on 18 March 2005.
Share capital There have been no changes in the directors beneficial interests in and The authorised share capital of the Company is 150,000,000 ordinary shares options to acquire ordinary shares of the Company and Company loan stock of 10p each 15,000,000 and the issued share capital at the date of this between the year end and the date of this report.
Details of outstanding options over shares in the Company The directors do not have any interest in any other Group company.
as at 31 December 2004 are set out in note 24 to the financial statements on page 69.
No director has, or has had, a material interest, directly or indirectly, at any time during the year under review in any contract significant to the The Company has authority under a shareholders resolution passed at the Companys business other than Mr Ringroses interest in the sale and AGM held on 13 May 2004 to purchase up to 11,375,633 of the Companys purchase agreement and loan notes issued in connection with the ordinary shares at prices ranging between the nominal value for each share acquisition of Building & Property Holdings Limited prior to his and 105 per cent of the average of the middle market price of the ordinary appointment as a director and Mr Hagertys interest in loan notes issued in shares for the five business days immediately preceding the date on which connection with the acquisition of Fincham Industrial Services Limited by the Company agrees to buy the shares concerned.
This authority expires on Bandt Holdings Limited prior to the acquisition of Bandt plc by the the date of the forthcoming AGM or 13 August 2005, whichever shall be the Company see notes 3 and 1 respectively in the Directors remuneration earlier.
Shareholders will be asked to renew the authority, which will report on page 40. include the purchase of shares for treasury, for a further period of up to 15 months at the AGM.
The Companies Act 1985 requires that any shares issued wholly for cash must first be offered to existing shareholders in proportion to their existing holdings unless authorised to the contrary by a resolution of the shareholders.
Resolutions giving such authority were passed in 2004.
26 Interserve Plc Annual Report 2004 Directors report continued for the year ended 31 December 2004 Substantial shareholdings Disabled employees As at 7 March 2005 the Company has been notified of the following interests The Group has an established policy that disabled persons, especially should in shares: they become disabled in the course of their employment with the Group, be employed where circumstances permit.
The Group endeavours to ensure 11,637,751 10.23% Henderson Global Investors Ltd that disabled employees benefit from training and career development 7,518,378 6.61% Artemis Investment Management Ltd programmes in line with other employees.
4,067,930 3.58% Lloyds TSB Group Plc 3,778,123 3.32% Legal & General Investment Management Ltd Social and ethical policies The Chief Executive is responsible for the Group social and ethical policies.
There are no other notifiable interests, so far as the directors are aware, A separate report on Corporate Social Responsibility is contained on pages comprising material interests of 3 per cent or more, or an aggregate of 18 to 23 of this Report and Accounts.
material and non-material interests of 10 per cent or more, in the issued share capital of the Company.
Auditors Resolutions to re-appoint Deloitte & Touche LLP as the Companys auditors Going concern basis and to authorise the directors to determine their remuneration will be After making enquiries, the directors have formed a judgement, at the time proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
of approving the financial statements, that there is a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate resources to continue in Annual General Meeting resolutions operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they The resolutions to be presented at the AGM to be held on 17 May 2005, continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial together with the explanatory notes, appear in the separate Notice of statements.
Annual General Meeting sent to all shareholders and which is also available on our website at www.
Charitable and political donations Charitable donations made during the year amounted to 35,000 Interserve House Approved by the Board of 2003: 27,500.
No political donations were made during the period.
Ruscombe Park directors and signed on Twyford behalf of the Board Creditor payment policy Reading It is the Groups normal practice to agree payment terms with its suppliers Berkshire RG10 9JU and abide by those terms.
Payment becomes due when it can be confirmed that goods and or services have been provided in accordance with the relevant contractual conditions.
The Companys trade creditors at 31 December 2004, calculated in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 1985, were 4 days 2003: 5 days.
This represents the ratio, T Bradbury expressed in days, between the amounts invoiced to the Company in the Company Secretary year by its suppliers and the amounts due, at the year end, to trade 7 March 2005 creditors falling due for payment within one year.
As figures for the Company alone are not representative, trade creditors for the Group calculated on the above basis at 31 December 2004 were 55 days 2003: 70 days.
Health and safety Mr Vyse is the nominated Executive Director champion for safety.
A report on health and safety is contained in the Corporate Social Responsibility report on pages 18 to 23 of this Report and Accounts.
Employee involvement Within the bounds of commercial confidentiality, management disseminates information to all levels of staff about matters that affect the progress of the Group and are of interest and concern to them as employees.
Information on the Groups strategy, performance, range of activities, training developments and charitable activities was given within the February, June and September editions of Focus, the Group newsletter produced on behalf of the Executive Committee.
