Case studies continued Serving the services in the South Atlantic Falkland Islands and Ascension Island In 1998 the MoDs Defence Estates fide minor new building works, construction selection were our pro-active services, an sought a partner to provide a range of plant and equipment maintenance, water open-book approach to costs and robust support services to its operations in the and sewerage, grounds maintenance and management systems that embrace end users Falkland Islands.
It awarded the contract to power generation.
Interserve introduced a and long-term operational needs.
It was also Interserve as we were able, amongst other programme and project management system significant that fide would have access to our things, to demonstrate a high level of and an informal help desk for end users and, management information system and to realquality-trained managers and a strong through improvements in health and safety time performance measures.
awareness of health and safety issues.
and customer relations, developed a high level of trust with the client.
This proved The new contract, which came into force in Although the MoDs presence in the Falklands valuable when the MoD decided to introduce February 2005, is an Infrastructure Service is primarily defensive, the islands also new and improved estate management Provider contract worth some 80 million provide an important training ground in a structures, such as Prime Contracting over its five-year life.
The range of services is unique and testing environment.
Some 1,700 and its requirement for a fundamentally similar to the original contract but we now military personnel are based at the Mount different approach to estate procurement also have an active role in planning future Pleasant Complex, a self-contained garrison built on a longer-term and more co-operative works and the flexibility to undertake site 35 miles from the capital, Port Stanley.
relationship with the private sector.
projects over the normal 300,000 threshold.
The site is centred on the main airstrip and The focus of the contract is on service the building infrastructure supports all the When, in 2004, fide reassessed its operations in delivery within a partnering environment, military activities, accommodation and the South Atlantic it not only retained where Interserve is seen as an integral part of leisure facilities.
In addition there are a Interserve, it also expanded our remit to the fide team.
number of outlying sites both on the East cover Ascension Island.
This is a strategically and West Islands.
important stop-over point for the UK and US military travelling to the Falklands and also The scope of services in the contract included has an emergency landing strip for the Space mechanical and electrical maintenance, Shuttle.
Among the reasons cited for our 16 Interserve Plc Annual Report 2004
