Generating efficiency SembCorp Utilities SembCorp Utilities, the 1.5-billion-turnover where the proactive and close working As a service supplier itself, SembCorp places international utilities provider headquartered relationship between Interserve and a high value on the service it receives.
in Singapore, owns the majority of the SembCorp comes in.
Interserves relationship with SembCorp land on the immense Wilton International has developed as its involvement in the industrial site on Teesside through its UK We began working on the site in 2002 when Wilton site has expanded and a significant subsidiary which supplies companies our combination of safety expertise and level of trust has been built up.
Mark Bathe, operating there with critical feeds of power, value for money resulted in our appointment SembCorps Utilities Operations Manager, steam and industrial gases.
Customers include to maintain the cleanliness of the belts sums up the strength of the partnership blue-chip multinationals such as INVISTA, delivering coal to the CHP boilers.
This that has been established: Interserve has ADVANSA, Huntsman, Dow and Uniqema.
shown itself to be a flexible, reliable and high quality partner.
Im glad to have Among SembCorps assets are the Wilton Our partnership-based approach and them working with us.
Power Station a 197 MW combined heat innovations in operational efficiency soon and power CHP plant capable of producing led to Interserve being awarded additional up to 600 tonnes of steam an hour the contracts for a broader range of work and to Wilton Water Treatment Plant which supplies having an increased input into the planning up to 2,000 cubic metres of demineralised process.
We now provide instrumentation water an hour the largest such water facility maintenance, multidisciplinary trade skills in the UK and cable and pipe work and access equipment in addition to a variety distribution systems for electricity, steam, of plant cleaning services.
Interserves staff compressed air, nitrogen and water.
These play a key role in ensuring the delivery of facilities are vital to SembCorps customers SembCorps products to its customers and in and require continuous programmes of assisting with the planning of the sites managed maintenance to keep them ongoing and major maintenance programmes.
This is Interserve Plc Annual Report 2004 15
