Directors report The Directors of Intertek Group plc have pleasure in presenting Other than employment contracts, none of the Directors of the their Annual Report and the audited Financial Statements for the Company had a material interest in any contract with the year ended 31 December 2004.
Company or its subsidiary undertakings, other than W Hauser, who until 1 March 2005, had a consultancy agreement with the Group PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES AND REVIEW OF BUSINESS to provide support to assist the Group in its expansion.
The terms The Groups principal activities are the testing, inspection and of the Directors service contracts and the Directors interests in the certification of products and commodities against a wide range shares and options of the Company are disclosed in the of safety, regulatory, quality and performance standards.
A review Remuneration Report on pages 15 to 21. of the Company and its subsidiaries businesses and likely future developments is given in the Annual Review, Description of EMPLOYMENT POLICY Business and the Operating and Financial Review.
The Groups employment policy is to ensure that all employees are assessed solely in terms of their ability irrespective of their race, DIVIDENDS religion, colour, age, disability, gender or sexual orientation.
An interim dividend of 3.4p 2003: 2.9p per ordinary share was paid on 16 November 2004.
A final dividend of 7.0p In accordance with the Groups equal opportunities policy, people 2003: 5.9p per ordinary share has been proposed which, with disabilities are given the same consideration as others when subject to shareholder approval, will be paid on 17 June 2005, they apply for jobs.
Depending on their skills and abilities, they to shareholders on the Register at 3 June 2005. enjoy the same career prospects as other employees.
Where employees become disabled, every effort will be made to retain SHARE CAPITAL them in their current role or to explore possibilities for retraining or The authorised and issued share capital of the Company, redeployment within the Group.
Where necessary, the Group aims together with details of the movements in the Companys to provide such employees with facilities, equipment and training issued share capital during the year, are shown in note 19 to assist them in doing their jobs.
The Company is committed to offering its key employees the PURCHASE OF OWN SHARES opportunity to align themselves more closely with the interests The Company is, until the date of the forthcoming Annual General of shareholders and the Companys performance, through the Meeting, generally and unconditionally authorised to buy back a ownership of the Companys shares.
The Company operates two proportion of its own ordinary shares.
Although no such purchases share option schemes for key employees and details are contained have been made to date, pursuant to this authority, the Directors in the Remuneration Report.
will seek to renew this authority for up to 10% of the Companys issued share capital at the Annual General Meeting to be held on The health and safety of the Groups employees is a matter of 6 May 2005. primary concern.
Accordingly, it is the Groups policy to manage its activities so as to avoid any unnecessary or unacceptable risks DIRECTORS and to have in place procedures that conform to best practice in The Directors of the Company who served during the year are set this area.
Short biographies are set out in the Annual Review.
A small number of the Groups employees are members of trade five Treves Chairman unions and work councils, mostly in continental Europe.
The Group RC Nelson Chief Executive Officer communicates regularly with the union representatives and aims to W Spencer Chief Financial Officer maintain good labour relations with all its employees.
DP Allvey Non-Executive Director W Hauser Non-Executive Director POLICY AND PRACTICE ON PAYMENT OF SUPPLIERS RE Sayers Non-Executive Director The Group does not follow any code or standard on payment R Kong Executive President China and Asia practice but has a variety of payment terms with its suppliers.
Payment terms are agreed at the commencement of business with RC Nelson and five Treves retire by rotation and being eligible, offer each supplier and it is the policy of the Group that payment is themselves for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General made accordingly, subject to the terms and conditions being met.
R Kong was appointed during the year and offers himself The Company has no trade creditors.
On 1 March 2005, W Hauser was appointed joint Chief Executive Officer.
On 31 March 2005, RC Nelson will cease to be Chief Executive Officer and will be an Executive Director until 8 April 2005, when he becomes Non-Executive Deputy Chairman.
com Directors report continued 14 15 SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDINGS The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting As at 1 March 2005, the Company has been notified in accordance records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the with sections 198 to 210 of the Companies Act 1985, that the financial position of the Company and to enable them to ensure following were interested in 3% or more of the Companys that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act ordinary share capital: 1985.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and Number Percentage to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
of shares notified ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING FMR Corp Fidelity International Ltd 20,012,625 12.93% The Notice of the Annual General Meeting to be held on Friday Lazard Asset Management 6,881,140 4.48% 6 May 2005, is enclosed with this Annual Report and Accounts.
Prudential plc 6,142,025 3.96% The Notice details the business to be conducted at the meeting.
5,973,574 3.86% Legal & General Investments 5,401,647 3.50% HBOS 4,661,649 3.02% By order of the Board Save for the above, no other person has reported an interest, which is notifiable under the Companies Act 1985, being an interest of 3% or more in the Companys issued ordinary share capital.
F Evans Group Company Secretary CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Groups statement of corporate governance is set out on 7 March 2005 pages 22 to 27 of this Annual Report and Accounts.
Registered Office 25 Savile Row CHARITABLE AND POLITICAL DONATIONS London The Group made no political or charitable donations in 2004 W1S 2ES 2003: nil.
In January 2005, the Group made a donation of USD 250,000 to the Tsunami Disaster Appeal fund.
Registered Number: 4267576 AUDITORS The auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, have indicated their willingness to continue in office and a resolution that they be reappointed will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group and of the profit or loss for that period.
In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to: Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: State whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and Prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue in business.
Intertek Group plc Annual report and accounts
