These procedures are applied across Group The Directors are ultimately responsible for establishing and operations and provide for continuing assurances to be given at maintaining the Groups system of internal control and for increasingly higher levels of management and finally, to the Board.
However, such a system is designed to This process is facilitated by Internal Audit which also provides manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business assurance as to the operation and validity of the system of internal objectives and can only provide reasonable assurance against control.
Planned corrective actions are independently monitored material mis-statement or loss.
The Board can confirm that there is an ongoing process for Each division reports annually to the Audit Committee via the identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks to the Vice President Compliance on its review of risks and how they Groups short and long-term value, including those arising from are managed.
Each year senior managers throughout the social, environmental and ethical matters.
This process has been in Group confirm the adequacy of their systems of internal controls, place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of compliance with Group policies, local laws and regulations and the Annual Report and Accounts, and is regularly reviewed by the report any control weaknesses identified in the past year.
The Audit Board, and accords with the Turnbull Guidance.
During 2004, an Committees main role is to review, on behalf of the Board, the key independent third party review of internal controls was undertaken risks inherent in the business and the system of controls necessary and any suggested improvements have been implemented.
No to ensure such risks are properly managed.
material breaches of any internal controls were identified during the year.
In carrying out the risk review the Board is satisfied that it The Vice President Compliance heads a central compliance team, received adequate information from the operations around the which co-ordinates the quality assurance function, internal audit world.
Training is provided to Directors on these matters where and claims management.
Quality assurance audits are carried necessary.
out by the divisions and the findings reported to divisional management and to centrally controlled compliance officers who The Audit Committee has reviewed the effectiveness of the system report to the Vice President Compliance.
Each division has at least of financial and non-financial internal control.
In particular, it one dedicated compliance officer who undertakes investigations has reviewed and continues to seek to improve the process for of issues that arise either from quality assurance audits or by other identifying and evaluating the significant risks affecting the means such as the employee hotline.
Reports of significant findings business and the policies and procedures by which these risks are are presented to the Audit Committee.
Each geographic region has managed.
This has been reinforced by the adoption of a Code of an internal auditor who is independent of the divisions.
The main Ethical Business Conduct, approved by the Board, which provides reporting sites are reviewed annually.
The other sites are reviewed practical guidance and instruction for staff.
A copy of this Code regularly on a schedule based on materiality and risk.
Reports of is available on www.
significant findings are presented to the Audit Committee and it monitors and reviews the effectiveness of the internal audit The Group operates a zero tolerance policy in regard to breaches of function.
The international internal audit department has been ethics and employees are required to sign a certificate confirming awarded ISO 9001: 2000 accreditation, one of the few internal their understanding that any breaches of the Groups code of audit teams in the UK to have achieved this standard.
ethics will result in disciplinary action that may include dismissal of the employee concerned.
To support Group policies and raise The Group has implemented internal audit systems to facilitate concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial compliance with applicable requirements of the US Foreign reporting and other matters there is an independent e-mail and Corrupt Practices Act, the Office of Foreign Assets Control, the telephone hotline so that staff may report anonymously any Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development and inaccurate or unethical working practices.
The telephone hotline similar laws and regulations affecting the conduct of its business.
is managed by an independent third party.
The Audit Committee reviews the assurance procedures, ensuring In carrying out its review, the Audit Committee endeavours to that an appropriate mix of techniques is used to attain the level of ensure that the Group has in place the most appropriate and assurance required by the Board.
effective controls, checks, systems and risk management techniques so as to be in line with best practice on such matters.
The Chief Executive Officer also reports to the Board on significant changes in the business and the external environment, which Each operating division is responsible for the identification and could impact on risk.
The Chief Financial Officer provides the Board evaluation of significant risks applicable to that area of business with monthly financial information, which includes the comparison together with the design and operation of suitable internal of key performance figures against budget and forecasts, risk controls.
These risks are assessed on a continual basis and may be indicators and compliance with covenants.
Where areas for associated with a variety of internal or external sources including improvement in the system are identified, the Board considers control breakdowns, disruption of information systems, the recommendations made by management and the Audit competition, natural catastrophe and regulatory requirements.
The Board approves the treasury policy and that departments activities are also subject to internal audit.
A process of control using self-assessment and hierarchical reporting has been established which provides a documented trail www.
com Corporate governance continued 26 27 RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS No use is made of live animals in any of the tests carried out by Communications with shareholders are given a high priority.
The Company produces an Annual Review which is sent to shareholders together with the Annual Report and Accounts.
ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS At the half year, an Interim Report is published.
The Company also The Group is committed to preventing any adverse impact on the has a website www.
com which contains up-to-date environment as a result of its operations.
The Groups worldwide information on the Groups activities and published financial risk management team is tasked with identifying all potential results.
Shareholders can subscribe via the Investor Relations risks and introducing procedures to prevent such an occurrence.
com to receive e-mail alerts of important The policy on the audit of environmental risks has recently been announcements made by the Company.
In future, the Vice President Compliance will choose 10 to 15 sites per annum for review to determine whether There is regular dialogue with institutional shareholders including procedures are being properly implemented, and to advise on presentations after the Companys Preliminary Announcement of further precautionary measures.
The internal audit team will check the year end results and at the half year.
The Chairman ensures the process for the disposal of samples.
A policy of zero tolerance that any feedback from the institutional shareholders is for non-compliance with such procedures is enforced and regular communicated directly to the Board and all the analysts and checks are carried out to ensure compliance.
brokers reports on the Group are e-mailed directly to each Director.
The Chairman, Senior Independent Director and other In certain cases, the Group occupies facilities where pollution Non-Executive Directors have also attended meetings with occurred prior to the Groups use of the site.
In each case the institutional shareholders during the year.
Group has implemented remedial works, on the advice of third party specialists, to minimise further damage to the environment.
The Board views the Annual General Meeting as a valuable Environmental due diligence is carried out before the acquisition of opportunity to communicate with private and institutional any new sites.
investors and welcomes their participation.
All Board members attend the Annual General Meeting and in particular, the Chairmen of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees are available to answer questions.
At General Meetings, a schedule of the proxy votes cast is made available to all shareholders.
The Company proposes a resolution on each substantially separate issue and does not bundle together resolutions inappropriately.
GOING CONCERN After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Groups Financial Statements.
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY The Board recognises that the Group has a responsibility to act ethically in relation to the physical and social environment in which it operates and that failure to do so could adversely impact on the Groups long and short-term value, as a result of financial penalty and loss of customer support.
It takes such responsibilities seriously paying due regard to international and local laws in all its dealings.
The Group provides equal opportunity for its entire staff irrespective of their ethnic or religious background, sex, sexual orientation or disability as disclosed in the Directors Report on page 13.
Appropriate health and safety measures have been established and are operated throughout the Group.
Local compliance officers keep the operation of such measures under regular review.
Any incidents are investigated by a central team of specialists, which makes recommendations to avoid a repetition.
The Group actively seeks to provide good employment opportunities and conditions for all staff and it is part of the corporate culture to hire, train and develop employees and managers from local communities.
Intertek Group plc Annual report and accounts
