Description of business 02 03 GENERAL corporate social responsibility audits of suppliers.
The Labtest brand Intertek is an international leader in testing, inspection and name has been established since 1973. certification of products and commodities and the certification of systems.
Customers include retailers, distributors, manufacturers, The Labtest division tests and inspects products against applicable traders, industrial bodies, oil and chemical companies and safety, regulatory, quality and performance standards which are government bodies.
either set by regulatory bodies such as standards bodies or are specified by retailers or importers.
The products and commodities tested, inspected and certified include textiles, toys and other consumer goods, electrical and Labtest provides a wide range of testing services near the points electronic goods, building and heating, ventilation and air of product manufacture and design, and buying offices.
Labtest conditioning products, automotive components, crude oil, has a broad range of accreditations from standards bodies which petroleum products, chemicals, food and agricultural produce.
mean that it is able to test products to the safety and performance requirements of different markets around the world.
This, together Products are tested against safety standards decreed by with quick turnaround times and Labtests reputation for service governmental or regulatory bodies or recognised standards excellence, ensures that the performance and quality needs of authorities and also against quality and performance standards retailers and other customers worldwide are met.
that are established by recognised standards bodies or customers themselves.
Demand for testing and inspection is driven by a number of factors.
European and North American retailers and importers are Testing, inspection and certification services are performed increasingly sourcing products from China and other parts of Asia.
around the world, generally near the points of manufacture, This increases the need for testing and inspection in order to design or other forms of sourcing.
Intertek has a broad range of ensure that products are compliant with standards in the retailers accreditations, approvals and certifications to assist customers in home market and also meet the retailers own internal standards.
qualifying their products and commodities for sale in the principal There is also a growing demand for testing and inspection as markets of the world.
customers become more quality conscious and retailers and manufacturers wish to improve or protect their reputations Intertek also reviews and certifies the systems of customers and reduce returns of sub-standard products to manufacturers.
in conformity with their requirements and the requirements Shorter product life cycles, new fabrics, a greater number of of regulators.
designs and more own brand merchandise also increase the need for Labtests services.
Intertek operates in a large number of different market segments and the business is organised into four main operating divisions, The demand for testing and inspection is also driven by new safety each involved in the testing, inspection and certification of standards and regulations.
For example, two new EU directives, particular goods or commodities.
The Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment WEEE directive and the Restriction of the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in GROUP STRATEGY Electrical and Electronic Equipment RoHS directive, will require Interteks businesses operate across a broad spectrum of consumer manufacturers, retailers, importers, exporters and consumers of and industrial markets, and across a wide geographic spread.
Its electrical and electronic equipment E&E to play their part in the strategy is to be an industry leader in creating value for its environmentally sound management of E&E waste.
Labtest has the customers and shareholders in its chosen markets.
auditing knowledge and experience to advise customers whether they are in compliance with these directives.
GEOGRAPHIC FOCUS Intertek operates a decentralised management structure with a Labtest divides its activities into the following sub-divisions for small corporate head office in London.
Operations are conducted management purposes Textile testing, Toys and Hardline testing, through subsidiary companies located in 102 countries throughout Inspection of consumer products, Systems Certification, RAM the world.
It is Interteks policy to recruit local management Consulting and Social Compliance Audit.
An analysis of turnover, operating profit and net operating assets by geographic area is given in note 2 to the Textile testing is carried out to provide retailers and importers Financial Statements.
with confidence that they are buying merchandise that meets their requirements with respect to fibre composition, colourfastness, OPERATIONS shrinkage, flammability and other performance, quality and legally Interteks four main operating divisions are as follows: required safety standards, and it also helps manufacturers to meet these standards.
Labtest has the largest and most comprehensive LABTEST network of textile testing laboratories in the industry.
Business overview and growth prospects Labtest is a leading international provider of testing and inspection Toy testing is carried out during both the design and services for a range of consumer goods including textiles, footwear, manufacturing processes to evaluate toys against the mandatory toys and hardlines such as ceramics, bicycles, cosmetic products, safety standards of the countries in which they will be sold.
Tests sporting goods, juvenile products and furniture.
Labtest also carried out include testing for sharp edges, choking hazards, provides services to certify customers own operating standards, toxicity of paint, flammability and electrical safety.
Labtests assess the security of customers supply chains and undertake extensive network of laboratories has the certifications and Intertek Group plc Annual report and accounts approvals needed for testing toys to meet relevant safety standards under ultra-clean or sterile manufacturing conditions in the in all the major markets in the world.
pharmaceutical, biotech, cosmetic and electronics industries.
Hardline testing is carried out on various products, such as Divisional strategy ceramics, bicycles, cosmetic products, sporting goods, juvenile Labtest aims to capitalise on the continuing strong growth in its products, furniture, fireworks and other products against retailers market by organic growth and by acquisitions, whilst maintaining performance standards and, where applicable, mandatory its operating margins.
Labtest intends to continue to build its safety standards.
network of laboratories, grow its inspection network to expand its international coverage and adapt its service range to meet Inspection of consumer products involves the inspection of customer needs.
goods, at manufacturers plants in order to verify that they meet buyers specifications during manufacturing and when they are Labtest also aims to continue strengthening its relationship with shipped.
The goods are statistically inspected to check such factors retailers, especially in North America and Europe, building trust and as sizing, quantities, colours, packing and labelling.
Labtest has a confidence in the excellence of its services.
The relationships with network of inspectors in China and other Asian and developing manufacturers and retailers local buying offices are important countries, around the Mediterranean rim and in Latin America who both for the direct testing and inspection work they create and are located close to the manufacturers and who have the skills for the influence they exert over manufacturers and retailers for necessary to carry out this inspection work.
Labtest, in partnership Labtest to be appointed.
Labtest is well positioned to sell to with Sandler & Travis Trade Advisory Services, provides security these manufacturers and buying offices as it has strong local validation programmes for customers to assess whether their management in Asia and other developing countries which is global supply chains comply with the C-TPAT security guidelines.
continually being strengthened and expanded.
C-TPAT Customs Trade Partnership Against Terrorism is an initiative between US businesses and the US government to Labtest expects Systems Certification to be an area of growth, protect global commerce from terrorism.
particularly in Asia and believes that Interteks strong position and extensive customer base in product testing will assist it to Systems Certification involves the certification of a customers penetrate this market.
processes and systems to external standards such as ISO 9000 and ISO 14000 or to customers own standards.
Certification Operations involves Labtest checking that a company has properly defined Labtests principal testing facilities are located near the point and documented its business processes and standards of service.
of manufacture and design of a product or the buying offices of Companies receiving certifications are subject to regular audits retailers.
They range from the Hong Kong laboratory, the largest as a condition of continuing certification.
textile testing laboratory in the world, and major laboratories in Shanghai and Guangzhou in China, India and Turkey to small RAM Consulting works with customers to assess and reduce operations in territories such as Morocco and South Africa.
Labtest the hazards associated with products before the products are employs highly skilled technicians, managers and consultants in a produced.
RAM has built injury databases containing details of number of specialist fields such as textile analysis and toy testing.
more than four million injuries, including information on product characteristics, which it uses to develop safety processes that are Geographic coverage incorporated into the customers business process.
RAMs major Labtest operates in 32 countries and has 35 laboratories and customer is McDonalds and its suppliers of promotional items such 79 offices worldwide.
The head office is located in Hong Kong.
However, as safety standards become more rigorous, RAMs client base is growing and the range of products it evaluates Customers is widening to include such items as childrens clothes.
RAM Labtests customers are mainly retailers based in North America services include safety training, supply chain management and and Europe but who have remote buying offices, often in Asia, total quality assurance within the manufacturing process.
and manufacturers, mostly based in Asia.
Labtests top 10 global customers represented approximately 21% of its turnover in 2004 Social Compliance Audit is the audit of the social and safety and the largest customer accounted for 5.2% of its turnover in the conditions of workers.
It includes factory inspections, document same period.
Retailers and distributors mainly commission the audits and Labtest works closely with both Market and competition manufacturers and retailers to review problems that have been Labtest has approximately 45% of the textile testing market and identified.
The main focus of these audits is to detect the use of is the market leader.
It has about 28% of the toys and hardline child labour, involuntary labour, coercion and harassment, health testing market and about 25% of the inspection of consumer and safety breaches, excessive working hours, compensation goods market.
SGS and the Bureau Veritas group compete with and environmental protection abuses.
The development of the Labtest in textile, toys and hardline testing, inspection, social business has resulted from consumers and pressure groups compliance audit and systems certification.
being increasingly concerned about the social conditions and safety of workers in factories.
Employees At 31 December 2004, Labtest had a total of 4,095 employees, Labtests other services include Validation and Monitoring work with 3,234 in Asia, 570 in Europe, and 291 in the Americas.
which is undertaken in France and China for customers operating www.
com Description of business continued 04 05 CALEB BRETT Caleb Brett has experienced project teams who work with Business overview and growth prospects customers on a global basis to implement laboratory outsourcing Caleb Brett was founded in 1885 and is a leading international and create optimal service solutions.
service provider of laboratory testing and commercial inspection services, mainly for petroleum, refined products, chemicals, The strategic acquisition of attractive independent laboratories consumer and agricultural products.
Caleb Brett performs a rapidly serving key market and geographical niches is another avenue for growing number of large laboratory outsourcing projects, offering growth.
The acquisition of Kelley Completion Services in 2004, analytical testing for oil, chemical and other companies on a global enhanced Caleb Bretts service offerings and outsourcing basis.
capabilities for the upstream petroleum exploration and production market in the Gulf of Mexico.
Caleb Brett has earned a reputation for reliability and confidentiality, offering professional services to global standards.
The market for cargo inspection and inspection related testing in geographic sectors such as Europe and the United States is mature Caleb Brett divides its activities into the following sub-divisions for and not expected to grow significantly.
Caleb Brett intends to management purposes Laboratory services, including laboratory maintain and expand its share of the global inspection business outsourcing, and Inspection services.
by continually improving its service to customers and further extending its network of inspection offices and laboratories into Laboratory services and outsourcing involves the provision areas where there are long-term strategic growth opportunities, of testing and laboratory analytical services to supplement or including China, Eastern Europe and the Former Soviet Union.
replace the in-house testing activities carried out by customers.
The division provides a wide range of analytical testing work for Caleb Bretts share of the global agricultural commodity inspection a diverse and growing range of industries and companies.
and testing market is small and its strategy is to expand in niche segments both organically and through acquisitions.
A centralised Testing activities include the analysis of crude oil and refined Agri centre in Geneva was established in 2004 in order to build products, chemicals, consumer products, pharmaceuticals, metals, the resources needed to drive expansion in the agricultural polymers and other products.
Growing research capabilities in commodity inspection market.
The recent expansion of the US the Caleb Brett laboratory network have created new testing food laboratory and the outsourcing of an agricultural inspection markets in nanotechnology, microelectronics and biotechnology.
facility in Canada have extended the divisions service offerings in Laboratory outsourcing provides customers access to an extensive this market.
and growing global network of scientific expertise and technology available from Caleb Brett laboratories.
Laboratory outsourcing Operations offers the client a value-added service with enhanced quality at a Caleb Brett employs experienced chemists in its laboratories, many lower total cost.
of whom hold PhD, MSc and BSc level qualifications.
Professionally trained field and coordination personnel perform inspection, Inspection services help to safeguard the commercial interests of sampling and other operations seven days a week around customers during the transfer of high value petroleum, chemical the world.
This involves the physical sampling, testing, quantification, inspection and certification of commodities Computerised laboratory information systems allow for enhanced such as petroleum, petrochemicals, grain, vegetable oils and other reporting accuracy, reduced operating costs and faster turnaround products for the companies, organisations and government times.
Caleb Bretts testing facilities are ISO 9000 certified and agencies trading in them.
a growing number are ISO 17025 accredited.
Through its outsourcing agreement with Avecia, Caleb Brett has gained a Caleb Brett provides field inspection and laboratory testing in order significant laboratory research centre in the UK which is compliant to assess the quantity and quality of bulk commodity shipments.
with the Good Laboratory Practice GLP and the current Good These services are performed in major markets across the world, Manufacturing Practice cGMP directives.
with offices and laboratories located in key locations to determine the quantities of cargoes, to sample them, and then analyse Geographic coverage the samples.
Caleb Brett certifies the quantity and quality of Caleb Brett offers its services to 118 countries through its shipments, and both buyers and sellers rely on these certificates to network of 353 offices and 209 laboratories.
The division has complete transactions.
Customers also use Caleb Brett reports to its headquarters in Houston, Texas and is organised into three assess the composition of cargoes, as well as their quality and geographic regions with headquarters located in the United compliance with commercial and regulatory standards.
Kingdom for Europe, the Middle East and Africa, in Singapore for Asia and in Houston, Texas for the Americas.
Divisional strategy The main opportunity for growth continues to be the outsourcing Customers of testing activities to Caleb Brett on a global scale.
Several new Caleb Brett has well established, long-term relationships with contracts were gained in 2004, including business from Avecia, customers including companies in the petroleum, chemical, ChevronTexaco, ExxonMobil, BP and Shell.
agricultural, consumer, pharmaceutical and other industry sectors.
Caleb Bretts top ten customers represented approximately 32% of Significant opportunities exist in the petroleum, chemical, life turnover in 2004 and its largest customer accounted for 9.5% of sciences, materials sciences, food and pharmaceutical sectors.
turnover in the same period.
Intertek Group plc Annual report and accounts Market and competition retailers as an acceptable mark for products sold in their stores with At this relatively early phase in terms of market penetration, Caleb the same status as the UL mark.
Brett has a growing track record of laboratory outsource project successes, and can be considered a world leader in providing this European legislation requires all products placed on the EU market type of specialised service solution to industry.
Caleb Brett is one of have a CE mark affixed.
Suppliers to the marketplace are required the first companies to have started a major strategic industry shift to either make a self-declaration that the product complies with all in how such laboratory services are provided.
relevant European standards and directives or have a mandatory third party assessment if the product group has this restriction, The global market for traditional oil and chemical inspection an example being Medical equipment.
Where self declaration and testing is estimated to be about 500m.
Caleb Brett has of products is acceptable there is an increasing demand from approximately 25% of this market.
Competition is expected to be manufacturers and suppliers to gain third party verification of their relatively stable due to the high start up and fixed costs involved in products compliance with the necessary directives prior to making maintaining a global network of facilities and the importance of a that declaration.
This verification affords a level of confidence well-recognised brand name.
Caleb Bretts in-house expertise, that all safety requirements have been covered to minimise their brand name recognition and solid reputation are competitive risk profile.
ETL SEMKO divides its activities into the following sub-divisions for Employees management purposes Safety testing and certification of electrical At 31 December 2004, Caleb Brett had a total of 5,870 employees and electronic products, Performance testing of electrical and worldwide with 1,990 in Europe, the Middle East and Africa, 2,260 electronic products, Testing and certification of building products in the Americas and 1,620 in Asia.
and materials, Risk assessment and regulatory compliance testing and certification of semiconductor manufacturing equipment and ETL SEMKO Inspection of electrical and electronic goods, Automotive testing Business overview and growth prospects and engineering and Automotive Systems Certification.
ETL SEMKO tests, certifies and inspects a wide range of electrical and electronic products, including telecommunications, medical, Safety testing and certification of electrical and electronic consumer and industrial, heating, ventilation and air conditioning products involves the testing of products in ETL SEMKO HVAC equipment, building products and other products, laboratories against internationally recognised safety, electroagainst safety and performance standards.
Through the acquisition magnetic compatibility EMC, or telecom-specific standards.
of Entela Inc. in May of 2004, ETL Entela tests automotive The laboratories are, in most cases, accredited or recognised by materials, components and systems.
Additionally, Intertek national government bodies, for example, UKAS UK Accreditation Automotive Systems Certification provides automotive quality Service in the United Kingdom and OSHA Occupational Safety systems certification.
and Health Administration in the United States.
The test results demonstrate conformity with the standards or requirements and The ETL brand name is long established in the United States can be used as part of the technical file for verifying conformity and Canada and can trace its origins back to 1896 from Thomas with regulations or as the basis for a certificate to be issued to the Edisons Electrical Testing Laboratories.
The SEMKO brand name manufacturer, which in turn means that the manufacturer may is widely respected in the industry for safety and is the name of apply a mark to the product to demonstrate that the product the former state owned certification body in Sweden that was meets the appropriate safety standards.
In some cases, certificates acquired in 1994. or marks are owned by and are unique to ETL SEMKO, for example, the ETL mark in the United States and the S mark in Manufacturing has increasingly migrated from Europe and Europe.
In other cases, ETL SEMKO may be one of a number of North America to developing countries in Asia.
ETL SEMKO is well organisations authorised to act as an agent in issuing the certificate positioned to take advantage of this migration due to its extensive or mark on behalf of another body such as the GS mark on Asian network of testing and inspection capabilities, especially behalf of the German government.
ETL SEMKO works closely with in China.
In addition, manufacturers are increasingly becoming other third party certification bodies, who will issue a certificate on global, exporting products to many more markets, forcing them to the basis of the ETL SEMKO test results, such as BEAB British comply with a wide range of varied regulations and having to test Electro-technical Approvals Board in the United Kingdom.
In products to different country standards.
Further, the demand for addition, ETL SEMKO is a major participator in the Global CB and testing and certification is increasing in developed countries as they Regional CCA and ENEC product certification schemes.
become more focused on safety and performance.
Performance testing of electrical and electronic products Retailers and manufacturers require performance testing of includes performance testing and verification of energy, capacity, electrical and electronic products so that they can compare acoustics, reliability, power, durability, usability and comparison the products of different suppliers, especially when they are evaluation on a wide range of products.
Testing is carried out sourcing own-brand domestic appliances from Asia.
Third party against international, national, industry associations or customers performance testing is also used to confirm suppliers own claims specifications.
These services are available to all clients in all regions and verify the claims of competitors.
Retailers also want products and cover all industry sectors.
Major third party testing programmes they buy to be inspected during and after manufacture to are operated for the Air Conditioning and Refrigeration Institute ARI, ensure that the merchandise being shipped to them meets Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers AHAM, Gas their specifications.
The ETL mark is now confirmed by the major Appliance Manufacturers Association GAMA, Pool Heat Pump www.
com Description of business continued 06 07 Manufacturers Association PHPMA, Safety Equipment Institute SEI, ETL SEMKOs growth strategy includes increasing the level of US Department of Transportation DOT and the US Federal Aviation business undertaken for retailers.
This includes inspection work Administration FAA.
and developing the performance testing business for retailers in ETL SEMKO.
The wider acceptance of the ETL safety mark by Testing and certification of building products and materials retailers in the United States will lead to an increased market includes testing for fire resistance, structural, mechanical, physical, share of the North American domestic appliance, consumer and and accelerated ageing of materials as well as electrical and gas home electronics safety markets for ETL SEMKO.
ETL SEMKO is the market leader in the testing of fire doors and it also tests other building products such as hardware, hearth In addition to the above initiatives, ETL SEMKO will broaden products, glazing, plumbing, roofing, manufactured wood, its geographic spread by making strategic bolt-on acquisitions, fenestration, gypsum board and insulation materials.
ETL SEMKO or opening laboratories in regions where there are growth owns the Warnock Hersey certification mark in North America opportunities.
ETL SEMKO can add value to these developments which denotes product compliance to standards referenced in by making available its safety labels and other accreditations and building codes.
approvals for markets around the world and by transferring its testing and certification skills.
Risk assessment and regulatory compliance testing and certification of semiconductor manufacturing equipment As more countries become focused on safety standards, there are is carried out under the brand Global Semiconductor Safety opportunities to enter into co-operative arrangements with their Services GS3 and involves the inspection of manufacturers standards bodies with a view to testing and certifying products facilities to provide comprehensive evaluations of manufacturing to their standards and having them issue safety compliance equipment to semiconductor industry standards as well as certificates.
ETL SEMKO has entered into more than 20 such product safety testing in order to comply with regulatory arrangements in countries as diverse as Belarus, Brazil, Argentina, requirements in the United States and Europe.
These activities Singapore and Japan.
These arrangements position Intertek are conducted worldwide.
strongly with respect to manufacturers wanting to gain access to these emerging markets.
Inspection of electrical and electronic goods is carried out at manufacturers plants or at selected points in the supply chain Operations in order to confirm that goods meet buyers specifications.
ETL SEMKO has experienced engineers and extensive equipment The goods are inspected to confirm a variety of requirements and facilities to test and certify a wide range of products against a including quantities, electrical specifications, packing and labelling.
large number of performance and safety standards.
ETL SEMKO has a global network of qualified inspectors, including a strong presence in China and other Asian and developing Geographic coverage countries located close to the manufacturers.
ETL SEMKO operates in 16 countries and has 53 offices and 50 laboratories worldwide.
The division has its headquarters in Automotive testing and engineering was established through the United Kingdom and there are regional head offices in the the acquisition of Entela Inc. a testing and engineering, product UK for Europe, in Shanghai, China for Asia, and Chicago, Illinois certification and systems certification firm, with over 80% of for the Americas.
its business in the automotive industry.
As automotive sector product development continues to expand in North America Customers and Europe and manufacturing migrates to China and Eastern ETL SEMKOs customers include retailers, manufacturers, industry Europe, there are significant growth opportunities.
The Entela organisations and government departments.
ETL SEMKOs top ten acquisition provides a platform for the global growth of the customers represented about 14% of its turnover in 2004 and the Groups automotive business through a combination of organic largest customer accounted for 3.8% of such turnover in the same growth, acquisitions and outsourcing.
ETL SEMKO also has long-standing relationships with various industry organisations including the Air Conditioning and Automotive Systems Certification provides quality systems Refrigeration Institute ARI in the United States, which has been a certification to the automotive supply base.
Standards include ISO customer since 1956.
9000, ISO 14000, QS 9000 and the mandated global automotive quality standard ISO TS 16949.
Market and competition Market information is difficult to obtain due to the non-public Divisional strategy reporting of ETL SEMKOs main competitors.
Based however, ETL SEMKOs objective is to provide an excellent service to its on internally generated information, ETL SEMKO has about clients, increase its market share and provide a good return on 11% market share in the United States excluding automotive investment to its shareholders.
It aims to achieve this by continuing components, with a wide range of market share for individual to promote and provide manufacturers with local testing and give segments.
Market share in Europe varies from country to country them global market access by testing and certifying their products but is estimated to be about 6% in total.
In Asia, market share is to the standards of different countries.
ETL SEMKO aims to help estimated to be about 16%.
ETL SEMKO has about 4% of the customers reduce the time it takes to bring their products to automotive component testing market in the United States.
market by working with them through the design stage and achieving fast turnarounds.
In particular, ETL SEMKO intends ETL SEMKO has few direct competitors with a similar market to continue to expand its presence in Asia, especially in China.
Underwriters Laboratories, which is primarily engaged in safety testing and certification, has the major share of the Intertek Group plc Annual report and accounts market in the United States, especially in domestic appliances By developing new products and services, the division has and consumer electronic products.
In Europe there are many expanded the range of value added services provided to customs departments.
These include training and consultancy, and software competitors, the largest being the German Technische products for risk management and valuation.
FTS can also provide berwachungsvereine TVs who have the major market client governments with local Customs Support Teams, to provide share in Germany and Asia.
immediate valuation advice and on-the-job training support.
Employees Exporters of goods to client countries may use FTS certificates as At 31 December 2004, ETL SEMKO had a total of 2,486 part of the documentation needed to draw down on letters of employees, with 451 in Europe, the Middle East and Africa, credit.
The FTS certificate also provides importers with a degree of 1,067 in Asia and 968 in the Americas.
protection against exporters delivering goods which do not meet the importers specifications or are of low quality.
FOREIGN TRADE STANDARDS FTS Business overview and growth prospects Cargo scanning services help client governments to implement The Foreign Trade Standards division works for the standards and operate cargo scanning equipment to ensure better security bodies of different countries helping to ensure that imports of the supply chain, and to comply with the growing security comply with national safety and other requirements: for Finance requirements of the US and elsewhere.
Cargo scanning equipment Ministries and Customs Departments providing services that uses X-ray technology to inspect the contents of a shipping ensure import duties are properly declared and paid: and for both container without the need to open it.
The results of the X-ray can Transport and Finance Ministries to implement cargo scanning then be compared with shipping documents and any deviations solutions to protect trade security.
FTS also uses its inspection can then be subject to further investigation.
resources to provide services to major industrial and commercial clients to ensure that equipment and goods they buy meet all Technical inspection services are provided to a wide range of their specifications.
The range of inspection, expediting and outsourced project management activities is usually focused on FTS divides its activities into the following sub-divisions larger engineering plants and projects.
The service covers the for management purposes Standards programmes, review of specifications sent to suppliers and, technical inspection Pre-shipment Inspection PSI programmes, Cargo Scanning, activities including the witnessing of tests on finished products and and Technical inspection.
Standards programmes are contracted by the governments Divisional strategy and standards bodies of client countries such as the Ministry of FTS focuses on increasing its market share while maintaining Commerce in Saudi Arabia, and the government of Kuwait.
FTS both a satisfactory operating margin and a rigorous compliance is appointed to ensure that imports are assessed for compliance programme.
The division has developed new products and services with the safety and other standards of the importing country.
The that can support client customs departments.
These services mean testing and inspection takes place in the country of export, and that FTS can provide a more comprehensive customs support applies to a specified range of imported goods.
Following a package to client governments.
The division will also work to successful assessment, FTS issues a certificate which enables the increase its turnover in standards programmes, building on the goods to be cleared through customs.
success of the Saudi Arabian and Kuwaiti programmes.
The division is also investing in its cargo scanning business, both to Standards bodies appoint FTS to help ensure the safety of imports, generate new revenues and to protect existing revenues.
and to support the implementation of security and ethical import policies and legislation.
FTS also provides client standards bodies Operations with support in the development of standards, training, and safety Inspection requirements typically involve verification of shipment related information.
quantity, quality, product specification and value.
As well as its own full time inspectors, FTS uses the services of sub-contractors To deliver standards programmes, FTS makes extensive use of the around the world who operate on a pay-per-job basis, minimising laboratory facilities of other Intertek divisions.
the fixed cost of FTS worldwide inspection capability.
Pre-shipment inspection PSI programmes are provided by FTS Geographic coverage to client governments to maximise import duty revenues.
FTS FTS has 45 offices worldwide and its head office is located in the inspects shipments destined for the client country, in the country of United Kingdom.
The service helps ensure that import duties are properly calculated and paid, and that goods being imported meet the legal requirements of the client country.
FTS inspections are used to confirm the quantity and quality of goods to be shipped.
FTS assigns the correct tariff code for the goods, verifies the declared value and certifies the import duties payable.
The FTS certificate is needed in order to clear the shipment through customs in the client country.
com Description of business continued 08 09 Customers FTS customers include the governments of Bangladesh, Ecuador, Iran, Kuwait, Malawi, Mexico, Mozambique, Nigeria, Saudi Arabia, Sierra Leone, Venezuela and Uzbekistan.
These customers represented about 93% of the divisions turnover in 2004.
In any given year, approximately 50% of FTS contracts by number are scheduled for renewal.
FTS manages the renewal of contracts through its relationship managers for each major contract.
In 2004, the government of Rwanda cancelled its contract with FTS.
Market and competition Four companies dominate the PSI and Standards market.
The high cost of entry caused by the requirement to have an extensive worldwide inspection and pricing network creates a barrier to newcomers.
Based on the number of programmes in existence and FTS knowledge of the main competitors, FTS has approximately 20% of the PSI and Standards Programme market with over 70% held by three competitors.
Employees At 31 December 2004, FTS had 1,018 employees and approximately 1,200 sub-contractors.
CENTRAL FUNCTIONS Intertek operates a decentralised structure where the majority of support functions are provided at the level of the individual divisions and are co-ordinated and monitored by the Groups head office.
The operating divisions have financial, human resources, information technology and compliance personnel who report to their respective divisional directors.
In addition to providing central support to these specialist areas, the Groups head office is responsible for centralised functions such as group finance, treasury, tax, group information technology, compliance, company secretarial services and acquisition strategy.
The Companys head office is in London, United Kingdom and consists of 38 people.
In addition, there are four head office employees based in the United States.
Intertek Group plc Annual report and accounts
