Management discussion & analysis 2004 2003 Rail Systems Sales m 442 404 Operating margin % 14.0 13.6 Number of employees 3,081 2,960 Rail Systems designs, manufactures, supplies, increased to 14.0% 2003: 13.6% and cash flow was strong.
installs and maintains rail signalling and control systems.
Order intake for the year of 1,338 million 2003: 412 million was dominated by 917 million from the two London Our business Regulators funding review and the Underground Public-Private Partnership Rail Systems is a leader in the design, restructuring of Network Rail caused delays PPP contracts.
Other significant orders manufacture, supply, installation, in the placement of future contracts for included three Spanish High Speed Line commissioning and maintenance of safetylarge signalling renewals.
In the US, delay orders for 58 million and two orders worth related rail signalling and control systems, in the passage of the US Transportation Bill 35 million for New York City Transit.
as well as a complete range of rail signalling is deferring federally-funded rail crossing Excluding the PPP contracts, the order book products.
Rail Systems businesses are investment.
declined slightly, due to the specific issues among the market leaders in a number in the key UK and US markets.
of geographical areas, including the UK Performance for the year was strong.
Sales Westinghouse Rail Systems, Iberia for the year increased by 9% 11% at CER Prospects over the longer term remain Dimetronic, the US signalling by Safetran to 442 million 2003: 404 million with positive, with an increasing contribution Systems and logistics by Burco Services, and growth in the UK and Spain benefiting from from the London Underground contracts, Australasia Westinghouse Signals Australia.
the high opening order book for large strong rail infrastructure investment Customers include government authorities, signalling renewals projects.
Commencement expected particularly in the UK and Spain other rail infrastructure owners and private of work on the smaller of the two London and growth in the lower-margin US civil contractors.
Underground signalling projects contributed logistics business.
Order progress in the 17 million in sales during the year.
short term may be slowed by Network Rails Our performance reorganisation in the UK and by the passage Market conditions in core markets of Operating profit for the year increased of the Transportation Bill in the US.
Margins the UK, Spain and the US were mixed.
by 13% 13% at CER to 62 million 2003: will be slightly impacted by the Groups Investment in rail infrastructure in the UK 55 million as a result of higher sales and increased costs for bonding and insurance.
and Spain remained at historically high a number of successful project completions levels, but latterly in the UK, the Rail in the UK and Spain.
Operating margin Case study: WARM Alliance Westinghouse Rail Systems position as the leading signalling contractor in the UK has once again been confirmed by its major role in the success of the West Anglia Route Modernisation WARM Alliance.
The five-strong alliance of Network Rail, Westinghouse Rail Systems, Amec Spie Rail, Grant Rail and Alfred McAlpine delivered the 184 million project to modernise more than 200 kilometres of signalling from Londons Liverpool Street station to Stansted Airport, six months ahead of schedule, within budget and with an excellent safety record.
Westinghouse Rail Systems provided signalling and telecommunications systems, trackside equipment and commissioning management for the project, which involved 43 stations, over 300 new signals and the transfer of 16 signal boxes to client Network Rails state-of-the-art electronic Control Centre, close to Liverpool Street station.
The four-year project, which is critical to improving reliability and performance for an anticipated 30 million passenger journeys per year, was successfully completed by the alliance in October 2003.
This success was recognised by the industry at the 2004 Railway Forum Innovation Awards where HRH Princess Anne presented the WARM Alliance with an award recognising their achievement.
12 Invensys plc Annual report & accounts 2004
