Management discussion & analysis 2004 2003 Process Systems Sales m 768 768 Operating margin % 4.3 5.6 Number of employees 7,769 7,655 Process Systems provides products, services prior periods.
Operating margin was 4.3% 2003: 5.6%, with margins broadly constant and solutions to help automate and optimise excluding one-offs, and with strong plant operations throughout industry.
Orders were 2% higher than in the Our business simulation and human-machine interface previous year, due to growth in EMEA and Customers of our Process Systems markets.
Their products, services and Asia Pacific.
Significant new orders included business operate in many different areas solutions help to automate and optimise Gazprom in Russia and Florida Power & Light of manufacturing, from process industries plant operation in many industries, and are in the US.
In the new financial year, such as hydrocarbons, metals and mining, installed in over 50,000 plants worldwide.
improved customer confidence following power generation and utilities, water and the refinancing and a pick-up in some key waste water treatment to the discrete, Our performance markets have strengthened order intake.
batch and hybrid sectors, including In a market that showed slight growth, The business is in the early stages of a pharmaceuticals and fine chemicals.
sales of 768 million 2003: 768 million 70-week programme to drive process were up 4% at CER, as increases in Europe, improvements, but implementation costs Our customers face constant pressure to the Middle East and Africa EMEA and Latin will preclude net margin improvement until reduce production costs.
Their plants must America were partially offset by decreases the latter part of the year.
function productively, safely and economically, in North America and Asia Pacific.
while conforming to an increasingly challenging regulatory environment.
Operating profit for the year was 33 million 2003: 43 million, down by Brands such as Foxboro, Triconex, 23% 13% at CER.
Gains from improved SimSci-Esscor and Wonderware have helped operations, especially in North America, Process Systems to gain a top-three position were offset by the resolution during the in the distributed control system, safety, first half of accounting issues related to Case study: Total service Total, one of the worlds leading oil and gas companies, needs to ensure that upgrading its offshore production and exploration operations provides maximum returns without losing valuable production time.
Invensys Process Systems had already demonstrated the advantages of its unique Foxboro Plug in system migration approach using existing field wiring, terminations and system enclosures to reduce costs and minimise production delays in two other Total platforms.
In both cases, ageing control systems were replaced with Foxboros I A Series systems.
We have been so satisfied with the speed of the migration and the performance of the resulting I A Series control system that we did not need to consider alternatives for the next project, said the Total project manager.
Process Systems also installed a new Triconex safety instrumented system on the platform and upgraded the fire and gas detection system with the latest Triconex technology.
09 Invensys plc Annual report & accounts 2004
