Management discussion & analysis 2004 2003 Eurotherm Sales m 122 119 Operating margin % 13.9 16.0 Number of employees 1,212 1,252 Eurotherm supplies control, data and Sales for the year were 122 million 2003: 119 million, 3% higher than last measurement equipment solutions and year 2% at CER.
The increase at CER was services to manage specific parameters driven by Asia Pacific and by contribution from growth initiatives in specific vertical of the manufacturing process, such as markets and service offerings, offset by temperature or pressure.
declines in the US and Europe.
Operating profit for the year at 17 million Our business but typically include end users, resellers 2003: 19 million was 11% lower than last Eurotherms product range includes and original equipment manufacturers year 11% at CER, due to the higher distributed process automation systems and operating in the industrial machine control proportion of lower-margin sales in Asia machine control, incorporating single and and process markets, including steel, glass, Pacific.
Cash flow was strong and the multi-loop control, operator displays, data plastics, ceramics, pharmaceuticals and operating margin was 13.9% 2003: 16.0%.
management and graphic recorders, power utility companies.
Orders were 3% higher than last year Our performance at 122 million 2003: 119 million and Eurotherms customers need to control The market experienced difficult trading followed the same geographic pattern their manufacturing processes for conditions in Europe and North America as sales.
The business expects improving productivity and safety reasons.
They also due to underutilisation of customers factory prospects in North America, and will seek need to acquire and record data of the assets in many of the diverse sectors served to counter the margin impact of continuing process variables to qualify compliance with by the business.
At the same time, the growth in the Asia Pacific region, albeit manufacturing, regulatory and environmental relocation of machine manufacturers and at a somewhat lower rate, with programmes standards.
As such, customers can be processors from North America and Europe to raise its levels of productivity and diverse in nature, geography and industry, and new investment by utility companies, low-cost sourcing.
primarily in China presented considerable opportunities in Asia Pacific.
Case study: Clear benefit By signing a worldwide Preferred Supplier agreement with Eurotherm, Pilkington the worlds leading float glass producer effectively standardised on Eurotherms hot end control solutions at float glass production lines around the world.
TM Pilkington is now using EurothermSuitebased solutions in 15 of its principal manufacturing facilities, and additional projects are under discussion.
The plants, which produce high-quality clear, tinted and coated glass for buildings and clear and tinted glass for vehicles, need to operate non-stop for up to 15 years.
This requires control and information systems of the highest integrity and performance.
This was the first deal of this kind with a key supplier that Pilkington has ever made, and applied to virtually all the float glass plants it operates globally.
Pilkingtons float process has been licensed to more than 40 manufacturers in 30 countries, while Pilkington itself operates 25 float plants and has interests in nine more operated by partners or associates.
10 Invensys plc Annual report & accounts 2004
