Management discussion & analysis 2004 2003 Climate Controls Sales m 647 743 Operating margin % 11.3 10.0 Number of employees 8,546 8,969 Climate Controls provides components, were partially offset by falling prices for reversing valves in Asia and by the impact systems and services used to control the of the weaker US dollar.
Cash conversion comfort and safety of residential and was strong.
Orders for the year fell 16% to 625 million 2003: 743 million, again mainly due to the progressive exit from contracting and Our business continued to be a key feature of the cooling to the weaker US dollar.
The business holds a leading position in the sector.
The market for building management cooling, commercial refrigeration, heating systems and products declined in North Looking forward, Climate Controls heating, and residential safety markets, in sales of America, due to reduced educational commercial refrigeration and residential temperature controls and heat cool unit building construction, but experienced slight safety businesses will explore new controllers, thermostats and room temperature growth in EMEA.
opportunities for growth created by a sensors, valves and hydraulic control combination of new product introductions, systems, and in complete building systems.
Sales for the business, at 647 million food safety concerns and legislative 2003: 743 million, were 13% lower than pressures.
Reversing valves are likely to Customers of Climate Controls include last year 9% lower at CER, primarily due continue to experience pricing pressure, original equipment manufacturers, to the disposal of low-margin contracting although the commencement of production wholesalers, distributors, retailers, businesses in building management.
in China should begin to alleviate this contractors and project managers.
The building management systems As a result, the operating margin improved operations will continue their exit from Our performance to 11.3% 2003: 10.0%, as operating profit contracting and service markets in North During the year, markets for Climate was maintained at 73 million up 3% at America, with related revenue contraction Controls showed good growth in China CER.
Improved profitability from but little impact on overall profits.
and modest growth in North America and restructuring in Europe, the disposal of Europe.
Competitive pricing pressure in low-margin contracting businesses and reversing valves in Japan and North America higher margins on new heating products Case study: Winning combination Everyone in the supply chain is thrilled with Legislation in an increasing number of the product, and it will continue to be our US states is requiring carbon monoxide exclusive combo unit on our exciting Builder CO detection to be built into all new Program, said Jim Dunn, VP Sales & homes constructed.
The Firex 7000 Marketing at Warshauer Electric, a Climate Smoke CO combo continues 20 years Controls customer.
of innovation by the Firex brand by allowing building contractors to bid on projects in areas where carbon monoxide regulations are in effect.
Since the Firex 7000 is more convenient, more cost-efficient and more attractive than multiple devices for smoke and CO detection, many contractors are choosing it as the best way to achieve regulatory compliance, and also combining it with other Firex alarms for a complete safety system.
As such, the Firex 7000 is not just an innovative technology in itself but also a champion for other Climate Controls safety products.
In its first full year of sales, the Firex 7000 propelled Climate Controls share of the detector market to a 10% increase.
13 Invensys plc Annual report & accounts 2004
