Board of directors Board of directors Martin Jay Larry Farmer In addition, Ulf Henriksson has been Chairman Non-executive director appointed Chief Operating Officer with Appointed non-executive director of Appointed non-executive director of effect from 21 May 2004 and will be Invensys plc in January 2003 and Chairman Invensys plc in March 2002.
Non-executive proposed for election as a director of the in July 2003.
Chairman of VT Group plc, director of Digital Steps Energy Limited and Company at the Annual General Meeting.
having served as Chief Executive for 13 Digital Steps Limited.
Formerly Chief His biographical details are as follows: years.
Previously held a range of leadership Executive of Halliburton Brown & Root positions at GEC and was a member of the Limited.
aged 64 Ulf Henriksson GEC Management Board.
Chairman of the Member of Audit Committee and Remuneration Chief Operating Officer from 21 May 2004 Tall Ships Youth Trust.
Joins Invensys plc from Eaton Corporation, Chairman of Nominating Committee.
where he was Operating Vice President of Jean-Claude Guez the US$1.5 billion Hydraulic Division.
Prior Richard Haythornthwaite Non-executive director to joining Eaton Corporation in 2003, held Chief Executive Appointed non-executive director of a number of senior positions at Honeywell Joined the Invensys plc Board in July Invensys plc in January 2003.
Non-executive International Allied Signal Inc, before 2001 and was appointed Chief Executive director of Exel plc, of Eurostar Group Ltd becoming President of Automated Controls in October 2001.
Non-executive director and Eurostar United Kingdom Ltd, and a Systems & Services, a US$2.3 billion global of Imperial Chemical Industries PLC.
former management consulting partner at business performing construction, Formerly Chief Executive Officer of Blue Accenture.
Advisory partner with Rocket installation and servicing of building Circle Industries plc until the company was Ventures LLP, USA.
aged 60 automation and automated industrial acquired by Lafarge SA and non-executive Chairman of Remuneration Committee and member process controls for heating and cooling, director of Cookson Group plc and Lafarge of Nominating Committee.
fire, security and industrial automation for SA.
Previously held senior positions with BP all buildings and industrial applications.
aged 47 Andrew Macfarlane aged 41 Non-executive director Adrian Hennah Appointed non-executive director of Chief Financial Officer Invensys plc in March 2003.
Group Finance Joined Invensys plc and appointed to Director of Land Securities Group plc, and the Board in October 2002, became Chief previously Chief Financial Officer of the Financial Officer on 1 January 2003. hotels division of Bass plc subsequently Formerly held a number of senior positions InterContinental Hotels Group plc.
Prior with GlaxoSmithKline Plc, including Chief to this, Director of Corporate Finance of Financial Officer for Glaxo Wellcome Inc Bass plc.
Chairman of Audit Committee and member of Remuneration Committee.
Simon Robertson Non-executive director Appointed non-executive director of Invensys plc in February 1999, having joined the BTR plc Board in 1997.
Managing Director of Goldman Sachs International and President of Goldman Sachs Europe Ltd. Non-executive director of Inchcape plc and Berry Bros. & Rudd Limited.
Former Chairman of Kleinwort Benson Group plc.
aged 63 Member of Audit Committee and Nominating Committee.
16 Invensys plc Annual report & accounts 2004
