Management discussion & analysis 2004 2003 APV Sales m 387 372 Operating margin % 4.7 5.4 Number of employees 2,753 2,685 APV supplies process equipment and result, the operating margin was 4.7% 2003: 5.4%, despite some underlying progress and, automation solutions to the food, beverage, after increases in working capital, the dairy, brewery and personal care industries.
business saw a small cash outflow.
Orders were 3% higher than last year at Our business customers are largely looking to build new 406 million 2003: 393 million.
Significant APVs domain knowledge within the food, plants, thus requiring support, components, orders during the year include Arla Foods beverage, dairy, brewery and personal care services and sometimes complete turnkey in Denmark, Al Rawabi, one of the largest industries has made it a leading supplier plant installations.
producers of fresh milk products in the of process equipment, total automation United Arab Emirates, and Brouwerij solutions and asset services to these sectors.
Our performance Martens, a large Belgian brewery.
APVs products range from engineered Good market conditions in the early part components through to complete process of the year, notably in EMEA, were reversed On 1 April 2004, APV Products and APV plants equipped with the latest automation in the fourth quarter as major customers Solutions & Services were combined into technology, along with a range of support deferred orders, particularly in the dairy a single APV business.
a programme of performance initiatives in the areas of manufacturing and supply The needs of APVs customers vary Sales were 4% higher than last year 2% at chain efficiency, project management and between developed and developing markets.
CER at 387 million 2003: 372 million, engineering productivity, the net benefits Producers in developed markets mainly reflecting the strength of the first half and of which are expected toward the end of require upgrades and maintenance to their the move to increase product sales through the financial year.
The business will also seek installations, but are also finding themselves external channels.
to expand its presence in emerging markets under pressure to make their plants and to build a regional service structure.
compliant with increasingly stringent Operating profit for the year fell 10% 14% regulations.
In less developed markets, at CER to 18 million 2003: 20 million, due to write-offs during the second half of 5 million, relating to prior years.
As a Case study: Dairy produce The system is ideal for our needs, as it Arla Foods is the largest dairy company will provide us with the necessary information in Europe, with leading brands including to run our process plant facilities more Lurpak.
The company also has a popular efficiently and in compliance with legislative range of traditional European yellow regulations, said Arne Svendsen, a cheeses, and continually strives to Production-IT Coordinator at Arla Foods.
increase efficiency in its production.
APV is helping Arla Foods to achieve greater efficiency by implementing a new statistical process control system known as the Production Server in a number of its facilities.
By providing critical and highly accurate statistical data to the right people at the right time, Production Server helps to deliver significant quality, plant availability and product traceability improvements to Arla, as well as helping to achieve greater product consistency.
Historical data monitoring gives staff the power to identify regular issues and deal with them, thus optimising scheduling and reducing downtime.
The systems tracking and tracing capabilities satisfy increasingly demanding legislation on record-keeping in food production.
11 Invensys plc Annual report & accounts 2004
