Management discussion & analysis 2004 2003 Appliance Controls Sales m 376 394 Operating margin % 14.4 15.5 Number of employees 7,378 7,749 Appliance Controls provides an extensive aggressive Six-Sigma and lean enterprise programme focusing on the elimination of line of electronic and electro-mechanical waste provided reductions in the cost base to offset the annual price compression control solutions used in appliances such as experienced in its market.
Operating margin was 14.4% 2003: 15.5%, with cash flow ovens, washing machines and refrigerators.
reflecting capital expenditure somewhat above the average levels for the Group.
Our business in the second half of the year, sales Overall, orders were 2% lower than last With over 150 product lines and 1.5 billion in Appliance Controls continued to be year at 376 million 2003: 384 million, installed products in machines worldwide, subdued by uncertainty surrounding the primarily due to the 15% decline in the first Appliance Controls is a market leader in disposal of the business.
quarter, although the rest of the year saw the Americas, maintains a strong position in improving order patterns.
Europe and has a solid platform for growth Sales for the year were therefore 5% in the expanding Asia Pacific market.
Our lower 3% at CER at 376 million 2003: Looking ahead, Appliance Controls has customers include some of the largest 394 million.
The difficult first three started the new year with a robust order producers of appliances worldwide, from months, along with a weaker US dollar, book, its future within Invensys now secured.
domestic appliances to commercial food resulted in lower volumes in both its North service equipment and home spas.
American and European operations, partially offset by rising sales in South America.
Our performance The market for appliances suffered a Operating profit for the year was general downturn during the first quarter 54 million 2003: 61 million, 11% lower of the fiscal year.
Low consumer confidence than last year 8% at CER.
This was primarily owing to global events led to weak demand related to volume declines, together with across most businesses in the durable goods adverse competitive conditions created by sector.
While the market started to recover the pending sale of the business.
An Case study: Success under pressure Appliance Controls is positioned to participate in new markets because of our ability to approach customers with innovative solutions and our record of translating technology from region to region.
Due to the growing interest in premium and speciality coffees in the US, coffee maker manufacturers are producing new machines that offer caf-quality coffee, right in the home, to replace the drip coffee machine.
As 80% of US home coffee makers are drip style, this means potential sales of seven million new low-pressure coffee makers in the US within the next three to five years.
Appliance Controls approached Applica exclusive licensee of Black & Decker household appliances upon learning about the new coffee machine they wanted to develop specifically for this emerging market.
Applica has extensive understanding of producing and marketing small appliances in the US, but needed help designing an application that addressed the specific challenges low-pressure machines presented.
Appliance Controls was able to leverage our global presence and knowledge of solenoid pump applications from espresso machines in the European market.
We worked with Applica for over 18 months to fine-tune the pump solution, providing fast engineering responses and innovative solutions that enabled TM Applicas Home Caf System to be introduced into the marketplace.
14 Invensys plc Annual report & accounts 2004
