Management discussion & analysis Financial review Powerware Process Systems Lambda, Hansen and Baker LHB Eurotherm Corporate costs APV Rail Systems Climate Controls Appliance Controls Powerware Our business Our performance Powerwares sale to Eaton Corporation Powerwares installation, monitoring Powerwares sales were down 12 million for US$560 million was announced on and control systems and services help to at 456 million 2003: 468 million.
27 April 2004. provide continuous power levels through However, operating profit remained level at uninterruptible power supply and direct 25 million.
The reduction in sales was due current systems, and to all products in the primarily to the uncertainty surrounding power quality segment including the disposal process and its impact on generators, switching systems and power customer confidence.
Lambda, Hansen and Baker LHB Our businesses commenced in the Asia Pacific region and Orders for the year were higher due Lambda is a leading producer of standard was followed by improvements in North to growth in the wind turbine business.
and modified power supplies for the America and Europe.
industrial automation, test and measurement The sale of Hansen to Allianz Capital and telecommunications markets.
Sales for the year were consistent with last Partners GmbH for 132 million was year as the increased order intake in the announced on 19 May 2004.
Hansen is a manufacturer of gearboxes and second half was only partly translated into drive-trains focusing primarily on gearboxes sales within the current financial year.
Baker for wind turbines and industrial gearboxes The market for the year overall was down, for a wide range of applications such as Operating profit for the year was as demand for baked goods machinery material handling, water treatment and significantly higher due to material cost in the US experienced a severe downturn pulp and paper.
due to the impact on our customers of the fashion for low-carbohydrate diets.
Baker provides equipment, services and Orders for the year were higher than last complete process solutions to the bakery, year, largely due to the recovery in the Sales for the year were lower due to difficult biscuit, confectionery and snack industries.
semiconductor and test equipment markets.
US market conditions and lower opening Significant orders this year include orders in the UK.
Our performance Advantest, China Electronics Weihua, Fuji, Combined sales for the year were consistent Hitachi and Lockheed Martin.
The business posted an operating loss due with last year at 387 million 2003: to the deterioration in the US, exacerbated 388 million.
The operating loss for the Hansen by contract completion problems on year was significantly lower at 12 million, Markets showed significant growth contracts commenced in 2003. compared with a loss of 25 million in 2003. during the year leading to increased sales.
Orders for the year were higher, driven Lambda Operating profit was considerably lower by strong order intake in the UK.
Significant The market showed signs of recovery over than last year as the start-up of the new orders this year include Lofthouse and the year, particularly in the second half in wind turbine gear manufacturing site in Johnston Mooney & OBrien.
the semiconductor and test equipment Lommel, Belgium and the implementation markets served by Lambda.
The recovery of a new ERP system temporarily affected production output.
Corporate costs Corporate costs reduced during the year As discussed during the refinancing, as well as slightly higher bonding costs from 118 million to 66 million and this Invensys in common with many companies and some inflation in the price of certain trend will continue in the current year, but has seen increases in certain costs often commodities.
Account has been taken by at a slower pace, pending the resolution of negotiated at a Group level but incurred by each business of these factors in building the Groups legacy liabilities.
These include their plans for margin progression in the approximately 20 million for insurance, new year.
15 Invensys plc Annual report & accounts 2004
