The directors have pleasure in presenting the annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 December 2004.
Report of the directors Business review Information on the businesses of AMEC, their development during the year and on the future outlook is contained on pages 1 to 43.
An analysis of AMECs activities is given in note 2 on pages 61 and 62.
The profit on ordinary activities after taxation, which amounted to 22.6 million 2003: 60.8 million, is shown in the consolidated profit and loss account on page 55.
The directors recommend that a final dividend of 7.2 pence 2003: 6.9 pence per share be paid which, together with the interim dividend of 3.8 pence 2003: 3.6 pence, results in a total dividend for the year of 11.0 pence 2003: 10.5 pence per share.
Dividends amounted to 34.8 million 2003: 30.7 million.
The final dividend will be payable on 1 July 2005 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 13 May 2005.
On 6 May 2004, AMEC announced that, following a strategic review, it would exit from the US construction management market.
On 22 June 2004, the disposal of the remaining 49 per cent shareholding in SPIE Batignolles S. A. its France based regional construction business, was completed.
Share capital The authorised and issued share capital of the company as at 31 December 2004 and movements during the year are set out in note 21 on page 71.
Authority was granted to the directors at the 2002 annual general meeting to allot up to 49,790,640 of ordinary share capital, of which up to 7,204,249 could be allotted for cash other than by way of a rights issue.
This authority extends until 8 May 2007.
The directors have no present intention of issuing any shares other than in respect of the exercise of share options.
No issue will be made which will effectively alter the control of the company without the prior approval of shareholders in general meeting.
Resolution 10 will be proposed at the annual general meeting, to be held on 18 May 2005, to grant authority to the directors to make market purchases of up to 10 per cent of the companys shares within prescribed limits.
No such purchases were made in 2004 or up to the date of this report pursuant to the authority granted at last years annual general meeting.
The directors will only exercise such authority to purchase shares if circumstances arise in which they consider purchases would be of benefit to the company.
No purchase would be made unless the directors are of the view that it would result in an increase in earnings per share.
The directors will also take into account the companys cash resources, the effect on gearing and other possible investment opportunities before exercising this authority.
Resolution 11, which is covered in further detail in the appendix to the notice of annual general meeting, relates to the introduction of the Savings Related Share Option Scheme 2005, to replace the existing scheme which expires in June 2005.
Authority is also sought to introduce an International Savings Related Share Option Scheme, which is substantially the same as the UK scheme.
The International scheme requires specific shareholder approval in order that employees in the United States and France can enjoy beneficial tax treatment.
Resolution 12, covered further in the directors remuneration report, amends the rules of the Performance Share Plan 2002 to increase the individual limit of shares which may be awarded to an executive in any one year from one times to two times salary.
44 AMEC plc annual report 2004 Substantial interests Employees Pursuant to Section 198 of the Companies Act 1985, notifications have In 2004, AMEC employed on average 43,660 people worldwide.
been received by the company of shareholdings of three per cent Details are given in note 6 on page 63. or more of the issued share capital as at 10 March 2005 and these are as follows: The development of employees, to ensure that AMEC has the necessary skills and behaviours to deliver its strategic business Number Per cent objectives and to provide for management succession, is given high priority.
In addition, recognising the importance for the future of ToscaFund Limited 28,714,088 8.65 bringing young people into the group, all businesses have well FMR Corp. Fidelity International Limited 21,430,039 6.45 established programmes for recruiting and developing graduates and other trainees.
Legal & General Investment Management Limited 11,160,201 3.36 Respect for cultural diversity and equal opportunities are included among AMECs Guiding Principles which are incorporated into Where relevant, the percentage shareholdings have been adjusted management policies and processes worldwide.
The policy is to from that notified to the company to reflect the increased share recruit from the widest labour market, determining the careers capital resulting from the placing of 30,164,357 shares announced of all employees solely on merit and making judgements about on 20 January 2005. employees, free from the effects of bias and prejudice.
Directors It is AMECs policy to consider for employment suitably qualified Details of the directors of the company at the date of this report are disabled people and to assist them in overcoming handicaps at work.
AMEC recognises that special arrangements are necessary, in view of the nature of its main activities, to ensure that disabled employees Mr S Gillibrand retired from the board on 21 January 2004 and are properly trained for the tasks they perform.
AMEC endeavours Mr J M Green-Armytage replaced him as chairman on that date.
to retrain any employee who develops a disability during employment, wherever practicable.
Mr P J Byrom and Mr T W Faithfull were appointed to the board as non-executive directors on 10 February 2005.
In accordance with Internal communication is a priority for AMEC, as employees carry article 91 of the articles of association of the company, Mr Byrom forward AMECs knowledge, brand and reputation.
AMEC provides and Mr Faithfull will retire from office at the forthcoming annual numerous direct or electronic opportunities for employees to raise general meeting and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
issues and discuss matters of concern with management.
They do not have employment contracts with the company.
Employees share knowledge and are kept informed of developments Sir Peter Mason and Mr J D Early retire in accordance with article within AMEC through various means, including its intranet AMECnet, 85 of the articles of association of the company and, being eligible, internal publications, best practice groups, news bulletins and offer themselves for re-election.
Sir Peter and Mr Early have announcements.
A global conference of senior managers is held each year to discuss developing issues.
employment contracts with the company terminable by one years notice by either party.
The company operates an Inland Revenue approved savings related share option scheme open to all eligible UK employees.
Shareholders The beneficial interests in the share capital of the company of the approval was given at the 2002 annual general meeting to also make directors holding office as at 31 December 2004 were as follows: the scheme available to overseas employees and the first launch of the scheme is scheduled to be made in North America and certain As at As at European countries during 2005.
31 December 31 December 2004 2003 Number Number J M Green-Armytage 10,000 10,000 Sir Peter Mason 90,669 86,458 J D Early 53,347 49,382 J A Monville 19,809 13,143 E P Airey 18,120 18,120 J A Dallas 2,000 2,000 M O Hesse 16,414 16,414 S J Siddall 24,307 17,641 J-P Jacamon 10,000 10,000 C A Riva 23,000 Except for interests under share option schemes, the Long-Term Incentive Plan and the Performance Share Plan, details of which are contained in the directors remuneration report on pages 49 to 54, no director as at 31 December 2004 had any other interests, beneficial or otherwise, in the share capital of the company or any of its subsidiaries.
There were no changes in the directors interests in the share capital of the company between 31 December 2004 and 10 March 2005.
No director was materially interested in any contract of significance to AMECs businesses.
AMEC plc annual report 2004 45 Management and Policy Framework Report of the directors AMECs businesses are managed on a decentralised basis.
Whilst the board has retained reserve powers, the day-to-day management continued has been passed to the business leaders, within defined authority limits.
The management philosophy is to empower the business leaders to take the actions necessary to deliver the companys operational business objectives within the AMEC Management and Policy Framework, which establishes the standards AMEC employees and contracting staff are expected to meet.
Dialogue with institutional shareholders Mr J M Green-Armytage, chairman, wrote to all major shareholders shortly after his appointment in January 2004 informing them that he and the senior independent director, Ms E P Airey, were available for meetings or telephone calls with them if required.
The chairman attends preliminary and interim results presentations.
Ms Airey is available to attend, if requested, one-on-one meetings with major shareholders.
During 2004, the chairman had meetings with representatives from two major institutional investors, one in Corporate governance conjunction with Ms Airey.
The board is responsible to the shareholders for the management of the company and for the protection of its assets.
As such, An in-depth annual perception study of investors views, prepared it is ultimately responsible for putting in place AMECs systems by an independent third party, is presented to all board members, of internal control and for reviewing their effectiveness.
These who also receive unexpurgated feedback reports following shareholder systems are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk meetings or events together with all material brokers research of failure to achieve business objectives and consequently can notes on the company.
provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The board For the majority of 2004, the board comprised the non-executive Combined Code compliance chairman, five executive directors and four independent nonFollowing the issue in January 2003 of the reports by Derek Higgs executive directors.
Two new independent non-executive directors on Review of the Role and Effectiveness of Non-Executive Directors were appointed to the board in February 2005 see pages 22 and 23 and by Sir Robert Smith on Audit Committees Combined Code for biographical details.
Guidance, a new Combined Code was issued in July 2003.
The new Combined Code applies for reporting years beginning on or after The company does not combine the role of chairman and chief 1 November 2003.
Consequently the first year for which the company executive.
The chairman is responsible for the running of the board, is required to comply is the year ended 31 December 2004. with the chief executive being responsible for running the group and implementing board strategy and policy.
This ensures a clear As noted in last years annual report, AMEC carried out a detailed division of responsibilities at the head of the company, so that no review of the impact of the new Combined Code on the way in which individual has unfettered powers of decision.
The independent nonits board and committees carry out their responsibilities.
Following executive directors review the relationship between the chairman this review, the board considered that, as at 1 January 2004, it had and chief executive each year to ensure that the relationship is taken the necessary steps to put appropriate processes in place working effectively.
to comply with the revised Combined Code throughout 2004.
The non-executive directors are all considered to be independent As at 31 December 2004, the board is able to confirm that the by the board.
They are not employed by the company in any capacity, company has complied with the relevant provisions of the revised nor have they been in the past.
Ms E P Airey has acted as the boards Combined Code except as follows: senior independent director since 21 January 2004, when she replaced Mr J M Green-Armytage in that role.
The company The revised Code requires there to be a balance of executive and secretary is responsible for ensuring that board procedures are non-executive directors and in particular independent non-executive followed and all directors have access to his advice and services.
directors such that no individual or small group of individuals can dominate the boards decision taking.
Following the resignation The board has a schedule of matters reserved for its approval, of Mr S Gillibrand and the subsequent appointment of Mr J M Greencovering areas such as company strategy, the appointment of key Armytage, who was previously senior independent director, to the executives, approval of accounts, approval of the business plan, position of chairman on 21 January 2004, there has been an budget and financial policies, review of operating results, risk imbalance of executive and non-executive directors, with five management strategy, ensuring the effectiveness of governance executives and four non-executives.
The board does not consider practices, succession planning and significant capital expenditure.
that this imbalance has impaired its effectiveness in any way.
Two The board is supplied in a timely manner with information which new independent non-executive directors, Mr T W Faithfull and enables it to discharge its duties.
Mr P J Byrom, were appointed to the board on 10 February 2005, following an extensive executive search undertaken by Hanson Green An external review of the effectiveness of the board and its committees on behalf of the board.
was carried out during the year by Spencer Stuart by way of interviews with individual directors.
Findings were considered by the board The company has interests in a number of joint ventures, associates as part of its review of both collective and individual board member and joint arrangements.
Controls within these entities may not be performance.
No material changes were identified as being necessary reviewed as part of AMECs formal corporate governance process as a result of this exercise.
The independent non-executive directors because of the joint management responsibilities but are reviewed also met privately both with and without the chairman present and as part of the normal internal audit process.
also with both the chairman and chief executive together to consider management performance and succession issues.
A formal process exists for the directors to take independent professional advice and receive appropriate training in the course of their duties, at the companys expense, organised by the company secretary.
46 AMEC plc annual report 2004 Board committees The committee also regularly reviews board succession planning, Under AMECs Management and Policy Framework, the board has in conjunction with reports from the chief executive and corporate formally delegated specific responsibilities to various committees, human resources director on senior management succession planning, all of which have written terms of reference.
The remit of each so as to ensure that an appropriate balance of skills is maintained committee is set out below.
The quorum is generally three directors.
both within AMEC and on the board.
Full details of the constitution and remit of the audit, nominations Remuneration committee Sets, and reviews as necessary, and remuneration committees can be found under corporate the overall contractual and remuneration framework for the governance on www.
chairman, the executive directors and the company secretary, including pension rights and annual bonus incentives.
The committees chaired by non-executive directors are as follows: It considers and determines such other matters relating to the Audit committee Reviews the integrity, including the material engagement of the chief executive and other executive directors financial reporting judgements, of the companys accounts, including including matters relating to the enforcement of their service the annual and interim results, related report and accounts and Stock contracts and payments on termination as the chairman, in respect Exchange announcements and any other formal announcements of the chief executive, and the chief executive, in respect of the other in connection with the companys financial performance, and executive directors, refer to the committee.
recommends their approval to the board.
It agrees the terms to be offered to a proposed new chairman or executive director.
It also reviews the companys internal financial controls and, in conjunction with the risk review committee, the internal control and risk management systems.
It reviews the salaries of executive directors annually and the chairman biennially, or more frequently as is deemed necessary The committee has unrestricted access to company documents by the committee chairman.
It agrees the performance targets and meets with the internal and external auditors, and any other of executive directors and the levels of bonus to be paid to them member of staff, without the executive directors being present, under the annual bonus incentive scheme.
The head of internal audit formally reports to the committee chairman.
It determines and agrees with the chief executive the remuneration policy and structure, including annual bonus, for corporate functional executives and deputy operational executives immediately below It reviews the head of internal audits regular reports and, during board level.
2004, carried out an assessment of the effectiveness of the internal audit function.
This assessment was carried out by the audit committee primarily by way of a self-assessment by the head of It approves performance targets, participation and level of awards internal audit, following guidance set out by the Institute of Chartered for any executive share based incentive scheme.
Accountants in England & Wales ICAEW in Evaluating the Effectiveness of Internal Audit, published in November 2003.
The following table is a record of the directors attendance at board The audit committee will commission an independent review and principal board committee meetings during the year ended of the internal audit function in 2005.
Mr Gillibrand attended one board meeting prior to his retirement on 21 January 2004.
The committee considers the appointment, re-appointment, removal, AMEC plc Audit Nominations Remuneration remuneration and terms of engagement of the external auditor and Board committee committee committee makes recommendations to the board.
It discusses the scope and Number of meetings 9 4 1 5 planning of the external audit and reviews the outcome of the external audit and any formal communications from the external J M Green-Armytage91 auditors, including internal control reports.
Sir Peter Mason 9 1 The committee also formally reviews and monitors the external J D Early 9 auditors independence and objectivity and the effectiveness of J A Monville 9 the audit process, taking into consideration relevant UK professional E P Airey 8 4 1 5 and regulatory requirements and makes recommendations to the board.
During 2004 a review, co-ordinated on behalf of the committee J A Dallas 9 4 1 5 by the head of internal audit, was carried out.
The audit committee M O Hesse 8 3 1 5 has also monitored the implementation of the policy on the engagement of the external auditor to supply non-audit services, which was S J Siddall 9 introduced in 2003.
This policy follows the guidelines set out by the J-P Jacamon 9 4 1 4 ICAEW and clearly defines what work can and cannot be performed C A Riva 9 by any group companys statutory auditor.
It also sets out the necessary approval process for those non-audit services that are acceptable.
Charities committee Makes commitments and donations in support of charitable, educational and cultural causes.
All non-statutory audit or non-compliance tax services provided by the auditor are reported to the audit committee.
During 2004, Compliance and ethics committee Considers and approves the fees paid to the companys auditor, KPMG Audit Plc and its the codes of business conduct and related compliance arrangements associates, for non-audit work were 0.7 million 2003: 0.8 million, and takes responsibility for management of investigations of which comprised 0.6 million primarily relating to taxation and violations, as required.
0.1 million for other work 2003: 0.6 million and 0.2 million.
Share transaction committee Provides clearance or denies In addition to the above amounts, fees of 0.2 million 2003: permission to relevant employees to deal in AMEC plc shares.
1.2 million were paid to KPMG Audit Plc in connection with due diligence undertaken on acquisitions.
Nominations committee Makes recommendations to the board concerning the appointment or termination of a director or the company secretary and, in the case of a non-executive director and the chairman, the extension of an existing appointment.
AMEC plc annual report 2004 47 Risk management within AMEC is coordinated via the risk management Report of the directors forum, which meets at least twice yearly.
The forum consists of risk managers sponsors for the businesses and heads of corporate continued functions and has the remit to report to the risk review committee of the board at least annually.
It also reviews progress made in embedding risk management throughout the company, dissemination of best practice and communication of lessons learned.
The risk management and internal control processes are complemented by an annual control risk self-assessment exercise carried out by the principal businesses.
This covers major risks, particularly safety, health and environment, legal, commercial and contractual, financial, information technology and human resources.
The results are reviewed by the board, through both the audit committee and the executive directors, and as part of the ongoing internal audit process.
The risk management processes were in place for the whole of 2004, and up to the date of approval of the accounts, and satisfy the requirements of the Turnbull guidance.
The committees chaired by executive directors are as follows: Going concern Banking committee Reviews and approves facilities for The directors, having made enquiries, consider that the company borrowing, guarantees, bonds, indemnities and employee bridging and the group have adequate resources to continue in operational loans and also interest rate and foreign exchange hedging strategies existence for the foreseeable future and, therefore, it is appropriate within authority limits set by the board.
to continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Corporate transactions committee Considers acquisitions and disposals of businesses and provides guidelines in respect of such Creditor payment policy transactions within authority limits set by the board.
Businesses are responsible for agreeing terms and conditions under which transactions with their suppliers are conducted.
It is group Pensions and retirement benefits committee Reviews proposals policy that payments to suppliers are generally made in accordance relating to new arrangements, amendments, discontinuance, funding with these terms and conditions, provided that the supplier complies or any other matters relating to pension and retirement benefits.
with all of its obligations in this regard.
Risk review committee Approves the AMEC plc risk register, The company had 38 days purchases outstanding as at 31 December the AMEC plc risk transfer policy and proposals to enter into 2004 based on the average daily amount invoiced by suppliers during contractual commitments that fall outside the delegated authority the year.
limits of the executive directors.
Donations Risk management processes Donations to United Kingdom charities amounted to 132,000 for the The board, through the committees described above and at its year ended 31 December 2004. regular meetings, has a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks faced by the company, including Auditors strategy, major projects to be undertaken, significant acquisitions A resolution will be proposed at the annual general meeting for the and disposals, as well as entry to and exit from different markets.
re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of the company.
Where appropriate, business decisions are reached following a structured and documented review of potential opportunities Post balance sheet events and threats, taking steps designed to manage or mitigate any In January 2005, AMEC announced the successful placing of residual risk exposure.
30,164,397 new shares, just under 10 per cent of the issued share capital.
AMEC uses a seven-step Total Risk Management process and has incorporated it into the Management and Policy Framework.
In January 2005, AMEC acquired Paragon Engineering Services Inc.
The process involves the identification of risks at the gross and net now AMEC Paragon Inc. a Houston-based oil and gas engineering level by each business and each corporate function.
The risks are services company.
recorded in separate risk registers for each business unit and each function to enable the net positions to be pro-actively managed.
The By order of the board highest risks based on probability and impact are then consolidated into an overall risk register for AMEC plc, which is reviewed in detail P J Holland by the board on an ongoing basis.
The risk management process Secretary accommodates mergers, acquisitions and disposals as well as entry 10 March 2005 to and exit from different markets.
Note Since 10 March 2005, FMR Corp. Fidelity International Limited have notified further increases in their interests and on 30 March 2005 notified an interest of 34,212,407 shares 10.30%.
There were no other changes in either the directors interests or in the substantial interests in the share capital of the company between 10 March 2005 and 31 March 2005.
