Engineering and Technical Services With total turnover of over 2 billion and Significant opportunities generating 43 per cent of total operating profit, Engineering and Technical Services for growth ETS is the largest of AMECs three business segments.
ETS has three discrete areas of activity Multitechnical Services, Environmental Services and Design and Engineering Services.
Jean Monville Chairman and CEO, AMEC Continental Europe 2.3 billion total turnover 4 AMEC plc annual report 2004 Services in the first two businesses are First, these businesses are essentially delivered through extensive local networks local.
While other AMEC businesses with over 300 locations in Continental deliver from central locations, these work Europe and around 100 in North America.
mainly through extensive local networks.
Unlike the rest of AMEC, where we meet Secondly, the client base is extremely diverse.
customers needs as a national or We have tens of thousands of customers international business, the Multitechnical across most sectors of the economy, while and Environmental businesses provide the other AMEC businesses have fewer services locally to a diverse regional and customers and work on larger projects.
With over 50,000 clients Thirdly, our strong local relationships mean in many different sectors and a high we tend to win long-term or repeat business percentage of repeat business, ETS is over a number of years.
This, and the diversity generally a highly predictable business.
of clients and end markets, gives our Our Design and Engineering business, business great resilience and predictability.
provides services from front-end design to Finally, our markets in both Europe and maintenance support for North American North America are highly fragmented, giving and UK clients across a range of sectors us significant opportunities for growth.
including transport, defence, mining, forest products, food and pharmaceutical.
Local service business model The business model in Multitechnical and Environmental Services differs fundamentally from the model in other parts of AMEC.
AMEC plc annual report 2004 5 Engineering and Technical Services continued Multitechnical Services By far the largest of the three areas of activity in ETS, is the Multitechnical Services business in Continental Europe.
Here, AMEC SPIE provides a broad range of electrical, mechanical and communications services through its local service network of over 300 locations across Benelux, France, Portugal and Spain.
Examples of our Multitechnical Services Our services span the total life of our clients capital assets.
Examples of our work include the illumination of the Eiffel tower where we provided and maintain more than 20,000 specially designed bulbs, 40,000 connectors and 78 kilometres of cables and other historic monuments across France in places including Limoges illustrated left and Toulouse.
Also in Toulouse, we provide facilities management services for Airbus at their headquarters and have provided electrical engineering, heating, ventilation and air conditioning systems on the new assembly facility for the Airbus A380, together with advanced equipment for assembling various components of the airframe.
In the automotive sector, we have designed and delivered the new body assembly line for the recently launched Citron C4 for PSA Peugeot Citron at Mulhouse.
This project involves 84 robots performing welding and materials handling tasks we carried out the installation and programming and is a good example of our automation skills.
A highly predictable business 6 AMEC plc annual report 2004 In the public sector, we have designed, Fragmented market developed, installed and now support a The market for Multitechnical Services customised solution for traffic management is extremely fragmented and offers significant in the City of Lyons.
This system has reduced opportunities for growth through journey times, allows better coordination geographical expansion.
of emergency services and provides high Over the last five years, growth in this quality information to road users and business has been a blend between GDP operators.
We have also been entrusted driven organic growth, the acquisition with communications at events as of small local businesses to enlarge our prestigious as the G8 summit in Evian, network and strategic acquisitions that where we installed two independent secure give us an improved technical position telephone systems for the French Ministry and we expect this to be the pattern of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of the as we move forward.
Interior and put in more than 800 media workstations in just two weeks.
Diverse customer base AMEC SPIE has an extremely diverse customer base, spread across most sectors of the economy.
Our largest clients include government departments, local authorities and bluechip companies such as Air Liquide, Cegetel, European Aeronautic Defence and Space Company EADS, Electricit fide France EDF, France Tlcom, and PSA Peugeot Citron.
It is our close working relationships with these, and tens of thousands of smaller customers, that form the essence of the business.
Large numbers of small contracts Our customer relationships are characterised by large numbers of small contracts, with a high percentage of repeat business.
At any one time AMEC SPIE is working on around 10,000 contracts, with an average size of less than 20,000.
This results in the business having a high degree of predictability and results over the last ten years show performance to have been extremely robust through the economic cycle.
AMEC plc annual report 2004 7 Engineering and Technical Services continued Environmental Services Our Environmental business provides clients with a range of specialist services from environmental assessments to geo-technical and clean-up services and is important Early entry to the because it allows us to enter projects at the very beginning of the assets life.
project life cycle This business uses the same local service business model as the European Multitechnical Services business and operates from a network of 100 offices across North America and beyond.
Examples of our work include the provision of consultancy services in local storm water and flood control for the City of Charlotte, North Carolina.
Here, we provided compliance and technical advice, and also developed software programs which planned the management of storm water flows.
We have numerous clients in the energy sector, where assignments include environmental and geotechnical work on projects such as the McKenzie Valley pipeline in Western Canada.
8 AMEC plc annual report 2004 We have built strong relationships in the US Federal sector, where our expertise includes the clean up of military facilities including the firing range at the Massachussetts Military Reserve, Cape Cod.
And we have major construction support programmes underway in Guam and Iraq, with smaller projects at several US domestic bases through our relationship with the US Air Force.
There are some very specialist niches within this business.
For instance, Geomelt, which stabilises lower level radioactive waste.
We are carrying out a contract initially valued at US$60 million for this process to be used to treat waste at Hanford, in the US, the largest nuclear site in the country.
And we expect this technology which has also been successfully used in Australia and Japan to be employed in future at other similar sites across the world.
a seven year joint venture contract, The environmental market is large and worth 460 million, to provide property fragmented, has attractive margins and management services for around 400 offers good opportunities for growth in establishments belonging to the UK the Americas, Europe and the Far East.
Ministry of Defence in Scotland, ranging from RAF Lossiemouth to small communications transmitters.
Design and Engineering Services Examples of our work in the Americas include the design and delivery of a new The last of our ETS businesses is Design fibre line system for Bowater, the paper and Engineering, which provides services company, in South Carolina.
And we are from front-end design to maintenance providing design and engineering services support for clients in the UK, the Americas for 10 stories or 250,000 square feet of new and Iraq.
This business works in a range of laboratories for the University Health sectors, including transport, defence, mining, Network in Toronto.
forest products, food and pharmaceutical.
In the UK, we have worked with British Financial performance of this business Nuclear Group BNG and its predecessor has been affected in recent years by severe British Nuclear Fuels Ltd BNFL for over cutbacks in customers capital expenditure, 25 years.
Today, we are working together particularly in the US.
We have, and to decommission some of the oldest continue to, address our cost base and buildings on the UK Sellafield site and have this business will be one of the earliest also installed special fire protection systems beneficiaries of any resumption in our in the waste storage silos.
And we have customers capital expenditure.
