Project Solutions 1.4 billion total turnover Project Solutions is linked to other parts of the life of asset value chain Project Solutions is the business that has In the past, we often simply built projects evolved out of our traditional construction for the lowest cost, whereas today, while activity.
Today, it has total turnover of construction may form part of the job, we 1.4 billion, mainly in the UK, is an typically get involved in design, maintenance important generator of future value or operations support and sometimes equity and is central to our overall strategy.
Rarely, now, will we do standalone construction.
16 AMEC plc annual report 2004 SmithKline and Astra Zeneca, designing, Construction Services delivering and supporting their research We take a selective approach to project and development and other specialised delivery for public and private sector clients, facilities.
We also work for similarly in particular markets where we have demanding commercial or light industrial expertise.
Our projects normally arise customers for instance those who need as a result of an existing relationship with very engineered, high-quality storage, a client and we will sometimes make an production or retail outlets.
Marks & Spencer, equity investment in a project, for instance for instance, is one of our retail customers.
when it is delivered under a Public Private Partnerships PPP scheme.
Overall in this segment, we are selective in choosing customers and often have Public sector markets a long-term relationship that will deliver We are focused on five main public sector a stream of projects over time.
markets: healthcare, education, transport, defence and urban regeneration.
We have We also have an important rail projects a long standing and, we believe, successful business and are one of the leading relationship with the UK government and players in this market which spans we see significant opportunities arising the private and public sector.
One example from its commitment to sustained spending.
of our work is the recently completed first section of the new high speed Channel In healthcare, we are working in joint venture Tunnel line between Folkestone and on the design, financing, construction and Swanley, Kent, where we provided design, operation of the new 669-bed University supply, installation and testing.
Another College London Hospital this being a sector where we see real potential and good example of our project delivery activity have a strong position is in European light within the framework of a PPP project.
rail systems, where we generally provide track and power supplies.
We have AMEC has long been associated with road delivered a number of projects already, building, and is one of the leading players for instance in the cities of Caen, in the UK market today.
Our participation Strasbourg and Bordeaux.
is through either traditional contractual relations with the Highways Agency, or The projects side of AMEC has been through PPP.
One example of our current substantially overhauled over the last few involvement in this market is the A1 upgrade years, and what we have now is a very between Darrington and Dishforth, which focused business in markets we know well is being delivered as a PPP project.
and where we see real growth potential.
Through our risk management process, Our work in the defence sector includes we will manage remaining risk in the designing and building a new submarine business and thereby improve the berthing facility at Her Majestys Naval quality of earnings.
Base Clyde including a new floating jetty, all electrical and mechanical services, and a jetty support building.
Private sector markets In the private sector, we work in particular for customers who need high-specification, high-quality delivery.
For instance, we work for pharmaceutical companies like Glaxo AMEC plc annual report 2004 17 Project Solutions continued John Early Development and Investments director Delivering in partnership Project Equity Investments PPP This business falls into three main areas AMEC has been in the UK PPP market Public Private Partnerships PPP, since the introduction of the Private Property Developments and Wind Energy.
Finance Initiative and has a team of What is common to all three is the project finance and legal professionals opportunity to generate multiple income engaged in the complete PPP delivery streams from investment, construction structure, from front end bidding to longwork, and associated services.
term management of the investment.
18 AMEC plc annual report 2004 We apply strict selection criteria to the Our business model in Developments work we do in PPP and stick to what is to minimise upfront capital employed, we know the delivery and maintenance by partnering with landowners and to of capital assets we do not pursue soft reduce risk by securing pre-lets and preservices like catering.
And we also keep our portfolio balanced, with a mix of To realise value from our PPP portfolio we projects at various stages of development expect, at the appropriate time, routinely to to give a consistent earnings stream.
sell all or part of our investment in a rolling process similar to that which we use Wind Energy in our Developments business.
We have been in the Wind Energy business for five years and do everything from early Developments site identification, gathering and interpreting In this business we have the ability to deal wind data, to dealing with complex ecological with complex planning issues, financing problems, handling the planning process and project management and have particular and, eventually, asset delivery, operations expertise in mixed-use urban regeneration and maintenance.
projects which can include retail, We have an onshore development portfolio commercial, residential and other facilities.
of around 1,500 MW, whilst our offshore We have built strong relationships with developments have all been pre-sold, the key players in urban regeneration although we continue to be involved working in partnership with landowners in project management for the owner such as local authorities and occasionally work that carries performance incentives private sector organisations.
We have two particularly important joint Recent market transactions suggest that ventures in the regeneration area with pre-tax returns well in excess of 20 per cent ISIS Waterside Regeneration, to redevelop can be secured on onshore projects with British Waterways large portfolio of surplus planning consent.
land and with English Cities Fund, to We believe that we have built an important regenerate inner city locations.
Both are position in what we think will be a very reaching the stage where they should soon start to produce attractive earnings streams.
valuable market for us over the next few years.
