An introduction to this annual report and to investing in AMEC Sir Peter Mason KBE Chief executive New reporting During 2004, we simplified the way we report our results.
We now present these for our three main businesses: Engineering and Technical Services, Oil and Gas and Project Solutions.
This reflects better the way our business 2 AMEC plc annual report 2004 has been reshaped in recent years and In Project Solutions, prospects in our UK allows investors to develop an informed public sector markets of health, education, view of the prospects for AMEC in each transport and defence continue to look of our three areas of activity.
promising as the Government renews its commitment to these services.
Importantly, Over the next 16 pages, you can read our strategy of prudent investment in about our services, customer base and quality PPP, urban regeneration and wind the operating model of each of these projects has paid off and we now have a in more detail.
maturing portfolio of equity investments.
This makes us confident we can deliver A balanced portfolio substantial and growing annual profits The new reporting should help to clarify in 2005 and beyond, as we sell these the reasons for investing in AMEC and the investments, and selectively reinvest way our three different but complementary a process that has already begun.
businesses fit together to make a balanced portfolio.
In particular, it shows: Differentiated by our expertise All three of the businesses you will see In Engineering and Technical Services we in the next section are underpinned by our have a robust business delivering predictable technical skills, our long-term customer earnings, which offers thousands of relationships, and our project management customers, both large and small, a range expertise delivering best lifetime value.
of technical services through a growing network of local outlets across Europe With thousands of technical and scientific and a similarly structured environmental experts, AMEC has deep specialist consulting business in the Americas.
knowledge in the industries in which it works, where barriers to entry are often Year on year, these businesses grow by high.
This makes us the natural choice for pushing more volume through an expanding many of our customers.
In addition, our Design and forged more of the long-term contracts Engineering business is well positioned with companies and governments that are to benefit from any upturn in our industrial so important for our future and, importantly, clients capital spending in the Americas.
saw rising demand for our project Our Oil and Gas business offers management skills.
Increasingly, customers particularly attractive prospects.
A leading are looking to us to take on the role of player in the high growth upstream segment adviser, structuring and shaping projects of the oil and gas market, it has longstanding at a high level.
We see this as an important relationships with a growing number of future growth opportunity in a range major international and national oil of new markets.
Its competitive position has been strengthened through the recent The next section of this report gives you acquisition of the engineering firm Paragon, more detail on the investment proposition in Houston, which gives us more capacity offered by each of our three main to benefit from strong demand and new businesses, after which you can turn customer relationships won in 2004. to a review of our performance in 2004.
