Oil and Gas 33% total operating profit Carlos Riva Chief executive AMEC Group Limited, Chairman AMEC Americas Specialist total life of asset services and project delivery 10 AMEC plc annual report 2004 With market-leading expertise working Scope for margin improvement in deep water and hostile environments, Underlying margins in this business are AMEC provides total life of asset services stable.
Generally, we enjoy higher margins and project delivery to clients in the in our design and support services than we international oil and gas industry.
do in project delivery where large sums of money relating to procurement of materials This business, with total operating profit or subcontractors attract small margins.
of 57.2 million, makes up a third of our As customers look to AMEC more for business overall.
design and project management services and less for actual construction, we see We are a leader in our chosen fields and scope for margin improvement and further work right across the upstream, downstream risk reduction.
and pipeline sectors of the market in regions as widely spread as Australia, Long-term contracts West Africa and the Canadian oil sands.
This business has a strong portfolio of contracts and customers.
We have We work closely with long-term clients a number of long-term support services who are developing new sources of supply contracts with a broad geographical around the world, often in hostile operating spread and the three largest deepwater environments.
And we continue to increase operators Shell, BP and ExxonMobil levels of activity through new client are all long-term AMEC customers.
With oil and gas expected to remain the Competitive advantage dominant source of global energy supply Barriers to entry in the oil and gas market for the foreseeable future, we see significant are extremely high, and our proven health long-term opportunities arising across all and safety management systems, robust areas of the business.
environmental systems, highly skilled workforce and regional presence mean we have a solid and established position with our customers.
AMEC plc annual report 2004 11 Oil and Gas continued A world leader in deep water and hostile environments Upstream With over 30 years experience working with our clients, this business has developed a leading international position in the upstream oil and gas industry.
In this market sector we design, deliver and support offshore and onshore production facilities and have special expertise on the complex topsides found on oil rigs and the latest generation of floating production, storage and offtake vessels, or FPSOs.
Specialist expertise We are working in joint venture for ExxonMobil on the Kizomba A and B FPSO projects offshore Angola, and for Woodside Energy on its Enfield FPSO offshore Australia.
In the past, we also fabricated these FPSOs for instance Shells massive turnkey Bonga project, offshore Nigeria.
Today, however, customers are sending FPSO construction work to lower-cost locations like Korea and using us for the higher-value front-end design, procurement and project management services.
This means we book less turnover than we did, but the attractive trade-off is that we now carry far less risk and enjoy a better margin.
12 AMEC plc annual report 2004 Shell Expros Sigma 3 is another example Long-term client relationships of our upstream work, this time in the We have strong relationships with the North Sea.
This is a seven year joint venture major oil companies, built up over many services contract supporting all Shells years.
Examples include BP, with whom Northern North Sea assets.
And we have we have been involved in project activity been building our international portfolio.
on a continuous basis since the 1970s: Shells Malampaya project is one example ExxonMobil, where our relationship with of the support services work we are Esso goes back to the 1960s: Shell, with developing in the Far East.
whom we have worked in the North Sea since the early 1970s: and Total, where We are also working in Kuwait where we we have a long-term relationship in recently secured an important long-term asset support, both in West Africa and contract from the Kuwait Oil Company, to the Middle East.
support the development of their assets in the south of the country and in Indonesia, Our relationships with these and other where we are carrying out an offshore survey large operators are bringing in new work for BP Indonesia, aimed at enhancing the as they develop new fields in West Africa, performance and life of 60 oil platforms.
the Caspian and Russia, the Gulf of Mexico, This work may lead to additional Brazil and the North Atlantic.
And we expect maintenance and engineering services to remain busy for the foreseeable future, contracts in both regions.
working with oil companies to maintain and upgrade their existing assets, whilst Leading position in oil sands providing assistance as they bring on-line We have a strong position in the large new sources of supply to offset declining and growing Canadian oil sands industry, reserves in existing areas of production.
servicing companies extracting onshore oil from the sands in Northern Alberta.
Here, a very different extraction technology is used it is more similar to mining.
This business is extremely busy at present, as more efficient extraction methods and a strong oil price have made it more attractive for our customers to invest.
AMEC plc annual report 2004 13 Oil and Gas continued Delivering assured production Downstream AMEC is recognised in the downstream sector for its expertise in gas processing and operations and maintenance and provides a range of services to operators of refineries and petrochemical facilities.
Gas We have developed specialist expertise in the gas industry and have long-term relationships with clients including Saudi Aramco, with whom we have been working since 1966 and National Grid Transco, where our relationship goes back over 30 years.
14 AMEC plc annual report 2004 Refining In the refining industry, we have maintained a strong association with key clients over the past forty years, having become firmly established as one of the premier refinery contractors, notably in the Middle East, China and Western Europe.
Our projects have included new facilities, shutdowns and maintenance management.
One example of a long-term client relationship in this market sector is with BP at its large Grangemouth facility in Scotland, where we have been working for 35 years.
Petrochemicals We provide a full range of total life of asset services to our clients in the petrochemicals sector.
Here, we have over 70 years of experience working in markets including China, where we have undertaken over 100 project and service contracts in the last 13 years.
One of these is the SECCO ethylene production plant in China one particular strength in meeting clients needs the largest of its kind in the world where in the areas of environmental protection we are providing project management and pipeline integrity.
Our pipelines are capable of distributing Pipelines a wide variety of products, including In the last of our businesses in the oil natural gas, liquid hydrocarbons, multiand gas sector, we are a global leader phase hydrocarbons, synthetic crude oil, in large diameter pipelines, with extensive diluted bitumen and mine products experience of working on some of the most and tailings.
challenging pipeline projects of recent Recent work in this sector includes over years in climates ranging from tropical 1,000 kilometres of 30 inch diameter rainforests to frozen tundra.
pipeline from Chad to Cameroon in Africa, Our services range from planning and the BTC pipelines in Georgia, which will regulatory permitting through to consulting export oil and gas from the huge Caspian and design, financial planning, engineering, fields, and the Cheyenne Plains pipeline procurement, construction, commissioning, the largest cross-country pipeline project operation and maintenance.
