Report of the Directors The Directors present their report and audited financial Major interests in shares statements for the 52 weeks to 27 March 2004.
As at 18 May 2004, the Company had been advised of the following notifiable interests in its shares: Principal activities and review of performance The Groups principal activities are food retailing and financial Judith Portrait is a trustee of various settlements, including services.
A review of the performance of the Group and its charitable trusts and the blind trust for Lord Sainsbury principal operating subsidiaries during the period is set out of Turville.
As at 18 May 2004, notified holdings of these in the Operating and financial review on pages 2 to 7 of this trusts amounted to 23 per cent of the Companys issued Report and on pages 24 to 29 of the Annual Review and share capital.
Christopher Stone, Andrew Cahn and John Rosenheim Dividends are trustees of various settlements, including charitable The Directors recommend the payment of a final dividend settlements.
As at 18 May 2004, the total holdings of of 11.36 pence per share 2003: 11.36 pence, making the settlements of which they are trustees, as notified a total dividend for the year of 15.69 pence per share to the Company, amounted to 5 per cent, 5 per cent and 2003:15.58 pence.
Subject to shareholders approving this 3 per cent respectively.
recommendation at the Annual General Meeting AGM, the As at 18 May 2004, the notifiable interests, held beneficially dividend will be paid on 23 July 2004 to shareholders on and as trustees of charitable and other trusts, of Lord the register at the close of business on 28 May 2004.
Sainsbury of Preston Candover KG, the Hon Simon Sainsbury, Changes to the Board the Rt Hon Sir Timothy Sainsbury and Lady Sainsbury, the The Directors as at the date of the report are listed on wife of Sir Timothy Sainsbury, were 4 per cent, 3 per cent, pages 16 and 17 of the Annual Review and Summary 3 per cent and 3 per cent respectively.
Sir George Bull and John Adshead All of the above disclosures include duplication.
retired from the Board on 27 March 2004.
On 28 March, Sir Peter Davis became Chairman and, on 29 March, As at 18 May 2004, Franklin Resources Inc. had a notifiable Justin King was appointed Chief Executive.
Stuart Mitchell interest of 5 per cent and Brandes Investment Partners L. L. C. and Sara Weller will resign from the Board on 19 May 2004. had a notifiable interest of 7 per cent.
In accordance with the Articles of Association, Lord Levene Post balance sheet events of Portsoken and Jamie Dundas will retire by rotation at On 30 April 2004, the Company announced that it had the AGM and will seek reappointment.
Justin King, who completed the sale of Shaws, its US supermarkets business, was appointed since the last AGM, will also retire and seek to Albertsons Inc. for $2,475 million.
Full biographical details of the Directors shareholder approval, the Company intends to return are set out on pages 16 and 17 of the Annual Review and 35 pence per share to shareholders, representing approximately Summary Financial Statement.
This return of capital will be made by way of a B share scheme, providing shareholders with maximum Annual General Meeting flexibility in terms of tax treatment by allowing them to The AGM will be held on Monday 12 July 2004 at The Queen choose whether to receive the return as either income Elizabeth II Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, or capital.
The Chairmans letter and Notice of the Meeting accompanies this Report, together with The B share scheme will be accompanied by a share capital notes explaining the business to be transacted at the meeting.
A resolution to effect the B share scheme and the share consolidation will be proposed at an EGM to be held At the meeting, resolutions will be proposed to reappoint immediately following the AGM on 12 July 2004.
 LLP as Auditors, to renew the general authority of the Directors to issue shares together A circular explaining the details of the B share scheme and with the authority to issue shares without applying the the consolidation has been sent to shareholders with this statutory pre-emption rights and authorise the Company Report, together with the notice of the EGM.
to make market purchases of its own shares.
No such Directors interests purchase has been made during the last financial year.
The beneficial interests of the Directors and their families in The AGM will be followed at 12.30pm by the Extraordinary the shares of the Company are shown on page 20.
During the General Meeting EGM referred to below or, if later, immediately year, no Director had any material interest in any contract of following the conclusion or adjournment of the AGM.
significance to the Groups business.
Share capital Market value of properties The changes to the issued share capital of the Group are The Directors believe that the aggregate open market value of shown in note 27 to the financial statements on page 42.
Group properties exceeds the net book value of 6 billion by a considerable margin.
On 26 March 2004, the Company announced that it proposed to return approximately 680 million to shareholders.
This will Employees, social responsibility and the environment result in changes to the issued share capital as explained below.
The Company has well developed policies for fair and equal treatment of all employees, employment of disabled persons and colleague participation.
8 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004 The Companys interim and annual results are presented to all Policy on payment of creditors senior management and are communicated to all colleagues.
The policy of the Company and its principal operating companies is to agree terms of payment prior to commencing Colleagues have always been encouraged to hold shares in trade with a supplier and to abide by those terms on the the Company and over 74,000 colleagues are shareholders timely submission of satisfactory invoices.
The Company directly or through the Profit Sharing Scheme Trust, the is a holding company and therefore has no trade creditors.
Commitment Shares Plan Trust or the Sainsburys Share Statements on the operating companies payment of suppliers Purchase Plan Trust.
are contained in their accounts.
Sainsburys has a strong record on environmental matters Donations and on its commitment to corporate social responsibility, During the year, donations to the value of 6.1 million which is an everyday part of how the Company does business.
2003: 7.1million were made to UK charitable organisations During the year, the Company won numerous awards as and local community projects.
Sainsburys colleagues, referred to in the Operating review of the Annual Review customers and suppliers also raised 5 million for charitable and Summary Financial Statement.
The Companys purposes through events supported by the Company: see page Environment Report, which is published on the Internet 15 of the Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement www.
co. uk environment describes the for further details.
There were no political donations.
The statement of corporate responsibilities is published on the Internet By order of the Board www.
Tim Fallowfield Company Secretary 18 May 2004 Statement of corporate governance The Company is committed to high standards of corporate There is a clear division of responsibilities between the governance and has complied throughout the period under Chairman and the Chief Executive which has been approved review with all the provisions of the 1998 Combined Code by the Board.
The Chairman is responsible for leadership of on Corporate Governance the Code.
The Company is making the Board, ensuring its effectiveness on all aspects of its role good progress on compliance with the provisions of the 2003 and setting its agenda.
He ensures that the Board as a whole Combined Code as disclosed in this statement and the is aware of the views of major shareholders and facilitates Remuneration Report.
both the contribution of the Non-Executive Directors, and constructive relations between the Executive and NonThe Board Executive Directors.
He ensures that the Chief Executive During the year under review, the Board was chaired by develops a strategy with which the Board as a whole is Sir George Bull and comprised five Executive Directors and comfortable.
The Chief Executive is responsible for formulating six Non-Executive Directors.
On Sir Georges retirement on strategy and for ensuring its delivery once agreed by the 27 March 2004, Sir Peter Davis took on the role of Chairman Board.
He creates a framework of strategy, values, organisation having been Group Chief Executive since 1 March 2000.
In and objectives to ensure the successful delivery of results, view of the requirements of the Higgs Report and the 2003 allocating decision making and responsibility to support this.
Combined Code, the Board consulted nearly 60 per cent of the shareholder base at that time, including family shareholders, on All the Non-Executive Directors are considered to be its succession plans before they were announced.
It proposed independent according to the principles of the 2003 that Sir Peter should take on the role of Chairman for a limited Combined Code.
They bring wide and varied commercial period of transition, and that a new independent Deputy experience to Board deliberations.
Lord Levene is the Chairman should be appointed in time to take over as Chairman Senior Independent Director.
The Non-Executive Directors in July 2005 on Sir Peters retirement.
At last years AGM the held several meetings during the year without the Executive vast majority of shareholders supported Sir Peters re-election.
Justin King was appointed Chief Executive on 29 March 2004.
During the year the Board held 10 meetings, including a The other changes to the composition of the Board during two-day strategy conference.
There is a formal schedule of the year are set out on page 8.
Biographical details of the matters reserved for its consideration.
It is responsible to Directors are set out in the Annual Review and Summary shareholders for the strategic development of the Group, the Financial Statement on pages 16 and 17. management of assets in a way that maximises performance and the control of the operation of the business.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004 9
