Directors, officers and advisers Tim Martin Non-Executive Chairman, aged 49 Registered Office Tim founded the business in 1979, having previously Wetherspoon House studied law at Nottingham University and qualified as a Central Park barrister.
He became executive chairman in 1983 and Reeds Crescent non-executive chairman in 2004.
Watford WD24 4QL John Hutson Chief Executive Officer, aged 39 Company Number John joined the company in 1991 and was appointed to the board in 1996.
He is a graduate of Exeter University 1709784 and previously worked with Allied Domeq.
Registrars Jim Clarke Finance Director and Company Secretary, aged 44 Computershare Investor Services plc PO Box 82 Jim joined the company and was appointed to the board The Pavilions in 1998, having previously worked for David Lloyd Leisure Bridgwater Road a division of Whitbread plc and HP Bulmer Holdings plc.
Bristol He is a graduate of Stirling University and qualified as a BS99 7NH chartered accountant in 1984.
Registered Auditors Suzanne Baker Commercial Director, aged 41  LLP Suzanne joined the company in 1992 and was appointed to the board in 1997.
She has previously worked for Grand Metropolitan plc.
Solicitors Macfarlanes John Herring Senior Independent Non-Executive Director and Deputy Chairman, aged 46 Bankers John was appointed to the board in 1997 and is chairman of the audit committee, the remuneration committee and Allied Irish Banks plc the nomination committee.
A chartered accountant, he is an Bank of Scotland associate of Corbett Keeling Ltd.
He is a non-executive Bayerische Landesbank director of Kensington Group plc and Workplace-Systems plc Lloyds TSB Bank plc and is a former director of Kleinwort Benson Securities Ltd. National Australia Bank Ltd Scotiabank Europe plc The Royal Bank of Scotland plc Tony Lowrie Non-Executive Director, aged 62 Tony was appointed to the board in 1987 and is a Financial Advisers member of the audit committee, the remuneration committee and the nomination committee.
He is a Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein Limited managing director of ABN AMRO Bank NV and a former chairman of ABN AMRO Asia Securities.
Stockbrokers Brian Jervis Non-Executive Director, aged 69 Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein Securities Limited Brian was appointed to the board in 1991 and is a member of the audit committee, the remuneration committee and the nomination committee.
A chartered secretary, Brian is a former director of John Govett and Co Ltd. 8 J D WETHERSPOON PLC
