Directors report for the year ended 25 July 2004 The directors present their report and audited accounts for the Statement of directors responsibilities Company law requires the directors to prepare financial year ended 25 July 2004. statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and of the profit or loss of Principal activities and business review the company for that period.
The directors are required to The principal activities of the company are the development and prepare the financial statements on a going-concern basis, unless management of public houses.
Details of progress and future it is inappropriate to presume that the company will continue in developments are given on pages 2 to 4. business.
Results and dividends The directors confirm that suitable accounting policies have been The profit on ordinary activities including exceptional items for used and applied consistently.
They also confirm that reasonable the year, after taxation, was 29,274,000. and prudent judgements and estimates have been made in preparing the financial statements for the year ended 25 July 2004 On 26 November 2004, the company proposes to pay a final and that applicable accounting standards have been followed.
dividend for the year ended 25 July 2004 of 2.56 pence per share to shareholders on the share register as at the close of business The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting on 29 October 2004. records which disclose, with reasonable accuracy at any time, the financial position of the company and to enable them to ensure Profit retained for the financial year amounted to 21,943,000 that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act and will be transferred to reserves.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company and, hence, for taking reasonable steps for the Return of capital prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
At the Annual General Meeting of the company, held on 11 November 2003, the company was given authority to make The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of market purchases of up to 31,097,740 of its own shares.
During the companys Web site: www.
It is stated the year to 25 July 2004 a total of 19,010,000 shares has been clearly on the Web site that information published on the Internet purchased at an average cost of 269p per share.
As at 25 July is accessible in many countries and that legislation in the United 2004, the authority given to the company at the last Annual Kingdom, governing the preparation and dissemination of financial General Meeting remained outstanding in relation to 18,152,740 information, may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
As a result of the share buyback programme, the company expects earnings per share to be enhanced, in both the Auditors current and future years.
The companys auditors,  LLP, have indicated their willingness to continue in office, and a resolution Directors that they be reappointed will be proposed at the Annual General The directors listed on page 8 served throughout the financial Meeting.
Mr Martin, Mr Herring and Mr Lowrie retire by rotation and offer themselves for re-election.
Details of the terms under which Employment policies the directors, who were in office during the year, serve and their Only through the skill and commitment of the companys remuneration, together with their interests in the shares of the employees will its objectives be met.
All staff are encouraged to company, are given in the directors remuneration report on make a real commitment to the companys success and to pages 12 to 15. progress to more senior roles as they, themselves, develop.
No director has any material interest in any contractual A heavy emphasis is placed on training programmes for all levels agreement, subsisting during or at the end of the year, which is of staff: this highlights the importance placed by the company on or may be significant to the company.
providing service to its customers.
Insurance against the liabilities of directors and officers of the In selecting, training and promoting staff, the company has to company was in place throughout the year, in respect of their take account of the physically demanding nature of much of its duties as directors and officers of the company.
The company is committed to equality of opportunity and to the elimination of discrimination in employment.
The company Companys shareholders aims to create and maintain a working environment, terms & Details of the companys shareholders, including those beneficial conditions of employment and personnel & management interests notified to the company as accounting for over 3% of practices which ensure that no individual receives less favourable the issued share capital, are given on page 36. treatment on the grounds of his or her race, religion, nationality, ethnic origin, age, disability, gender, sexual orientation or marital status.
Employees who become disabled will be retained, where possible, and retrained, where necessary.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 9 DIRECTORS REPORT The company has established a range of policies, covering issues Re-appointment of  LLP as auditors such as diversity, employees well-being and equal opportunities, Resolution 7, set out in the notice of Annual General Meeting, aimed at ensuring that all employees are treated fairly and proposes that  LLP should be consistently.
reappointed as the companys auditors and authorises the directors to determine their remuneration.
Internal communications seek to ensure that staff are well informed about the companys progress, through the use of Authority to allot regular newsletters, monthly videos and briefings at staff The general authority previously given to the directors to allot meetings, at which employees views are discussed and taken relevant securities will expire at the end of the Annual General into account.
All staff participate in incentive bonus schemes related to Accordingly, resolution 8, set out in the notice of meeting, will be profitability and or service standards.
proposed as an ordinary resolution to authorise the directors pursuant to section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 to allot Policy on payment of suppliers ordinary shares in the capital of the company, up to a maximum The company agrees on terms and conditions with all suppliers nominal amount of 1,250,000, being approximately 33% of the before business takes place and has a policy of paying agreed nominal value of the ordinary shares currently in issue.
The invoices in accordance with the terms of payment.
Trade creditors company does not currently hold any shares in treasury.
The at the year end represented 44 2003: 44 days purchases.
authority unless previously varied, revoked or renewed will expire on the earlier of 15 months from the date of the passing Political and charitable contributions of the resolution and the conclusion of the Annual General Contributions made by the company during the year, for Meeting held to approve the report and accounts for the year charitable purposes, were 61,438 2003: 40,320.
No political ending 31 July 2005. contributions were made.
The directors will exercise such authority to allot shares only when Business at the Annual General Meeting satisfied that it is in the interests of the company to do so.
They On pages 37 and 38 is a notice convening the Annual General have no present intention, however, of exercising the authority, Meeting of the company for 11 November 2004, at which except in connection with the issue of shares under the shareholders will be asked, as items of special business, to give companys share option schemes and Share Incentive Plan.
power to the directors to allot shares, to disapply the pre-emption requirements of section 89 of the Companies Act 1985 and to Disapplication of pre-emption rights give power to the directors to make market purchases of ordinary The provisions of section 89 of the Companies Act 1985 which shares in the capital of the company, subject to certain confer on shareholders rights of pre-emption in respect of the conditions.
The notice also sets out details of the ordinary allotment of equity securities which are, or are to be, paid up in business to be conducted at the Annual General Meeting.
cash, other than by way of allotment to employees under an employees share scheme apply to the authorised, but unissued, Approval of the directors remuneration report ordinary shares of the company to the extent that they are not Resolution 2 in the notice of Annual General Meeting, which disapplied, pursuant to section 95 of the Companies Act 1985. will be proposed as an ordinary resolution, asks shareholders to approve the directors remuneration report, set out on pages The existing disapplication of these statutory pre-emption rights 12 to 15. will expire at the end of the Annual General Meeting convened by the notice of meeting.
Accordingly, resolution 9, as set out in Re-election of Mr T Martin, Mr J Herring and Mr T Lowrie the notice of meeting, will be proposed as a special resolution to as directors permit directors to allot shares without the application of these The companys Articles of Association require one-third of the statutory pre-emption rights, first, in relation to rights issues and, directors to retire from office at each Annual General Meeting.
In secondly, in relation to the issue of ordinary shares in the capital addition, any director who has, at the Annual General Meeting, of the company for cash up to a maximum aggregate nominal been in office for more than three years since his or her last amount of 190,000 representing approximately 5% of the appointment or re-appointment should also retire and may offer nominal value of the ordinary shares of the company currently him or herself for re-election.
Brief biographical details of each of the directors standing for The authority unless previously varied, revoked or renewed will re-election may be found on page 8.
The re-election resolutions expire on the earlier of 15 months from the date of passing of are set out as resolutions 4 to 6 in the notice of Annual General the resolution and the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting Meeting.
held to approve the report and accounts for the year ending 31 July 2005.
10 J D WETHERSPOON PLC DIRECTORS REPORT Repurchase of ordinary shares In common with many other listed companies, the company proposes, once again, to seek an authority from shareholders to permit the company to purchase its own shares for cancellation.
The directors intend to use this authority to buy back the companys shares in accordance with the buyback programme commenced in May 2003.
Accordingly, resolution 10 will be proposed as a special resolution to authorise the company to make market purchases of up to just under 15% of the companys current issued ordinary share capital, at prices not less than the nominal value of an ordinary share and not exceeding 105% of the average of the middle-market quotations for the five business days before each purchase exclusive of expenses.
The authority will last until the earlier of 30 April 2006 and the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the company.
The directors envisage that purchases would be made only after considering the effects on earnings per share and the benefits for shareholders generally.
As at 3 September 2004, there were outstanding options over 7,679,320 ordinary shares, representing 4.1% of the companys issued ordinary share capital.
If the authority under resolution 10 were to be exercised in full, this would increase to 4.8%.
By order of the board Jim Clarke Company Secretary 3 September 2004 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 11
