01681 JJB AR 2004 TEXT 25 5 04 3:50 pm Page 16 Directors biographies Executive Directors David Whelan - Chairman Aged 67, David Whelan was formerly a professional footballer, principally with Blackburn Rovers.
On his retirement from professional football, he acquired a single grocery store and built up a chain of six supermarkets called Whelans Discount Stores which he sold to Wm Morrison Supermarkets plc in 1978.
He had earlier formed JJB Sports in 1971 to acquire the business of a single sports store in Wigan, which had been trading since the early 1900s.
From 1978 until 31 January 2001, David Whelan was Executive Chairman during which time he was involved in a wide range of Group operations and has been a major influence in the success of the Group.
On 1 February 2001, he became Chairman, responsible both for ensuring that the Board functions effectively and also for general strategic issues as opposed to day to day executive matters.
In addition, David Whelan holds a controlling interest in Whelco Holdings Limited which operates the sports stadium in Wigan named the JJB Stadium, Wigan Athletic Football Club, Wigan Warriors Rugby League Club and Orrell Rugby Union Club.
Tom Knight Chief Executive Aged 51, Tom Knight joined JJB in October 2002 after a long and successful career at Blacks Leisure Group plc during which he held several positions culminating as Managing Director of their Sports and Fashion Division.
Prior to this he spent seven years working for adidas before establishing his own successful chain of retail sports stores.
He was appointed Operations Director of JJB in October 2002 and was subsequently appointed Chief Executive in November 2002.
He is also a Non-executive Director of Ultimate Leisure plc.
David Greenwood, FCA Finance Director and Company Secretary David Greenwood, aged 60, spent five years with  before spending a further five years as a financial controller in industry.
He joined Whelans Discount Stores as Financial Controller in 1976 and, after the sale of that company in 1978, he was appointed Finance Director of JJB Sports.
David Greenwood has overall responsibility for all accounting, administrative and company secretarial functions.
Barry Dunn, MRICS Property Director Aged 47, Barry Dunn joined JJB Sports in 1986 as Estates Manager after ten years in commercial and residential agency.
In 1992 he left to take up the position of Estates and Development Controller with Matalan plc, where he gained valuable experience in the development of out-of-town retailing.
Returning to JJB Sports in 1995 as Property Director, Barry Dunn has full responsibility for the Groups existing properties and for identifying and negotiating the acquisition of new sites.
16 01681 JJB AR 2004 TEXT 25 5 04 3:50 pm Page 17 Non-executive Directors Andrew Thomas, FCA Andrew Thomas is the senior Non-executive Director.
He is aged 61 and was appointed as a Non-executive Director in October 1994.
He was Executive Chairman of The Greenalls Group plc until his retirement in February 2000 and is a Non-executive Director of The Restaurant Group plc and a number of non-quoted companies.
He is also a Partner in Moors, Andrew Thomas & Company, Chartered Accountants.
Roger Lane-Smith Roger Lane-Smith, aged 58, was appointed as a Non-executive Director in November 1998.
He is Senior Partner of solicitors DLA and is a Non-executive Director of MS International plc, Timpsons plc and a number of other non-quoted companies.
He is also a council member of the CBI.
He qualified as a lawyer in 1969 and was senior partner in a number of firms of solicitors which through mergers, became DLA.
David Beever David Beever, aged 63, was appointed as a Non-Executive Director in March 2000.
He is Chairman of KPMG Corporate Finance and a Non-Executive Director of London & Continental Railways Limited, The Paragon Group of Companies plc and Volex Group plc.
He was previously a Vice Chairman of SG Warburg & Co Limited.
Board Committees Audit Committee Andrew Thomas Committee Chairman Roger Lane-Smith David Beever This committee consults with the external auditors on the Groups financial statements, accounting policies, internal controls and any other matters raised by the auditors.
Remuneration Committee Roger Lane-Smith Committee Chairman Andrew Thomas David Beever This committee reviews the remuneration of the Groups Executive Directors.
Nominations Committee Roger Lane-Smith Committee Chairman Andrew Thomas David Beever This committee reviews the appointment of the Groups Directors.
