Precious Metals Platinum The price of platinum climbed throughout much the previous year.
The surplus of supply over demand, however, of 2003 04, rising from a low of $603 oz in April 2003 to reach widened considerably.
Russian shipments of palladium rebounded $923 oz in March 2004.
The average price was $744 oz, an as production was fully sold, a significant proportion of output increase of 27% on 2002 03.
Much of the stimulus for higher having been held back from the market in 2002 03, and South prices came from the buying of platinum futures by hedge funds African production expanded.
Rhodium usage grew strongly in 2003 04, driven by an Total demand for platinum grew only marginally in 2003 04. increase in average autocatalyst loadings ahead of tighter emission Purchases of platinum for use in autocatalysts increased robustly legislation.
However, the level of purchases made by auto makers as further strong growth in diesel car sales led to greater use of was dampened by continued run down of inventories.
Following platinum based catalysts in Europe.
In addition, North American a strong increase in producer sales, the surplus between supply car companies stepped up their purchases, having largely and demand widened and the average price of rhodium dropped depleted inventories of the metal the year before.
However, to $541 oz, 27% lower than in 2002 03. platinum demand from the Chinese jewellery market dropped Profits for the divisions marketing and trading operations after almost a decade of rapid growth, as the strong rise in the were down on 2002 03.
Income in the final quarter was price reduced profit margins for manufacturers and retailers.
impacted by the renewed long term contracts with Anglo Supplies of platinum expanded faster than demand: higher Platinum, which took effect on 1st January 2004.
This, together production in South Africa and Zimbabwe and an increase in with continuing weak prices and trading margins for palladium Russian sales outweighed a drop in North American output.
and rhodium, more than offset good income from the buoyant The deficit between supply and demand consequently narrowed.
The palladium price improved from a low of $144 oz in The divisions pgm manufacturing activities continued their April 2003 to $288 oz in March 2004.
Even more than platinum, profitable growth during the year.
August 2003 saw the opening the price was strongly influenced by hedge funds and other of a new factory in San Diego, California for the production of speculators who accumulated very large long positions over precision machined parts for medical applications.
This new facility the course of the year.
provides increased capacity as demand for these products Physical demand for palladium in 2003 04 began to recover continues to grow.
Further investment to expand capacity and from the slump of the previous year.
Purchases of the metal by increase the product range is planned for 2004 05.
Demand for the auto and electronics industries picked up, with manufacturers our pgm wire products for medical and industrial applications having used substantial volumes of palladium from inventories in was buoyant throughout the year.
Johnson Matthey Johnson Matthey 18 18 Gold and Silver Profits from our worldwide gold and silver refining operations were down on last year.
The rally in the gold price, which gathered momentum in 2002, continued Precious Metals Divisions throughout 2003 and by the end of the year the price had risen a further 20% to finish at $416 oz.
This rise stimulated increased operating profits for the year fell by 8% to secondary supplies, with strong dishoarding across the Asian region whenever the price spiked.
Our refinery in Hong Kong again benefited from the increased business levels.
Although 44.2 million world primary gold production remained flat in 2003, North American mine output fell to the lowest level in over a decade, ensuring that margins remained under pressure.
While refining volumes were similar to the previous year, financial performance was impacted by the fall in the value of the US dollar.
Research Development & The divisions global research and development programmes continue in several important areas.
Work continues on catalysts for ammonia oxidation designed to improve Turnover 2,956m conversion efficiencies whilst minimising the production of unwanted by-products, which act as greenhouse gases.
2,857m 2003 Products have been formulated and are now being commercialised utilising technology jointly developed with Johnson Mattheys Process Catalysts and Technologies business.
Initial results show great promise and the products Operating profit 44.2m are attracting a very high level of industry interest.
Our programme of collaborative work with spark plug companies 48.0m 2003 to develop novel alloys for higher spark plug efficiency is also achieving commercial success.
Further work continues in this area.
Annual Report and Accounts Annual Report and Accounts 2004 2004 19 19
