Colours & Coatings The Colours & Coatings Division is organised into three market one of the lowest cost producers in the world and is well facing sectors: Structural Ceramics serving the tile, sanitaryware positioned to benefit from anticipated future growth in the and related construction markets: Glass serving specialised developing markets of Eastern Europe, the Middle East and applications in the automotive, architectural and container glass China and any future upturn in domestic European demand.
markets: and Speciality Coatings supplying the tableware and Glass In the Glass business, sales continued to grow plastics markets as well as a range of pigments and surface substantially during 2003 04 in flat market conditions.
All business sectors serve the full range of product development continued to underpin the sectors success international markets and the division has a presence in all major with the introduction this year of recyclable automotive enamels, geographical regions, with core production sites in Spain, the highly conductive silver pastes and unleaded architectural Netherlands, Italy, Brazil, the UK, Malaysia, India, China and the USA.
The business has also expanded into new geographic 2003 04 was a mixed year with the Structural Ceramics and markets in Eastern Europe, Russia and China, which has Speciality Coatings markets impacted by difficult trading contributed to strong revenue growth.
Operating profits were conditions but continued good growth in the Glass sector.
Glass continues to focus on process The rationalisation of the divisions activities, completed last year, improvements and production efficiencies, which are key to has helped support underlying profitability in the face of these maintaining margins in an increasingly competitive environment.
challenging market conditions and the business is well placed Going forward, we anticipate that core markets will be relatively to benefit from the market upturn which began to materialise flat and future success will depend upon continued high in the last quarter of 2003 04. investment in R&D and our focus on increasing market share Structural Ceramics Sales in 2003 04 were through new product development and enhanced customer down on prior year, affected by continued weakness in the large service.
The business is well positioned to meet these challenges.
Margins were impacted by the Speciality Coatings Speciality Coatings is split weakness of the US dollar, particularly in the growing Asian broadly into two market facing segments: the Pigments & market and operating profits were down.
However, with the Dispersions businesses, which supply the surface coatings and investments made in recent years, Structural Ceramics is now Johnson Matthey 20 plastics industries: and the Tableware business, which supplies glazes, decorative precious metals and decal products.
The general trend within the tableware market away from highly decorative, Turnover 254m fine ware and towards more casual dining shows no signs of 256m 2003 abating.
This has resulted in the continued decline of the high margin UK market.
Pigments & Dispersions also had a challenging year with poor demand for wood stains from the US market, Operating profit 26.7m caused mainly by the weakness of the dollar, which has impacted 25.3m 2003 on profitability.
However the business is well positioned for growth in 2004 05, driven by further expansion of its range of Micraflo free flowing pigment concentrates for plastics and the launch of Solaplex, a novel yellow pigment that provides an environmentally friendly alternative to lead-chrome and cadmium based materials.
Research Development & The Colours & Coatings Division continues to place great emphasis on product and process development, both of which are key to our ability to grow sales and sustain margins.
Considerable resources are dedicated to research both at the Johnson Matthey Technology Centre based at Sonning, UK, and at the major European facilities in the Netherlands, Italy, Spain and UK.
The research structure, Colours & Coatings Divisions focused on the core areas of fundamental chemistry, cost reduction technologies and product development has operating profits rose by 6% continued to deliver innovative solutions for the market during the year.
These include the development of a new and novel yellow pigment, high conductivity silver pastes, this year to 26.7 million, and a new decorative precious metal product for tableware based on fundamentally more controllable chemistry.
Going with good growth in glass coating products.
forward, management remains focused on delivering a pipeline of market driven research and product developments to underpin future profitability.
