Catalysts Catalysts Division encompasses three global businesses: operations.
This year we commissioned our first manufacturing Environmental Catalysts and Technologies ECT, Process Catalysts capacity in Japan within our existing facility.
During the year and Technologies PCT and Fuel Cells.
further expansion was carried out at our factory in South Africa and we completed a major upgrade of our European technology Environmental Catalysts and centre, including state of the art engine and vehicle testing Technologies ECT, Johnson Mattheys worldwide facilities.
This investment will allow us to continue to develop autocatalyst, heavy duty diesel HDD and stationary source market leading technologies to meet forthcoming emission emission control business, performed well despite disappointing legislation.
car markets in Europe and the US.
Our autocatalyst business in Process Catalysts and Technologies Asia benefited from strong growth in the Chinese vehicle market PCT performed well in 2003 04 with sales strongly ahead of last where light vehicle sales were 37% up on 2003 and we are year, reflecting a full years contribution from the former Synetix increasing capacity at our Shanghai plant.
Car sales in Europe businesses.
During the year we completed the reorganisation of were flat on last year, although sales of diesel vehicles continued PCT, fully integrating the former Synetix businesses and aligning to grow.
Diesels now account for 46% of all cars sold in Europe all of its activities with its global markets to which we offer a and our leading diesel emission control technology has enabled full range of both base metal and platinum group metal pgm us to increase our share of this growing market.
In March 2004 we further enhanced our product business was down as our domestic customers lost market portfolio with the acquisition of AMC, the market leading share and they reduced their demand for autocatalysts.
Whilst supplier of Sponge Nickel catalysts which are extensively used oxidation catalysts remain the key current product for diesel cars in the pharmaceutical and speciality chemicals industries and are there is increasing interest among car makers in the use of soot often the first catalysts to be evaluated when designing a new filter technology to control particulate emissions, an area where chemical process.
The former Synetix businesses have continued we are winning new business.
During the year we gained a major to perform in line with our expectations.
The AMOG ammonia, share of a large HDD retrofit programme in Japan and sales of methanol, oil and gas business achieved strong sales growth in HDD emission control devices were also well ahead of last year the oil refineries market, although sales to the North American in the US and Europe.
New regulations in both Europe and ammonia market were depressed by high natural gas feedstock the US will result in original equipment makers fitting exhaust prices.
In gas to liquids GTL we have increased our commitment pollution control technologies to new HDD vehicles from 2005. to the development of catalyst technology and have sold our first In recent years we have invested in significant resources to support commercial quantities of Fischer Tropsch catalyst to a leader in the them in their development activities and this is beginning to result GTL market.
The PCEO polymers, chemical catalysts, and edible in new business.
Our R&D centre in Japan was established ten oils business was adversely affected by the falling US dollar and years ago to support Japanese automakers and their global Johnson Matthey Johnson Matthey 16 16 rising nickel prices but has continued to invest, expanding capacity to meet future growth plans.
The pgm catalyst business also performed very well with particularly good growth in sales Catalysts Division of heterogeneous catalysts.
During the year we completed construction of a pgm catalyst manufacturing plant in India to produced a good performance in 2003 04 serve rapidly growing demand in the region, particularly from the pharmaceutical industry.
The pgm refining business, however, with operating profits 15% up on prior year was down with activity throughout the year impacted by low palladium and rhodium prices.
The Research Chemicals business at 109.2 million once again achieved good growth.
It continued to strengthen its distribution channels and during the year completed expansion of its North American facility.
Fuel Cells The Fuel Cells business made good progress during the year and is developing very much in line with our plans.
Our dedicated membrane electrode assembly MEA manufacturing facility at Swindon, UK is providing a world class rapid prototyping and integrated MEA manufacturing service to our customers and preparations are in place to further expand Research Development & capacity in time to meet growth in customer demand.
The automobile industry continues to invest heavily in fuel cells and demonstration fleets continue to expand around the world.
ECTs R&D is focused on enhancing our ability to cost effectively meet promulgated emissions standards.
This may Johnson Matthey Fuel Cells has been awarded 3.2 million in result in offering a product that uses 10% less precious funding by the UK Government for a three year programme to metal than our competition, it might mean that we can meet develop the next generation of MEAs for automotive applications.
standards with a smaller catalytic converter or the depth of our understanding of emission control systems may enable a customer to solve an emissions problem without major re-engineering.
Whatever the benefits of buying from Johnson Matthey, our commitment to investing in technology Turnover 1,143m is clear.
PCTs R&D targets the development of both novel catalysts and scaleable, well defined preparative methods.
1,083m 2003 One programme for the development of highly selective catalysts and ligands for specialised fine chemical applications has led to a new range of immobilised precious metal Operating profit 109.2m homogeneous catalysts which demonstrate good chiral selectivity for a number of commercially important reactions.
95.3m 2003 PCT has also initiated a major new R&D programme in the area of GTL catalyst technology for the manufacture of sulphur free diesel fuel from natural gas.
