Other Senior Management Catalysts Colours & Coatings S M Christley Division Finance Director, C M Hood Division Director Environmental Catalysts and Technologies N P H Garner Division Finance Director J B Fowler President, V Ros Managing Director, Environmental Catalysts and Technologies, North America Structural Ceramics P C Framp Managing Director, J Murkens Managing Director, Environmental Catalysts and Technologies, Europe Glass J F Walker Managing Director, T R Woolrych Managing Director, Environmental Catalysts and Technologies, Asia Speciality Coatings B J Cooper Vice President, Environmental Catalysts and Technologies, Heavy Duty Diesel Pharmaceutical Materials G P Otterman Division Finance Director, F K Sheffy Division Director Process Catalysts and Technologies A J Caruso Division Finance Director M T Durney Vice President and General Manager, Process Catalysts and Technologies, North America and Asia J B Friederichsen General Manager, West Deptford R M Kilburn Vice President, D S Mercer Managing Director, Polymers, Chemical Catalysts and Edible Oils Macfarlan Smith S P Murphy Managing Director, S A Zahr General Manager, Process Catalysts and Technologies, Europe Pharm-Eco Laboratories B C Singelais Director, Research Chemicals Corporate N Whitley Vice President, Ammonia, Methanol, Oil and Gas G J Coates Group Treasurer J C Frost Director, S Farrant Company Secretary and Senior Legal Adviser Fuel Cells I D Godwin Group Corporate Communications Manager V E Gough Group Reporting Controller Precious Metals M J L Henkel Group Taxation Manager W F Sandford Division Director B A Murrer Director, B M OConnell Division Finance Director Technology Centre I F Stephenson Director, M Bedford Director, Group Systems and Environment, Health and Safety, Human Resources Precious Metals Marketing and Pensions M C F Steel Market Research and Planning Director, Precious Metals Marketing A M Myers Director, Noble Metals J D McKelvie Vice President, Gold and Silver, North America Johnson Matthey 14 Divisional Structure Johnson Matthey has operations in 34 countries and employs around 7,500 people worldwide.
It is organised into four global divisions: Catalysts Precious Metals Colours & Coatings Pharmaceutical Materials Our Precious Metals Division is Colours & Coatings Division is ranked Pharmaceutical Materials Division is Environmental Catalysts organised into two groups: Platinum among the worlds top integrated a global, integrated supplier of active and Technologies ECT and Gold and Silver, and incorporates suppliers of decorative products and pharmaceutical ingredients, which ECT comprises Johnson Mattheys Johnson Mattheys precious metals associated raw materials for ceramics provides services to pharmaceutical global autocatalyst, heavy duty diesel marketing, fabrication and gold and and glass.
The division is structured companies through every phase of and stationary source emission silver refining activities.
into three businesses: Glass, Structural the development of a new product.
We are a world Ceramics and Speciality Coatings, Serving their respective markets in leading manufacturer of catalysts for which are organised around the key Platinum vehicle exhaust emission control and the US and Europe, the divisions markets that we serve.
West Deptford and Macfarlan Smith a leader in catalyst systems for the Consists of our worldwide platinum reduction of volatile organic operations provide customers with marketing and fabrication activities.
Glass bulk manufacturing services from compound emissions from industrial Marketing is headquartered in processes.
Manufacturing takes place phase three clinical trials through London with support facilities in Based in the Netherlands, our commercialisation of a patented or in the USA, UK, Belgium, Mexico, Philadelphia and Hong Kong.
We are Glass business manufactures black Argentina, South Africa, Malaysia, generic drug.
The division has leading the worlds leading distributor of obscuration and silver conductive positions in the manufacture of India and China.
R&D facilities are in platinum group metals and the sole enamels for automotive glass.
It also the USA, UK, Sweden, Japan and Brazil.
controlled substances and platinum marketing agent for Anglo Platinum, makes enamels and decorative based anticancer drugs.
the worlds largest producer of precious metal products for other platinum.
Our platinum fabrication glass applications such as bottles Process Catalysts and The divisions Pharm-Eco business makes a wide range of and architectural glass.
Technologies PCT Laboratories business provides platinum group metal products contract research and development PCT manufactures base and precious primarily in the UK and USA.
Structural Ceramics and small scale manufacturing metal process catalysts, fine chemicals services from pre-clinical through and electrochemical products.
Our Our Structural Ceramics business Gold and Silver to phase three clinical trials.
platinum group metal pgm refining manufactures colours, glazes and frits business recovers spent catalysts and Comprises our worldwide gold for the tile and sanitaryware industries, The Cascade Biochem business is other secondary material and also and silver refining and bullion and includes our zircon business.
focused on the manufacture of refines primary pgms from global manufacturing operations.
Johnson prostaglandins and other complex mining operations.
Manufacturing Matthey is a market leader in the Speciality Coatings molecules as active pharmaceutical facilities are in the UK, USA, refining of gold and silver.
The ingredients for the pharmaceutical Speciality Coatings supplies colours, Germany, India and China.
Our business serves the worlds mining industry.
glazes, decals and decorative precious Research Chemicals business is based industries and recycles secondary metal products to manufacturers of in the USA and UK.
We are also a leading fine china in the UK and around the manufacturer of high purity small gold world.
It also produces a wide range bars for investment and jewellery Fuel Cells of inorganic pigments and pigment manufacture.
Gold and silver refining Johnson Matthey is the world leader dispersions for use in printing inks, operations are located in the UK, in catalysts and catalysed components paints, automotive finishes, USA, Canada and Hong Kong.
