Board of Directors H M P Miles C R N Clark J N Sheldrick Chairman Chief Executive Group Finance Director C D Mackay M B Dearden N A P Carson Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Executive Director H M P Miles OBE C R N Clark MIM, CIMgt J N Sheldrick MA, MSc, FCMA, FCT Chairman, age 68: joined Johnson Matthey Chief Executive, age 62: joined Johnson Matthey Group Finance Director, age 54: joined Johnson as a non-executive director in March 1990: in 1962: headed Johnson Mattheys platinum Matthey as Executive Director, Finance in appointed Chairman in June 1998.
Currently marketing operations before assuming September 1990 and assumed current job title Chairman of Schroders plc and a non-executive responsibility for Catalytic Systems Division in in September 1995.
Additionally responsible director of BP plc and other companies.
1988, and, additionally, Colour and Print in 1990. for Pharmaceutical Materials from July 1999.
Previously Chairman of Cathay Pacific Airways, Appointed an executive director in March 1990 Previously Group Treasurer of The BOC Swire Group Hong Kong, a director of HSBC, and Group Managing Director in September Group plc and a non-executive director John Swire & Sons Limited and ING Baring 1995.
Became Chief Operating Officer in July of API Group Plc.
Holdings Limited, and a Vice President of the 1996 and appointed Chief Executive in June China Britain Business Council.
Currently a non-executive director of FKI plc and Deputy Chairman of Rexam PLC.
C D Mackay MBA, MA M B Dearden MA N A P Carson BSc Age 64: appointed a non-executive director in Age 61: appointed a non-executive director Executive Director, Catalysts and Precious January 1999.
Currently Chairman of TDG plc in April 1999.
Currently Chairman of Minova Metals, age 47: joined Johnson Matthey in 1980: and a member of the board of INSEAD.
International Limited and The Brick Business Ltd, appointed Division Director, Catalytic Systems Previously Chairman of the Eurotunnel Group a non-executive director of The Weir Group Plc in 1997 after having held senior management and Group Chief Executive and Deputy and Travis Perkins plc.
Previously Chief Executive positions in the Precious Metals Division as well Chairman of Inchcape plc.
Has also served on of Castrol International and a main board as Catalytic Systems in both the UK and the US.
a number of boards including those of HSBC director of Burmah Castrol plc.
A, M, N Appointed to the board as Managing Director, Holdings plc, British Airways plc, Gucci Group Catalysts & Chemicals in August 1999 and NV and Thistle Hotels plc.
A, M, N additionally assumed board level responsibility for Precious Metals Division in August 2002.
Currently a non-executive director of Avon Rubber plc.
