Employment Policies and Business Integrity and Ethics Policy Statement entrust their own precious metals to Johnson Matthey for Employment Policies processing and safe keeping.
Employees at all levels are Equal Opportunities It is the policy of the group to recruit, required to protect Johnson Mattheys reputation for integrity.
train and manage employees who meet the requirements The company strives to maintain the highest standards of the job, regardless of gender, ethnic origin, age or religion.
of ethical conduct and corporate responsibility worldwide Employees who become disabled and disabled people are through the application of the following principles: offered employment consistent with their capabilities.
Compliance with national and international laws and regulations is required as a minimum standard.
Training and Development of People Johnson Matthey Reputable business practices must be applied worldwide.
recognises the importance of recruiting the very highest calibre of employees, training them to achieve challenging Conflicts of interest must be declared and appropriate standards in the performance of their jobs, and developing arrangements made to ensure those with a material them to their maximum potential.
interest are not involved in the decision making process.
Our policy requires careful review of organisation Improper payments of any kind are prohibited, similarly structure, succession and the development of high potential no gift whose value is material and which may be people to meet our business goals.
The Management interpreted as a form of inducement should be accepted Development and Remuneration Committee of the board or offered by Johnson Matthey employees.
takes a special interest in ensuring compliance with the Reporting of business performance should be Training and Development of People Policy.
undertaken in such a way that senior management is fully and properly informed concerning the business true Training and Development of People Policy performance, risks and opportunities in a timely manner.
Ensure highest standards in the recruitment of staff.
Ethical issues must be dealt with in an efficient and Assess training needs in the light of job requirements.
Ensure relevance of training and link with business goals.
A positive contribution to society as a whole, and specifically Employ and evaluate effective and efficient training methods.
the communities in which we operate, must be ensured.
Promote from within, from high potential pools of talent.
We must seek to influence our suppliers to operate to Understand employees aspirations.
similar high standards as ourselves.
Provide development opportunities to meet employees We support the principles set out within the United potential and aspirations.
Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights and International Labour Organisation Core Conventions.
Employee Relations and Communication Johnson Matthey All employees have a duty to follow the principles set out recognises the importance of effective employee in this policy statement.
It is the responsibility of directors and communications.
Information and comment is exchanged with senior management to ensure that all employees who directly employees through the companys in house magazine, regular or indirectly report to them are fully aware of Johnson Mattheys news bulletins, presentations to staff and team briefings.
policies and values in the conduct of the companys businesses.
Business Integrity and Ethics Policy It is also the responsibility of directors and senior management Statement A reputation for integrity has been a to lead by example and to demonstrate the highest standards cornerstone of Johnson Mattheys business since it was of integrity in carrying out their duties on behalf of the company.
founded by Percival Norton Johnson in 1817.
It gives These issues are further safeguarded through corporate customers the confidence that the companys products meet governance processes and monitoring by the board and the standards claimed for them and that they may safely sub-committees to the board.
