D W Morgan I C Strachan A M Thomson Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director R J W Walvis P N Hawker L C Pentz Non-Executive Director Executive Director Executive Director D W Morgan MA, ACA I C Strachan A M Thomson MA, CA Executive Director, Group Corporate Age 61: appointed a non-executive director in Age 57: appointed a non-executive director in Development, Central Research and Colours & January 2002.
Currently Chairman of Instinet September 2002.
Currently Finance Director of Coatings, age 46: joined Johnson Matthey in 1988 Group Inc. and a director of Reuters Group plc, Smiths Group plc.
He was previously Finance as a Division Finance Director.
Appointed an Transocean Inc. Xstrata plc and Rolls Royce Director of the Rugby Group PLC and a nonexecutive director in August 1999.
Previously Deputy Chairman of executive director of Laporte PLC.
Prior to that for the groups Corporate Development activities Invensys Plc, Chief Executive of BTR plc and he had held a succession of senior financial and Legal and Secretarial affairs.
In addition, Deputy Chief Executive of Rio Tinto plc.
A, M, N positions with Courtaulds, Raychem Ltd. and assumed board level responsibility for Colours Rockwell International.
A, M, N & Coatings Division and the companys central research activities in August 2002.
Currently a member of the International Advisory Board of Conduit Ventures Limited.
Previously a nonexecutive director of RiverSoft plc.
R J W Walvis P N Hawker BSc, PhD L C Pentz BS ChE, MBA Age 57: appointed a non-executive director Executive Director, Environmental Catalysts and Executive Director, Process Catalysts and in September 2002.
Currently a non-executive Technologies, age 50: joined Johnson Matthey Technologies, age 48: joined Johnson Matthey director of Balfour Beatty plc, an Adviser to in 1985 as Research & Development Manager.
in 1984: appointed Division Director, Process Amerada Hess Corporation Inc. and Chairman Appointed an executive director in August 2003.
Catalysts and Technologies in 2001 after having of the Supervisory Board of Allianz Nederland Previously, he was Managing Director, held a series of senior management positions Group NV.
He was previously Chairman, Global Autocatalysts Europe and appointed Division within Catalysts Division in the US.
Appointed Corporate Centre, Shell International Limited Director, Environmental Catalysts and Executive Director, Process Catalysts and and prior to that held a series of senior Technologies in January 2001.
Technologies in August 2003. management positions within the Royal Dutch Shell Group.
A, M, N Committees of the Board A Audit Committee M Management Development and Remuneration Committee N Nomination Committee Annual Report and Accounts 2004 13
