Financial Review continued Full tri-annual valuations are being completed at the time intangible assets.
Impairment reviews will continue to be of writing and will result in new funding arrangements being performed on an annual basis as the Groups current policy put in place before the end of the year.
of charging no amortisation will also continue under IAS.
The Group is still reporting under the transitional IAS 10 Events after the balance sheet date dividends arrangements of FRS17 pending full implementation of in respect of a year can only be recorded when they are that standard or International Accounting Standard 19 declared and approved.
The impact on the 2004 results of in 2005. applying this change would be to reverse out the 2004 final proposed dividend of 13.7 million and replacing it with the The Group also carries accruals for unfunded ex-gratia 2003 final proposed dividend of 11.4 million, it being pension arrangements for certain former employees.
This approved and paid during 2004.
This would have increased liability is subject to an annual actuarial valuation and this shareholders funds by 2.3 million at 31 December 2004. resulted in no change to the pension provision.
IAS 28 Investments in associates requires the Accounting Standards Groups share of the profit of associated companies to be The Group is preparing for the implementation of shown net of tax and the impact in 2004 was 0.1 million, International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and reducing the profit and tax by this amount.
International Accounting Standards IAS from 2005.
As these standards have been released they have been IAS 32 & 39 Financial instrument measurement and considered to assess the potential level of impact on reporting In accordance with the Group policy to enter the Group.
into financial instruments only for hedging purposes, it is not expected that any material impact will arise from the The key areas of potential impact identified by the Group application of hedge accounting and the treatment of any to date in adopting IFRS are discussed below.
These areas portion of the financial instrument that is ineffective.
are in addition to the presentational changes that are required by the Standards.
All figures quoted are for Share Incentive Plan illustrative purposes only to assist in the understanding of The Share Incentive Plan introduced in January 2003 was the potential impact of moving to IFRS.
continued into 2004 for all qualifying employees.
The plan provides free shares for those employees based on financial IAS 19 Employee benefits IAS 19 will be similar to performance targets determined by the Board of Directors.
the requirements under full implementation of FRS17.
The As the Group has exceeded the maximum target for 2004 impact of full adoption of FRS17 is detailed in note 24 of the determined by the Board, shares to the value of 1.5m financial statements.
In terms of presentation, the pension 2003 1.5m will be distributed to participating employees liability of 70.6 million and related deferred tax asset of based on their contracted hours of employment.
21.2 million will be shown separately in the balance sheet.
The charge to the profit and loss account in 2004 would Dividends and Earnings per Share have been 5.9 million, which is an increase of 0.4 million Headline earnings per share at 37.96p were 17.3% up on over the SSAP 24 defined benefit scheme charge.
Subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting on 29 April 2005, the total dividend per share for the year will IFRS 2 Share-based payments new profit and loss be 7.2p, an increase of 20%.
As was announced at the time account charges will be incurred in respect of employee of the interim dividend, this increase represents something share awards and options based on their fair value.
The of a catch-up due to the fact that, over the last three years, Group has estimated that this would have resulted in an the growth in earnings of the Group has been greater than additional charge against profits of 1.1 million in 2004, the growth in dividends resulting in an increasing level of cumulative 1.5 million, which will be included in the dividend cover.
restated results when reporting the Groups position as at 31 December 2005.
The majority of the charge relates to the Save-As-You-Earn Scheme, which is open to all qualifying employees and which allows shares to be purchased at a discount to the market price.
The tax effect is excluded from the above estimate.
IAS 38 Intangible assets the publishing titles held by Stuart PATERSON the Group as intangible assets meet the recognition criteria Chief Financial Officer under IAS 38 and will therefore continue to be held as 16 March 2005 Johnston Press plc 30 Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Management Committee Group Management Committee From left to right: Simon Kennedy, Business Development Manager: Danny Cammiade, Chief Operating Officer: Tim Bowdler, Chief Executive Officer: Stuart Paterson, Chief Financial Officer: Malcolm Vickers, Director of Human Resources: Richard Cooper, Company Secretary.. Divisional Managing Directors Stuart McPherson Gary Fearon Chris Green Margaret Hilton Scotland Northeast North Northwest Mike Hutchby Nick Mills Chris Pennock Michael Johnston North Midlands & South Yorkshire East Midlands South Midlands South Graham Gould John Bradshaw David Crow Henry Faure Walker IT Electronic Publishing Printing JP Ventures Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 200431
