Board of Directors R G Parry P E B Cawdron Lord Gordon of Strathblane, CBE Non-Executive Chairman 51 Non-Executive 61 Non-Executive 68 Joined the Board in 1997.
Chief Executive of Clear Channel Chairman of Audit Committee.
Non-Executive Chairman Member of Remuneration and Chairman of Scottish Radio Holdings plc, of Future Network plc and Director of Nomination Committees.
Former Group Strategy Development Non-Executive Director of Active Capital rparry@johnstonpress.
co. uk Director of Grand Metropolitan PLC.
Former Chairman of the Scottish Non-Executive Director of a number of Tourist Board and a member of the Scottish listed companies, including Capital Radio Development Agency.
plc, Compass Group plc, ARM Holdings plc jgordon@johnstonpress.
co. uk and Capita Group plc.
co. uk M A King S J Waugh L F Hinton Non-Executive 44 Non-Executive 47 Non-Executive 61 Joined the Board in 2003.
Member of the Remuneration and Audit Member of Audit Committee.
Executive Chairman of News International Committees.
Former Managing Director, Former Group Marketing Director Ltd.
Member of the News Corporation Country Operations Europe, at Yahoo!
Director of ISBA, Executive Committee.
Director of the Press with extensive experience in the media sector.
Life Fellow of Marketing Society and Association in Britain and Chairman of the Non-Executive Director of Capita Group plc, Institute of Direct Marketing.
Newspaper and Magazine Publishing IMD plc and Princes Trust Trading Board.
co. uk Industrys Code of Practice Committee.
co. uk Johnston Press plc 32 Annual Report and Accounts 2004 T J Bowdler, BSc, MBA S R Paterson, MA, CA D Cammiade Chief Executive Officer 57 Chief Financial Officer 47 Chief Operating Officer 44 Joined the Board in 1994.
Former Managing Director of Cape Chartered Accountant.
Joined the Group in 1992 through its Architectural & Building Products Ltd, a Former Finance Director of Aggreko plc.
acquisition of TR Beckett Ltd.
Appointed division of Cape plc.
Non-Executive Non-Executive Director of Mirago plc.
Managing Director of West Sussex County Director of Associated British Ports spaterson@johnstonpress.
co. uk Times Ltd in 1994 and held various Holdings plc, The Miller Group Ltd, The Divisional Managing Director roles until Press Association Ltd and The Press appointed Director of Operations in 2001.
co. uk President of the Newspaper Society.
co. uk F P M Johnston, CBE H C M Johnston P R Cooper, ACA Non-Executive 69 Non-Executive 58 Company Secretary 48 Joined the Board in 1959.
Former Managing Director and Chairman of Former Managing Director Johnston Chartered Accountant.
Former Non-Executive Director Falkirk Ltd. Former Finance Director of Yorkshire of the Scottish Mortgage Trust plc and hjohnston@johnstonpress.
co. uk Weekly Newspaper Group Limited.
co. uk Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 200433
