Total income from the other revenue categories, which Plan into the Johnston Press Pension Plan.
After the include new media, leaflets and sundry revenues, showed introduction of the Groups Share Incentive Plan, shares good growth, up by 8.2%.
This was pleasing as a number were purchased to the value of 1.5m, based on the of Group initiatives were focused on this area.
New media Company achieving Board determined targets for 2003. revenues were up by 17.0% driven by employment The regionalisation of the credit control activities that advertising and the upgrading of all of our classified platforms.
resulted in increased debtors at the end of 2003 has now The profit contribution from our new media activities was been completed according to plan and a reduction in 3.6m.
Leaflet sales had another very good year up 14.1%.
debtor levels also contributed to the positive cash flow in Within sundry revenues, good performance from exhibitions, the year.
In 2005, as the expenditure on the new Sheffield sponsorship and the syndication of newspaper stories were print facility ramps up, it is expected that total capital the main factors behind the 4.6% growth.
expenditure will be in excess of 65m.
Margins Interest cover for the year was 6.8 times.
The good growth in revenues, when combined with our ongoing emphasis on investment which creates business Financial Investments efficiencies and cost control, meant that margins improved As the Group is entirely UK based and the US Dollar again during the year.
For the Group, operating margin on a based element of the private placement has been swapped like-for-like basis, as indicated on page 27, improved from back into Sterling, the main financial risk that the Group 33.1% to 34.0%.
Every division increased its operating faces is associated with interest rates.
All of the ex-Regional Independent Media Ltd RIM businesses are fully integrated into the The Group policy is that borrowings should be arranged Group operating divisions without reducing previously at the lowest possible cost and with covenants within reported operating margins, further evidence of the synergies which it can comfortably operate.
The policy also requires obtained from these businesses which had a combined that a minimum of 50% of the debt should be hedged margin at acquisition of 24.5%.
against potential movements in interest rates whilst the balance is kept under continuous review.
At 31 December After newsprint prices being flat in 2004, following 2 years 2004, 250m of the debt was hedged or placed at an of reductions in 2002 and 2003, there has been an increase in effective rate of 5.2% for an average period of 4 years.
Plans are already well developed and being implemented that will help the Group reduce the impact of this increase.
At the end of the year, the Directors reviewed the carrying value of the Groups investments.
The shares in Sunderland Operating Exceptionals AFC have been disposed of post year end and the Group As has been the practice of the Group in recent periods, now no longer holds any listed investments.
The unlisted costs or revenues that are material and out of the normal investment in Mirago was written down by 0.7m 2003 course of operations are highlighted separately in the 0.7m based on the Directors valuation.
columnar style profit and loss account.
These include the costs of redundancies, restructuring and gains or losses on Pension Funds FRS17 the disposal of fixed assets.
In total this year, they amounted At 31 December 2004, the Group achieved its objective to 0.8m, net of a 1.0m profit made on the disposal of the of merging the RIM pension schemes into the Johnston Groups interest in the commercial radio station in Burnley, Press Pension Plan JPPP.
All of the RIM defined 2BR, which it acquired as part of RIM.
In addition, the Group contribution members active, deferred and pensioners wrote off a further 0.7m from its investment cost in Mirago moved across but unfortunately, because of legislation plc, the European internet search engine.
regarding protected rights, only the active members of the defined benefit section could transfer.
The pensioners and Cash Flow Net Debt deferred members have remained in a much reduced RIM The operating cash flow and cash conversion of the scheme which the Group has committed to continue business continued to be strong with the operating cash funding.
To facilitate the merger of the final salary schemes, flow 109% of the operating profit.
As a result of this positive the Company made a one off payment of 5.8m to equalise cash flow, net debt reduced by 95m, closing the year at the ongoing funding levels and to ensure that no member 328m.
The reduction was 15m greater than that experienced was disadvantaged by the combination.
Despite this last year due to increased profitability, reduced interest contribution and the continued recovery in the stock charges and reduced payments into the Groups pension markets, the total FRS17 deficit on the Groups schemes funds.
This was achieved despite an increase in corporation increased by 5.2m, gross of tax, to 70.6m.
The main tax payments after the utilisation of tax losses in 2003 reasons behind this increase were lengthening life inherited from RIM and a one off payment of 5.8m being expectancy and a reduction in the discount rate used paid see below to facilitate the merger of the RIM Pension to calculate the present value of future liabilities.
Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 200429
