How were performing: UK Service Operations continued BUSINESS SERVICES The company continues to develop profitable non regulated activities.
These include Safe Move, a business that provides drainage and water information to solicitors and conveyancers, which has continued to grow KeyLand had a strong second half year as anticipated in the interim results rapidly and now contributes an annual turnover of more than 3m.
Turnover including share of associates and joint ventures was This service is now being promoted by the Property Search Group.
slightly behind last year at 11.2m 2003: 12.8m but operating profit increased to 5.2m 2003: 4.6m.
This reflects the continued high demand LOOP for prime development land.
Loop provides customer relationship management services.
Its turnover increased to 19.9m 2003: 17.3m, including 3.5m 2003: 1.8m from The primary source of revenue continues to be through the disposal external contracts, although profitability was affected due to unrecovered or development of brownfield sites for housing.
Net assets of KeyLand costs on a third party contract upon which Loop has given notice to were 34m at the end of March 2004.
The second half saw the sale terminate since the year end.
of a significant housing development site at Bransholme, Hull.
A number of smaller, high margin, properties supplemented this sale.
Planning delays Loop continued to deliver high standards of service to Yorkshire Waters continue to affect the timing of sales.
customers, including excellent results in the customer response and debt collection measures monitored by Ofwat.
Loop is also one of the lowest cost In addition to its primary activities, KeyLand has participated in selected joint providers of the services in the sector.
These contributed turnover of 2.8m 2003: 3.0m and operating profit of 1.0m 2003: 0.4m to these results.
KeyLand will continue to concentrate its resources primarily upon the development of the Kelda landbank and in particular the surplus property assets of Yorkshire Water.
ONE OF KEYLAND DEVELOPMENTS MORE UNUSUAL PROPERTIES was offered for sale during 2003.
Lendal Tower in York, a 14th century, historic monument originally served as a defensive emplacement on the banks of the River Ouse.
In more recent times the Tower was used as the headquarters of York Waterworks, which was purchased by Yorkshire Water in 1999.
16 KELDA GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004
