The directors present their report for the year to 31 March 2004.
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY There are group policies for the Environment, Health and Safety, Human RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS Resources, as well as a Code of Ethics.
The profit attributable to shareholders for the year was 180.6m.
After dividends totalling 100.3m, 80.3m was transferred to the groups reserves.
The internal control processes described on page 32 take account of social, environmental and ethical risks.
In addition, the Board receives information The directors recommend a final dividend of 18.73p per share to be paid as part of the normal reporting process to identify and assess such significant on 1 October 2004, to those shareholders on the register at the close of risks where they are relevant to the nature of the companys business.
An interim dividend of 8.10p per share was Further details are included in the following sections of this report and in paid on 27 February 2004. the corporate social responsibility section of the report on pages 19 to 27.
The total dividend for the year will amount to 26.83p per share 2003: EMPLOYEES AND EMPLOYMENT POLICIES 26.05p.
The group strives to create a positive working environment for its employees and places great emphasis on open two way communications.
It values PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES employee involvement, recognising that everyone in the business is a The directors report should be read in conjunction with the operating and potential source of innovation and change.
Internal consultation and financial review, which includes information about group businesses, the communication processes provide the key to this involvement, and play financial performance during the year and likely developments.
a large part in making work both enjoyable and motivating.
The principal activities of the group are the supply of clean water and the Kelda promotes freedom of association, principally through its diversity treatment and disposal of waste water.
Yorkshire Water Services Limited strategy and through the formal recognition of UNISON and GMB trade Yorkshire Water, the groups regulated utility business in the UK, is unions for collective bargaining.
In those parts of the group where union responsible for both water and waste water services.
Aquarion Company, the representation is low, wider franchise is achieved through involving groups US subsidiary, includes the US regulated water supply businesses in workforce representatives on joint working parties or works council the states of Connecticut, New York, Massachusetts and New Hampshire and type arrangements.
the non regulated water and waste water contract operations business.
The groups other businesses are the UK non regulated water and waste water The strategy is based on a face-to-face first approach and all messages are services businesses and KeyLand Developments Limited, a company which delivered through two way channels, including regular talk back sessions primarily develops surplus property assets of Yorkshire Water.
The internal communications processes have won the Yorkshire and Lincolnshire Cream Awards 2002 for Best Internal ACQUISITIONS AND DISPOSALS Communication.
The company magazine is distributed throughout the On 29 July 2003 the company disposed of its holding of 45.5% of the business and aims to provide business news through the eyes of our people.
issued share capital of Waste Recycling Group plc for 143.6m in cash.
The magazine has won 15 CiB Communicators in Business Awards Subsequently the company has utilised 76.4m of the proceeds of sale since 1998. to complete an on-market buyback and cancellation of 17.3m of its ordinary shares.
Regular employee satisfaction surveys are undertaken across the group, using a variety of survey tools including telephone based, on-line and paper Timco, the US timber operation, was closed during the year, and the sale based surveys.
of its assets was completed in October.
The groups salary and benefits packages are designed to be competitive.
DIRECTORS The group sharesave scheme, which has a high level of participation at The directors are: John Napier, Chairman: Kevin Whiteman, Chief Executive: all levels in the business, and a profit related pay scheme provide an Martin Towers, Group Finance Director: Christopher Fisher, Ken Jackson, Derek opportunity for all employees to share in the success of the business.
Roberts, David Salkeld and Richard Schmidt, non executive directors.
The groups approach to equality and diversity is reflected in the workplace.
In accordance with article 105 of the companys articles of association, The policy covers gender, marital status, parental status, sexual orientation, Ken Jackson and David Salkeld will retire at the forthcoming annual general race, colour, ethnic or national origin, disability, age, religion or belief, and meeting and will offer themselves for re-election, which is recommended by trade union membership.
The company is in the process of benchmarking the Board in accordance with article 109.
Neither Mr Jackson nor Mr Salkeld performance on diversity using external indices including Race for Opportunity, has a service contract with the company.
Details of the unexpired term of and has recently reviewed recruitment processes to ensure they align with their letters of appointment appear in the remuneration report on page 34. the diversity strategy.
The groups commitment to positive action towards applicants with disabilities has been recognised with the double tick Details of the terms of the directors service agreements and letters of accreditation from the UK employment service.
appointment appear in the remuneration report on page 34.
Additional information relating to directors who served during the year, including Kelda encourages and supports colleagues in volunteering, charitable giving remuneration and interests in the companys shares is contained on pages and community involvement.
One in five employees is active in a wide range 33 to 37.
The details of directors interests in the companys shares form of company supported community activities.
These include a Community part of this report.
Ambassadors scheme, a Speakers Panel, and support to local education 29 KELDA GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Directors report continued ranging from Right to Read in junior schools through to coaching at senior CHARITABLE AND POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS schools, and mentoring university students from diverse ethnic backgrounds.
Charitable contributions totalling 0.5m 2003: 0.6m were made during the year.
The group provides a wide range of development opportunities, including in-house and accredited programmes to help employees develop the necessary No political donations were made.
skills, knowledge, values and experience to realise their performance potential.
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT HEALTH AND SAFETY During the year 3.6m 2003: 3.9m was committed to research and The company is committed to achieving high health and safety standards development including 2.7m 2003: 3.0m on fixed assets.
The management of health and safety issues operates in the context of the health and safety policy adopted by the PURCHASE OF OWN SHARES Board and the system of internal control.
Health and safety risks are clearly At the forthcoming annual general meeting, the company will be seeking identified and regularly monitored through the groups risk management authority to purchase up to 10% of its ordinary shares.
Authority was and internal control process.
Subsidiary businesses have established health previously granted at the annual general meeting in 2003 in respect of 10% and safety policies and procedures, and provide such information, of the companys issued ordinary share capital but expires at the close of the instruction, training and supervision as is appropriate.
In addition, they forthcoming annual general meeting.
During the year the company utilised provide occupational health, safety and welfare advisory services for 76m of the proceeds of the sale of its interest in Waste Recycling Group plc their employees.
to purchase for cancellation 17.3m of its ordinary shares representing 4.4% of the companys issued ordinary share capital.
Specific health and safety goals are set annually by individual businesses and include numbers of accidents, working time lost as a result of accidents, AUDITORS training delivery, internal safety audits and health promotion and surveillance A resolution to re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as the companys auditors and programmes.
These are monitored and reported monthly to senior to authorise the directors to determine their remuneration will be proposed managers and directors.
The use of stretching goals, the effective provision at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
Details of the group policy of training and advice, and the continued emphasis by all parties on designed to safeguard the independence and objectivity of the external the importance of health and safety matters has resulted in continued auditors are included in the Corporate Governance section of this report reductions in both reportable accidents and all injury accidents.
By the on page 31. nature of accidents, there can be no guarantee that they will never occur.
PAYMENT TERMS TO SUPPLIERS The measures taken by the company are intended to place emphasis on The companys normal terms are to make payment in accordance with prevention and continuing vigilance.
suppliers terms of trade or within 30 days from the receipt of services or invoices subject to satisfactory performance by the supplier.
Kelda Group plc During 2003, senior managers in Yorkshire Water, Loop and Kelda corporate is a holding company and, at 31 March 2004, had no trade creditors office participated in health and safety awareness sessions as part of a outstanding.
The payment terms of individual operating subsidiaries are company risk management initiative.
Yorkshire Water Services has been disclosed in their accounts.
awarded a National Safety Award 2003 from the British Safety Council and a Gold Award for Occupational Safety 2003 from the Royal Society for the MAJOR SHAREHOLDINGS Prevention of Accidents.
The businesses consult with all employees via area As at 25 May 2004 the company had been notified of the following interests and functional health and safety forum groups and safety committees.
Local amounting to 3% or more of the companys issued ordinary share capital: health and safety issues are discussed and resolved within these groups.
In 2003, in addition to trade union appointed safety representatives, Yorkshire M & G Investment Management Ltd 4.85% Water appointed 44 health and safety champions within the Water Business Legal & General Investment Management Ltd 3.00% Unit to lead local initiatives.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING ENVIRONMENT AND COMMUNITY The notice convening the companys 2004 annual general meeting at the The environmental policy of the company recognises that a sustainable Leeds Marriott Hotel on 29 July 2004 at 11am is set out in a separate water and waste water business is dependent on environmentally sustainable document issued to shareholders.
It is, therefore, committed to integrating environmental best practice and continuous improvement in environmental performance By order of the Board through the efficient, effective and proper conduct of its business.
Philip Hudson Group Company Secretary Environmental performance is reported through the companys 26 May 2004 web based environment and community report which is regularly updated and independently verified.
This can be viewed at Registered office: www.
Western House Halifax Road The company contributes actively to the communities which it serves.
Bradford BD6 2SZ This includes encouragement of employee participation in community based schemes, as well as direct financial support.
25% of the groups employees Registered in England take part in voluntary community activities.
2366627 30 KELDA GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004
