OUR SHAREHOLDERS Our goal is to deliver consistently good financial results which helps the company to have low costs of borrowing and sustain dividends.
This is driven by a focus on efficiency in everything we do and by employing new technology and sharing knowledge and best practice.
Strong financial performance is essential in order to create shareholder value and sustain ongoing capital investment and environmental and customer service improvement.
OUR CUSTOMERS We aim to provide a quality of service which is significantly better than our peers and at a price which represents good value for money.
Our contract strategy and relationships with our service providers are also key in order to achieve better service and lower costs.
OUR PEOPLE Our people are the driving force behind our business.
We have invested in a number of initiatives to ensure that our employees are able to deliver the standards of service that our customers expect.
It is the delivery of this that will underpin the continued success of the group.
Our staff are rightly proud of their achievements in delivering sector leading levels of efficiency and customer service.
ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE The continuous delivery of Keldas water and waste water services has a significant environmental dimension.
We deal with environmental issues as diverse as management of and access to catchment areas, sustainable water management, river water and bathing water standards.
Our performance affects all customers and everyone who lives in the regions we serve.
Our aim is to achieve 100% compliance with legal and regulatory obligations.
SOCIETY Kelda makes an important contribution to the communities in which it operates through its commitment to opening up its land for public enjoyment, and through community involvement and volunteering.
25% of our employees are involved in volunteering programmes which support reading and numeracy standards in schools and in a wide range of community based activities.
We also have specific educational programmes to raise awareness of the value of water and to promote health and nutrition in schools.
9 KELDA GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004
