AQUARION Turnover 94.1m KEYLAND DEVELOPMENTS Turnover 11.2m YORKSHIRE WATER Turnover 604.4m UK SERVICE OPERATIONS Turnover 30.7m YORKSHIRE WATER UK SERVICE OPERATIONS Yorkshire Water provides water and waste water services to more than Yorkshire Water Projects YWP is a 45% shareholder in Aberdeen 4.7m people and 140,000 businesses.
Environmental Services AES, which has a 25 year contract to run four waste water treatment plants in Aberdeenshire, Scotland.
Grampian Every day the company supplies more than 1.3bn litres of high quality water Waste Water Services, a wholly owned subsidiary of YWP, operates the to homes and businesses in Yorkshire.
Through the efficient operation of its contract for AES.
extensive network of sewers and waste water treatment works, it also ensures that the regions domestic and industrial waste is returned safely YWP is also a 45% shareholder in Brey Utilities, a consortium which to the environment.
this year won a 25 year concession to provide water and waste water services to more than 1,100 Ministry of Defence sites in the Midlands, The water regulator, Ofwat, publishes a number of reports which Wales and the South West.
Delta Water Services, a wholly owned demonstrate Yorkshire Waters relative performance compared with its subsidiary of Yorkshire Water Projects, is carrying out 80% of the sector peers.
Recent reports indicate Yorkshire Water to be the most operating contract.
efficient company in terms of operating and capital maintenance.
The reduction in operating costs in recent years is the largest of all Yorkshire Water has developed a number of profitable non regulated the UKs water and waste water companies.
activities, including Safe Move, which provides drainage and water information to solicitors and conveyancers.
In addition, Yorkshire Water is currently ranked third in Ofwats Overall Performance Assessment, which compares the levels of service provided Loop specialises in cost effective customer relationship management.
by the UKs ten major water and waste water companies.
The companys main contract is to provide customer service support to Yorkshire Water.
AQUARION Aquarion is one of the ten largest investor owned water companies in the KEYLAND DEVELOPMENTS US and the largest privately owned utility in the state of New England.
KeyLand Developments is responsible for managing, developing and disposing of the groups surplus property assets, either on its own or It serves 211,000 homes and businesses, the equivalent of approximately in partnership with outside organisations.
677,000 people, in 52 communities in the states of Connecticut, New York, Massachusetts and New Hampshire.
Aquarion Services provides water and waste water operation and maintenance services through a number of contracts and partnerships with municipal authorities.
7 KELDA GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004
