DIRECTORS' REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2004 The Directors present their report for the year to 31 March 2004.
Financial Results for the year Profit on ordinary activities was 144.5m.
Share Capital There has been no change during the year to the companys issued share capital of 775 million in shares of 1 each fully paid, all of which is held by Kelda Group plc.
Principal Activities The principal activities of the company are the supply of clean water and the treatment and disposal of waste water in Yorkshire, for which the company is the water and sewerage undertaker.
Directors The directors who served during the year, including any changes, are shown below.
John Napier Chairman Kevin Whiteman Managing Director Richard Ackroyd Allison Bainbridge Charles Firlotte Richard Flint Graham Dixon Alan Harrison Michael Smith Paul Wynn Non-executive Directors Elizabeth Kerry Derek F Roberts Richard Flint was appointed as director on 31 July 2003.
Charles Firlotte resigned with effect from 31 July 2003.
All other directors held office at 1 April 2003 and throughout the year.
Additional information relating to directors who served during the year, including interests in shares, is disclosed in Note 5 of the accounts.
5 Dividends The total dividend for the year payable to the parent company, Kelda Group plc, of 100.3m comprises the following: m Interim Dividend 31.0 Proposed Final Dividend 69.3 Total Dividend for the year 100.3 The companys dividend policy is to deliver real growth in dividends recognising the management of economic risks, the continuing need for investment of profits in the business and to pay additional dividends which reflect efficiency improvement, and particularly improvements beyond those assumed in the determination of price limits.
The directors believe that the dividends payable for the year are in accordance with these principles.
Reserves An amount of 44.2m has been transferred to reserves, bringing the balance held in reserve to 837.4m.
Research & Development The company undertakes a major programme of research in pursuit of improvements in service and operating efficiency.
In 2003 04 3.6m was committed to research and development including 2.7m on fixed assets.
Fixed Assets The directors are aware that the value of certain land and buildings in the balance sheet may not be representative of their market value.
However, a substantial proportion of land and buildings comprises specialised operational properties and structures for which there is no ready market and it is not, therefore, practicable to provide a full valuation.
Movements in fixed assets are shown in Notes 10-12 to the accounts and include transfers to KeyLand Developments Limited, which have all been made on the basis of independent external valuations obtained specifically for the purpose and approved by the Office of Water Services.
With effect from 1 April 1996, only those transfers with a value of over 500,000 have been subject to approval by the Office of Water Services.
Capital and Infrastructure Renewals Expenditure Total expenditure on regulated activities during the year amounted to 302.3m.
6 Payment of Suppliers The companys policy on the payment of suppliers is to ensure that all payments are made in accordance with the terms and conditions agreed with suppliers.
For construction contracts payment terms are covered by the appropriate Conditions of Contract, such as NEC Form of Contract, ICE 6th Edition and Model Form of Conditions of Contract for Process Plants IChemEng.
The payment day ratio the figure, expressed in days, which bears the same proportion to the number of days in the year as the amount owed to trade creditors at the year end bears to the amounts invoiced by suppliers during the year is 30 days.
Instrument of Appointment Condition F of the companys Instrument of Appointment as a water and sewerage undertaker requires the company to publish regulatory accounting information in a prescribed format in addition to that required for the statutory accounts.
This additional information is included on pages 33 to 57.
Further copies of these statements can be obtained, free of charge, by writing to Kelda Group plc, Company Secretary's Department, Western House, Halifax Road, Bradford, BD6 2SZ.
Employees and employment policies The company strives to create a positive working environment for its employees and places great emphasis on open two way communications.
It values employee involvement, recognising that everyone in the business is a potential source of innovation and change.
Internal consultation and communication processes provide the key to this involvement, and play a large part in making work both enjoyable and motivating.
The company promotes freedom of association, principally through its diversity strategy and through the formal recognition of UNISON and GMB trade unions for collective bargaining.
In those parts of the company where union representation is low, wider franchise is achieved through involving workforce representatives on joint working parties or works council type arrangements.
The strategy is based on a face-to-face first approach and all messages are delivered through twoway channels, including regular talk back sessions with senior management.
The internal communications processes have won the Yorkshire and Lincolnshire Cream Awards 2002 for Best Internal Communication.
Yorkshire Water Services Ltd was also shortlisted in the National Utility Industry Awards 2003 for its internal communications approach Putting Feedback Into Action The company magazine is distributed throughout the business and aims to provide business news through the eyes of our people.
The magazine has won 15 CiB Communicators in Business Awards since 1998.
These include Newsletter of the Year, Photograph of the Year, Electronic and Media Category, and Redesigned Relaunched Magazine Newsletter.
Regular employee satisfaction surveys are undertaken across the group, using a variety of survey tools including telephone based, on-line and paper based surveys.
The companys salary and benefits packages are designed to be competitive.
The company sharesave scheme, which has a high level of participation at all levels in the business, and a profit related pay scheme provide an opportunity for all employees to share in the success of the business.
The companys approach to equality and diversity is reflected in the workplace.
The policy covers gender, marital status, parental status, sexual orientation, race, colour ethnic or national origin, disability, age, religion or belief, and trade union membership.
The company is in the process of 7 benchmarking performance on diversity using external indices including Race for Opportunity, and has recently reviewed recruitment processes to ensure they align with the diversity strategy.
The groups commitment to positive action towards applicants with disabilities has been recognised with the double tick accreditation from the UK employment service.
The company encourages and supports colleagues in volunteering, charitable giving and community involvement.
One in five employees is active in a wide range of company supported community activities.
These include a Community Ambassadors scheme, a Speakers Panel, and support to local education ranging from Right to Read in junior schools through to coaching at senior schools, and mentoring university students from diverse ethnic backgrounds.
In addition to the 25% of employees who are involved in company supported activities, many are also active volunteers in their local community, which is encouraged and recognised by annual colleague awards and a Business Excellence Community Colleague of the Year award.
The company recognises that continuous development of its people has been, and will remain, key to business success.
Through individual performance management the company aims to ensure that all employees know what they need to achieve and the values and behaviours which they need to demonstrate.
The company provides a wide range of development opportunities, including in-house and accredited programmes to help them develop the necessary skills, knowledge, values and experience to realise their performance potential.
Environment and community The environmental policy of the company recognises that a sustainable water and waste water business is dependent on environmentally sustainable operations.
It is therefore committed to integrating environmental best practice and continuous improvement in environmental performance through the efficient, effective and proper conduct of its business.
Environmental performance is reported through the companys web based environment and community report which is regularly updated and independently verified.
com environment The company contributes actively to the communities which it serves.
This includes active encouragement of employee participation in community based schemes, as well as direct financial support.
One in five of the groups employees takes part in voluntary community activities.
Going Concern After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation, given the nature of the regulated water services business, that the company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Auditor A resolution to reappoint Ernst & Young LLP as the company's auditor will be put to the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
BY ORDER OF THE BOARD S D McFARLANE, COMPANY SECRETARY, 22 JUNE 2004 REGISTERED OFFICE: Western House, Halifax Road, Bradford BD6 2SZ REGISTERED IN ENGLAND NO 2366682 8 STATUTORY ACCOUNTS 9 10
