managing the group 1 Sir Ian Robinson BSc FREng 5 Ian R Carter 9 CPippa Wicks Chairman Chief Executive, Hilton International Independent Non-Executive Director Sir Ian was appointed Chairman of the Board Ian Carter was appointed Chief Executive Pippa Wicks was appointed a non-executive on 1 October 2001.
He joined the Board as a of Hilton International and joined the Board director on 1 June 2004.
An Oxford and London non-executive director and Deputy Chairman of on 1 February 2005.
Formerly, an officer and Business School graduate, she was appointed a the Board on 22 February 2001.
He was Chief President of Black and Decker Corporation, Managing Director of AlixPartners Ltd, London, Executive of Scottish Power plc from 1995 to Europe, Middle East, Africa and Asia, Ian has the specialist performance improvement and 2001.
He is a fellow of the Royal Academy of broad international management and marketing turnaround firm in 2003.
She previously held Engineering and a member of The Takeover experience gained through 11 years with General senior positions within Pearson plc and was Panel.
He is also a non-executive director Electric and Low & Bonar plc.
Group Finance Director of Courtaulds Textiles of Scottish & Newcastle plc.
Pippa began her 6 L Patrick Lupo career with Bain & Company and was a non- 2 David M C Michels Senior Independent Non-Executive Director executive director of Arcadia Group plc between Group Chief Executive 2001 and 2002.
Patrick Lupo was appointed non-executive David Michels was appointed Group Chief director on January 21 2001.
He was previously 10 Ian P Livingston BA ACA Executive of Hilton Group on 1 June 2000.
Chief Executive and then Executive Chairman of Independent Non-Executive Director He joined the Board in March 1999 and was DHL Worldwide Express.
He is currently a nonappointed Chief Executive of Hilton International executive director of MMO2 plc and was, until Ian Livingston was appointed non-executive in April 1999.
A graduate of the London Hotel March 2004, a non-executive director of WH director on 1 June 2003.
A qualified chartered School, he was formerly Chief Executive of Smith.
Patrick Lupo held a number of senior accountant, he was appointed Group Finance Stakis plc and is an Honorary Fellow of the positions at DHL Airways and DHL Worldwide Director of BT Group plc in 2002 and since early Academy of Food & Wine Service.
He is also Express between 1984 and 2001.
2005, he has been the CEO of BT Retail, BTs a non-executive director of British Land plc consumer and business division.
He previously and Hilton Hotels Corporation.
7 Christopher J Rodrigues held a number of roles both in the UK and Independent Non-Executive Director internationally with Dixons Group plc, becoming 3 Brian G Wallace MA ACA Group Finance Director in 1997 and was Christopher Rodrigues was appointed a nonDeputy Group Chief Executive also a Director of Freeserve from its inception.
executive director on 1 September 2003. and Group Finance Director He previously worked with Bank of America He is President and Chief Executive of Visa and 3i.
Brian Wallace became Deputy Group Chief International.
He was previously Group Chief Executive on 1 June 2000.
He was appointed Executive of Bradford & Bingley plc.
Prior to that 11 Nicholas M H Jones MSc FCA Group Finance Director and joined the Group he was Group Chief Executive of Thomas Cook Independent Non-Executive Director Board in April 1995.
He was formerly Group and held several senior management positions Finance Director of Geest and has held financial with American Express.
Christopher is Chairman Nicholas Jones was appointed a non-executive appointments with APV, Schlumberger and of the Boat Race Company Ltd and a Steward director on 22 July 2002.
He is also a non-executive of Henley Royal Regatta.
Age 55. chartered accountant and business school director of Hays plc.
He is a distinguished corporate 8 Stephen F Bollenbach financier and is Vice Chairman of Lazard in 4 Christopher Bell Non-Executive Director London, a position he has held since 1999.
Chief Executive, Ladbrokes Worldwide His other interests include horseracing and Stephen Bollenbach was appointed nonfrom 1991-2000 he was Chairman of the Christopher Bell was appointed to the Board on executive director in January 1997.
He joined Ladbrokes in 1991 and Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Hilton became Managing Director in 1995.
He is also Chairman of joining Ladbrokes he held a number of senior Caesars and is on the board of Time Warner positions with Allied Domecq.
He is also and Catellus Development Corporation.
Vice Chairman of the Association of British Bookmakers, Vice Chairman of the Bookmakers Committee, a member of the Horserace Betting Levy Board, a director of Satellite Information Services, a Board member of the British Institute of Sport and Leisure and a non-executive director of Game Group plc.
com managing the group Senior Management Mike Ashton Senior Vice President Marketing, Hilton International Ros Barker HR Director, Ladbrokes Worldwide Adrian Bradley Senior Vice President Real Estate, Hilton International Tim Davis Senior Vice President Distribution and eCommerce, Hilton International Roger Devlin Corporate Development Director Jrgen Fischer President Hilton International, 1 2 Europe & Africa Patrick Fitzgibbon Managing Director, LivingWell Howard Friedman President Hilton International, The Americas Koos Klein President Hilton International, Middle East & Asia Pacific Mike OKane 3 4 5 Trading Director, Ladbrokes Worldwide Wolfgang Neumann President Hilton International, UK & Ireland John OReilly Managing Director, Ladbrokes eGaming and Telephone Betting Alex Pagett Group Corporate Affairs Director 6 7 8 Steve Roberts Managing Director, Vernons Alan Ross Managing Director, Ladbrokes European Retail Andy Scott Finance Director, Ladbrokes Worldwide Bryan Taker Head of Group Human Resources 9 10 11 and Legal Services www.
