betting & gaming Telephone betting active customers Ladbrokes continued to improve its increased by 7% and call volumes by 11%.
Investment in technology continued with product and service offer to customers the introduction of intelligent telephone across all channels.
Our lead in call routing and an improved call recording system: both have improved customer technology, shop design, product service and operational efficiency.
Our ambition to increase market share, and development and customer service simultaneously, profitability is delivering continued to be the catalyst for growth, the desired results.
with record levels of gross win and The rapid growth of eGaming continued with another strong performance.
The profit in 2004. poker site, Ladbrokespoker.
com, is the The UK shop business completed the This activity continues to improve the leader within Europe.
Revenues from table installation of Fixed Odds Betting Terminals quality and size of the estate and at the rake and tournaments more than doubled FOBTs in June, faster than any other end of 2004 there were 1,921 Ladbrokes in 2004, with active customers exceeding company.
We will accelerate this level of 60,000.
Ladbrokes runs some of the terminals and 1,482 Amusements With activity in 2005. biggest poker tournaments in the world, Prizes AWP machines were in place.
including Poker Million the finals of which Ladbrokes leads the industry in FOBT Shop opening hours increased by 9% generate large television audiences and in product development and fully complies and the number of shop trading days by 2005 will provide a $1 million first prize.
with the FOBT Code of Practice agreed 2.7%.
Just as importantly, we increased with the Department of Culture, Media & the number of betting events available to Ladbrokes sportsbook continues to grow Sport DCMS and the Gaming Board, our customers by 14%, examples being both in terms of active customers and the which became applicable on 1 April 2004. virtual reality horse and dog racing and depth and breadth of product offering.
In addition, Ladbrokes was proud to be betting-in-running on football matches and A significant area of development in 2004 the first company to gain a compliance other sporting tournaments.
These new has been betting-in-play.
The increasingly accreditation from Gamcare, the events were underpinned by the increasing live nature of the sportsbook is proving organisation which supports problem number of live horse and greyhound races beneficial both in terms of customer gamblers and their families.
Our focus on numbers and their usage of the site.
technology allows us to present this Ladbrokes staff won the Young Customer expanding array of products in an Ladbrokesgames.
com increased its offer to Services Professional and Retail efficient and exciting manner.
com Customer Services Team titles at the continued to grow both active customers prestigious National Customer Services Ladbrokes is the only betting company and gross win in a very competitive market.
Awards 2004, confirming our staff to able to offer a total betting service which be the best and most knowledgeable allows its customers to bet whenever Vernons, using its well-known brand, in the industry and key to our continuing and wherever they want using their continued to develop its online and postal success.
We have continued to invest in one customer account.
Launched games products to offset the decline in the the shop estate with the acquisition of 44 in early 2004, customers can place bets traditional weekly pools betting business.
shops and the opening of eight new and deposit or withdraw betting funds Total sales in 2004 remained constant.
In addition, 63 shops were through any of Ladbrokes distribution relocated or extended and 90 refurbished.
channels shops, internet, telephone and interactive TV.
com 05 betting & gaming Operating results UK Retail Shop numbers increased from 1,875 Year to Year to 31 December 2004 31 December 2003 to 1,921 with 52 shops acquired or Gross win by business m m opened.
In addition, 153 shops were UK Retail 652.5 575.1 relocated, extended or refurbished.
Ireland & Belgium 69.0 67.6 Gross win increased by 13% to Telephone Betting 46.1 28.9 652.5 million.
Excluding machines, eGaming 89.3 63.7 over-the-counter OTC increased by Vernons 20.2 20.2 6%.
In the first half OTC growth was Betting and Gaming 877.1 755.5 14% helped by good results at Cheltenham, the Grand National and Greeces success at Euro 2004.
Year to Year to However, poor horse and football 31 December 2004 31 December 2003 results, notably in the European Operating Profit Business m m Champions League and UEFA Cup UK Retail 215.3 173.1 tournaments, led to a 2.5% decline in Ireland & Belgium 13.2 11.5 the second half of the year.
Slippage Telephone Betting 17.8 9.4 grew by 5% in 2004 and average stake eGaming 21.3 14.2 per slip increased by 1% to 8.47.
Vernons 5.8 5.9 Gross win from FOBTs and AWPs Betting and Gaming 273.4 214.1 grew by 41%.
Having completed the Operating profit is before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items.
installation programme for FOBTs in June, we ended the year with 5,995 terminals and 1,482 AWPs.
The Ladbrokes continues to evaluate the Gross win increased by 16% to 877.1 million average weekly gross win per FOBT opportunity presented by the Gambling with growth in all channels.
After deducting for the year was 584.
Bill to develop a Regional casino, where gross profits tax and VAT, gross profit grew Operating costs increased by 7% to and when the legislation defines the 17% to 748.6 million.
340.8 million resulting mainly from the opportunity.
Such a venture would bring greater number of shops and increased together the Groups unique set of Operating costs increased by 11%, mainly shop trading days.
Our horse race levy operational skills and world-beating brands.
due to increased opening hours in the payments increased as a direct expanding UK and Irish shop estate, plus consequence of our success at We have been encouraged by progress the transactional growth in our eGaming increasing UK horseracing gross win.
made with Government to seek an and Telephone betting business.
Operating profit was 215.3 million equitable solution to the taxation of betting representing a 24% increase.
exchanges and will continue these efforts.
Consequently, operating profit increased by 28% to a record 273.4 million.
com betting & gaming European Retail eGaming Gross win in Ireland and Belgium Gross win increased by 40% to increased by 2% and operating profit 89.3 million with particularly strong increased by 15% to 13.2 million.
growth in Poker and Sportsbook.
Ireland benefited from an aggressive Poker gross win more than doubled shop development programme with with 64,000 active players, an increase 14 shops acquired or opened, and a of 156%.
Sportsbook gross win further six relocated and refurbished.
benefited from a 49% increase in active We have also completed the 2 million customers to 306,000 and good results introduction of an Electronic Point of in Euro 2004.
Sportsbook registrations Sale system and new screen systems.
increased by 34% to 357,000, and remain a focal point for recruitment Telephone Betting for our gaming products.
In spite Gross win increased by 60% to of the casino market remaining highly 46.1 million, generated by increased competitive, we continued to grow and call volumes and a good run of results achieved a 7% increase in gross win.
in the year improving margin from 6.1% Gross win from games increased by to 7.3%.
Excluding results from high rollers, 79% and is an increasingly important underlying gross win grew by 30%.
Call volumes increased 11% to 6.7 Operating costs grew 36%, due mainly million due to an ever improving service to higher transaction volumes and and product offering.
The number of marketing costs.
active customers in the period grew Operating profit increased by 50% 7% to 125,000. to 21.3 million.
Operating costs grew by 41% reflecting the growth in call volumes, banking Vernons transactions and increased UK Notwithstanding the continuing decline horserace betting levy.
Average in traditional pools betting, gross win operator cost per call increased remained level, with 2004 generating by 2% in the year.
an operating profit of 5.8 million.
Operating profit increased 89% to 17.8 million.
com 07 hotel division The strength of the Hilton brand was Encouraging signs emerged in 2004 with recognised with numerous awards over the last year.
Hilton International won both corporate and leisure business Best International Hotel Chain at the 12th improving.
The potential impact of war, Annual Grand Travel Awards 2004, Best Hotel Loyalty Scheme for Hilton HHonors terrorism and other natural disasters at the Business Traveller Reader Awards 2004, Europes Leading Hotel Group at remain, but appear to have lessened, and the World Travel Awards 2004 and two the prospects for the sector are better awards at the Worldwide Hospitality Awards 2004 in Paris.
than they have been for several years.
Hilton University the global forum for As trading improves we continue to focus the course of the next two years.
Although learning and development had another on mitigating the impact of cost rises in still in its infancy, franchising of the Hilton successful year in 2004.
Every hotel certain areas, notably wages, energy and and Scandic brands is now underway.
participates in the University and learners business rates.
The interest in franchising is encouraging completed over 45,000 e-learning and future plans for this business are programmes.
In addition, a range of other Capital expenditure remains under tight being explored.
development opportunities were offered control.
Excluding the Hilton Sydney including executive education programmes redevelopment, which is due for completion Hilton Worldwide Resorts continued its for senior managers with the IMD Business in the second half of this year, 2004 capital success during 2004 with significant School in Switzerland and online English expenditure was 102 million.
growth, strong tour operator partnerships, language learning.
The University is increased online package bookings and a continuing to make an important contribution The importance of technology and the high number of repeat guests.
The total to our ability to attract and develop the best growth of internet bookings continues.
Our upscale resort portfolio increased to 59 human talent in the industry.
distribution strategy, to guarantee the best properties located in exotic places around price through our own branded websites, the world.
In November, Hilton Worldwide LivingWell performed well in a difficult UK remains.
2004 was also a year of strong Resorts won the coveted Marketing market and increased membership over growth in our Global Distribution Systems Strategy of the Year Award at the the period.
Two new clubs were opened in GDS business and there was an increase prestigious National Business Awards in Australia Willoughby, north Sydney and the of 94% in reservations through our the UK and expansion is set to continue.
Gold Coast bringing the total overseas to branded websites.
The hotel based concept LivingWell reservations revenue from GDS and The luxury Conrad brand, a joint venture Express continued to flourish with 14 branded websites represented 24% of all with Hilton Hotels Corporation, had new clubs being added to the existing ten.
rooms booked across our hotels.
Improved trading New contracts were secured to manage we estimate half of all reservations will performance was achieved in all regions the Corporate health clubs at the new come from electronic channels.
and successful new hotels enjoyed high offices for Barclays in London and Sage profile openings in Asia and the US.
The brands continue to expand with 17 prospects of further new development new Hilton hotels opened in 2004 including opportunities in Tokyo, Phuket, Indianapolis, the Arc fide Triomphe, Paris, and Shenzhen, Las Vegas and Dubai, have helped to create China, with a further 28 due to open over a greater sense of momentum for Conrad.
