report of the directors The directors have pleasure in Corporate Governance All directors receive an induction on joining submitting their report for the the Board.
A combination of tailored Board year ended 31 December 2004.
Board and committee agenda items and other The Board currently comprises the Board activities assist the directors in The divisional and financial reviews on non-executive Chairman, four executive continually updating their skills and the pages 5 to 13 form part of this report.
directors, five independent non-executive knowledge and familiarity with the Company Other matters material to the appreciation directors and Mr S F Bollenbach, the required to fulfil their role both on the Board of the Groups position are contained particular terms of whose appointment and on Board committees.
In addition, in the Chairmans statement and Chief as a non-executive director are external seminars, workshops and Executives statement on pages 2 described below.
presentations are made available to and 4 respectively.
The Company provides the The Chairman has a primary responsibility necessary resources for developing Results for the running of the Board and for and updating directors knowledge The results for the year are shown in ensuring effective communication with and capabilities.
the consolidated profit and loss account shareholders.
The Chief Executive is on page 19. responsible for the operations and for Each director participates in an appraisal the development of strategic plans and interview with the Chairman.
The Senior Dividends initiatives for consideration by the Board.
Independent Director, having consulted The directors recommend the payment The division of responsibilities between with the other directors, carries out an of a final dividend of 6p on each of the the Chairman and the Chief Executive has appraisal interview with the Chairman.
ordinary shares entitled thereto, making been clearly established, set out in writing Each director completes a questionnaire a total of 9.6p per share for the year.
Mr L P Lupo on the effectiveness and processes Subject to shareholders approval, the final acts as Senior Independent Director, the of the Board and its committees.
dividend will be paid on 1 June 2005 to principal roles and responsibilities of which The results are considered by the shareholders registered on 4 March 2005. are described elsewhere in this report.
Board and the individual committees.
Annual General Meeting The other significant commitments of the Whilst all directors are expected to bring This years annual general meeting will Chairman during 2004 are detailed in an independent judgment to bear on issues be held at the Hilton London Metropole his biography on page 16. of strategy, performance, resources on 20 May 2005 at 11.00am.
including key appointments and The Board schedules eight meetings each standards of conduct, the independent Directors year, but arranges to meet at other times, non-executive directors were selected The directors during the year were as appropriate.
Of the eight Board meetings and appointed for this purpose.
those listed on page 16 other than held in 2004, Mr C Bell, Mr S F Bollenbach, Mr I R Carter.
Mr I P Livingston and Mr C J Rodrigues All directors submit themselves for were each unable to attend one meeting re-election at least every three years.
Biographical details of all the directors due to other business commitments in The independent non-executive directors are on page 16. the case of Mr Bell relating to that of the understand that the Board will not Group.
In addition the Chairman met on automatically recommend their Details regarding directors standing for two occasions during the year with the re-election by shareholders.
election or re-election at the 2005 annual non-executive directors without the general meeting are set out in the letter executive directors present.
The Chairman and the independent on the meeting, which will be sent to non-executive directors are appointed shareholders with this annual report.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters for a specified term of approximately specifically reserved for its decision and three years, subject to re-election.
Details of directors service contracts, approval.
These include the approval their share interests and other details of of the strategic and annual profit plans, Mr S F Bollenbach was appointed to their remuneration by the Company are key public information releases e. g. the Board pursuant to an agreement contained in the directors remuneration financial statements, dividends, major the Master Agreement between the report on pages 68 to 78. acquisitions and disposals, material Company and Hilton Hotels Corporation contracts, treasury and other group HHC, implementing a commercial Auditor policies.
The section Internal Control alliance, the terms of which were Ernst & Young LLP has expressed on page 52 contains further information announced on 13 January 1997. its willingness to continue in office.
on how the Board operates.
A resolution will be proposed at the 2005 annual general meeting to The Company seeks to ensure that the re-appoint it as auditor and to Board is supplied with appropriate and authorise the directors to agree timely information to enable it to discharge its remuneration.
The Board requests additional information or variations to regular reporting as it requires.
A procedure exists for directors to seek independent professional advice in the furtherance of their duties, if necessary.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
com Under the Master Agreement, HHC committee meetings, the committee The external auditor reports to the is entitled with limited exceptions to also meets for private discussions with committee on the actions taken to designate one non-executive director to the external auditor, who attends all comply with professional and regulatory serve during the term of the alliance while of its meetings, and can do so with requirements and with best practice the Companys own designate the Chief the internal auditor.
designed to ensure its independence.
Executive serves as a non-executive The committee has agreed a policy on director of HHC.
The main role and responsibilities the engagement of the external auditor to of the committee are to: supply non-audit services the application The Company Secretary is responsible for of which it monitors.
The policy specifies advising the Board through the Chairman monitor the integrity of the financial services that may not be provided and on all governance matters.
statements of the Company: contains a level of cost at which committee review the Companys internal financial approval is required enabling the committee Board Committees control and risk management systems: to satisfy itself that auditor objectivity and The Board has four standing committees, monitor and review the effectiveness of independence is safeguarded.
all of which have written terms of reference the Companys internal audit function: and clearly setting out their authority and oversee the Companys relationship Finance committee This committee duties.
The terms of reference of the with the external auditor including meets as required to deal with all routine audit, nomination and remuneration the recommendation to the Board business which excludes matters which committees, which are reviewed annually, of its appointment and remuneration.
are specifically reserved to the Board or to can be viewed on the Companys website another committee.
Any two directors can www.
Should the committees monitoring and conduct the business of this committee.
review activities reveal any material cause No additional fees are paid for committee for concern or scope for improvement, Nomination committee The members membership other than the Chairmen it will make recommendations to the of the committee are the Chairman of of the remuneration and audit committees Board on action needed to address the Board and two or more independent who in 2004 each received an additional the issue or make improvements.
non-executive directors of the Company.
The current members of the committee are The main activities of the committee Sir Ian Robinson Chairman appointed Audit committee The members in 2004 were as follows: Chairman and as a member on 1 October of the committee are Mr N M H Jones 2001, Mr L P Lupo appointed 16 May appointed as a member and Chairman with the assistance of reports received 2003 and Mr N M H Jones appointed on 16 May 2003, Mr I P Livingston from management and the external auditor, 16 May 2003. appointed 1 June 2003 and Ms C P the critical review of the significant financial Wicks appointed 1 June 2004.
Mr C J reporting issues in connection with the Appointments to the committee are made Rodrigues resigned as a member of the preparation of the Companys financial by the Board.
All members and related formal statements: of the committee are independent assessing the scope and effectiveness The committee is provided with sufficient non-executive directors.
of the systems established to identify, resources to undertake its duties.
It has assess, manage and monitor financial access to the services of the Company Appointments to the committee are made and non-financial risks: Secretary who acts as secretary to the by the Board at the recommendation of monitoring the integrity of the Companys committee and all other employees.
The the nomination committee, which consults internal financial controls.
The committee committee is able to take independent with the Chairman of the audit committee.
does so by reference to: a summaries legal and professional advice when it of business risks and mitigating controls: believes it necessary to do so.
The relevant qualifications, expertise and b regular reports and presentations from experience of each member are detailed the head of key risk functions, internal The committee meets as required but not in the directors biographies on page 16. audit and external audit: and c the results less than twice a year.
Five meetings of the of the system of annual self-certification committee were held in 2004.
Mr N M H The committee is provided with sufficient of compliance with key controls Jones was unable to attend one meeting resources to undertake its duties.
It has and procedures: due to other business commitments.
access to the services of the Company monitoring and reviewing the plans, Secretary who acts as secretary to the work and effectiveness of the internal The main role and responsibilities of the committee and all other employees.
The audit function, including any actions committee are to: committee is able to take independent taken following any significant failures legal or professional advice when in internal controls: review the structure, size and it believes it necessary to do so.
monitoring the Groups preparations composition of the Board which includes for the implementation of the new an objective and comprehensive evaluation The committee meets as required, but not international accounting standards: of the balance of skills, knowledge and less than three times a year.
Four meetings reviewing, with the external auditor, experience of the Board and make of the audit committee were held in 2004. its terms of engagement, the findings recommendations to the Board with Ms C P Wicks was unable to attend one of its work, and at the end of the audit regard to any changes: meeting due to a commitment entered process reviewing its effectiveness: and consider succession planning for the into prior to her appointment as a director.
reviewing the independence and directors and other senior executives and Although other directors, including the objectivity of the external auditor.
make recommendations to the Board: Group Finance Director, attend audit www.
com 51 report of the directors continued identify and nominate for the approval The Board has delegated the detailed forecasts, business development, strategic of the Board candidates to fill Board design of the system of internal control planning, human resources, legal and vacancies as and when they arise: to the executive directors.
review the leadership of the Company There is a group-wide policy governing to ensure the continued ability of the The control framework and key procedures appraisal and approval of investment Company to compete effectively in are as follows: expenditure and asset disposals.
Major the marketplace: projects are reported on at each regular recommend candidates for the role Hilton Group plc is the holding company Board meeting.
Post investment audits of Senior Independent Director and for of a large, multinational group.
The Groups are undertaken on a systematic basis membership of the audit and remuneration operations are separated into two divisions: and are formally reviewed by the Board committees, in consultation with the Hotels, and Betting and Gaming.
Chairmen of those committees: and Responsibilities for managing business Key policies and control procedures make recommendations to the Board risks arising at a divisional level are defined including treasury, compliance and concerning the re-appointment of nonby the Board.
information system controls are executive directors at the end of their The executive directors meet regularly documented in manuals having group-wide specified term of office and the re-election together and with other senior executives application.
Operating companies also use by shareholders of any director under the to consider Group financial performance, procedure manuals which must integrate retirement by rotation provisions.
business development and Group with Group controls.
The directors and A system of annual self-certification The above activities were performed officers of Group subsidiaries comprise of compliance with key controls and as necessary by the committee in 2004. executives with appropriate functional procedures is operated throughout responsibilities.
Directors of key operating the Group.
During 2004 appointments were made companies meet regularly to manage their The Group has an internal audit function, of one non-executive director and one respective businesses.
outsourced to Deloitte & Touche, which executive director with effect from 1 The Board establishes corporate strategy reports to management on the Groups February 2005.
The structure, size and and Group business objectives.
composition including skills, knowledge management must integrate such To underpin the effectiveness of controls, and experience of the Board were objectives into divisional business it is the Groups policy to recruit and reviewed.
Descriptions of the roles strategies for presentation to the Board develop management and staff of high and capabilities required were prepared with supporting financial objectives.
calibre, integrity and with appropriate and suitable candidates were identified There is an ongoing process for disciplines.
High standards of business using external advisers.
identifying, evaluating and managing ethics and compliance with laws, the significant risks faced by the Group.
regulations and internal policies are Remuneration committee Details Major business risks and their financial demanded from staff at all levels.
of the remuneration committee, including implications are appraised by the membership, are set out in the directors responsible executives and endorsed The role of the audit committee in reviewing remuneration report on pages 68 to 78, by the divisional management.
This is the effectiveness of the system of internal which should be read in conjunction with an integral part of the strategic planning control is explained in the section Audit this section of this report.
The appropriateness of controls is Committee on page 51. considered by executives, having regard to Internal Control cost benefit, materiality and the likelihood The Board also conducts an assessment The Board has ultimate responsibility for of risks crystallising.
Key risks and actions of the effectiveness of the internal control the system of internal control operating to mitigate those risks are considered system.
The assessment takes account throughout the Group and for reviewing at each regular Board meeting and are of all significant aspects of internal control its effectiveness.
formally reviewed and approved by the including: risk assessment: the control Board annually.
environment and control activities: No system of internal control can provide Divisional budgets, containing financial information and communication: absolute assurance against material and operating targets, capital expenditure and monitoring.
The Groups system proposals and performance indicators, is designed to manage rather than eliminate are reviewed by the executive directors and Relations with Shareholders the risk of failure to achieve business must support divisional business strategies.
There is a regular programme of meetings objectives and to provide the Board The consolidated Group profit plan with major institutional shareholders to with reasonable assurance that potential is approved by the Board.
consider the Groups performance and problems will normally be prevented Reports on Group and divisional prospects.
In addition presentations are or will be detected in a timely manner performance are regularly provided made twice yearly after the announcement for appropriate action.
to directors and discussed at Board of results, the details of which, together with meetings.
Performance against both Group financial reports and announcements, The Company has had procedures budgets and objectives together with can be accessed via the Groups internet in place throughout the year and up to management of business risks are site.
A presentation was also made during 24 February 2005, the date of approval reviewed with divisional management, 2004 to The UK Shareholders Association, of this annual report, which accord with as are forecasts and material sensitivities.
an organisation which represents the interests the Internal Control Guidance for Directors The Board regularly receives reports from of private shareholders.
on the Combined Code published in key executives and functional heads September 1999. covering areas such as operations, 52 www.
com In addition to results presentations, the The processes described under internal Throughout the Group, the principles annual general meeting, the Chairman and, control on page 52 apply to CSR as of equal opportunities are recognised in some cases, the Senior Independent do the practices described on page 50 in the formulation and development Director met in 2004 with a number of for assisting the directors to update of employment policies.
major institutional investors and their their knowledge.
In addition to business representative bodies.
Other directors are presentations regularly made to the Board It is the Companys policy to give full and available to meet the Companys major at which CSR is considered as appropriate, fair consideration to applications from shareholders if requested.
the Board conducts an annual CSR review people with disabilities, having regard and Board members regularly receive CSR to their particular aptitudes and abilities.
The Senior Independent Director is available updates.
CSR performance is included If an employee becomes disabled, the to shareholders if they have concerns which in divisional accountability systems and Companys objective is the continued contact through the usual channels of remuneration arrangements.
provision of suitable employment, either Chairman, Chief Executive, and Finance in the same or an alternative position, Director has failed to solve or for which The risks and opportunities relating to CSR with appropriate training being given such contact is inappropriate.
primarily revolve around the reputation if necessary.
Employees with disabilities of the Group and the quality of its brands share in the opportunities for training, The Board receives a monthly market operating throughout the world.
In relation career development and promotion.
report from the Companys brokers to this, the processes for identifying, who also present to the Board annually.
evaluating and managing significant Charitable Donations A twice-yearly presentation is made to risks faced by the Groups businesses During 2004, in addition to donations the Board reporting on the programme have recognised the importance of safety made to overseas charities, group of meetings with major institutional practices and Ladbrokes continuing companies donated 183,000 to UK shareholders.
Principles of ownership, development of its approach to responsible charitable organisations.
corporate governance and voting gambling.
CSR also impacts the guidelines issued by the Companys performance of the Groups employees Supplier Payment Policies major institutional shareholders, their on whom the Group relies for the provision The Company agrees payment terms representative bodies and advisory of high quality services to customers.
for its business transactions when goods organisations are circulated to and and services are ordered.
It ensures considered by the Board.
Performance indicators continue to be that suppliers are aware of the terms developed in accordance with group-wide of payment and the relevant terms are The Company corresponds regularly CSR policies.
No breaches of CSR policies included in contracts where appropriate.
on a range of subjects with its individual and procedures material to the Group have Subject to satisfactory performance by shareholders who have an opportunity been identified by the Board in 2004. the supplier, arrangements are adhered to question the Board at the annual to when making payments.
The identification and management of CSR issues, the CSR reporting framework and At the year end, the Company had Compliance Statement accuracy of any associated data has been no trade creditors.
The Company has complied throughout verified by the Companys CSR adviser, 2004 with the provisions set out in Acona Group AS.
By order of the Board section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance which was Employee Policies published in July 2003.
The Board values two-way communication M J Noble between senior management and Secretary Substantial Share Interests employees on all matters affecting the 24 February 2005 At 24 February 2005, substantial welfare of the business.
As well as regular shareholdings notified to the Company management visits to operating units, pursuant to section 198 of the Companies conferences, meetings, communication is Act 1985 were for: Barclays PLC 6.01%, by video, intranet and audio programmes.
Fidelity Investments 13.87%, Legal and Throughout the Group via staff councils, General Investment Management Limited employees are encouraged to be involved 3.00% and Scottish Widows Investment in the running of the business and opinion Partnership Limited 3.89%.
Further details in respect of the share The Companys annual report is made capital are shown on pages 40 and 41, available to staff and, together with regular note 21. staff magazines, provides employees with a greater awareness of the Groups Corporate Social Responsibility performance as well as the financial A report on corporate social responsibility and economic factors which affect it.
CSR is on the Companys website In addition, those employees who are www.
com and highlights eligible are also encouraged to become are given on pages 11 and 12. involved in the Groups performance through participation in share schemes.
