Board of Directors Nigel Keen Peter Hill Jonathan Silver Chairman.
BA, Appointed a non-executive director in Chartered Engineer.
Appointed Managing Director in 2001 Joined Laird in 1986 and appointed to Chairman of the Nominations and Chief Executive in March 2002. the Board as Finance Director in 1994.
Committee and a member of the Previously held senior management Previously Group Treasurer and Remuneration Committee.
Chairman positions with Invensys plc and Corporate Development Manager.
of Axis-Shield plc, Oxford Instruments BTR plc.
Non-executive director of plc and Deltex Medical Group plc.
BS, MS, MBA, Geoffrey Drabble Professional Engineer.
BSc, Joined Laird in 1996 as General Chartered Accountant.
Manager of the Groups EMI shielding Joined Laird in 1997 as Managing business, becoming President of Director of Laird Security Systems.
Appointed Chief Appointed a director in 2001.
Executive of Laird Technologies, Inc in Previously held senior management 2001.
Appointed a director in January positions with Black & Decker.
Previously held management positions with Monsanto.
Nigel Keen Peter Hill Jonathan Silver Geoffrey Drabble Martin Rapp 20 John McDowall CBE Sir Geoffrey Owen Andrew Robb Non-executive director.
Chairman of the Appointed in 2000.
Remuneration Committee and a Remuneration and Audit Committees.
Appointed in September 2004. member of the Nominations and Audit Senior Fellow at the Institute of Chairman of the Audit Committee and Committees.
Mr McDowall will Management, the London School of a member of the Remuneration become the senior independent Economics.
Formerly Editor of the Committee.
Previously Finance non-executive director of the Board in Financial Times.
Director of Pilkington plc and P&O May 2005.
Chairman of Techniquest Steam Navigation Co. Non-executive and a member of the Council of the Anthony Reading MBE director and Chairman of the Audit University of Glamorgan.
Committee of Corus Group plc, Kesa executive director of British Steel plc Appointed in September 2004.
A Electricals plc and PayPoint plc.
and Chairman of Avesta Sheffield AB.
member of the Remuneration and Nominations Committees.
Previously Dr William Spivey David Morton an executive director of Tomkins plc, Non-executive director.
Aged 75. having held senior management BS, MS, PhD.
A member of the positions with BTR plc.
Mr Morton director of Spectris plc and e2v A member of the Remuneration became the senior independent technologies plc.
Committee and a member of the non-executive director in May 2004.
Audit Committee for part of the year.
Formerly Chairman and CEO of Alcan Formerly President and CEO of Aluminium Limited.
Non-executive Luminent, Inc. having previously held director of Methanex Corporation, senior management positions with Canadian Overseas Packaging AT&T Corporation and Lucent Industries and the Trust Companies of Technologies.
Non-executive director the Bank of Nova Scotia.
Mr Morton of the Raytheon Company, Novellus will be retiring at the 2005 Annual Systems, Lyondell Chemical, General Meeting.
British Canadian ADC Telecommunications and citizen.
Andrew Robb John McDowall CBE Sir Geoffrey Owen David Morton Anthony Reading MBE Dr William Spivey 21
