Directors and management biographies LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2004 30 LogicaCMG plc board Cor Stutterheim 58 # Helmut Mamsch 60 # Jim McKenna 49 Non-executive chairman Deputy chairman and Chief operating officer Cor was appointed non-executive chairman of senior independent non-executive director Jim was appointed chief operating officer in LogicaCMG in December 2002.
He was Helmut became a non-executive director of January 2005 and has been a member of the previously chairman of CMG for seven years.
Cor LogicaCMG in December 2002, having been a LogicaCMG board since December 2002.
Prior to joined CMG in the Netherlands in 1970 as a non-executive director of Logica since 1997.
He is this appointment, Jim was chief executive for systems and programming consultant and held the senior independent non-executive director and LogicaCMG in the UK and Ireland.
He has also various management positions before being deputy chairman.
He is also a non-executive been responsible for Logica in continental Europe appointed to the board in 1977.
He became director of GKN plc and SAPPI Limited and a and the Middle East and was a member of the deputy chairman in January 1995 and was former non-executive director of RMC Group Logica main board.
He formerly worked for GECappointed chairman in August 1995.
Helmut is a former member of the board of Marconi and also Plessey Company plc.
He is a executive director of Polar Capital Partners Ltd, a management of VEBA AG now E. ON AG and non-executive director of AWG plc.
member of the board of directors of Koninklijke was concurrently, since 1998, chairman of VEBA Wegener NV and a member of the advisory board Electronics Inc, St Clara USA and MEMC Wim Dik 66 # of GIMV-ICT.
Electronic Materials Inc, St Peters USA.
Previously Wim was appointed a non-executive director of he was chairman of Stinnes AG.
LogicaCMG in December 2002, having been a Martin Read 55 non-executive director of CMG since May 2001.
Group chief executive Seamus Keating 41 He is a professor at the Technical University Delft Martin joined Logica plc in 1993 as chief Group finance director in the Technology and Management Faculty.
executive and became group chief executive of Seamus was appointed group finance director Previously he was chairman and CEO of LogicaCMG following the merger of Logica and and a member of the LogicaCMG board in Koninklijke KPN NV, Royal Dutch Telecom.
Prior to 1993, he was December 2002, having been Logica group that he was chairman and CEO of Royal PTT supervisory managing director of the GECfinance director since February that year and Nederland telecom and post, chairman of Marconi Radar and Control Systems group of director of group finance since 1999.
He joined Unilevers Dutch operations and Minister for companies.
Martin has been a non-executive Logica from Getronics, where he was finance Foreign Trade in the Dutch Government 1981- director of Boots Group plc since 1999 and of director of Olivetti Solutions, immediately prior to 82.
He holds non-executive positions with British Airways plc since 2000.
He was a nonits purchase by Wang in turn purchased by Unilever NV, Unilever plc, ABN Amro Bank NV, executive director of ASDA Group plc from Getronics.
Prior to that appointment, he was Holland Casino, Casema Holding BV, AVIVA plc, 1996 to 1999. finance director of Olivettis UK operations, having Tele Atlas NV and is an adviser to Spencer Stuart joined its finance function in 1989.
Wim is a Grand Officer in the Dutch order of Oranje Nassau and a Commander in the Swedish order of the North Star.
Angela Knight 54 # George Loudon 62 # Roger Payne 56 # Chairman, remuneration committee George was appointed a non-executive director of Chairman, audit committee Angela became a non-executive director of LogicaCMG in December 2002, having previously Roger became a non-executive director of LogicaCMG in December 2002, having been a been a non-executive director of CMG since LogicaCMG in September 2004 and was non-executive director of Logica since July 1999.
He is currently chairman of Helix Associates appointed chairman of the audit committee at the She is currently chief executive of the Association Ltd, as well as holding a number of non-executive same time.
A chartered certified accountant, he is of Private Client Investment Managers and positions.
From 1988 until 1992 he was a director currently finance director of Rentokil Initial plc, a Stockbrokers APCIMS.
She is also deputy of Midland Bank plc and then chairman and chief UK listed FTSE 100 company with a turnover in chairman of Scottish Widows and a non-executive executive of Midland Montagu, having previously excess of 2.4 billion and operating in more than director of Lloyds TSB plc and International spent 12 years with Amsterdam-Rotterdam Bank 40 countries.
He has been with the company for Financial Services London IFSL and a trust NV, latterly as a member of the managing board.
18 years and prior to that held senior member of the Port of London Authority.
Angela management positions in other leading service was previously the Member of Parliament for sector companies.
He has wide financial and line Erewash 199297 and Economic Secretary to management experience and has been involved in HM Treasury between 1995 and 1997. many of Rentokil Initials acquisitions including Securiguard Group plc and BET Group plc.
Executive director Executive committee member #Non-executive director Directors and management biographies 31 LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2004 Board members Cor Stutterheim Martin Read Helmut Mamsch Seamus Keating Jim McKenna Wim Dik Angela Knight George Loudon Roger Payne Directors and management biographies LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2004 32 Executive committee Executive committee members John Coleman Thomas Ivarson Bernd Lantermann Chris McDermott Nigel Perks Paul Schuyt Reinoud Drenth Nick Caplan Guy Warren Directors and management biographies 33 LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2004 John Coleman 57 Bernd Lantermann 60 Nigel Perks 46 Chief executive, international Group international lines of business Group HR director John was appointed chief executive international director Nigel was appointed group HR director and a and a member of the executive committee of Bernd was appointed group international lines of member of the executive committee of LogicaCMG in June 2003, having previously business director and a member of the LogicaCMG in March 2004, having been been managing director of the UK telecoms executive committee of LogicaCMG in corporate HR director since September 2001. division.
He joined Logica in 1982, holding a December 2002.
He joined CMG in 1993 as Prior to joining the company, Nigel was a board variety of sales, line management and senior chairman of its German operations and became member and European HR director of Equifax positions, before moving to the US to run the a group director in April 2000.
Nigel previously held a variety of senior West Coast operation.
John briefly managed the worked as vice president and partner in Boozinternational HR roles with Prudential and Digital UK government team in 1993, before then Allen & Hamilton Inc. responsible for its IT Equipment Co. DEC. moving into telecoms, including two years as business in Germany, Austria and Switzerland.
telecoms international line of business director Prior to that, he worked for the CAP Gemini Paul Schuyt 47 from 2000 to 2002.
Group as managing director responsible for its Chief executive, the Netherlands German operations.
Paul was appointed chief executive, the Thomas Ivarson 50 Netherlands in February 2003 and a member of Group sales and marketing director Chris McDermott 47 the executive committee of LogicaCMG in April Thomas was appointed executive vice president Chief executive, wireless networks 2004.
Having worked for PTT Post now TPG wireless networks and a member of the Chris was appointed chief executive, wireless Paul joined CMG as a management consultant executive committee of LogicaCMG following networks, and an executive committee member in 1987.
He held various management positions the merger of Logica and CMG in December of LogicaCMG in December 2002.
Chris joined in the telecoms and public sector markets prior 2002.
In October 2003 he became group sales Logica in May 2001 as supervisory managing to his being appointed country director CMG and marketing director.
Thomas joined CMG in director responsible for Logicas business across Benelux in 2002.
October 2001 as chief executive of CMG Asia Pacific and was later appointed supervisory wireless data solutions.
Between 1995 and managing director for Logicas mobile networks 2001 he was CEO and president of the EHPT division.
Prior to that, he was vice president and Group.
Previously he worked for 15 years with general manager of the worldwide public sector Ericsson.
Thomas is a non-executive director of business at Unisys, having previously run their Intec Telecom Systems plc.
worldwide commercial and European telecoms business.
Before Unisys, Chris worked for Nortel and GEC Avionics.
Reinoud Drenth 41 Nick Caplan 45 Guy Warren 45 Chief executive, Belgium, central and Managing director, global financial services Chief executive, UK eastern Europe, France, Nordics and Baltics Nick was appointed a member of the executive Guy was appointed chief executive of Reinoud was appointed chief executive Belgium, committee of LogicaCMG in January 2005.
He LogicaCMG UK and a member of the executive central and eastern Europe, France, Nordics and joined LogicaCMG in May 2003 as managing committee in January 2005.
He joined Baltics, and a member of the executive committee director international financial services.
Previous LogicaCMG in 2002 as the managing director of in January 2005.
Prior to this appointment, he experience has included interim chief executive the financial services business in the UK.
Guy was managing director for outsourcing in the of two software houses where he was also held the role of UK sales and marketing Netherlands.
In October 2002, Reinoud joined responsible for turning the businesses around.
director during the early part of the integration of Logica Netherlands as chief executive and was Prior to this, Nick was head of CSC's European Logica and CMG in 2003.
He joined COO of LogicaCMG Netherlands from January financial services consultancy, systems LogicaCMG from Unisys where he was vice 2003 until June 2003 with primary responsibility integration and outsourcing and prior to that president of banking for Europe.
Guy has a for the merger integration.
Reinoud joined Logica was operations director of JIB, an organisation strong background in IT.
from Diebold Inc where he was a corporate officer.
providing insurance and risk advisory services to He was head of worldwide marketing from 1996 businesses around the world.
Executive director until October 1997 and managing director of their Executive committee member EMEA business thereafter.
Reinoud previously #Non-executive director held a variety of senior international roles with NCR Corporation which he joined in 1987.
He also worked for Philips.
