Report of the directors LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2004 34 Report of the directors The directors present their report together with the In IT services the group entered 2005 against a On 10 September 2004 Richard North resigned financial statements of the company and its backdrop of a strong book-to-bill ratio for 2004 as a non-executive director and Roger Payne was subsidiaries for the year ended 31 December as a whole and a return to organic growth appointed as a non-executive director.
These will be laid before the shareholders at during the second half.
Wireless networks the annual general meeting AGM to be held on began 2005 with a significantly lower cost base, The interests of the directors in the shares of the 18 May 2005. an improved mix of business and a solid company are shown in the report of the revenue stream from long-term service remuneration committee.
Overall the directors expect the group Throughout the year group companies, including to make significant progress in 2005, benefiting None of the directors had a material interest in any branches, were in the business of providing from initiatives put in place in 2004. contract of significance to which the parent information technology services, concentrating on: company or a subsidiary was a party during the the marketing, design, production, integration Creditor payment policy and practice financial year.
and maintenance of custom-built software and The Companies Act 1985 Directors Report associated hardware systems Statement of Payment Practice Regulations At the forthcoming AGM Helmut Mamsch, Jim consultancy, applications management 1997 requires the company to make a statement McKenna and Cor Stutterheim will retire and offer and project management in the field of of its policy and practice on the payment of themselves for re-election in accordance with the information technology creditors.
The company and its subsidiaries seek Articles of Association.
In addition, Roger Payne, the design, development, implementation and the best possible terms from suppliers appropriate who has been appointed as a director since the marketing of software products and the to their businesses and, in placing orders, give last AGM, offers himself for election.
reusable elements of applications software, consideration to quality, delivery, price and the called systems kernels terms of payment which will be agreed with Directors and officers insurance the outsourcing of information suppliers when the details of each transaction are The company maintains insurance cover for all technology services.
The company and its subsidiaries will directors and officers of group companies against continue to honour their contractual and other liabilities which may be incurred by them while Results and dividends legal obligations and to pay creditors on the dates acting as directors and officers.
Consolidated turnover amounted to 1,669.8 million, agreed in contract and purchase orders.
At compared with 1,706.6 million for the year ended 31 December 2004 the number of days of annual As at the date of this report, indemnities are in 31 December 2003.
The profit before tax was purchases represented by year end trade force under which the company has agreed to 42.4 million compared to a loss of 33.0 million for creditors for the group amounted to 39 days indemnify the directors, to the extent permitted by the year ended 31 December 2003.
law and the companys Articles of Association, attributable to shareholders was 13.8 million, against all costs, charges, losses and liabilities compared with a loss of 46.1 million for the year Research and development that they may incur in the execution of their duties, ended 31 December 2003.
Earnings per share were During the year, the group invested 41.1 million powers, authorities and discretions, as directors of 1.9p 2003: basic loss per share of 6.3p.
Net debt in research and development 2003: the company, or any other company of which, at at 31 December 2004 stood at 194.5 million 57.5 million.
These figures are net of funding by the request of the company, they are directors or 2003: 177.4 million.
European research institutions and other clients.
Copies of these indemnities are kept at the companys registered office and are open for The directors have declared a final dividend of No development costs have been capitalised.
inspection by any member of the company 3.5p per share 2003: 3.4p which, when taken without charge.
with the interim dividend of 2.3p per share 2003: Post balance sheet events 2.3p, paid to shareholders on 22 October 2004, On 7 January 2005, the group announced that, Substantial holdings will amount to a dividend for the year of 5.8p subject to clearance from competition authorities, At 1 March 2005, the company had been notified 2003: 5.7p.
If approved, the final dividend will be it would acquire a 60 per cent controlling interest that the following were interested in three per cent paid on 19 May 2005 to eligible shareholders on in Edinfor - Sistemas Informticos, S. A. a leading or more of the companys share capital: the register at close of business on 22 April 2005.
Portuguese IT services provider for 81.0 million Name No.
The Capital Group 75,314,875 10.03 Retained losses for the year amounting to Companies, Inc. 28.9 million have been transferred to reserves Directors and its affiliates Scottish Widows Investment 45,181,423 6.02 2003: loss of 88.0 million.
The directors are listed on pages 30 to 31.
Partnership Limited part of the Lloyds TSB Group Business review and future prospects On 30 June 2004 Ian Taylor retired as group Legal & General Group plc 25,513,244 3.40 and its subsidiaries A review of the development of the business human resources director.
during the year is given on pages 10 to 21.
Report of the directors 35 LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2004 Employment policies this authority shall remain in force until the New Articles of Association are being proposed The group operates in a number of countries and conclusion of the next AGM of the company but to take account of a number of developments in its employment practices vary to meet local will terminate on the date falling 12 months from law and practice applicable to listed companies conditions and requirements.
In all cases they are the date that this resolution is passed if the since the current Articles of Association were established on the basis of best practice in that AGM has not been held by that date adopted in 1994.
Since the directors are country.
There is no discrimination against people the company may agree before the above proposing a large number of changes to the with disabilities who apply to join the group and authority terminates to purchase ordinary shares Articles, it is more appropriate to adopt the anyone within the group with a disability is where the purchase will or may be executed proposed New Articles, than to amend the awarded the same opportunities for promotion, after the authority terminates either in whole or current Articles.
A summary of the substantive training and career development as other staff.
The company may complete such a changes is detailed in the circular accompanying Further details on our employment policies are purchase even though the authority has ended.
the Notice of the forthcoming AGM.
included in the corporate social responsibility statement on pages 36 to 38.
Authority to allot securities All Employee Sharesave Plans Resolution number 10 in the Notice of the The LogicaCMG 1995 UK Sharesave Scheme Remuneration committee report forthcoming AGM proposes the renewal, in and the LogicaCMG 1995 International Sharesave The remuneration committee report is set out on accordance with Section 80 of the Companies Scheme each come to the end of their 10-year pages 43 to 50.
Act 1985, of the directors authority to allot the lives this year.
The board considers that these two authorised but as yet unissued share capital of the schemes have been a valuable tool in Auditors company which expires at this years AGM.
The encouraging wider employee share ownership.
After due and careful consideration, the directors maximum number of shares subject to such an Accordingly, the directors are seeking shareholder recommend the reappointment of authority would be 247,812,434 representing approval to introduce a new LogicaCMG 2005 UK  LLP as the companys approximately 33 per cent of the companys total Sharesave Plan and a new LogicaCMG 2005 auditors.
 LLP has issued share capital at 1 March 2005.
The International Sharesave Plan, together the New expressed its willingness to continue in office and directors do not have any present intention of Plans.
The New Plans are similar to the existing therefore a resolution for their reappointment will exercising this authority other than in connection sharesave schemes, although the rules have been be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
with the groups employee share schemes.
updated to reflect current market practice and the latest institutional guidelines.
The main terms of Repurchase of company shares Under Section 89 of the Companies Act 1985, the New Plans are summarised in the enclosed Resolution number 9 in the Notice of the equity securities in the company may not be circular.
Subject to shareholders approving the forthcoming AGM proposes granting directors the allotted for cash other than in respect of an New Plans, they will be implemented in 2006. unconditional and general authority to make one employee share scheme without first being or more market purchases for the purposes of offered pro-rata to existing shareholders, unless Political contributions Section 166 of the Companies Act 1985 of the the prior approval of shareholders is given in a The companys policy is not to make any donations companys ordinary shares on such terms and in general meeting.
However, the UK Political Parties, such manner as the directors shall determine, Elections and Referendums Act 2000 the Act, which subject to the following: The directors consider that it is in the best came into force in February 2001, defines political the maximum price which may be paid for each interests of the company that the relevant donations and political expenditure so broadly that ordinary share shall not exceed five per cent authority given at the AGM in 2004, which some of our activities may fall within the definitions in above the mid-market prices of the ordinary expires at the 2005 AGM, should be renewed the legislation.
These include seminars and other shares of the company as derived from the on similar terms.
Accordingly, a special functions to which politicians are invited or Daily Official List of the London Stock resolution to this effect is proposed as expenditure incurred while taking part in industry Exchange for the five business days before the resolution number 11 in the Notice of the forums.
In addition, the cost to the company of giving purchase is made.
The minimum price per forthcoming AGM.
staff time off to participate in municipal political ordinary share is the nominal value thereof and activities may be covered under this legislation.
The in each case will be exclusive of any expenses The proposed authority will expire at the 2006 new legislation requires companies to seek payable by the company AGM and permits the directors during this period shareholder approval before making any donations or the maximum aggregate number of shares that to issue up to an aggregate nominal amount of incurring expenditure to political organisations within may be purchased pursuant to this authority 3,754,733 representing five per cent of the the EU in excess of 5,000 in each year.
While we do shall be limited to 75,094,677 shares, which is issued share capital at 1 March 2005 without not intend to alter our normal activities, we will be equivalent to 10 per cent of the companys first offering them to existing shareholders.
seeking shareholder authority for such expenditure to issued share capital as at 1 March 2005 ensure that the requirements of the Act are met.
Articles of Association Resolution number 12 in the Notice of the By order of the board forthcoming AGM proposes the adoption of new Articles of Association.
P Weaver FCIS Company secretary 1 March 2005
