Business overview LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2004 10 Financial services Aon UK A shopper pays by credit card, A 10-year outsourcing deal with LogicaCMG is helping Aon achieve its strategic goals while dramatically using LogicaCMGs EMVreducing its costs.
The company, a leading global compliant chip card solutions.
provider of risk management services, chose LogicaCMG to manage and develop its critical LogicaCMG has implemented business applications.
The outsourcing deal will significantly over 70 card infrastructure improve the efficiency of Aons business processes while freeing the company to concentrate on its core systems since 1984. insurance business.
Anne Boden, Chief Information Officer of Aon UK, said: We chose LogicaCMG for a host of reasons, not least because of their track record in the insurance sector.
Their experience and their emphasis on partnership gives us confidence that well see savings of around 50 per cent over the life of the agreement and have access to world-class technical support.
Tokyo 22.15 Banks have shut for the day but, as a SWIFT global partner, LogicaCMG ensures payments continue around the clock.
London 13.15 Another Forex deal is checked.
Our largest anti-money laundering client has processed almost $3 trillion foreign exchange trades through LogicaCMGs system in a single day.
Our financial services business began to see The market Our strengths an upturn in the second half of 2004.
In The key issues affecting our customers have Our financial services business performed 2005 6, we expect the performance of been extensive compliance and regulatory strongly in: LogicaCMGs financial services business to demands allied to a range of perennial business operational efficiency, by rationalising business improve further as banks catch up with a pressures, namely the need to: processes and systems infrastructure to backlog of postponed capital projects, reduce costs and improve back-office efficiency achieve cost reduction, improved business sharpen their focus on operational efficiency increase revenues through increased customer agility and compliance and comply with new regulatory demands.
retention and better targeted services, and payments processing, where LogicaCMG is integrate and improve business processes.
typically saving banks over 20 per cent of total costs risk and compliance, with our anti-money laundering solutions in operation at eight of the worlds top 20 banks, and central market infrastructure, where we are a world leader in real time gross settlement systems for central banks.
Business overview 11 LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2004 Amsterdam 14.15 Santiago 10.15 International investors arrive in the Chilean capital, reassured by the stability and security that LogicaCMGs Mumbai 18.45 real time gross settlement system at A deposit is made at the the Banco Central fide Chile confers.
Reserve Bank of India where LogicaCMGs real time gross settlement system ensures inter-bank payments are secure.
The LogicaCMG difference Successes The year ahead LogicaCMG combines proven technical, delivery Our 10-year outsourcing deal with Aon should Market pressures will push banks towards cost and operational abilities with a deep knowledge create significant cost savings in the reduction, outsourcing or consolidation in their of banking and insurance processes.
We have management and development of all its payments businesses.
We are well placed to worked with 80 per cent of the worlds top 50 business-critical applications.
During the year, take advantage of this trend.
We are also in a banks our software solutions enable the we extended our relationship with the UKs good position to respond to compliance issues transfer of over $5 trillion every day and operate Financial Services Authority to meet their by serving both regulators and businesses.
One of our many significant assignments with ABN Amro is the delivery of the worlds largest anti-money laundering implementation.
Business overview LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2004 12 Telecoms Delhi 22.45 London 17.45 LogicaCMG is the first company to enable the distribution of digital New York 12.45 content across all broadcast multicast A Union Telephone customer sends media, including digital radio, internet, a picture message for the first time, satellite and television.
thanks to LogicaCMGs next generation multimedia messaging, Madrid 18.45 adaptable to different handsets.
A daughter chats and shares photos with her family using her mobile handset.
LogicaCMG gives Spanish mobile operator TME the community solution infrastructure to make it happen.
With the telecoms market in a period of The market Our strengths unprecedented change, the ability of Telecoms today occupies a central point of LogicaCMGs global telecoms business has a LogicaCMGs global telecoms business to convergence between information technology, strong, global brand built on our understanding of address the primary areas of investment leaves it communications and entertainment.
This will networks and our ability to deliver a blend of well placed to deliver growth.
leave network service providers needing to invest consultancy, products and services that add in broadband networks and personalised value to our customers.
multimedia services and increase profitability through cost savings.
As an established player, we have long-standing, close relationships with around 300 customers.
This heritage gives us a scale and financial stability that offers peace of mind to our customers during a period of change.
Business overview 13 LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2004 SmarTone LogicaCMGs next generation SmarTone, Hong Kongs leading mobile operator in multimedia services, recently launched their 3Gshort messaging solution enabled services the next generation of mobile services that make video calls, music and video centre gives mobile telecoms downloading and other highbandwidth services possible.
operator Tata Teleservices the To support the launch, SmarTone has replaced its legacy billing system edge in the fast-expanding to handle both the new 3G services and its existing mobile services.
SmarTone selected LogicaCMG as Indian market.
the implementation partner for the project our first 3G billing migration project in Asia.
Stephen Chau, Chief Technology Officer of SmarTone, said: We are committed to delivering an enhanced customer experience and differentiation in the continuing evolution of multimedia services.
A new billing solution with an open architecture that can be tightly integrated with our CRM systems and that can enable us to bring offers to the market quickly is crucial to us.
LogicaCMG with its industry knowhow and many successful implementation experiences is key in helping us to make this happen.
Rotterdam 18.45 A Eurovision Song Contest viewer votes for their countrys song, using LogicaCMGs text voting software.
The LogicaCMG difference We are also enabling operators to reduce their The year ahead To support the rollout of broadband networks, operating expenses by helping them to rationalise Customers will have to invest to transform LogicaCMGs global telecoms business is all aspects of their infrastructure both in their core aspects of their businesses and to delivering creative network services, business and networks and back-office support systems.
reposition themselves in an uncertain market.
operational support systems and inventory The urgency of this investment means that management solutions.
Successes businesses like LogicaCMG, with a track An illustration of how were helping customers record of delivery, will benefit.
Included in our portfolio are a variety of dynamic respond to challenging market conditions is our revenue-generating multimedia services, ranging work with Hutchison 3G, the pioneer in 3G from ringtones and music recognition through to mobile telecoms.
These new services complement LogicaCMG with the delivery of their total valueour market-leading messaging services that are added messaging infrastructure and has recently essential revenue generators for operators.
In reported strong subscriber acquisition.
addition, our payment solutions provide our customers with the highest level of revenue assurance available in the market today.
Business overview LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2004 14 Energy and utilities Southwest Gas Corporation Southwest Gas Corporation in the US chose LogicaCMGs Asset and Resource Management ARM solution to deliver service excellence in an London extreme growth environment.
Southwest Gas, who supply more than 1.6 million customers, wanted a system that could provide office and field capabilities like work management, mobile computing, 19.00 asset management and compliance tracking while also improving productivity and customer satisfaction.
Dudley Sondeno, Senior Vice President and Chief Knowledge and Technology Officer of Southwest Gas Corporation, said: Our phenomenal growth has put increasing demands on our workforce and the IT solutions that support operations.
We needed an integrated solution to manage our entire work stream, help us control costs, and develop our compliance infrastructure.
With LogicaCMGs ARM suite, Southwest Gas is meeting its regulatory compliance mandates, improving workforce productivity, and maintaining its high rate of customer satisfaction without proportionally adding to the companys personnel headcount.
Sydney 06.00 Nottingham 19.00 A householder saves money by A homeowner has the electricity meter switching to a cheaper fuel supplier.
The meter reader uses a LogicaCMG systems support handheld device driven by LogicaCMG Prague 20.00 75 per cent of the liberalised gas software.
The information is then Data is transferred between electricity market in Australia.
processed and entered into settlement companies.
LogicaCMG built and systems built by LogicaCMG.
operates the central system of the electricity market in the Czech Republic from its data centre in Prague.
With our in-depth knowledge of energy markets, The market Our strengths combined with our technical innovation, As well as the ongoing challenges of energy Our E&U business is particularly focused on LogicaCMGs energy and utilities E&U business market liberalisation and pressures to improve developing new solutions, technical innovation is helping customers improve efficiency, respond performance and reduce costs, our customers are and delivery excellence in the following areas: to market liberalisation and manage their facing increasing demands for regulatory IT and business process outsourcing increasing compliance requirements.
In particular, companies must comply designing, building and operating central energy cost-effectively with emissions trading schemes market infrastructures and other Kyoto-driven measures.
managing human resources and physical assets implementation of SAP software, and greenhouse gas emissions systems.
Business overview 15 LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2004 Many of Londons attractions are illuminated by EDF Energy, whose electricity distribution network supported by LogicaCMG systems serves more than a quarter of the UK population.
Chicago 13.00 A utility worker checks his repair schedule.
LogicaCMG is the leading provider of work management systems to utilities in the US.
The LogicaCMG difference Successes The year ahead E&U customers choose LogicaCMG because we We renewed or extended a wide range of Our E&U business will be enhanced by the have a deep understanding of their business and large service contracts, including Eraring acquisition, in early 2005, of a 60 per cent a proven track record of delivering genuine Energy and Aurora Energy in Australia, Elexon controlling interest in Edinfor - Sistemas business benefits through projects often large and Dwr Cymru Welsh Water in the UK.
New Informticos, S. A. Edinfor, the IT business and complex aligned with our areas of strength.
business included an 8.1 million five-year of Energias fide Portugal EDP.
The transaction services contract with EDF Energy in the UK, a includes a contract with EDP worth four-year, A$50 million 20 million 510 million 362 million to provide IT outsourcing deal with Australias Integral outsourcing services for 10 years.
Energy, and a 28 million services contract with Stadtwerke Bremen in Germany.
Innovative technologies, like Radio Frequency Identification RFID, wireless systems and biometrics, will be instrumental in addressing our clients pressing business challenges in managing their assets and resources.
Major emitters and country registries alike will also come to us for help monitoring greenhouse gas emissions.
At the time of going to press, completion of the Edinfor transaction with EDP is subject to clearance from the European Commission competition authorities.
Business overview LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2004 16 Industry, distribution and transport Hong Kong 19.30 Amsterdam 10.30 A motorist takes a parking spot that he reserved by phone, and receives a mobile ticket: a text message Schiphol Airport 10.30 containing a scannable barcode.
Biometrics verifies a travellers identity Mobile parking is born.
at Europes first automated border crossing.
The system uses iris scanning technology developed by LogicaCMG.
Despite budgetary pressures in the automotive The market Our strengths sector and longer bidding cycles in the Our IDT business supports a diverse range of Customer demand falls into three broad areas.
outsourcing market, our industry, distribution sectors including automotive, manufacturing and The first is people solutions, which includes HR and transport IDT business continued to build transport.
Operational efficiency was a common management and business process outsourcing revenues and profile in new technology areas.
theme across all markets in 2004, driven by BPO.
The second area is materials and centralisation, consolidation, and standardisation.
logistics, which covers asset and supply chain As a result, the first business process management and optimisation.
The third area, outsourcing deals were won.
In addition, the meanwhile, is technology intensive solutions, increased demand for security solutions is driving which includes wireless and mobile working, uptake of cutting edge technology.
RFID, biometrics and transport and traffic telematics.
To simplify the complexity of integration, LogicaCMGs blended delivery approach solved a cost-efficiency concern that was at the top of our clients agenda.
Business overview 17 LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2004 Airbus A tourist takes a train from While many technology companies continue to discuss the future of Radio Frequency Identification RFID, Tsim Sha Tsui in downtown LogicaCMG is shaping it.
Kowloon, where LogicaCMG Our asset management solution, using RFID technology, is already completed the final installation helping leading aircraft manufacturer Airbus transform its inventory management, cut costs and improve in a five-year project to security.
The collaboration, announced in August 2004, gives upgrade Hong Kongs station Airbus the ability to record information such as manufacture and service history to specific parts, dramatically control systems.
Our strong track record with Airbus, along with our relationships with chip manufacturers and SAP, made us the natural choice for the project.
A spokesperson for Airbus said: We chose LogicaCMG because theyd proved over several years that they can deliver demanding projects on time and to budget.
Toulouse 10.30 An Airbus engineer locates a spare part in seconds, using a fully integrated Radio Frequency Identification RFID solution for wireless tracking and tracing developed by LogicaCMG.
Rome 10.30 A Dutch coach driver takes a break.
Inspectors equipped with smartcarded tablet PCs will soon be able to read LogicaCMGdeveloped digital tachographs wherever they are in Europe.
The LogicaCMG difference Successes The year ahead Thanks to its in-depth industry knowledge and Like much of the travel industry, Britannia Airways Regulatory compliancy along with a continued a reputation for delivery, LogicaCMG is well was facing pressure to reduce costs.
We are focus on efficient cost management will be positioned to provide solutions to these currently providing an application management catalysts for market recovery.
During 2004 LogicaCMG partnered solution that manages 120 of their key offerings from BPO to point solutions such as with customers on projects as diverse as traffic applications, cutting our clients costs while RFID will allow us to continue leading the way in forecasting, face recognition biometrics, and air maintaining the same levels of standard and strategy and implementation, helping customers traffic control.
We have also been involved in to tag high-value items.
As the economic upturn developing Europes first automated border continues in 2005, we expect to see demand for crossing at Schiphol Airport through our wireless our solutions grow across these sectors.
The system uses iris scanning to cut check-in times delivering greater security and a better service for passengers.
Business overview LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2004 18 Public sector The Met Office Meteorological Office When the UKs Met Office needed to move its 1,000 staff and vast computing resources, LogicaCMG Canberra became involved in one of the most complex operational IT moves ever attempted in Europe.
Because of their strategic importance to the general public, government, media, civil aviation and almost every 18.30 other industry sector globally, absolute continuity of service was essential for the Met Office.
With LogicaCMG running the technology aspects of the 150-mile move, as well as winning a five-year IT infrastructure service contract, the Met Office was kept fully operational throughout the move.
The Met Office said: The pressures to deliver on time and to cost were enormous.
We wouldnt have done it as successfully as we have without LogicaCMG.
Amsterdam 08.30 A speeding ticket issued outside the Rijksmuseum is recorded by LogicaCMGs software.
In the Netherlands, every traffic fine issued, prisoner sentenced or will and testament made uses this software.
Our public sector revenues grew 17 per cent in The market Our strengths 2004 as government spending, particularly in the Government departments globally are investing in LogicaCMG combines an in-depth UK and the Netherlands, continues to drive IT and shared back-office systems to improve the understanding of whats driving change in the growth in IT services.
standard of public service to citizens and public sector, with the technical and programme businesses.
Information security and information management skills to deliver it.
We are management and exploitation are big challenges recognised for our reliable delivery of complex for the space and defence sector.
projects that change and improve public sector businesses.
As a leader in command and battlespace management systems and the provider of software supporting a third of the worlds satellites, we have an unrivalled reputation for producing applications that are truly mission-critical.
Business overview 19 LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2004 A doctor checks a patients notes on an electronic patient records system created by LogicaCMG for Australias most populous state, in partnership with New South Wales Health.
Middle England 07.30 Brussels 08.30 Mrs Jones discovers shes a millionaire A British Ministry of Defence after National Savings & Investments official logs on to a training package: ERNIE designed, built and LogicaCMG provides training and maintained by LogicaCMG randomly online learning to MOD staff worldwide.
selects her premium bond number.
The LogicaCMG difference Successes delivering an electronic patient records system Our public sector business has deservedly made In 2004 we had a number of significant in New South Wales, Australia.
We also a name for itself as an expert in applying achievements, including: delivered phase one of a similar system for the commercial technology for public benefit, installing the IT infrastructure for the UKs UKs National Health Service in partnership particularly in the UK where we are one of the key paperless hospital for the future at the with BT, and suppliers of IT services to the public sector.
In a University College London Hospitals NHS Trust in the Netherlands, a shared SAP-based service succession of high-profile projects in areas as winning a groundbreaking performance-based centre for all HR management services across diverse as criminal justice and healthcare, our contract with the Medical Research Council central government.
deep understanding of public sector work has in the UK made us a safe pair of hands for delivering rolling out the Crown Prosecution Services The year ahead complex change using IT.
COMPASS programme, which is the UK In 2004 we were bidding for, and winning, larger Criminal Justice Services first national electronic value and scale contracts than ever before.
We case management facility expect this trend to continue, particularly in the space and defence sector which will be a growth area for our public sector business.
Business overview LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2004 20 Outsourcing Integral Energy Oktoberfest is in full swing In December 2004, LogicaCMG signed its largest outsourcing deal to date in Australia with Integral Energy worth already in Germany, where A$50 million 20 million.
Integral Energy distributes and retails LogicaCMG has a five-year IT electricity and value-added services to more than 820,000 customers across a network franchise spanning 24,500 sq support and consultancy km.
The business selected LogicaCMG to take over the management and outsourcing agreement with support of its IT infrastructure and applications for the next four years.
InBev, part of the worlds The deal, which positions LogicaCMG as a leading provider of IT services in the Australian energy sector, is a central largest brewery company.
part of Integral Energys effort to ensure it delivers an assured business platform and cost-effective IT services.
Richard Powis, Integral Energys CEO, said: LogicaCMG will assist Integral Energy in meeting the high quality of service our customers expect.
Kuala Lumpur 17.30 A local LogicaCMG team, as part of a global network, helps support more than 100,000 SAP end-users worldwide.
LogicaCMG processes $100 billion of salaries globally and produces more than 30 million payslips across Europe every year.
Outsourcing revenues grew in 2004 by The market Our strengths 12 per cent to 386 million.
LogicaCMGs Demand for IT and business process outsourcing Our customers come to us looking for a service blended model proved particularly attractive, BPO is growing at around 5 and 12 per cent provider that can both transform their business combining low-cost centres like Bangalore, with respectively.
BPO is a cross-industry trend, processes and improve and manage their nearshore, onshore and onsite working to create particularly among global companies looking for underlying IT systems.
Our ability to do this stems a single, coherent client service.
efficiencies in finance and accounting, HR, from our strong understanding of customers procurement and specific mid-office processes, businesses and processes, our products and such as claims processing and portfolio services tailored to specific sectors, and our skill valuations in the financial services sector.
in blending services across countries.
Business overview 21 LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2004 Munich 10.30 New South Wales 20.30 The lights go on in NSW where Bridgend 09.30 LogicaCMG, the leading IT services An interviewee applies for one of supplier to the Australian energy and hundreds of higher-skilled jobs at utilities sector, manages IT LogicaCMGs Sourcing Hub, infrastructure and applications for providing a major boost to the electricity supplier Integral Energy.
The LogicaCMG difference Successes The year ahead Our outsourcing business boasts powerful Several strategically significant wins in 2004 Our stake in Edinfor confirms our presence in the domain expertise born out of our long-standing put us on target to meet our goal of deriving Iberian market.
relationships with global clients, many of whom 30 per cent of group revenues from outsourcing.
already use LogicaCMG products elsewhere in These wins include: We also expect to see more blended sourcing their business like messaging in telcos, blended sourcing deals in the financial services deals in applications management, specifically in payments products in banks and infrastructure sector with Aon and ING, involving staff transfer financial services and public sector projects.
These customers trust and delivery from our Bangalore facility LogicaCMG to deliver complex projects, giving IT outsourcing contracts with the worlds them the confidence to seize the opportunities biggest brewer, InBev, in Germany, and that outsourcing presents.
a full IT outsourcing deal with Australias Integral Energy.
