Annual Report and Accounts 2004 LUMINAR PLC 19 REGULATORY CHALLENGES During the year ended 29 February 2004 LICENSING REFORM AND LUMINAR to ensure compliance, will be less the businesses of the Company faced The new Licensing Act received Royal vulnerable than those who have not many regulatory challenges.
The Act is the first previously required such procedures.
Company takes compliance with its serious review of our anachronistic Luminar is therefore ideally placed statutory and regulatory obligations licensing laws since 1964.
The Act seeks to take advantage of the new very seriously and two examples of to modernise the licensing process and regulatory environment, which is likely our position on specific issues are set also has a wider ambition in terms of to follow the implementation out below: its social policies.
This wider ambition, of the Licensing Act 2003. it is hoped, will lead to a reduction in In recent years there have been Disabled Discrimination Act 1995 binge drinking and social disorder.
a large number of premises that The Company has considered its The main weapon in the Governments have taken advantage of the relaxed position in light of the introduction armoury is a complete shift away from licensing environment to obtain of The Disability and Discrimination existing procedures centred on the Special Hours Certificates without Act 1995, the last requirements of Magistrates Courts and a transfer of strictly complying with the criteria.
which are to be introduced in October administrative duties for the licensing Luminar recently obtained a landmark 2004.
This new legislation imposes an system in its entirety to local authorities.
judgement from the Court of Appeal obligation on service providers to ensure in respect of Lloyds No 1 in Norwich.
that their buildings are as accessible as Amongst the tranche of reforms is the This case will make it difficult, if not is physically possible to disabled persons.
possibility of extended trading hours.
impossible, for premises who do Whilst many operators in the leisure not comply with the Special Hours In order to ensure that its venues meet sector have openly expressed concerns Certificate regime to obtain late the requirements of the new legislation, about this development, Luminar is licences.
The Court specifically the Company is undertaking a detailed broadly optimistic about the outcome.
disapproved of any extension of survey of all its premises with particular hours simply for the purpose of emphasis on the older units.
This will We are optimistic of the benefits of the drinking.
This case should lead to be undertaken by both our in-house reforms because: greater scrutiny of such applications staff and external consultants.
Where in the period leading up to and beyond improvements are identified as being The Licensing Act 2003 provides licensing reform.
required, the works will either be actioned for all licensing in future to be Our branded development strategy or phased in as part of the Companys administered by local authorities.
mentioned earlier in this Report rolling refurbishment programme.
The latest version of the draft has been developed with licensing guidance places a much higher reform very much in mind.
Control of Asbestos Regulations 2002 emphasis on regulation in order Our scale of operation and expertise In accordance with its responsibilities to control crime and disorder as well provides a platform for the under the current asbestos legislation, as promote public safety.
This is management of change.
the Company has updated its asbestos likely to be a culture shock for Because of Luminars existing licence management procedures and instigated companies which have previously structure, the cost to the Company a detailed survey of all our premises.
operated premises trading to normal in managing these changes will be Where asbestos materials have been permitted hours, particularly on the minimal.
After an initial increase, identified, they have been either removed high street.
The local authorities will the broad impact across our business or steps have been taken to manage also have far greater control of all will lead to a reduction in costs.
the situation pending the Companys premises.
Companies such as phased refurbishment programme.
