04 LUMINAR PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 ENTERTAINMENT DANCING CHICAGO ROCK CAF JUMPIN JAKS LIQUID Chicago Rock Caf is the place to eat The live entertainment brand where 21st century clubbing in an ultramodern drink and party.
Classic designed even the customer service crew do environment.
State-of-the-art lighting venues with central island bars, their best to entertain customers with effects, sound and laser technology, stage for live acts and decorated their choreographed dance routines provide all the entertainment a modern with an eclectic mix of rock, pop and on stage and bars!
The wooden floored clubber requires with a chill out room contemporary culture memorabilia.
alligator skinning warehouse theme and VIP suite to appeal to the broadest The daytime, child friendly, laid back is designed for partying.
The music range of tastes.
style of a caf-bar is transformed in the played provides songs to sing along evening when the venue comes alive and dance to and sets the tempo for HIGHLIGHTS OF 2004 with DJ, dancing, live music video and a great night with a great atmosphere.
Liquid arrives in Sunderland as music from the favourite artistes of part of a twin scene offering and yesteryear.
The great alternative to the HIGHLIGHTS OF 2004 takes the town by storm.
high street pub to club scene.
The arrival of Jumpin Jaks in The brand goes from strength to the heart of its city centre has strength with Ashford and Windsor HIGHLIGHTS OF 2004 changed the face of going out exceeding all expectations.
The year saw the first 2 Chicago in Carlisle forever.
Rock Cafs open north of the border in Scotland.
Manchester Jumpin Jaks received In order to add another dimension best bar none award from to the brand, New York, New York Manchester City Safe Scheme, 1970s rooms have been added to after scrutiny of door policy, 3 existing Chicago Rock Cafs.
crime prevention strategy, emergency procedures and drink and drugs policy.
OUR STRATEGY IS TO INVEST IN MAINTAIN OUR LEADING POSITION IN PROVIDING LATE NIGHT ENTERTAINMENT THROUGH A PORTFOLIO OF BRANDS THAT OFFER SOMETHING FOR EVERYONE AND, WHEN APPROPRIATE, TACTICAL ACQUISITIONS AND PARTNERSHIPS Annual Report and Accounts 2004 LUMINAR PLC 05 OCEANA LAVA AND IGNITE LIFE Multi-award-winning brand, offering A new twist on the multi scene venue.
Life is a bar concept designed to appeal five different themed bars and two A main room complete with sound to young and old alike, to provide for distinctive clubs, all under one roof.
and light effects to amaze clubbers a group of business people relaxing Travel from an Aspen ski lodge to but with the flexibility to show major after work to a group of girls on a hen a 1970s New York disco via a Parisian sporting events or even stage night.
Designed to fit into smaller towns boudoir and a futuristic Tokyo concept a corporate event or live mainstream and become a major part of that towns bar.
A venue offering great ports of music act.
Alongside sits a themed community, Life is a versatile brand call in one destination.
bar to cater for the drink before club catering for not only the traditional and two further rooms for a change pub and club market, but also for HIGHLIGHTS OF 2004 of music and mood.
Open The continued roll out of the seven days a week, at the weekend Oceana brand has been a huge HIGHLIGHTS OF 2004 a screen is drawn back to reveal club success with Kingston upon Burnley receives the first Lava and life where customers can dance until Thames and Milton Keynes going Ignite as the new template brand the early hours.
is launched and immediately Oceana Kingston upon Thames becomes a success.
HIGHLIGHTS OF 2004 has become probably the highest With plans very much advanced, Wellingborough saw the launch earning nightclub in the UK.
Rotherham is next in line for the of the new Luminar Life concept.
Lava and Ignite rebranding exercise.
The town has embraced the brand and accommodates a large crosssection of the community.
Work is well underway preparing the next Life opening in Andover.
