Board of Directors John Hargreaves Robert Shrager Group Chairman Senior Independent Non-Executive John is aged 60.
He set up his first business at the age of 19 Robert is aged 56.
He joined the Board in April 1998 and is and has over 40 years experience in retail clothing.
In 1985 he Chairman of the Audit Committee.
He is a director of Courts Plc founded the Matalan business and has been responsible for its and a non-executive director of RAB Capital plc and a number of development thereafter.
He plays an active role in the Groups private companies.
He was, until May 1998, Corporate Finance strategic development.
Director of Dixons Group plc.
John King Charles Thompson Group Chief Executive Non-Executive John is aged 41.
He joined the Board in March 2003 and has more Charles is aged 47.
He joined the Board in April 1991 and is than 20 years retail and manufacturing experience.
He joined Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
He has over 18 years Matalan from Delta US where he was Chief Operating Officer, and experience of equity investment in high growth companies.
He is has held several positions within leading retailers.
currently an Investment Director with Inflexion PLC, a private equity firm operating in the mid market.
Phil Dutton Group Finance Director John Westwood Phil is aged 42.
He joined the Board in November 2002.
He was Independent Non-Executive previously Finance Director of Asda Stores Limited and was also John is aged 55.
He joined the Board in April 1998 and is director responsible for leading the successful conversion of Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
As a senior faculty Asdas systems following its acquisition by Walmart.
member of the Manchester Business School he lectures internationally and acts as a consultant and adviser to a wide David Shipley range of companies, including several UK based multi-nationals.
Non-Executive He is a director of Cardpoint Group PLC.
He joined the Board in July 2001 and was previously a senior partner with .
He is a director of London International Exhibition Centre Holdings plc.
List of Advisers Secretary and Registered Office Solicitors Bankers Cobbetts Barclays Bank PLC John G Berry Ship Canal House City Office Gillibrands Road King Street Water Street Skelmersdale Manchester M2 4WB Liverpool L69 2DM West Lancashire WN8 9TB Clifford Chance HSBC 10 Upper Bank Street PO Box 360 Registered Auditors London E14 5JJ 100 King Street  LLP Manchester M60 2HD 101 Barbirolli Square Financial Adviser Lower Mosley Street Merrill Lynch International Public Relations Manchester Merrill Lynch Financial Centre Tulchan Communications M2 3PW 2 King Edward Street Sixth Floor London 3 Dorset Rise EC1A 1HQ London EC4Y 8EN 8
