Directors Report for the 52 weeks ended 28th February 2004 The directors present their report and the audited financial average within 14 days 2003: 17 days of the receipt of invoice or statements for the 52 weeks ended 28th February 2004. delivery documentation.
It is the Groups policy to ensure that suppliers are aware of the Principal activities Groups terms of payment and these terms are agreed at The principal activity of the Group is the sale of clothing and commencement of business with each supplier.
made in accordance with the payment terms and conditions Review of business agreed.
Trade creditor days of the Group at 28th February 2004 Full details of the Groups activities and a report on its business were 22 days 2003: 19 days based on average monthly purchases.
and future plans are set out in the Operating Review on pages 3 The Company has no trade creditors.
to 5 and in the Finance Review on pages 6 and 7.
Employees and employment policies Dividend Employee involvement The Group encourages the involvement The directors have proposed a final dividend of 5.4p per share of employees in the Groups performance and in matters of concern to them.
Employees are fully briefed on the Groups 2003: 5.4p, which together with the interim dividend of 2.7p per share 2003: 2.7p makes a total of 8.1p per share 2003: 8.1p.
activities and performance through information briefings and Total dividends paid and proposed of 32.9m 2003: 33.3m are employee reports, and are encouraged to participate in the funded by profits for the year and the balance of 10.5m 2003: Groups savings related share scheme.
The Group is committed 53.4m has been transferred to reserves.
to improving the skills and knowledge of all employees and significant investment is made in training and development.
The Dividends have been waived on the holdings of Matalan Quest development needs of all employees are regularly reviewed as Trustee Limited and Matalan Trustee Limited detailed in note 12 part of the Groups aim of attracting, retaining and motivating on page 30. employees of the highest calibre and ensuring customer satisfaction by consistently delivering high service standards.
Directors and directors interests The current directors of the Company and their biographical details Consultation The Group obtains regular feedback on personnel are contained on page 8 and their interests, including share and other issues affecting Group employees through an appraisal options in the Companys share capital, are set out in the system and other procedures at site and Company level.
Employee Remuneration Report on pages 11 to 15. involvement in key targets is encouraged through appropriate incentive schemes.
Consultation takes place with trade union In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, John representatives when a recognition agreement has been entered into.
Westwood and Charles Thompson retire by rotation and offer themselves for re-appointment at the annual general meeting.
Equal Opportunities The Group is opposed to all forms of David Shipley will be retiring from the Board at the close of the discrimination.
Equal opportunities are offered regardless of sex, 2004 Annual General Meeting.
race, sexual orientation, family status, religion, creed, colour, ethnic origin, age or disability.
Employees who become disabled or with Paul Mason and Andy Clarke resigned as directors on 17th March disabilities are given equal training, career development and 2003.
John King was appointed as a director on 17th March 2003. promotion prospects to other employees.
Every effort is made to John Hargreaves, John King and Phil Dutton have service ensure their continued employment bearing in mind their potential, contracts which are terminable on 12 months notice.
The nonincluding giving appropriate training where necessary.
executive directors do not have contracts of service but have Health and Safety The Groups policy is to ensure that all letters of appointment confirming their term.
relevant legislation relating to health, safety and welfare at work is No director was or is materially interested in any contract, which was adhered to.
All products are designed to be safe when used significant in relation to the Groups business, other than his contract properly and all reasonable precautions are taken to ensure a safe of service, where appropriate, during or at the end of the period.
environment for staff, customers and other visitors.
During the year the Group benchmarked its health and safety performance and During the year, the Company maintained insurance for its practices against best practice.
An action plan was prepared and directors and officers.
is being implemented to make any necessary improvements.
The Creditor payment policy Chief Executive receives regular reports on health and safety UK suppliers are paid at the end of the month following invoice or performance and health and safety issues are regularly reviewed to the specific agreed terms.
Foreign suppliers are paid on as part of reviews of the operational risks facing the Group.
9 Directors Report continued for the 52 weeks ended 28th February 2004 Donations All shares held by Abacus Trust Company relate to the Hargreaves During the year the Group made no political donations but made family and are also disclosed by individuals in the table above.
In addition, Share capital fundraising by staff raised 153,000 for local and national charities, The share capital and the changes during the period are described particularly the NSPCC.
Auditors Holdings of ordinary shares held by Matalan Quest Trustee Limited  LLP have indicated their willingness to and the Matalan Trustee Limited are detailed in note 12 on page 30. continue in office and a resolution that they be re-appointed will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Authority to purchase shares At the Annual General Meeting held on 4th June 2003, authority Substantial shareholdings was given to the purchase of up to 42,044,138 ordinary shares in At the date of this report the Companys share register of the Company.
This authority has not been exercised and a substantial shareholdings showed the following interests in 3% or resolution to renew the authority will be proposed at the 2004 more of the Companys issued share capital.
Ordinary share number % Going concern John Hargreaves The directors are satisfied that the Group has adequate financial including shares held in trust 114,603,187 27.3 resources to operate for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, Abacus Trust Company they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the The Hargreaves 1994 Childrens Settlement 92,904,756 22.1 accounts.
Jamey Hargreaves including shares held in trust 36,522,402 8.7 By order of the Board John Jason Hargreaves including shares held in trust 36,522,402 8.7 Fidelity Investments 33,934,164 8.1 John G Berry Company Secretary Maxine Adams including shares held in trust 30,968,252 7.4 21st May 2004 10
