Around The Country From left to Right: Derek Field, Keith Johnson, Steve Wiseman, Paul Trofimov, Lorena Brown, Andrew Oliver, Mike French, Chris Tyrer.
Land acquisition targets were met yet again and, with some South West exceptional planning applications submitted by our design A relatively steady market over the period helped the region department, our future workflow remains in robust shape.
turn in another strong performance on sites from Sussex to Our construction department has continued to perform strongly Cornwall.
Although unit completions were below the recordwith upwards of ten sites in progress at any one time.
A focus breaking levels of last year, turnover increased and a number of on controlling costs has delivered significant savings against new developments in prime areas saw the average selling price build budgets and a commitment to quality has minimised move upwards by 12% and pre-tax profit improve by 15%.
These are both areas in which we intend to slower second-hand market has affected our performance, but remain vigilant.
the careful targeting of incentives helped to maintain volumes There appears to be some uncertainty to the future direction of and profit at anticipated levels.
the housing market at present.
We believe that, as a region, we During the year, the region secured 600 land units and planning are well positioned to deal with this uncertainty and face consents on eleven new sites to fuel its growth.
Upwards whatever challenges the future may bring.
pressure on land prices and continuing uncertainty on planning Michael French, Regional Managing Director issues, particularly affordable housing, are still a concern and South East Region we have set strategies in place to deal with these without affecting volumes.
Although some supply problems were Midlands encountered in the first quarter, there have been no significant labour shortages through the year and construction costs The market in the Midlands was sound with good visitor flows remained well under control.
This also applies to East Anglia and all sites have performed well.
Sales were boosted by first occupations With the completion of some departmental re-structuring and taking place on two sites ahead of schedule thanks to the efforts the satellite office in Exeter is now working at full capacity, the of construction and sales departments working as a team.
region is well placed to deliver growth over the next few years.
Our land exchanges were disappointing but we are confident Derek Field, Regional Managing Director that we will get off to a good start this financial year.
South West Region We achieved eight planning approvals and seven of these will be South East built in the current year so we can achieve sales before the year end.
Overall, this years result has to be considered a sound performance for the region in what proved to be the most The area office in Peterborough is now open and more sites are difficult housing market area in the country.
The slowdown being identified in the East of the region.
This new area office evidenced in the second half of last year continued throughout coupled with the existing regional office, puts the region in a the year and the sales team are to be congratulated on their strong position to support the long-term growth of the region.
sterling efforts, especially in the last six months of the year, for Keith Johnson, Regional Managing Director meeting some very demanding targets.
We were particularly Midlands Region pleased to achieve an average sales price increase of 13%.
24 Annual Report & Accounts McCarthy & Stone plc North West Western Once again, the region continued to build upon previous success The region has more than doubled its unit sales in the year.
with record numbers of sales being achieved which, in turn, Developments throughout our area have performed well with the generated record profit levels.
Market conditions remained market remaining fairly stable.
There are now signs of a market generally favourable throughout the year and average sales slow down in South Wales, but the region feels that it is in a values achieved were also the highest recorded in the region.
good position to counter this with its good quality developments and competitive sales packages.
Planning regimes in the North West have proved particularly difficult in the year with many planning authorities responding to Both the land and design teams have exceeded their targets, planning guidance by imposing severe restrictions on new house contributing to a strong forward position.
A new purpose-built building irrespective of its form or the need base which we serve.
regional office on the outskirts of Bristol, was opened during the Nonetheless we achieved six planning permissions and we year, from which the team are in a better position to support the continue to penetrate new markets whilst continuing to develop growth of the business.
in areas which are familiar to us.
The region is looking forward to consolidating its position, as it A consequence of current planning policies is an increase in the continues to develop in all areas of operation.
level of competition for land particularly in those few areas where Lorena Brown, Regional Managing Director restrictions are a little less stringent.
Against this background the Western Region region has again performed well in securing new land.
North London We enter the new year with a strong portfolio of land and stock and look forward to continued growth.
However, there is little Despite market conditions slowing down during the last financial doubt that the current planning environment including year, the region achieved another successful trading period.
Sales increased demands for affordable housing will combine to during the first quarter started slowly, however when three new present a significant challenge.
sites opened in January and February, sales and profits moved forward for the half year.
Activity then slowed until three more Chris Tyrer, Regional Managing Director sites opened in the final quarter.
The sales from these provided the North West Region region with a very successful conclusion to the year.
The region Scotland continued its expansion with a year on year increase in unit sales of 175% producing a significant increase in profit at the year end.
The region continues its strong performance with sales reaching another record.
The housing market has witnessed good levels of Nine sites were acquired in the period providing the potential for house price growth throughout the year in all of our market areas.
over 300 unit sales within three years.
Although the planning system remains difficult the region negotiated six consents, being There is keen competition for land, particularly in the central sufficient for the regions construction programme over the next belt which has resulted in our looking to the north and the twelve months.
Securing sites in all geographical areas will allow us to continue to grow the region and benefit from a wider The region looks forward to its continued expansion in the next geographical coverage.
Delays within the planning process twelve months when it expects to acquire 400 units of land and continue to affect our forward workflow, although we have, to planning consents and to deliver a further 60% increase in unit date, managed to avoid any affordable housing restrictions.
The main challenges for the future will be contending with the Andrew Oliver, Regional Managing Director severe shortage of skilled labour, dealing with the planning North London Region authorities and competing for brown-field sites that meet our Assisted Living strict criteria.
The team are up for the challenge and with an The division had a successful year with a particularly strong excellent forward sales position are confident of achieving performance once again from sales contributing to a significant another successful year.
over achievement in revenue and profit.
The opening of two Steve Wiseman, Regional Managing Director schemes at Chichester and East Grinstead, in West Sussex, Scottish Region coupled with the existing scheme in sales at Bingley, West North East Yorkshire, helped generate a substantial increase in the average unit sale price.
The region has continued to grow.
The market was strong but is showing signs of getting weaker with customers properties The land department secured six sites during the year including taking longer to sell.
This year we released four new sites, one transferred from the South West Region bringing the total however delays in being able to get on site and start work made land exchanged units to 345.
Similarly the design department it very challenging to achieve sales before the year end.
achieved a much better result than in previous years with five In consequence the region, disappointingly, fell short of its planning consents, three of which were won on appeal.
delays are a constant risk to growth mitigated wherever possible by careful selection and site purchase criteria.
Construction Land had a successful year exchanging on six sites with a good work began on two more sites before the year end.
spread of locations across the region.
The design team met their objectives which puts the region in a good position to move The Division is now in a strong position to grow and generate forward in the future.
more sales from the improved stock in land and planning, a process that will be further enhanced by the opening of an area We look forward with confidence to continuing to grow the region.
office, based at the Group head office in Bournemouth from the Steve Secker, Interim Regional Managing Director start of the next financial year.
North East Region Paul Trofimov, Managing Director Assisted Living Division 25 Annual Report & Accounts McCarthy & Stone plc PLC Board K Lovelock, FRICS, FCIOB, Chairman and Chief Executive Keith Lovelock, 64, joined the Group in 1986 having worked previously with Rush & Tomkins, Wimpey and Federated Housing.
He has obtained considerable overseas experience.
He was appointed a Main Board Director in 1989, became Chief Executive in 1993, and Deputy Chairman in 2001.
In August 2003 he was appointed Chairman and Chief Executive.
He is Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
S E K Purser, Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Simon Purser, 57, has a background in corporate financial advice.
He was a Director of County NatWest Limited, 1984-1989 and Chief Executive of Buckland Corporate Finance Limited, 1990-1996.
He has previously been a Non-Executive director of two listed companies.
He joined the Board in 1990 and was appointed Deputy Chairman in 2003.
He is Chairman of the Audit Committee and a member of both the Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
M W J Thorne MA, FCA, Group Finance Director Matthew Thorne, 52, joined the Board in 1993.
He qualified with Price Waterhouse and worked in corporate finance with County NatWest Limited.
He was formerly Investment Director of Beazer plc and Finance Director of Ricardo Group plc.
He has acted, formerly, as an Independent Director for UMECO plc and Bournemouth University.
M J Jennings BSc Building, MCIOB, MBIM, Operations Director, South Mike Jennings, 57, joined the Group as a Director in 1997.
He worked previously for Tarmac, McLean Homes in the UK and the US and prior to joining McCarthy & Stone, for Redrow Homes.
In addition to his plc responsibilities he is responsible for the South East, South West, Western and North London Regions and Assisted Living.
26 Annual Report & Accounts McCarthy & Stone plc PLC Board H P S Phillips, BSc, MBA, FRICS, Operations Director, North Howard Phillips, 44, joined the Board in 2000.
He has 16 years experience of the retirement sector with McCarthy & Stone, 10 of which as a Regional Managing Director.
In addition to his plc responsibilities he is responsible for the Scottish, North West, North East and Midlands Regions.
G N Day, MRTPI, ACIH, Land and Planning Director Gary Day, 46, joined the Board in October 2002.
He has over 28 years experience in planning and development matters, including 16 years experience in the retirement housing sector with McCarthy & Stone, previously heading up the Group's Planning Bureau.
He is responsible for Group Land, including legal conveyancing, Planning, Political Public Affairs, and he is Chairman of the Group's Sustainability Committee.
The Right Honourable Sir George Young, Bt MP, Independent Non-Executive Director Sir George Young, 63, is MP for North West Hampshire.
From 1990-1994 he was Minister of State at the Department of the Environment with particular responsibility for housing and planning, and from 1995 7 he was Secretary of State for Transport.
He is a member of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
J Stevenson MA, Independent Non-Executive Director Jamie Stevenson, 54, was Head of Research at Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein 1997-2003 and for nine years, 1988-1997, he was ranked the No.
1 Analyst covering Housebuilders, Building Materials and Construction sectors.
Prior to that he was Economic Advisor to the House Builders Federation and Economics Director for the Building Employers Confederation.
He was appointed on 10 November 2003 and is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and a member of both the Audit and Nomination Committees.
Company Secretary Trevor Green, 57, qualified as a solicitor in private practice with Eversheds in Birmingham.
He joined the Tarmac Group in 1975, being appointed Head of the Legal Service to the Tarmac Housing division in 1979.
He joined the Company in 1988 as Head of Legal Services and was appointed Company Secretary the following year.
27 Annual Report & Accounts McCarthy & Stone plc
