Customers vote McCarthy & Stone Britains Best Builder Once again, the quality of our product and the service Making Life Easier we provide have been rewarded with a major national Another key feature of the McCarthy & Stones retirement industry award.
In February this year McCarthy & living is the freedom it provides every purchaser.
An easily understood charge covers the cost of all external Stone celebrated being voted Best National Builder in maintenance, window cleaning, water rates, buildings the 2004 Daily Express British Housebuilder Awards.
insurance and the cost of lighting and heating all the This is the second year in succession the Company has communal areas, including the residents lounge and guest taken the top prize in these, the only nationally suite.
Residents can use the developments laundry facility recognised awards where the voting is entirely down to with no further charge and, best of all, communal gardens purchasers of new homes.
This latest success brings a are maintained and stocked for all to enjoy - without the sixth consecutive annual prize to the Company: a need to take up tools.
testament to the popularity of our schemes.
With so much taken care of, owners often find that they dont need to rely so much on friends and relatives to help Listening to our Customers keep up their home and see immediate benefits when One of the keys to this success is the focus we place on downsizing from a larger property.
delivering a product that matches the needs of our Customers.
We continuously evolve and refine our design, Locations Across the UK taking account of our programme of Customer research and With over 100 sites currently selling across the UK, from feedback.
We concentrate on those tried and tested features Penzance in Cornwall to Inverness in Scotland, McCarthy that benefit the older homebuyer.
So, we ensure our product & Stone is steadily increasing the options for the retired continues to fulfil the requirements of todays older homehomeowner.
With each development close to local shops owners.
Simple touches such as plug sockets at waist height and amenities, purchasers are no longer dependent to reduce bending, lever taps to aid use by arthritis sufferers on their own cars and find it much easier to maintain a fully and the provision of a guest suite facility for use by family and independent lifestyle.
friends, are all good examples of our Customer focus.
Security comes first With stories of crime an ever-present feature of todays media culture, fear of crime is inevitably a major issue for many older homeowners, particularly those living alone.
That is why security is always one of the primary factors in the design of a McCarthy & Stone scheme.
Extra peace of mind is assured by careful planning of defensible space during the design phase of each scheme and by features such as a camera entry system, easily monitored from a Customers own television.
The presence of the House Manager adds to this sense of security which, when combined with the 24-hour Careline service, provides access to assistance 24-hours a day, 365 days a year.
What is more, this system of support ensures that loved ones can also relax, secure in the knowledge that they will be contacted should the need arise.
2 Annual Report & Accounts McCarthy & Stone plc A resident at Blackstones Court, Stamford 3 Annual Report & Accounts McCarthy & Stone plc
