com 39 Risk factors In addition, regulators may reduce the prescribed limits for exposure Business risks to electromagnetic radiation in the countries in which we operate, which would mean that the exclusion areas around our antennas in We face increasing competition from new and existing those countries may have to increase in some situations.
In this event providers of mobile services we may suffer additional costs associated with repositioning our We are competing increasingly with new mobile service providers, network equipment and we may experience delays in the roll-out virtual network operators and resellers of mobile services.
competition from existing service providers may be more intense than anticipated, driving down prices.
Failure to compete O Germany may be unable to reach economic scale in a 2 effectively could result in a decrease in our customers, revenues reasonable time frame and profitability.
If O Germany fails to meet its sales forecast in terms of new 2 customers and increase in ARPU, this could have a significant We face competing technologies negative impact on the profitability of our business.
We face competition from communications technologies that are under development or that will be developed in the future, including Implementation of a new billing and operational system cordless technologies and private and shared radio networks.
As a for O UK 2 result of current trends in the telecommunications industry in Implementation of a new billing and operational system will require Europe, such as the rapid convergence of technologies, we expect the migration of all post-pay customers from our existing system, there to be further technological advances in the future.
Failure to which is discussed in greater detail in the business review on page 9. compete could result in a decrease in our customers, revenues and Our internal support structure will need to change to implement the profitability.
It is a large-scale and complex transformation, which is due to be completed by early calendar 2005.
If the transition is not We may be unable to execute our network-sharing completed successfully, this may affect operational performance.
agreements with T-Mobile on the most favourable commercial terms We may fail to roll out Airwave on time We have network-sharing agreements with T-Mobile in the UK A change in the planning regime, relating to the siting of masts, and in Germany.
Our network-sharing agreements may not deliver may impact on our ability to deploy the network and therefore could the customer and financial benets anticipated and may not have an effect on our business, financial condition and results of function optimally.
This could have a significant effect on the operation.
We may fail to achieve our strategic goal of earning revenues Our relatively small scale causes disadvantage in sourcing of from more sophisticated data services devices, network infrastructure, content and applications and If the market for non-SMS data services does not grow as quickly as in exploiting the mobile data opportunity we currently anticipate and SMS yields fall faster than we currently We may be unable to leverage scale to our best advantage to secure anticipate and voice price erosion increases faster than we currently exclusivity in relation to certain devices, to have devices built to our anticipate, this could have a negative impact on our business and own specications and to obtain other favourable terms.
This could results of operations.
have a detrimental effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
We may be disadvantaged by our UMTS offerings Our UMTS offerings may suffer as a consequence of later launches Alleged health risks associated with mobile and weaker ranges of products and services.
This could have a telecommunications could lead to decreased usage of our negative impact on our business and our results of operations.
services and products, increased difficulty in obtaining transmitter sites or potential liability Misuse of our networks by our customers through fraud Public concern about the alleged or perceived health risks of mobile or in a way that damages our reputation communications could have a detrimental impact on our business Certain customers may misuse our networks in ways which through negative customer perception of our brands, services or damage our reputation, for example using the network to make products, difficulties in retaining or attracting customers, reduced inappropriate contact with children, spamming or propagation of usage times per customer of our mobile telecommunications services viruses.
Certain customers may also misuse our networks in ways or increased difficulty in obtaining transmitter sites.
We cannot which impact our costs or revenues, including fraud.
This could have assure you that further medical research and studies will refute a link a negative impact on our business.
between the radio frequency emissions of wireless handsets and base stations and these health concerns.
Government authorities could increase regulation of wireless handsets and base stations as a result of these health concerns, or wireless companies, including us, could be held liable for costs or damages associated with these concerns, which could have a negative impact on our business.
com Risk factors We may be subject to new regulatory obligations Competition law and regulatory risks Implementation of the New EU Framework may result in new or more onerous regulatory obligations being imposed on us in We operate in highly regulated markets that limit our Germany, the UK and Ireland.
Depending upon the obligations exibility to manage our business imposed, this could have a significant effect on the profitability We must comply with an extensive range of requirements that of our businesses.
regulate and supervise the licensing, construction and operation of our networks and the provision and pricing of our products and We may be required to provide access to our network in services in countries in which we operate.
We must also co-operate Ireland with agencies or other governmental authorities that regulate and In Ireland, if ComReg confirms its preliminary conclusion that we supervise the allocation of frequency spectrum and which monitor have SMP in the mobile access and origination market then we and enforce regulation and competition laws which apply to the may be subject to increased regulation in this market.
We may be mobile telecommunications industry.
Our business and results of required to offer wholesale national roaming to other operators, to operations could be materially adversely affected by changes in provide access to service providers, and to comply with transparency, the law, regulation or government policies directed at the mobile non-discrimination and accounting separation obligations.
Any telecommunications markets in which we operate.
In particular, increase in regulation in this market could have a significant effect decisions by regulators and competition authorities relating to tariffs, on the profitability of our business in Ireland.
interconnection or the effects of expansion into new markets, or the accessibility of our network to mobile virtual network operators or Regulation of call termination charges may increase in the UK service providers could have a negative impact on our business and In the UK, Ofcom is proposing that we should be required to reduce results of operations.
our call termination charges from an average of 8.03 pence per minute to an average at 5.65 pence per minute for the financial year Action by the Commission or regulators may result in fines to 31 March 2005.
Ofcom is also proposing that we should have to and a decrease in roaming revenues reduce these charges by a further 10.5 per cent in the financial year If the Commission nds that there have been infringements to 31 March 2006, after allowing for an increase in such charges of Article 81 and or Article 82 EC Treaty in the markets for equal to the increase in the UK Retail Price Index.
Ofcom is planning international roaming services in which we operate, it may ne to adopt measures which would require us to make these proposed us.
The Commission could also require us to reduce our wholesale price reductions within the next few months.
charges or retail prices for international roaming or to change the way in which such charges and prices are set.
Any increase in the regulation of call termination charges in the UK could have a significant effect on our profitability.
In addition, national regulators in the UK, Germany or Ireland may seek to regulate our international roaming charges, if they nd that we have SMP significant market power on the wholesale roaming market.
Any fines or future regulation of roaming charges could have a negative impact on our business and results of our operations.
