BG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 Operating and financial review Risk factors BG Group may be affected by a number which will underpin the project and improper maintenance regimes, of risks, not all of which are within its adequately apportion risks and liabilities inadequate planning of inspections control.
Outlined below is a description of amongst the project stakeholders: and and not operating equipment within the principal risk factors that may affect obtaining the applicable governmental or design parameters.
the Groups business and share price.
regulatory consents, permits, licences or Plant availability and shutdowns approvals required for the project.
Other factors besides those listed below volume targets can be significantly may also adversely affect the Group.
The impacted by inadequate planning The principal engineering related risk is process that BG Group has in place for failure to undertake adequate front-endof shutdowns and equipment failing.
managing these risks is set out on page engineering-design work during the prePerformance of joint venture partners 43 of this report.
Actions being taken by sanction phase to enable a sufficiently the volume and or financial targets of management to mitigate some of these accurate assessment of the post-sanction the Groups assets will depend on the risks are identified, as appropriate, project schedule and cost.
performance of the Groups partners.
The risk factors The Group generally participates in On the commercial side, gas related should be considered in connection with projects usually require a chain of business activities with joint venture the cautionary note to shareholders in agreements, frequently amongst different partners and does not have direct relation to forward-looking statements control of some of its assets.
Failure to complete this chain on page 149. prior to project sanction can leave projects If these risks materialise, the Group may STRATEGY exposed to excessive commercial risk.
not meet its planned safety standards, The Groups continued success depends If the Group is not successful in securing output levels or unit operating costs.
on the development of an appropriate appropriate long-term commercial These factors may have an effect on cost strategy and its effective implementation.
agreements or, where required, any control, or a potentially material impact Success will depend on having clear applicable governmental or regulatory on the Groups reputation and the results internal alignment between Group consents, permits, licences or approvals, of the Groups operations.
it may be unable to commercialise its strategies and regional business strategies POLITICAL CLIMATE 35 reserves and this may have a material and having the right management skills As a global business, BG Groups overall effect on the Groups mediumto longand leadership to deliver that success.
success depends in part upon managing term cash flow and income.
differing political, economic and market The Group also depends on its ability to PROJECT DELIVERY conditions.
BG Group encounters different attract, retain and motivate additional Project delivery is subject to technical, legal and regulatory requirements in the highly skilled and qualified people.
If commercial and economic risks.
countries in which its assets are located.
the Group lost the services of key people Development projects may be delayed or Specific country risks include: or was unable to attract and retain unsuccessful for many reasons, including employees with the right capabilities and Government instability: cost overruns, equipment shortages and experience, it could have a material effect mechanical and technical difficulties.
Regional instability: on the Groups business and operations.
Projects may also require the use of new Government intervention in EXPLORATION AND NEW VENTURES and advanced technologies, which can licence awards: The Groups future production, and be expensive to develop, purchase and therefore cash flow and income, is highly Erosion of value and expropriation implement and may not function as dependent upon finding, acquiring and of assets: expected.
In addition, some development developing reserves.
In general, the rate projects will be located in deepwater or Breach or cancellation of contractual of production from natural gas and oil other hostile environments or produce rights: and reservoirs declines as reserves are depleted.
hydrocarbons from challenging reservoirs, The Groups future oil and gas production Political roadblocks to key project delivery.
which can exacerbate such problems.
is dependent on managing the risks in Recognition of changing political and the interpretation of geological data.
Risks in downstream activities include market conditions is critical to BG Groups the timely completion of projects LNG is also becoming an increasingly long-term success.
Adverse changes in the under construction, security of supply, important element of the Groups political and economic environments in unscheduled outages, electricity business and its growth in this area is the countries where the Group operates transmission system or gas pipeline dependent upon the level of success it could have an effect on the Groups system constraints and reliable application achieves in connecting competitively business and reputation.
of new technologies to operations.
priced gas to high value markets.
REGULATORY CLIMATE OPERATIONS PROJECT PRE-SANCTION DEFINITION AND BG Groups E&P activities are conducted in The Groups revenues are dependent on COMMERCIALISATION many different countries and are therefore the continued performance of its operating During the pre-sanction phase, the subject to a broad range of legislation and facilities.
Operational risks include: principal activities can be summarised as: regulations.
The terms and conditions of selecting the appropriate engineering Poor asset integrity the integrity the licences, leases and contracts under of the Groups assets can be affected design for the project: putting in place all which the Group holds its gas and oil the necessary commercial arrangements, by a number of factors including interests vary from country to country.
BG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 Operating and financial review Risk factors continued Licences give the holder the right to Group carries out regular reviews to reperformance, as are the security of explore for, and exploit a discovery of, balance its portfolio, looking at numerous physical and intellectual assets and the protection of the natural environment.
hydrocarbon resources whilst bearing the factors including segmental weighting, risk of, and financing the, exploration, geographical weighting, political risk In recent years, the increased threats from development and production activities.
weighting and gas oil mix.
Nevertheless international terrorism and violent crime The licence holder is in principle entitled the Group will still be exposed to risk have presented challenges.
to all production and agrees to remit to factors such as adverse changes in the Policies and measures at international and the state which remains the owner of the business environment, taxes, governmental national level to tackle climate change will subsoil hydrocarbon resources a regulation and the demand for gas and increasingly affect business conditions, production based royalty or income tax LNG as a source of energy.
presenting environmental regulatory risks and possibly other taxes that may apply STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT but also possible opportunities for gas, as under local tax legislation.
Failure to manage stakeholders a relatively low carbon fuel.
expectations, needs and concerns could Production Sharing Contracts set out the COMMODITY PRICES rules governing the co-operation between potentially impact BG Group.
The future success and reputation of BG Group The Groups results are sensitive to US the holder s of the production licence and depends on acknowledging and actively dollar denominated crude oil prices and the host state generally represented by monitoring the concerns of all legitimate US dollar and Sterling denominated a state company.
The production licence stakeholders including employees, natural gas prices.
Crude oil and natural holders take on all risk and finance all investors, governments, civil society gas prices are volatile, depending on shifts E&P activities and operations.
groups, non-government organisations in world supply and demand, Organisation BG Groups other activities are also and communities where it operates of the Petroleum Exporting Countries subject to a broad range of legislation and taking their interests into account, policies and the general economic and and regulation in the various countries where appropriate, in decision making political climate.
In 2004, a significant in which the Group operates.
part of the Groups upstream revenues had some indexation to US dollar Many of the countries in which the Group CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 36 denominated oil prices.
The Groups does and expects to do business have Failure to implement Corporate exposure to short-term changes in recently developed, or are in the process Responsibility principles and policies in commodity prices is mitigated by the of developing, new regulatory and legal investment decisions and in day-to-day predominance of gas in its portfolio and structures.
These regulatory and legal operations could have a material impact the use of long-term gas contracts, not structures and their interpretation and on the Groups business.
BG Groups directly or immediately linked to shortapplication by administrative agencies Statement of Business Principles and term changes in commodity prices.
may be specific to a given market and supporting Group Policies define the untested.
BG Group may be offered the Companys philosophy and underpin Commodity risk opportunity to help shape suitable Corporate Responsibility practice The Groups exposure to commodity prices regulations but with no guarantee that throughout the organisation.
also varies according to a number of its voice will be heard.
Regulatory factors including the mix of production As the Company grows, the search for new frameworks also tend to evolve as markets and sales.
Management estimates that, sources of gas will take the Group into areas mature which may affect the Group.
other factors being constant, a $1.00 rise which present new and different challenges or fall in the Brent oil price would Any changes in the regulatory climate in to the Groups firm commitment to make increase or decrease operating profit which the Group operates may potentially Corporate Responsibility central to how it pre-tax in 2005 by around 30 million have a material impact on the Groups does business.
In particular, any change that HEALTH, SAFETY, SECURITY & has a material affect on gas sales contracts The Group does not, as a matter of course, ENVIRONMENT may have a material impact on the hedge all commodity prices, but may hedge The Groups worldwide operations are Groups cash flow and income.
Additionally, certain gas and oil revenue streams from subject to a broad range of Health, changes in local fiscal regimes can time to time.
The Group uses forward Safety and Environmental regulations.
adversely affect the applicable tax rates commodity contracts, including forward, in the countries where BG Group has Failure to maintain and improve the derivative and option contracts, to partially operations.
Such changes may also have Groups performance in the areas of offset the exposure of certain of its forecast a material impact on the Groups health, safety, security and the oil and gas revenues to commodity price cashflows and income.
Failure to meet environment could result in injury to variations.
As part of marketing its gas regulatory requirements may have a people and damage to, or destruction supply portfolio, the Group undertakes material affect on the Groups reputation.
of, facilities or the environment, each of commodity hedging and trading activities.
which could have a material impact on PORTFOLIO The fair value of the Groups commodity the Groups business and reputation.
derivative contracts is calculated using Failure to manage the Groups portfolio of assets could have a material impact forward price curves for the relevant The Group recognises that the protection commodity.
As at 31 December 2004, the on the Groups business.
The Group has of the health and safety of its employees a wide portfolio of assets, spread across potential change in the fair value of the and others affected by its operations, is an aggregation of outstanding commodity business segments and geographies.
The essential element in delivering business BG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 derivative contracts was 14 million 2003 Exchange rate risk Counterparty risk 22 million assuming a 10% change in the The cashflow, profit and loss account and Treasury counterparty risk arises forward price curve.
To the extent that balance sheet of the Group, which are all principally from the investment of these derivative contracts are hedging reported in Sterling, may be significantly surplus funds, from cash balances held commodity price exposure, this potential affected by exchange rate fluctuations.
in bank accounts, and from the use of change in fair value is offset by the change derivative instruments.
Such risk is The Groups exposure to foreign exchange in value of the underlying commodity.
controlled through credit limits rates varies according to a number of principally credit rating-based and The results of the LNG business operations factors including the timing of revenues monitoring procedures.
Derivatives involved in the import, shipping and and costs including capital investment.
can, to varying degrees, carry both marketing of LNG are sensitive to Compared to 2003, Sterling strengthened counterparty and market risk.
Where movements in US dollar denominated in 2004 against the US dollar, the multiple transactions are undertaken natural gas prices.
The exposure to Argentine Peso and the Brazilian Real.
with a single counterparty or group fluctuations in natural gas sales prices is A substantial proportion of the Groups of related counterparties, a netting mitigated within certain LNG purchase business activity is conducted in US arrangement can reduce the Groups contracts as the gas suppliers share price dollars, and the Group holds substantial exposure to credit risk of that risk with BG Group.
The exposure is further dollar-denominated assets.
The Group counterparty or group.
The extent of managed using a combination of natural mitigates its exposure to the US dollar the reduction depends on the number gas futures contracts, financial and by borrowing in, or swapping the majority and type of transactions within each physical forward-based contracts and of its borrowings into, US dollars up to a netting arrangement.
maximum of 100% of the book value of Currently the Group makes wide use TREASURY US dollar-denominated assets.
of standard International Swap Dealers The Groups principal treasury risks are In general, the Group does not hedge Association ISDA documentation, which those risks associated with refinancing, US dollar-denominated transactions, provides for netting in respect of all interest rates, exchange rates and although it may do so for specific 37 transactions governed by a specific ISDA, counterparty credit.
These risks are all transactions with the authorisation of the when transacting interest rate and managed in accordance with policies Finance Committee.
Details of transaction currency derivative instruments.
For approved by the Finance Committee.
hedge amounts appear in note 21, page 90. commodity trading activities, the Group The use of derivative financial Management estimates that in 2005, seeks to put in place bespoke Master instruments is controlled by policy other factors being constant, a 10 cent Netting Agreements which provide for guidelines set by the Board.
The Groups strengthening or weakening of the US netting across multiple trading and principal treasury risks and associated dollar would increase or decrease derivative arrangements, typically ISDAs policies are summarised below.
operating profit by approximately and physical UK and European Oil and Refinancing risk 70 million.
Such a change would not Gas trading agreements.
The Group also Refinancing risk is managed principally be expected to have a significant effect seeks to implement bespoke Gas Netting by limiting the amount of borrowings on cash flow before financing activities, Agreements with counterparties with maturing within any specific period.
The excluding disposals, since a large whom only gas is traded.
maturity profile of the Groups borrowings proportion of the Groups capital Derivative financial instruments held appears in note 18 on page 86. expenditure in 2005 will be denominated for purposes other than trading in US dollars.
Interest rate risk As part of its business operations, the The Groups net balance sheet exposure Interest rate risk is managed by the use Group is exposed to risks arising from to currencies other than the US dollar of fixed and floating rate borrowings, fluctuations in interest rates and principally comprises exposure to the and interest rate derivatives.
The Group uses derivative Argentine Peso, Brazilian Real and Indian financial instruments derivatives in The Groups principal interest rate risk Rupee.
These net exposures are managed order to manage exposures of this type management policy is to seek to minimise on a case-by-case basis with the objective in accordance with Treasury policies.
The total financing costs i. e. interest costs of protecting economic value subject to Group enters into interest rate swaps or plus changes in the market value of debt.
forward rate agreements to manage the During 2004, the Group revised its interest Subsidiary undertakings which borrow composition of floating and fixed rate rate management policy in respect of without recourse to the Group are debt.
The Group enters into forward BGEH Borrowers such that the obligations generally required to borrow in, or swap exchange contracts and currency swaps of these borrowers are now required to be borrowings into, their functional currency to hedge certain foreign currency substantially floating rate.
Prior to this of operation.
cashflows, and to adjust the currency change, BGEH Borrowers were permitted composition of its assets and liabilities.
to fix interest rates on up to 50% of their The Group mitigates its exposure to long-term borrowings.
As a result, during transactions in currencies other than Certain agreements are combined foreign currency and interest rate swap 2004, the proportion of BGEH Borrowers the US dollar or Sterling by hedging transactions.
Such agreements are shown long-term debt that was fixed rate varied certain expected cash flows into between 0% and 50%.
BG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 Operating and financial review Risk factorscontinued The Groups policy is not to use interest rate and exchange rate derivatives for speculative purposes.
Valuation and sensitivity analysis The Group calculates the fair value of medium and long-term debt and derivative instruments by using market valuations where available or, where not available, by discounting all future cash flows by the market yield curve at the balance sheet date.
In the case of instruments with optionality, the Blacks variation of the Black-Scholes model is used to calculate fair value.
The Group utilises a sensitivity analysis technique to evaluate the effect that changes in relevant rates or prices will have on the market value of debt and derivative instruments.
As at 31 December 2004, the potential change in the fair value of the aggregation of medium and long-term debt and exchange rate and interest rate derivative instruments, assuming a 10% change in exchange rates, 38 was 115 million 2003 92 million.
The potential change in the fair value of the above, assuming a 10% change in the level of interest rates was 8 million 2003 9 million, of which 6 million related to finance leases and derivative instruments related to them.
