26 AMLIN PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2004 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW RISK MANAGEMENT JAMES ILLINGWORTH DIRECTOR, BUSINESS INTELLIGENCE & MONITORING Inspired by the desire to deliver strategic objectives, to improve performance and to address a growing need to cater for regulatory requirements, Amlin has been developing and enhancing its risk management systems.
Over the past four years, weve invested in skills, technology and analysis to improve our understanding, reporting and management of the key risks which face the Group, both strategically and on a day to day basis.
Risk management in the business is the Strategic risks: RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK responsibility of divisional or departmental Underwriting risks: management.
Two departments and two other Amlins risk management framework is based committees play meaningful roles in monitoring Financial risks: on the following: and reporting risk on a Group wide basis.
Operating risks: These are: Regulatory risks: Risk appetite is approved by the Board: Business Intelligence & Monitoring Reputational risks.
Department: monitors and reports on Risk is reviewed by a Risk Committee underwriting exposures across the Group, which comprises senior management, The software links risks to their corresponding performs or oversees independent assessments meets quarterly and reports to the Board controls and generates a graded reporting of of underwriting quality, major event risk through the Audit Committee: risks ranging from high impact over 10 analysis and the structure of reinsurance million impact on pre-tax profit, high programme, and performs independent The Risk Committee reviews the Groups probability more than 40% probability over assessments of the quality and adequacy top and emerging risks, as well as any a 5 year period to low impact less than of reserving.
material control weaknesses, and either 1 million impact on pre-tax profit, low satisfies itself that sufficient action is being Internal Audit and Compliance Department: probability less than 5% over 5 years.
taken to address such risks and weaknesses conducts a detailed programme of work to Presently, while the software provides a good or requests that further action is taken: provide an independent appraisal of the framework for the reporting and assessment adequacy and effectiveness of internal of risk, there remains a higher element of Risks are clearly classified by category controls in operation.
subjective judgement used in quantifying and with responsibility for risk categories grading the risks than would be ideal and this being defined and documented: Reserving Committee: reviews the reserving will be addressed over the next year.
processes, work conducted by Amlins operating Risks and the adequacy of controls over divisions and by Business Intelligence and The Risk Committee reviews the output from risks are assessed and reported to the Monitoring on reserves and considers reserving the Doors system at a high level at each of its Risk Committee on a cyclical basis, the issues of major subjective judgement.
meetings and at a more detailed level on a frequency of review depending on their rotational basis.
Reinsurance Security Committee: reviews the nature and grade: security of reinsurers and monitors aggregate Controls over underwriting and investment Amlins Internal Audit and Compliance exposures to reinsurers so that they are risks are referred to in their respective parts Department reviews the risk assessments maintained within approved risk appetite levels.
of this Operating and Financial Review.
The performed by its Operating Divisions and status of some of Amlins other financial risks other Departments.
are highlighted in the following graphs.
INTEGRATED RISK AND CONTROL DATABASE REINSURANCE DEBTORS AT 31.12.2004 Our Risk Committee comprises: Amlin has invested in an integrated risk GRADED BY SECURITY Source: Amlin management database, namely Telelogic Chief Executive 3.5% Doors software, to facilitate the assessment Director, Audit and Compliance chair 1.5% 6% AAA and reporting of risks and their associated AA Director, Business Intelligence & Monitoring 27% controls.
The introduction of the database to A Finance Director BBB different areas of the Group has been phased Operations Director C & LOWER over four years and was completed in 2004 Underwriting Director 62% so that the entirety of the Amlin Group now uses it.
Risks are analysed into the following major categories: AMLIN PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2004 27 In common with many companies with defined described in the Market Overview section, to PERCENTAGE OF OPEN MARKET OVERDUE DEBT TO WRITTEN PREMIUM 31 December benefit pension schemes, Amlin is exposed to improve its long term attractiveness to both Source: Amlin the risk that future liabilities are underinsureds and companies such as Amlin.
10 Following the investigation of broker practices 8 As detailed in note 9 to the accounts, Amlin and possible conflicts of interest instigated by 6 provides final salary pensions to certain the New York Attorney General, brokers means 4 members of staff and former employees, of charging commissions to insureds and 2 principally through the Lloyds Superannuation insurers is under review and likely to change.
This is a multi-employer This may result in changes to the distribution scheme, with employers mutualising liabilities of business, particularly between the United within the scheme.
Over time the number of States and the UK.
It is currently too early to SYNDICATE 2001 NET ULTIMATE LOSS RATIOS 2000 TO 2004 YEARS OF ACCOUNT YOA employers who are part of the scheme has assess whether this will impact Amlin either Source: Amlin diminished and Amlin is the largest ongoing positively or negatively.
However we are in 110 11th September claims employer within the scheme.
Consequently close touch with our major brokers so that 100 Amlin has the responsibility for meeting the we can position Amlin appropriately.
90 funding requirements of the Amlin members % 80 of the scheme and orphan members i. e. RISK MEASUREMENT AND ECONOMIC CAPITAL members whose employer no longer exists.
70 Over the past three years Amlin has made Our risk measurement has historically taken a 60 additional contributions totalling 16.5 million fairly crude form with a focus at underwriting 50 to help fund an actuarial deficit in the LSF.
level on the value at risk from potential major Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 year 2 year 3 year 4 year 5 Amlins combined deficit as at 31 March catastrophes.
In 2002 Amlin initiated the 2000 YOA 2001 YOA 2004 for active and orphan members, net of build of a Dynamic Financial Analysis model 2002 YOA 2003 YOA contributions made in 2004, is approximately see page 16 which has now been developed 14 million and we expect this to be largely to a stage where it forms a useful tool to assess The above chart demonstrates Amlins prudent funded over the next three years.
While the robustness of our five year business plans.
approach to reserving, with caution being pension scheme funding assessment involves This in turn enables us to assess the optimal removed from forecast net ultimate loss a number of assumptions, we believe that the capital structure for the business as well as ratios as underwriting years mature.
LSF valuation is conservatively struck which the amount of capital needed to support the reduces the risk of an increase in the deficit business from both economic and regulatory With the amount of reinsurance debt which in the future.
Amlin carries, particularly following major catastrophe events, the potential for Certain risks are presently not easily Going forward it is the Companys intention to reinsurance failure is always a major risk.
For example, at a strategic level, further develop its DFA modelling so that it said, in the last three years, Amlin has only the risk of Lloyds becoming an unattractive can better assess and report on the Companys written off 5.3 million of reinsurance debt, market in the short term is considered to be risk appetite, and use the tool in both and it places emphasis on maintaining low.
With the existing levels of market performance assessment and risk management relations with reinsurers with high quality profitability and surplus cash flow, the risk decision making.
Amlin intends to adopt an security, which it keeps under regular review.
of financial strain which would cause either economic capital approach whereby it can Over recent years, there have been fewer market insolvency or a decline in Lloyds compute and assign economic capital to all companies with the security which Amlin security rating below an acceptable level is areas of the business, thereby enabling it to regards as acceptable, and therefore a greater remote.
However, as market conditions soften apply a common and consistent metric to help concentration of risk among reinsurers.
This this risk may increase.
To counter this risk, ensure that returns across the Group are also makes our business model more reliant Lloyds has been taking a number of steps, as commensurate with the associated risks.
