Risk factors Risk Factors Capital Risk The following discussion sets forth certain risk factors that the Group The Groups authority to operate as a bank is dependent upon the believes could cause its actual future results to differ materially from maintenance of an adequate capital base.
It is required to meet expected results.
However, other factors could also adversely affect capitalisation requirements in the UK and in other markets where the Group results and the reader should not consider the factors banking activities are undertaken.
As the level of capitalisation may discussed in this report to be a complete set of all potential risks affect the Groups debt rating, the Group also manages its capital to and uncertainties.
secure the maintenance of its strong rating.
Moreover, the absence of a sufficiently strong capital base may constrain the Groups growth and Business Conditions and General Economy strategic options.
Unforeseen circumstances may arise under which The profitability of Barclays businesses could be adversely affected by the Group is unable to maintain its desired capitalisation.
a worsening of general economic conditions in the United Kingdom or globally.
Factors such as the liquidity of the global financial Liquidity Risk markets, the level and volatility of equity prices and interest rates, Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group is unable to meet its payment investor sentiment, inflation, and the availability and cost of credit obligations when they fall due and to replace funds when they are could significantly affect the activity level of customers.
A market withdrawn: the consequence of which may be the failure to meet downturn would likely lead to a decline in the volume of transactions obligations to repay depositors and fulfil commitments to lend.
This that Barclays executes for its customers and, therefore, lead to a risk exists in the UK as well as in overseas markets.
There is a risk that decline in the income it receives from fees and commissions.
A market the Group mismanages its liquidity or that circumstances may arise downturn or worsening of the economy could cause the Group to under which it is unable to maintain adequate liquidity.
incur mark-to-market losses in its trading portfolios.
A market Operational Risks downturn also could potentially result in a decline in the fees Barclays The Groups businesses are dependent on the ability to process a large earns for managing assets.
For example, a higher level of domestic or number of transactions efficiently and accurately.
Operational risks foreign interest rates or a downturn in trading markets could affect the and losses can result from fraud, errors by employees, failure to flows of assets under management.
An economic downturn or properly document transactions or to obtain proper internal significantly higher interest rates could adversely affect the credit authorisation, failure to comply with regulatory requirements and quality of Barclays on balance sheet and off balance sheet assets by Conduct of Business rules, equipment failures, natural disasters or the increasing the risk that a greater number of the Groups customers failure of external systems, for example, the Groups suppliers or would be unable to meet their obligations.
counterparties see page 68 for a fuller list.
Although the Group has Credit Risk implemented risk controls and loss mitigation actions, and substantial The Groups provisions for credit losses provide for losses inherent resources are devoted to developing efficient procedures and to staff in loans and advances and other credit exposures.
Estimating losses is training, it is only possible to be reasonably, but not absolutely, certain inherently uncertain and depends on many factors, including general that such procedures will be effective in controlling each of the economic conditions, rating migration, structural and technological operational risks faced by the Group.
changes within industries and changes in customer preferences that Regulatory Compliance Risk alter competitive positions, mismanagement by customers and other The Group is subject to extensive supervisory and regulatory regimes external factors such as legal and regulatory requirements.
in the UK, elsewhere in Europe, the US, the Asia-Pacific region and in Market Risks the many other countries around the world in which it operates.
The most significant market risks the Group faces are interest rate, Regulatory compliance risk arises from a failure or inability to comply credit spread, foreign exchange, commodity price and equity price fully with the laws, regulations or codes applicable specifically to the risks.
Changes in interest rate levels, yield curves and spreads may financial services industry.
Non-compliance could lead to fines, public affect the interest rate margin realised between lending income and reprimands, damage to reputation, enforced suspension of operations borrowing costs.
Changes in currency rates, particularly in the sterlingor, in extreme cases, withdrawal of authorisation to operate.
dollar and sterling-euro exchange rates, affect the value of assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies and affect earnings reported by the Groups non-UK subsidiaries and may affect revenues from foreign exchange dealing.
The performance of financial markets may cause changes in the value of the Groups investment and trading portfolios and in the amount of revenues generated from assets under management.
The Group has implemented risk management methods to mitigate and control these and other market risks to which the Group is exposed.
However, it is difficult to predict with accuracy changes in economic or market conditions and to anticipate the effects that such changes could have on the Groups financial performance and business operations.
In addition, the value of assets held in the Groups pension and long-term assurance funds are also affected by the performance of financial markets.
42 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2004 Legal Risk general changes in the regulatory requirements, for example, The Group is subject to comprehensive legal obligations in the UK, the prudential rules relating to the capital adequacy framework European Union, the US, the Asia-Pacific region and in the many other pages 113 to 115 : countries around the world in which the Group operates.
As a result, changes in competition and pricing environments: the Group is exposed to many forms of legal risk, which may arise in changes in the financial reporting environment see Conversion to a number of ways.
Primarily: International Financial Reporting Standards in 2005 on pages 129 and 130 : Group business may not be conducted in accordance with expropriation, nationalisation, confiscation of assets and changes applicable laws: in legislation relating to foreign ownership: and contractual obligations may either not be enforceable as intended other unfavourable political, military or diplomatic developments or may be enforced against the Group in an adverse way: producing social instability or legal uncertainty which in turn may the intellectual property of the Group such as its trade names affect demand for the Groups products and services.
may not be adequately protected: and the Group may be liable for damages to third parties harmed by Impact of Strategic Decisions taken by the Group the conduct of its business.
The Group devotes substantial management and planning resources to the development of strategic plans for organic growth and In addition, the Group faces risk where legal proceedings are brought identification of possible acquisitions, supported by substantial against it.
Regardless of whether or not such claims have merit, the expenditure to generate growth in customer business.
If these outcome of legal proceedings is inherently uncertain and could result strategic plans do not meet with success, the Groups earnings could in financial loss.
grow more slowly or decline.
Although the Group has processes and controls around the Competition management of legal risk, failure to manage legal risks can impact The UK and global financial services market remains highly the Group adversely, both financially and reputationally.
competitive and innovative competition comes both from incumbent Tax Risk players and a steady stream of new market entrants.
The landscape is Tax risk is the risk associated with changes in, or errors in the expected to remain highly competitive in all the Groups businesses, interpretation of, taxation rates or law.
This could result in increased which could adversely affect the Groups profitability.
Impact of External Factors on the Group and Peer Group Although the Group devotes considerable resources to managing tax The Groups primary performance goal is to achieve top quartile risk, failure to manage this risk can impact the Group adversely.
TSR performance for 2004 to 2007 inclusive against a group of peer financial institutions.
This goal assumes that external factors will Changes in Governmental Policy and Regulation impact all peer group entities similarly.
The Groups ability to The Groups businesses and earnings can be affected by the fiscal achieve the goal will be significantly impacted if the Group is or other policies and other actions of various regulatory authorities disproportionately impacted by negative external factors.
Even if the of the UK, other European Union or foreign governments and Group performs well, if others perform better or the market believes international agencies.
The nature and impact of future changes in others have performed better, we may not achieve our goal.
such policies and regulatory action are not predictable and are beyond the Groups control.
Barclays devotes considerable resources and expertise to managing the risks to which it is exposed.
Our risk management is described There is continuing political and regulatory scrutiny of, and major in the following pages pages 44-71.
Please also refer to the changes in, legislation and regulation of the consumer credit industry cautionary statement concerning forward-looking statements on in the UK and elsewhere.
In the UK, these currently include a review of the inside of the front cover in conjunction with this section.
store cards by the Competition Commission and investigations by the Office of Fair Trading into interchange rates and default fees on credit cards.
The review and investigations are looking at the consumer credit industry generally and the Group is co-operating with those proceedings.
Their outcome is unclear but may have an impact on the consumer credit industry in general and therefore on the Groups business in this sector.
Other areas where changes could have an impact include inter alia: the monetary, interest rate and other policies of central banks and regulatory authorities: general changes in government or regulatory policy that may significantly influence investor decisions in particular markets in which the Group operates: 43
