Risk management Risk management and control overview Introduction Risk Management At Barclays the identification and management of risk is a high priority The pages that follow describe our approach to risk management.
and is integral to the execution of our banking activity and strategy.
This first section deals with the overall approach applicable to all Our approach is built on formal governance processes, relies on risks.
It is followed by material covering individual types of risk.
individual responsibility and collective oversight, uses advanced The narrative contains quantitative information mainly in graphical analyses, and is informed by comprehensive reporting.
In most cases the same data appear in tables in a statistical Responsibility for risk resides at all levels of management, from the section beginning on page 72.
Board down through the organisation to individuals in offices around Risk Management Process the world.
Each business manager is accountable for managing risk in Barclays applies a five-step approach to risk management.
his or her business area, assisted, where appropriate, by risk specialists.
Responsibilities We measure the key risks and understand the viability of transactions after taking risk into account.
There are defined appetites for the most Direct Understand the principal risks to achieving important risks and we consider the risk and return on individual Group strategy.
transactions as well as their effect on the Banks overall portfolio.
Establish and communicate the risk management From a credit risk perspective, 2004 was a benign year, without the framework including responsibilities, authorities large corporate defaults of the recent past.
In our consumer portfolios, and key controls.
the growth in credit losses was consistent with our portfolio growth and risk appetite.
Risk taking in our trading activities remained within Assess Establish the process for identifying and our Group market risk parameters at all times.
Agree and implement measurement and These favourable conditions are reflected in the provisions for bad reporting standards and methodologies.
and doubtful debts which declined from a peak of 1,484m in 2002 to 1,091m, a decline over two years of 26%.
During the same period, Control Establish key control processes and practices, our portfolio increased by 24%.
This good outcome benefited from including limit structures, provisioning criteria a much lower corporate provisions charge as well as some recovery and reporting requirements.
of amounts written-off in earlier years, trends that are characteristic Monitor the operation of the controls and of the recovery phase of a credit cycle.
adherence to risk direction and limits.
Provide early warning of control or appetite Barclays is growing in our product breadth, our client base and in breaches.
our domestic and international markets.
With this growth and with Ensure that risk management practices are regulatory changes upon us the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the Basel II appropriate for the control environment.
Accord and the new International Financial Reporting Standards we are making continued, significant investments in risk management and Report Interpret and report on risk exposures, risk systems.
Interpret and report on sensitivities and Key In 2004 we further developed our methodology for defining and Risk Indicators.
setting our risk appetite, introducing new formal measurements Communicate with external parties.
and governance which are described later in this section.
We also strengthened risk management and governance by implementing an Manage and Review and challenge all aspects of the Groups enhanced Group Internal Control and Assurance Framework, which Challenge risk profile.
provides definitive guidance on governance requirements throughout Assess new risk-return opportunities.
Both of these were evolutionary improvements of already Advise on optimising the Groups risk profile.
Review and challenge risk management practices.
Our aim will continue to be to grow shareholder value through taking risks that are consistent with our risk appetite and commensurate with the associated returns.
Robert Le Blanc Risk Director 44 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2004 Risk Responsibilities The principal responsibilities extend throughout the organisation.
The Board requires that management maintains an appropriate system of internal control and reviews its effectiveness.
The Board approves risk appetite and monitors the Groups risk profile against this appetite.
Business leaders are responsible for the identification and management of risk in their businesses.
The Risk Director, under delegated authority from the Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director, has responsibility for ensuring effective risk management and control.
Risk Type Heads and their teams in Central Support are responsible for risk oversight and policy.
Business risk teams, each under the management of a Business Risk Director, are responsible for assisting business leaders in the identification and management of their business risk profiles and for implementing appropriate risk management processes.
Internal Audit is responsible for the independent review of the control environment.
Matrix of risk responsibilities at Barclays Group Board Group Chief Executive Internal Audit Business Heads Group Finance Director Risk Director Risk-type Heads Business Risk Directors Retail Wholesale Market Operational Credit risk Credit risk risk risk UK Banking Barclaycard Barclays Capital Private Clients International Retail and Commercial Banking Barclays Global Investors The internal control framework at Barclays is aligned with the internationally accepted standard Internal Control Integrated Framework published by the Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway Commission COSO.
The Groups principal risks are the subject of Board Governance Standards, which set out Board approved risk control requirements.
Board Governance Standards exist for the following risks: Brand Management Liquidity Capital Planning Market Corporate Responsibility Operations Credit People Financial Crime Regulatory Compliance Financial Reporting, Taxation and Budgeting Change Legal Strategic Planning Detailed discussion of our risk management of certain risks follows, starting with credit risk on page 49.
The management of risk at Barclays is guided and monitored by a number of committees.
Each has specific functions as shown in the chart on the Governance Structure at Group Level on the next page.
45 Risk management Risk management and control overview Governance Structure at Group Level Board oversight Board Board Audit Committee Board Risk Committee Reviews the effectiveness of Board Approves the Group Internal Control Governance Standards.
and Assurance Framework and principles.
Authority Reviews reports on control issues of Approves Board Governance Standards.
Approves overall Group risk appetite.
Appetite Reviews the Group risk profile.
Management Group Chief Executive REPORTING ASSURANCE performance Group Executive Committee Monitors and manages risk adjusted performance of strategic business units.
Governance and Control Committee Treasury Committee Risk Oversight Committee Reviews the completeness and Monitors the Groups liquidity and Debates and agrees actions on the risk effectiveness of the Group Internal maturity mismatch.
profile, risk strategy and key controls Control and Assurance Framework.
Monitors usage of regulatory capital.
Monitors compliance with the Ensures consistency with Group risk Reviews policy controls for liquidity, Framework.
maturity transformation and structural Ensures that principal controls are interest rate exposure.
Considers issues escalated by Risk type consistent with Board Governance heads.
Monitors usage of economic capital.
Assurance Internal Audit Assesses compliance with the system of internal control.
In addition to the committees shown in the chart, the Board established a Brand and Reputation Committee in 2004.
These committees are informed by regular and comprehensive reports.
The Board Risk Committee receives a quarterly report covering all significant risk types.
The Board Audit Committee receives quarterly reports on control issues of significance and half-yearly provisions and regulatory reports.
Both committees also receive reports dealing in more depth with specific issues relevant at the time.
The proceedings of both committees are reported to the full Board, which also receives a concise quarterly risk report.
When the new Basel II Accord is introduced, Barclays aims to achieve advanced status under all risk categories.
The Group considers that the investment required to attain this status is warranted by the internal risk management improvements that will follow, the reputational benefits and the potential for greater capital efficiency.
46 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2004 Risk Appetite Mandate and Scale: This second perspective enables the setting of In 2004, Barclays adopted an improved approach to the setting of limits to control against unacceptable levels of loss that may arise as risk appetite across the Group, using a more formal, quantitative aresult of portfolio concentration.
It is our objective that unexpected methodology based on advanced risk analytics.
Risk Appetite is the losses remain within the scope of our communicated strategy and are Groups chosen balance of return and risk employed as we implement of a scale that is appropriate for our Group.
This perspective uses our business plans, recognising a range of possible outcomes.
This simple, descriptive measures and limits for relevant exposure types.
framework, approved by the Board Risk Committee, builds on the Overall, the Risk Appetite framework provides a basis for the allocation analytical capability developed and used within Barclays since the of risk capacity to each business.
Since the level of loss at each level mid 1990s.
of probability is dependent on the portfolio of exposures in each The objectives of the risk appetite framework are to: business, the statistical measurement for each key risk category gives the Group clearer sight and better control of risk-taking throughout help protect the Groups performance: the enterprise.
enable unused risk capacity to be identified and thus profitable opportunities to be highlighted: The Risk Appetite framework is designed to be: improve management confidence and debate regarding our risk simple and practical to apply by measurement and monitoring profile: and of exposures: help executive management improve control and co-ordination geared to risk return where capacity is directly related to of risk-taking across businesses.
opportunity: The Risk Appetite framework considers credit, market and operational based on a top-down capacity for earnings volatility: risk and is applied using two perspectives: earnings volatility and based on bottom-up identification of risk factors in each business: mandate and scale.
relevant, recognising the impact and likelihood of losses: aggregated across businesses where appropriate.
Earnings volatility: This takes account of the potential volatility around our forecast financial performance each year.
The portfolios risk is Stress Testing measured at four representative levels: The Risk Appetite numbers are validated by estimating our sensitivity to macroeconomic events using stress testing and scenario analysis.
expected performance including the average credit losses based on Changes in certain macroeconomic variables represent environmental measurements over many years : stresses which may reveal systemic credit and market risk sensitivities a moderate stress level of loss that is likely to occur only in our retail and wholesale portfolios.
The stresses considered include, infrequently and is meant to correspond to a macroeconomic cycle: for example, the following sensitivities: a severe stress which is much less likely but within a reasonable possibility: Gross Domestic Product weaker: an extreme but highly improbable level of stressed loss which is employment weaker: used to determine the Groups Economic Capital.
interest rates higher or lower: interest rate curve shifts: These ascending but increasingly less likely levels of loss are illustrated equity prices lower: in the following chart.
property prices weaker: credit spreads wider: Risk Appetite concepts diagram not to scale country exposure stressed: industry exposure stressed: sterling stronger.
Expected More complex scenarios, such as recessions, can be represented by Mean combinations of variables.
These scenarios allow senior management to gain a better understanding of how the Group is likely to react to Moderate Stress changing economic and geo-political conditions.
Insights gained are fully integrated into the management process and the Risk Appetite Severe Stress framework.
These analyses and insights and the close involvement of management also provide the basis for fulfilling the stress testing requirements of the new Basel II Accord.
Extreme Stress Economic capital Potential size of loss in one year At 31st December 2004, the Groups expected credit loss in one year was 1,395m see page 72.
The Economic Capital i. e. the loss in one year under extreme stress for all risk types was 12.6bn, estimated with a probability of 1 in 5,000 years.
47 Probability of loss Risk management Risk management and control overview The Application of Economic Capital Economic capital is fully embedded in the management culture of the Barclays manages both its capital supply and demand for capital in Group via risk adjusted performance management e. g. economic order to optimise capital efficiency.
profit, effective targeting of resources to value creating areas, pricing tools, compensation and remuneration schemes and is integral to the The management of the supply of capital occurs via the Groups Risk Appetite framework.
The economic capital framework will be an shareholders capital and statutory capital ratios as discussed on pages important part to the Groups implementation of the Basel II Accord.
See also the management of capital risk on page 65.
In 2004, UK Retail Banking economic capital allocation decreased The Group assesses the internal demand for capital using its own 50m to 2,200m with the impact of continued growth more than proprietary economic capital methodology developed and refined over offset by the sale in 2003 of non-core assets that had previously been more than a decade.
We estimate the capital needed to survive an acquired with the Woolwich.
UK Business Banking economic capital extreme but highly improbable level of stressed loss.
The calculation allocation decreased 50m to 2,450m as a consequence of a general is based on the historical volatility of losses.
Capitalisation occurs to a improvement in the credit quality of counterparties and improved risk level sufficient to provide a high level of confidence in the Group, with assessment of complex transactions.
the level of confidence consistent with the Groups AA rating.
The economic capital allocated to Private Clients including the closed Economic capital is estimated primarily for the risks listed under Board life assurance business increased by 50m to 400m following the Governance Standards on page 45 as well as insurance risk, risk acquisition of Gerrard and growth of the business.
International associated with fixed assets, and risk in private equity investments.
economic capital allocation increased by 200m to 1,000m reflecting The Group computes and assigns economic capital by the risk categories the inclusion of Banco Zaragozano for a full year and growth in the to all operating units.
This enables the Group to apply a common, Spanish business.
consistent and additive metric to ensure that returns throughout the Group are commensurate with the associated risks.
An asset attracts Barclaycard economic capital allocation increased by 250m to the same cost of capital wherever it is acquired across the Group.
2,450m due to growth in outstandings and the acquisition of Juniper.
Barclays estimates the correlation between risk types and calculates Barclays Capital economic capital decreased by 50m to 2,100m as a a diversification benefit which results in a reduction in allocated result of improved wholesale credit conditions more than offsetting the economic capital for the Group and each of the businesses.
increase in market risk capital driven by growth of the business.
Average economic capital allocation by business 3,000 2,500 2,450 2,450 2,500 2,250 2,200 2,200 2,150 2,100 2,000 1,850 1,500 1,500 1,000 1,000 800 2003 400 500 350 150 150 0 2004 m UK Retail UK Business Private International Barclaycard Barclays Barclays Other Operations Banking Banking Clients Capital Global & Group Centre Investors In 2004, the average allocated economic capital of the Group was 12.6bn 2003: 11.9bn.
In addition, average economic capital held against unamortised goodwill was 5.6bn for the year ended 31st December 2004 2003: 5.1bn.
Average economic capital allocation by risk type 5,000 4,450 4,150 4,000 3,700 3,350 3,000 2,100 2,000 1,500 2003 900 900 1,000 650 650 600 600 450 500 0 2004 m Wholesale Retail Operational Market risk Business risk Fixed Other risks credit risk credit risk risk assets risk 48 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2004 Risk management Credit risk management Credit Risk Management Credit Risk Measurement Credit risk is the risk that the Groups customers, clients or Barclays has been in the forefront of the development and use of counterparties will not be able or willing to pay interest, repay capital advanced credit risk systems.
These systems assist the bank in front-line or otherwise to fulfil their contractual obligations under loan credit decisions on new commitments and in managing the portfolio agreements or other credit facilities.
Credit risk also arises through the of existing exposures.
They enable the application of consistent risk downgrading of counterparties whose credit instruments the Group measurement across all credit exposures, retail and wholesale.
The key may be holding, causing the value of those assets to fall.
Furthermore, building blocks in the measurement system, which are described below, credit risk is manifested as country risk where difficulties experienced are the probability of customer default expressed through an internal by the country in which the exposure is domiciled may impede risk rating, exposure in the event of default, and severity of loss-givenpayment or reduce the value of the asset or where the counterparty default.
Using these, Barclays builds the analyses that lead to its decision may be the country itself.
Settlement risk is another special form of support systems in the Risk Appetite context described previously.
credit risk which is the possibility that the Group may pay a Probability of Default: Internal Risk Ratings counterparty for example, a bank in a foreign exchange transaction Barclays assesses the credit quality and assigns an internal risk rating to and fail to receive the corresponding settlement in return.
all borrowers and other counterparties, including retail customers.
Each Credit risk is the Groups largest risk and considerable resources, internal rating corresponds to the statistical probability of a customer expertise and controls are devoted to managing it.
The importance of in that rating class defaulting within the next 12-month period.
Multiple credit risk is illustrated by noting that nearly two-thirds of risk-based rating methodologies may be used to inform the rating decision on economic capital is allocated to businesses for credit risks.
For smaller credits, a single source may suffice exposures arise principally in loans and advances and in irrevocable such as a rating model result.
The table below shows the expected commitments to lend as shown in the following chart.
During 2004, ranges of annual default probabilities associated with Barclays internal the total exposure increased to 652bn 2003: 555m: 2002: 501bn.
ratings, and an approximate relationship to certain external ratings.
Barclays Internal Credit Ratings Credit exposures on and off balance sheet Barclays Annual probability of default S&P Moodys Internal Minimum Mid Point Maximum Equivalent Equivalent Rating % % % Rating Rating 700 652 1.2 0.02 0.025 0.04 AAA AA AA Aaa Aa A1 600 555 OTC derivatives and 1.5 0.05 0.075 0.09 AAA A2 a 501 LME positions 500 1.8 0.10 0.125 0.14 A AA3 Debt securities 2.1 0.15 0.175 0.19 BBB Baa1 400 non trading 2.5 0.20 0.225 0.24 BBB Baa1 300 2.8 0.25 0.275 0.29 BBB Baa2 Contingent liabilities 3 0.30 0.450 0.59 BBBBaa3 200 Debt securities trading 4 0.60 0.900 1.19 BB BB BBBa1 Ba2 100 Commitments to lend 5 1.20 1.850 2.49 B B Ba3 6 2.50 3.750 4.99 BB1 0Loans and advances 7 5.00 7.500 9.99 CCC CCCB2 B3 bn 2002 2003 2004 8 10.00 15.000 CC C Caa Ca C Note Approximate alignment with Barclays and each other.
a OTC derivatives means derivatives traded bilaterally with counter parties and not through an exchange, commonly called over-the-counter derivatives.
Exposure in the event of Default LME refers to the London Metal Exchange.
Exposure in the event of default represents the expected level of usage of the credit facility when default occurs.
At default the customer may Credit Risk Management Responsibility not have drawn the loan fully or may already have repaid some of the In managing credit risk, the Group applies the five-step risk principal, so that exposure is typically less than the approved loan management process and internal control framework described limit.
When the Group evaluates loans, it takes exposure at default into previously page 44.
The credit risk management teams in each consideration, using its extensive historical experience.
It recognises business are accountable to the Business Risk Directors in those that customers may make heavier than average usage of their facilities businesses who, in turn, report to the heads of their businesses and as they approach default.
also to the Risk Director.
For derivative instruments, exposure in the event of default is the The Credit Risk function, led by the Credit Risk Director, provides estimated cost of replacing contracts with a positive value if Group-wide direction of credit risk-taking.
This functional team counterparties should fail to perform their obligations.
manages the resolution of all significant credit policy issues and administers the Credit Committee which approves major credit decisions.
The principal committees that review credit risk management are the Risk Oversight Committee and the Board Risk Committee.
The Board Audit Committee reviews and approves provisioning decisions.
49 Risk management Credit risk management Severity of Loss-given-default In interpreting Risk Tendency, the following should be borne in mind: When a customer defaults, much of the amount outstanding on its At the individual loan level many of the models take current loan or loans is usually recovered.
The part that is not recovered, the conditions into account while others are based on conditions over actual loss, is called the loss-given-default LGD.
The severity of the several years.
RT is thus to a considerable degree a point-in-time loss is measured as a percentage of the amount outstanding when the risk measure.
This contrasts with a  default occurs.
measure which would provide an estimate of the average loss From historical information, the Group can estimate how much is likely expected over a whole cycle.
to be lost, on average, for various types of loans.
To illustrate, lossRisk Tendency is not a forecast of bad debt provisions.
It is rather a given-default is low for residential mortgages because of the property statistical measure that gives insight into the size and quality of the pledged as collateral.
In contrast, LGD is about 70% for unsecured loan portfolio: personal lending.
Risk Tendency covers only the performing loans at the date of estimation and does not make allowance for subsequent growth The level of LGD depends on the type of collateral if any : the or change in the composition of the loan book.
seniority or subordination of the exposure: the industry in which the As it only considers the performing portfolio, the often customer operates if a business : the jurisdiction applicable and worksignificant additional charges, write-backs and recoveries arising out expenses.
The outcome is also dependent on economic conditions during the year from impaired loans are not included.
These that may determine, for example, the prices that can be realised for items can materially affect the provisions charge to the profit assets or whether businesses can readily be refinanced.
defaults show a wide range of outcomes, varying from full to nil The actual credit provisions charge arising from new defaults in recovery and all points in between.
any one year from loans that are performing at the start of the Expected Loss: Risk Tendency year vary significantly around the RT value.
This can be due to The three components described above the credit rating, exposure changes during the year in the economic environment or in the at default and loss given default are building blocks used in credit business conditions in specific sectors or countries and from analysis across the entire portfolio in a variety of applications.
One unpredictable or unexpected events.
This applies especially in of those is to determine a measure of expected loss called Risk wholesale portfolios where the default of a small number of large Tendency RT.
exposures can have a significant effect on the outcome.
For retail portfolios, consisting of a very large number of small exposures, Risk Tendency is a measure of the modelled loss for the performing the variation from RT is usually much smaller.
loan portfolio for the forthcoming 12 months, taking into account For these reasons, RT does not equate to the Groups budget or its current composition, size and risk characteristics and previous internal forecast of provisions in the coming year.
experience over a long period with similar credit exposures.
Risk Tendency is equivalent to the Expected Loss measure that all banks The Risk Tendency of a loan is estimated as the product of the who wish to qualify for the Advanced Internal Ratings Based Approach probability of default derived from the rating with the other will have to disclose from 2008 under the forthcoming Basel II Accord.
components discussed above: Barclays has published RT since its 1997 results and is the only British bank and one of the few international banks to do so.
Risk Tendency of a loan probability of default x expected exposure at default x loss given default.
Risk Tendency is used by the Group to inform a range of decisions, such The RTs of individual loans are summed to produce the Risk as establishing the desired aggregate exposure levels to individual sectors, Tendencies of the various sub-portfolios in the Group and ultimately and determining pricing policy.
It has also been a factor in determining for the whole Group.
It is thus a bottom-up measure of the inherent the level of the general provision for loan losses.
Going forward, the loss in the Groups credit exposures.
RT provides insight into the credit measurement of credit losses will be governed by IFRS IAS 39 which quality of the portfolio and assists management in tracking risk will result in the reporting of specific impairment.
changes as the Groups stock of credit exposures evolves in the course In 2004, Risk Tendency remained steady at 1,395m 2003: 1,390m of business.
Many models are used in the estimation of the three components of RT declined in the corporate and wholesale businesses as the corporate RT in each of the Groups businesses.
The majority of the models are and wholesale credit environments continued to improve and as potential internally developed using Barclays own historical data and other problem loans declined significantly.
We also use externally developed models and In International, RT decreased 5m 7% to 65m 2003: 70m as rating tools.
These are validated for use within Barclays before they the Group developed a better understanding of the risks in the Banco are introduced.
All models are validated annually to ensure their Zaragozano portfolio acquired in 2003. applicability to the current portfolios and credit conditions.
Barclaycard RT increased 11% to 860m 2003: 775m due to growth in the portfolio and the acquisition of Juniper.
50 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2004 Risk Tendency by Cluster 900 860 800 775 700 600 500 400 300 235 225 200 150 150 135 2003 100 70 70 65 20 20 5 5 0 2004 m UK Retail UK Business Private International Barclaycard Barclays Transition Banking Banking Clients Capital Businesses Credit Risk Mitigation Barclays actively manages its credit exposures.
When weaknesses in Barclays employs a range of policies and practices to mitigate credit exposures are detected either in individual exposures or in groups of risk.
The most traditional of these is the taking of security for funds exposures it takes action to mitigate the risks.
These include steps to advanced which is common practice.
See the discussion of loan-toreduce the amounts outstanding in discussion with the customers, if value ratios for mortgages on page 54. appropriate, the use of credit derivatives and, sometimes, the sale of the loan assets.
Credit derivatives are traded for profit and used for Barclays manages the diversification of its portfolio to avoid unwanted managing non-trading credit exposures.
Details of these activities may credit risk concentrations.
Maximum be found in the statistical section page 78 and Note 37 to the exposure guidelines are in place relating to the exposures to any Accounts page 171. individual counterparty.
These permit higher exposures to highly rated borrowers than to lower rated borrowers.
They also distinguish The Group securitises loans such as credit card receivables.
The between types of counterparty, for example between sovereign manner in which these transactions have been structured to date has governments, banks and corporations.
Excesses are considered reduced credit risk only to a small degree because the motivation has individually at the time of credit sanctioning, are reviewed regularly, generally not been the mitigation of risk.
Instead the transactions have and are reported to the Risk Oversight Committee and the Board Risk served other purposes, such as widening the Groups sources of funds Committee.
Similarly the Country Risk policy specifies risk appetite by and addressing regulatory capitalisation in specific geographies.
country and avoids excessive concentrations of credits in individual Securitisation remains an avenue of risk mitigation available to countries.
Finally, there are policies that limit lending to certain Barclays.
industries, for example commercial real estate.
The value of assets originated by the Group that were securitised in 2004 was 0.8bn 2003: 2.3bn.
51 Risk management Loans and advances Loans and advances are the largest component of the Groups credit exposures and contain more than half of the credit risk as shown on page 49.
Wholesale customers remain the largest customer category.
The drawn balances shown above are before deduction of provisions and interest in suspense.
The information in the chart is based on the business unit in which the loans are booked.
Loans in those businesses that deal primarily with personal customers, such as Barclaycard and UK Retail Banking, are included in retail customers even though a small percentage may be to business customers.
Similarly, loans in businesses that deal primarily with corporate, institutional and sovereign clients are included in wholesale customers, even though they may have some personal customers.
Loans and advances on the banking and trading books 350 333 292 300 264 250 200 Trading book banks 150 Trading book customers 100 Banking book banks 50 0 Banking book customers bn 2002 2003 2004 See also Table 3 on page 72.
The banking book comprises loans and advances that are intended to be held to maturity or until repayment by the customer.
In contrast the loans and advances on the trading book are held for sale.
Losses that may arise in the trading book including credit losses are absorbed in trading profits and are regarded as market risk, the management of which is described later.
The next part of the credit section is thus devoted to exposures on the banking book, particularly customer exposures.
For details of exposures to banks refer to the statistical information on page 73.
52 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2004 Risk management Loans and advances to customers on the banking book Geographical Analysis and Country Risk The country exposures shown are the sum of customer limits and Loans and advances to customers on the banking book amounted unused but available product limits.
Both domestic and cross-border to 193bn at the year end 2003: 171bn, 2002: 160bn.
geographical analysis shown in the chart below is based on the Loans and advances to borrowers in currencies other than the location of the office recording the transaction.
The UK exposure currencies of the borrowers are shown in the tables on page 77. shown includes some major loans to customers in other countries that were booked in London, and thus includes some international risk.
Risk Profile of Customer Loans and Advances The chart below shows Barclays wholesale loan profile by internal risk grade See page 49 for a description of the rating system.
It is Geographical analysis of loans and advances to customers on important to note that Barclays prices loans for risk.
Thus higher the banking book risk loans will usually have higher interest rates or fees or both.
A portfolio of higher risk loans may therefore be as profitable as, 100 or more profitable than, a portfolio of lower risk loans.
80 60 Rest of the World Loans and advances, balances and limits to wholesale 40 a United States customers by internal risk rating 20 Other European Union Loan balances by internal Loan limits by internal 10 rating % of Total rating % of Total 0 UK % 2002 2003 2004 1.2 1.5 See also Table 6 on page 74.
1.8 The loans and advances to customers on the banking book booked 2.1 through the Groups operations in Iberia were 12bn at 31st December 2.5 2004, 6.2% of the Group total.
They were comprised of 5.8bn in 2.8 residential mortgages 48% and 6.2bn 52% in other loans.
3 Barclays exposure limits to sub-investment grade countries are shown 4 in the chart below largest 15 exposure limits.
5 6 Credit exposure limits to sub-investment grade countries 7 8 India Egypt 05 10 15 2005 10 15 20 Brazil % % Kenya Notes Russia a Excludes non-performing and potential problem loans Turkey Industry Analysis Ghana An industry analysis of customer loans is shown in the chart below.
Philippines These classifications have been prepared at the level of the borrowing entity.
This means that a loan to the subsidiary of a major corporation Indonesia is classified by the industry in which the subsidiary operates, even Algeria though the parents predominant business may be in a different Tanzania industry.
Loans to customers domiciled outside the country where the Seychelles office recording the transaction is located are shown in the chart Venezuela under Overseas Customers and not by industry.
Zambia Zimbabwe m 0 200 400 600 800 1,000 1,200 53 Rating Risk management Loans and advances to customers on the banking book Barclays loan loss rates have remained stable in other personal loans Loans and advances to customers by industry consumer loans and credit cards despite the increased levels of banking book % of total household indebtedness and higher interest rates in the UK.
Maturity Analysis Home loans The analysis by contractual maturity, shown in the chart below, Other personal indicates that a third of loans to customers have a maturity of more Business & other than five years, the majority of which are mortgages.
The maturity Financial institutions profile remained broadly steady.
Wholesale & retail Overseas Maturity analysis of loans and advances to customers Property On demand Manufacturing 100 Not more than Finance lease 80 three months Transport 60 Over three months but Construction 40 not more than one year Energy & water 20 Over one year but not Agriculture 2004 more than five years 0 Communications 2003 % 2002 2003 2004 Over five years %3 02 51 1050250354045 See also Table 4 on page 73.
The chart shows that Barclays largest sectoral exposures are to home loans, other personal loans and business and other services.
These categories are comprised of small loans, have low volatility of credit risk outcomes, and are intrinsically highly diversified.
The loan-to-value ratios on the Groups UK home loan portfolio are indicated in the next chart.
Analysis of loan-to-value ratios of mortgages on the UK home loan portfolio at 31st December 2004 At most recent credit decision 70 65 60 50 40 30 19 20 12 10 4 0 % 70% 70-80% 80-90% 90% The valuations in the chart are those which applied at the last credit decision on each loan, i. e. when the customer last requested an increase in the limit or, if there has been no increase, at inception of the loan.
Since house prices have risen rapidly in recent years to mid-2004, most loan-to-value ratios would be considerably lower if updated to current market values.
54 Percentage of the mortgage portfolio Barclays PLC Annual Report 2004 Risk management Other credit risks In addition to drawn loans and advances, Barclays is exposed to other credit risks as indicated in the chart on page 49 at the beginning of the discussion on credit risk.
These exposures comprise loan commitments, contingent liabilities, debt securities and other exposures arising in the course of trading activities.
The risks are managed in a similar way as those in Loans and Advances, and are subject to the same or similar approval and governance processes.
The nature of the credit risks among these exposures differ considerably.
Loan commitments may become loans and the risks are thus similar to loans.
Contingent liabilities guarantees, assets pledged as security, acceptances and endorsements, etc historically experience low loss rates.
Losses arising from exposures held for trading derivatives, debt securities are accounted for as trading losses, rather than credit charges, even though the fall in value causing the loss may be attributable to credit deterioration.
Further details of these exposures are shown in Note 36 to the Accounts page 169.
Barclays is also exposed to settlement risk in its dealings with other financial institutions.
These risks arise for example in foreign exchange transactions when Barclays pays its side of the transaction to another bank or other counterparty before receiving payment from the other side.
The risk is that the counterparty may not meet its obligation.
While these exposures are of short duration, they can be large.
In recent years settlement risk has been reduced by several industry initiatives that have enabled simultaneous and final settlement of transactions to be made such as  through Continuous Linked Settlement and  in central bank money.
Barclays has worked with its peers in the development of these arrangements.
Increasingly the majority of high value transactions are settled by such mechanisms.
Where these mechanisms are not available, the risk is further reduced by dealing predominantly with highly rated counterparties, holding collateral and limiting the size of the exposures according to the rating of the counterparty, with smaller exposures to those of higher risk.
55 Risk management Loan impairment: potential credit risk loans Potential credit risk loans PCRLs comprise non-performing loans Non-performing loans and potential problem loans as a percentage NPLs and potential problem loans PPLs.
NPLs are loans where the of Loans and Advances Gross Banking Book customers have failed to meet their commitments, either in part or in whole.
PPLs are loans where payment of principal and interest is NPLs Loans and Advances Ratio up-to-date and the loans are therefore fully performing, but where serious doubt exists as to the ability of the borrowers to continue to 3.0 2.7 2.5 comply with repayment terms in the near future.
The amounts are shown before deduction of the value of security held, the specific provisions carried or interest suspended, all of which might reduce the impact of an eventual loss, should it occur.
Potential problem loans declined sharply for several reasons: the inflow to this category fell as fewer customers encountered new difficulties, some customers recovered sufficiently to be restored to normal status and others were reclassified as non-performing.
The deterioration of some potential problem loans to non-performing explains, in part, why non-performing loans fell much less than the potential problem loans.
Both categories improved as a proportion of total loans and advances on the banking book as shown in the following charts.
56 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2004 Risk management Provisions for bad and doubtful debts Barclays policy is to provide for credit losses when it considers that General Provisions reflect losses that, although not specifically recovery is doubtful.
Risk managers continuously review the quality identified, are known from experience to be present in the lending of the exposures and make provisions where necessary, based on portfolio at the balance sheet date.
These provisions are adjusted at their knowledge of the customer or counterparty, developments in least half yearly by an appropriate charge or release.
the industry and country of operation.
General provisions are also created with respect to the recoverability The estimation of potential credit losses is inherently uncertain and of assets arising from off-balance sheet exposures and country transfer depends upon many factors, including general economic conditions, risk, all prepared in a manner consistent with the general provisioning possible future deterioration in credit quality, structural changes methodology.
within industries that alter competitive positions, and other external Write-off occurs when, and to the extent that, the whole or part of factors such as legal and regulatory requirements.
Total provisions are comprised of two components, specific provisions See also page 94 Critical Accounting estimates and page 126 and general provisions.
Accounting policies: loans and advances for a description of relevant Specific Provisions are raised when the Group considers that the terms and policies.
creditworthiness of a borrower has deteriorated such that recovery of the whole or part of an outstanding advance is in serious doubt.
Provisions charge for bad and doubtful debts Within the retail businesses, where the portfolio comprises large numbers of homogeneous assets, statistical techniques are used 1,484 1,500 to raise specific provisions for each product portfolio, based on 1,347 1,400 delinquency data and historical recovery rates.
These provisions 1,091 1,200 are updated monthly.
Private Clients Small business accounts with straightforward loans contracts up 1,000 and International to about 15,000 are similarly treated on a product portfolio basis 800 Barclays Capital using statistical methods.
600 UK Banking For larger and or more complex accounts, specific provisioning 400 is done on an individual basis and all relevant considerations that Barclaycard 200 have a bearing on the expected future cash flows are taken into 0 Transition Businesses account.
The considerations include the business prospects of the -200 customer, the realisable value of collateral, the Groups position m 2002 2003 2004 relative to other claimants, the reliability and comprehensiveness of customer information and the likely cost and duration of the See also Analysis of results by business on page 106. work-out process.
These provisions are formally reviewed quarterly and revised as new information becomes available in the course of The credit environment both in retail and in corporate and wholesale each work-out.
businesses was relatively benign in 2004.
This led to a lower level of potential problem and non-performing loans and lower provision Treatment of interest on debts that have specific provisions If the charges.
collection of interest is doubtful, it is credited to a suspense account and excluded from the interest income in the profit and loss account.
Overall, the Group provision charge declined 19% to 1,091m Although interest continues to be charged to the customers account, 2003: 1,347m.
This resulted from a substantial decrease in the the amount suspended is netted against the relevant loan.
Loans on corporate and wholesale provisions charge, while the retail provisions which interest is suspended are not reclassified as accruing interest charge was steady.
As a percentage of average banking loans and until interest and principal payments are up-to-date and future advances, the provisions rate fell to 0.54% 2003: 0.73%.
If the collection of interest is In the corporate and wholesale businesses, non-performing and considered remote, interest is no longer applied.
potential problem loans in total fell by 29% to 2,062m from Treatment of collateral assets acquired in exchange for advances 2,920m in 2003, reflecting the continuing strong corporate credit Assets acquired in exchange for advances in order to achieve an environment.
The corporate and wholesale provisions charge declined orderly realisation continue to be reported as advances.
The reduction in the provisions charge acquired are recorded at the carrying value of the original advance included an exceptional recovery of 57m in UK Business Banking.
as at the date of the exchange and any impairment is accounted for In retail, non-performing loans and potential problem loans remained as a specific provision.
The provisions charge in the retail businesses was also steady at 807m 2003: 804m.
The provisions charge increased in Barclaycard the card and unsecured consumer lending business due to volume growth and the maturation of new customer recruitment.
The provisions charge included a release of 40m associated with the UK mortgage business, following a review of the portfolio and the current loss experience.
57 Risk management Provisions for bad and doubtful debts The chart below shows provisions charges over the last ten years.
The charge has fallen from its peak in 2002 even though the loan book has grown substantially.
Provisions charge analysis 2,000 1,767 1,719 Specific provisions New and increased 1,628 1,484 1,500 1,347 1,091 Specific provisions Release and recoveries 1,000 General provision Charge release 500 27 0 Total provisions charge -2 -500 -233 -210 -308 -466 -1,000 m 2002 2003 2004 See also Table 20 on page 80.
During 2004, 198m was transferred from the general provisions stock to specific provisions stock.
These transfers are included in the release of general provisions and increase the new and increased specific provisions.
The transfers reflect enhancements to provisioning models and the resolution of an individual large corporate exposure.
The transfers had no effect on the net provisions charge.
Total provision balances declined 9% 262m over the prior year.
While the specific provisions balance has remained broadly flat during 2004, the year-end general provision stock decreased by 29% 231m to 564m 2003: 795m as explained on the previous page.
An analysis of the movements in the provision balances is shown in the following chart.
Movements in provision balances for bad and doubtful debts 3,500 3,028 3,000 2,766 1,091 13 2,500 2,000 255 1,500 1,595 1,000 500 0 a m Balance Adjustments Write-offs Recoveries Provisions Balance at Dec 03 and other charges at Dec 04 Note a Includes effects of acquisitions and exchange rate movements.
Coverage Ratios The coverage of non-performing loans by the Groups stock of provisions and interest in suspense decreased from 71.5% at 31st December 2003 to 70.4% at 31st December 2004.
Over the same period, coverage of potential credit risk loans i. e. NPLs and PPLs increased from 54.6% to 59.2%.
59 Movements Risk management Provisions for bad and doubtful debts Provisions coverage of non-performing loans and potential credit General provisions coverage of performing loans risk loans NPLs and PPLs Provisions coverage of non-performing loans 0.38 0.4 0.33 0.28 0.3 0.28 80 71.5 71.0 70.4 65.9 70.4 70 0.2 0.17 60 Average 50 0.1 GP cover 40 of perf 30 0.0 loans 20 Average % 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 10 NPL See also Table 33 on page 85.
0 Coverage % 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 Performing loans comprise gross loans and advances less nonperforming loans.
The ratio of general provisions to performing loans has declined since 2000 following the acquisition of Woolwich Plc whose portfolio needs comparatively low general provisions as Provisions coverage of potential credit risk loans it consists predominantly of secured residential mortgage loans.
It declined further in 2004 following transfers to specific provisions.
70 Write-offs 59.2 60 54.5 52.9 54.6 52.8 Debts are written off to the extent that there is no realistic prospect of 50 a change in the customers condition, or where local conditions dictate, 40 and the whole or part of the debt is considered irrecoverable.
20 Average Provisioning under International Financial Reporting Standards 10 PCRL From 2005, the Group will prepare its accounts in accordance with the 0 Coverage International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS published by the % 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 International Accounting Standards Board IASB as required under European Commission Regulation 1606 2002.
This standard does not See also Table 32 on page 84. differentiate between specific and general provisions for bad and doubtful debts.
Instead, provisions are replaced by an allowance for Another way of assessing provision balances is to recognise that impairment.
Thus the Group will not show distinct specific and general specific provisions are created to cover non-performing loans, whereas provisioning information in future reports but will report on the general provisions relate to as yet unidentified losses on performing allowance for impairment instead.
This is shown in the next two charts.
Specific provisions coverage of non-performing loans and general provisions coverage of performing loans Specific provisions cover of non-performing loans 60 55.3 51.9 48.4 46,2 49.7 50 40 30 20 Average 10 SP cover 0 of NPLs % 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 60 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2004 Risk management Market risk management Market Risk is the risk that the Groups earnings or capital, or its The Head of each business, assisted by the business risk management ability to meet business objectives, will be adversely affected by team, is accountable for identifying, measuring and managing all changes in the level or volatility of market rates or prices such as market risks associated with its activities.
In managing market risk, interest rates, credit spreads, foreign exchange rates, equity prices, businesses also consider liquidity risk where relevant.
In Barclays Capital, the Head of Market Risk is responsible for the The main market risks arise from the Groups trading activities.
market risk governance and control framework.
Day-to-day Barclays is also exposed to non-trading market risks relating to the responsibility for market risk lies with the senior management of pension fund and, to a lesser extent, asset and liability management.
Barclays Capital, supported by the Global Market Risk Management team that operates independently of the trading areas.
Daily market Categorisation of Market Risk risk reports are produced for the main Barclays Capital business areas To facilitate the management, control, measurement and reporting covering the five main risk factor categories, namely interest rate, of market risk, Barclays has grouped market risk into three broad credit spread, foreign exchange, equity and commodity risk.
A more categories: detailed trading market risk presentation is discussed at Barclays Trading market risk Capitals Traded Products Risk Review meeting, held fortnightly.
The These risks arise in trading transactions where Barclays acts as attendees at this meeting include the senior managers from Barclays principal with clients or with the market.
The Groups policy is that Capital and Market Risk.
market risks arising from trading activities are concentrated in Outside Barclays Capital, Treasury manages treasury market risk, Barclays Capital.
strategic interest rate risk and structural interest rate risk.
Retail Asset and Liability risk market risk, a consequence of the UK banking operations, is managed These risks arise from banking activities, including those incurred by the Retail Market Risk team.
In the Groups non-UK banking on non-trading positions such as capital balances, demand deposits operations, market risk is managed mainly by local treasuries and customer originated transactions and flows.
The chart overleaf gives an overview of the business control structure.
Other market risks The Group also incurs market risks that do not fit into the above categories.
The principal risks of this type are defined benefit pension scheme risk and asset management structural market risk including the risk in Barclays Life Fund.
Market Risk Management and Control Responsibilities The Board Risk Committee approves the market risk appetite for all types of market risk.
The Market Risk Director is responsible for the Groups market risk control framework and, under delegated authority from the Risk Director and the Risk Oversight Committee, sets a limit framework within the context of the approved market risk appetite.
The Market Risk Director is assisted by a central market risk management team Market Risk and by risk management departments in the Groups businesses.
A daily market risk report summarises the Groups market risk exposures against agreed limits.
This daily report is sent to the Risk Director, the Market Risk Director, the Group Finance Director and the appropriate Business Risk Directors.
61 Risk management Market risk management Managing market risk organisational overview Risk Type managed by and reviewed by Market Risk and Trading risk Barclays Capital Traded Products Risk Review Committee.
Asset and liability risk Treasury Treasury Committee.
Market Risk Retail Market Risk Business-level Asset and Director Liability Committees.
Overseas Treasuries Business-level Asset and Liability Committees.
Barclays Market Risk supervision visits.
Other market risks Other Barclays Pension Governance Group.
Market Risk Measurement The effectiveness of the DVaR model is assessed principally by backThe measurement techniques used to measure and control market testing which counts the number of days when trading-related losses risk include: are bigger than the estimated DVaR figure.
Back-testing results are shown on page 64.
Daily Value at Risk: Stress Tests: Stress Tests Annual Earnings at Risk: Stress tests provide an indication of the potential size of losses that Economic capital.
could arise in extreme conditions.
The stress tests carried out by Barclays Capital include risk factor stress testing where stress Daily Value at Risk DVaR movements are applied to each of the five risk categories, namely DVaR is an estimate of the potential loss which might arise from interest rates, credit spreads, foreign exchange rates, and equity and unfavourable market movements, if the current positions were to be commodity prices: emerging market stress testing where emerging held unchanged for one business day, measured to a confidence level market portfolios are subject to stress movements: and ad-hoc stress of 98%.
Daily losses exceeding the DVaR figure are likely to occur, on testing, which includes applying possible stress events to specific average, twice in every 100 business days.
positions or regions e. g. the stress outcome to a region following In Barclays Capital, DVaR is an important market risk measurement a currency peg break.
DVaR is calculated using the historical simulation method with If the potential stress loss exceeds the trigger limit, the positions a historical sample of two years.
Barclays Capitals interest rate DVaR captured by the stress test are reviewed and discussed by Capital methodology allows the measurement process to discriminate Market Risk and the respective Business Head s. The minutes of the between the market risk of holding bonds of differing credit quality, discussion, including the merits of the position and the appropriate for example AAA grade securities as against BBB grade securities.
course of action, are then sent to the Market Risk Director for review.
This is achieved by incorporating eight interest rate credit categories, these being government, interest rate swaps and six credit grades for non-government exposures.
We have initiated an extension to this model to incorporate issuer specific risk.
Outside Barclays Capital, DVaR is calculated using a simplified approach.
62 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2004 Outside Barclays Capital, stress testing is carried out by the business Trading Market Risk centres and is reviewed by the senior management and business-level The Groups policy is to concentrate trading activities in Barclays asset and liability committees.
The stress testing is tailored to the Capital.
This includes transactions where Barclays Capital acts as business and is typically scenario analysis and historical stress principal with clients or with the market.
For maximum efficiency, movements applied to respective portfolios.
Barclays manages client and market activities together.
In Barclays Capital, trading risk occurs in both the trading book and the banking Annual Earnings at Risk AEaR book as defined for regulatory purposes.
AEaR measures the sensitivity of annual earnings to shocks in market rates at the 99th percentile for change over a one year period.
In anticipation of future customer demand, the Group maintains This shock is consistent with the standardised interest rate shock access to market liquidity by quoting bid and offer prices with recommended by the Basel II framework for assessing banking book other market makers and carries an inventory of capital market and interest rate risk.
treasury instruments, including a broad range of cash, securities and derivatives.
Trading positions and any offsetting hedges are established AEaR is used to measure structural interest rate market risk and Asset as appropriate to accommodate customer or Group requirements.
Management structural risk see the Other Market Risks section page 64 for more details.
Derivatives entered into for trading purposes include swaps, forward rate agreements, futures, credit derivatives, options and combinations Economic Capital of these instruments.
For a description of the nature of derivative Economic capital methodologies are used to calculate risk sensitive instruments, see page 71. capital allocations for businesses incurring market risk.
Consequently, the businesses incur capital charges related to their market risk.
Analysis of Trading Market Risk Exposures The table below shows the DVaR statistics for Barclays Capitals trading activities trading book and banking book.
Barclays Capital DVaR: Summary table for 2004 and 2003 Twelve months to Twelve months to 31st December 2004 31st December 2003 a a a a Average High Low Average High Low m m m m m m Interest rate risk 25.0 53.6 15.1 21.0 34.1 13.6 Credit spread risk 22.6 32.9 16.0 16.2 29.2 8.9 Foreign exchange risk 2.4 7.4 0.9 2.3 5.0 1.0 Equities risk 4.2 7.9 2.2 2.6 4.9 1.5 Commodities risk 6.0 14.4 2.2 4.4 7.0 2.2 Diversification effect 25.9 n a n a 20.6 n a n a b Total DVaR 34.3 46.8 24.0 25.9 38.6 17.6 Notes a The high and low DVaR figures reported for each category did not necessarily occur on the same day as the high and low DVaR reported as a whole.
Consequently, a diversification effect number for the high and low DVaR figures would not be meaningful and is therefore omitted from the table.
63 Risk management Market risk management Barclays Capitals market risk exposure, as measured by average total DVaR Back-testing Daily Value at Risk, increased in 2004.
This was due mainly to interest Barclays recognises the importance of assessing the effectiveness of its rate opportunities taken in the first half of 2004 and an increase in DVaR model.
The main approach employed is the technique known as credit spread positions.
The latter increase was primarily the result back-testing, which counts the number of days when trading losses are of growing client flows in corporate bonds and credit derivatives.
bigger than the estimated DVaR figure.
The regulatory standard for The increase in total DVaR is consistent with Barclays Capitals back-testing is to measure DVaR assuming a one day holding period business expansion.
For Barclays Capitals regulatory trading book, there were no instances in 2004 or 2003, of a daily The graph below shows the history of total DVaR on a daily basis for trading revenue loss exceeding the corresponding back-testing DVaR.
Asset and Liability Market Risk Total DVaR in 2003 and 2004 daily values Interest rate exposures arising from mismatches of fixed rate assets and liabilities in UK banking operations are passed to Treasury.
50 Treasury aggregates these positions and then passes the net position to the market via Barclays Capital.
Due mainly to timing considerations, 40 market risk can arise when some of the net position stays with 30 Treasury.
Similarly, market risk can arise due to the impact of interest rates on customer behaviour.
The latter risk is managed and measured 20 by the Retail Market Risk team using behavioural models.
The 0 positions are converted into wholesale swap or option exposures, m 2003 2004 passed to Treasury and managed by the process described above.
Structural interest rate risk arises from the variability of income from Analysis of Trading Revenue non-interest bearing products, managed variable rate products and The histograms below show the distribution of daily trading revenue the Groups capital.
This risk is managed by Treasury, assisted by the for Barclays Capital in 2004 and 2003.
It includes dealing profits, net Retail Market Risk team.
interest income and net fees and commissions relating to primary trading.
The average daily revenue in 2004 was 12.5m 2003: Market risk is also taken in overseas treasuries in support of customer 10.0m and there were 246 positive revenue days out of 254 activity.
In Group terms the risk is modest.
The market risks are 2003: 244 positive revenue days out of 254. managed by local treasury functions and local asset and liability committees.
Market Risk maintains regular contact with the businesses on treasury issues and oversees a comprehensive financial risk Barclays Capitals Trading Revenue 2004 reporting framework.
Other Market Risks 100 77 Defined benefit pension scheme risk 80 61 Barclays maintains a number of defined benefit pension schemes for 60 47 past and current employees.
The ability of the pension fund to meet 40 24 24 the projected pension payments is maintained through investments.
20 15 6 Market risk arises because the estimated market value of the pension 0 0 fund assets might decline or their investment returns might reduce or 10 5 0 to 5 to 10 to 15 to 20 to 25 because the estimated value of the pension liabilities might increase.
to 5 to 0 5 10 15 20 25 In these circumstances, Barclays might be required or might choose to m make extra contributions to the pension fund.
Financial details of the pension fund are on page 140.
Asset management structural market risk Barclays Capitals Trading Revenue 2003 Asset management structural market risk is the risk that fee and commission income is affected by a change in equity market levels.
It affects Barclays Private Clients, Barclays Life and Barclays Global 100 94 Investors.
The risk is controlled and managed by the respective 80 businesses and Barclays Market Risk.
58 60 42 40 30 20 13 9 7 1 0 10 5 0 to 5 to 10 to 15 to 20 to 25 to 5 to 0 5 10 15 20 25 m 64 Number of days Number of days Barclays PLC Annual Report 2004 Risk management Capital and liquidity risk management The Board Risk Committee has approved Board Governance Standards Liquidity Risk Management for capital and liquidity risk management that are high level Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group is unable to meet its payment statements of the controls required to meet the Groups strategic obligations when they fall due and to replace funds when they are objectives.
withdrawn, the consequence of which may be the failure to meet obligations to repay depositors and fulfil commitments to lend.
The Treasurer has established risk control frameworks and a policy and assurance structure to ensure that capital and liquidity risks are Liquidity management within the Group has several strands.
The first managed in accordance with the requirements of the Board Standards.
is day-to-day funding, managed by monitoring future cash flows to Policies are set by the Treasury Committee which is chaired by the ensure that requirements can be met.
This includes replenishment Group Finance Director.
of funds as they mature or are borrowed by customers.
The Group maintains an active presence in global money markets to enable that Capital Risk Management to happen.
The second is maintaining a portfolio of highly marketable See page 113 in the Financial Discussion for information on the assets that can easily be liquidated as protection against any Groups capital position.
unforeseen interruption to cash flow.
Finally, the ability to monitor, Capital risk is the risk that the Bank fails to comply with FSA mandated manage and control intraday liquidity in real time is recognised by the regulatory requirements, resulting in a breach of its minimum capital Group as a mission critical process: Any failure to meet specific ratios and the possible suspension or loss of its banking licence.
intraday commitments would be a public event and may have an Capital risk also includes the risk that the capital base is not managed immediate impact on the Groups reputation.
in a prudent manner thereby endangering the Groups credit rating.
In overseas markets, day-to-day liquidity is the responsibility of local Barclays views its strong credit rating as a source of competitive treasury management in each territory within the parameters set advantage.
A solid capital position, together with a diverse portfolio by Treasury and subject to regular reports to Treasury in order to of activities, an increasingly international presence, consistent profit maximise the benefits of knowledge gained.
Local asset and liability performance, prudent risk management and a focus on value creation, management committees review liquidity management.
committees are comprised of senior local executives and when warranted by the size and complexity of the operation The Groups capital management will continue to maximise representatives of Treasury.
shareholder value through optimising both the level and mix of its capital resources, seeking to: The ability to raise funds is in part dependent on maintaining the banks credit rating.
The funding impact of a credit downgrade is meet the individual capital ratios required by our regulators: regularly estimated.
Whilst the impact of a single downgrade may maintain an AA credit rating: affect the price at which funding is available, the effect on liquidity generate sufficient capital to support asset growth and corporate is not considered material in Group terms.
activity: manage the currency exposure to its overall Sterling Risk Asset ratio.
Over the past four years, the Groups tier 1 ratio has averaged 7.9%.
The Groups Risk Asset ratio has averaged 12.5% which compares favourably to the minimum requirements of our regulators.
65 Risk management Capital and liquidity risk management Liquidity Risk Measurement Securitisation represents a relatively modest proportion of the Groups Monitoring and reporting take the form of cash flow measurement current funding profile, but provides additional flexibility.
The Group and projections for the next day, week and month as these are key has a large residential mortgage portfolio which could be securitised periods for liquidity management.
This is based on principles agreed and hence forms a large and as yet untapped source of liquidity.
by the UK Financial Services Authority.
For further details see contractual cash obligations and commercial In addition to cash flow management, Treasury also monitors commitments of the Group on page 67. unmatched medium-term assets and the level and type of undrawn lending commitments, the usage of overdraft facilities and the impact of contingent liabilities such as standby letters of credit and guarantees.
Treasury develops and implements the process for submitting the Groups projected cash flows to stress scenarios.
The output of stress testing informs the Groups contingency funding plan.
This is maintained by Treasury and is aligned with the Group and country business resumption plans to encompass decision-making authorities, internal and external communication and, in the event of a systems failure, the restoration of liquidity management and payment systems.
Sources of liquidity are regularly reviewed to maintain a wide diversification by currency, geography, provider, product and term.
Whilst 2004 saw relatively stable markets, with no significant consequences for the Groups liquidity, significant market events over recent years including corporate scandals contributed to a short-term flight to quality in financial markets from which Barclays benefited.
An important source of structural liquidity is provided by our core retail deposits in the UK and Europe, mainly current accounts and savings accounts.
Although current accounts are repayable on demand and savings accounts at short notice, the Groups broad base of customers numerically and by depositor type helps to protect against unexpected fluctuations.
Such accounts form a stable funding base for the Groups operations and liquidity needs.
To avoid reliance on a particular group of customers or market sectors, the distribution of sources and the maturity profile of deposits are also carefully managed.
Important factors in assuring liquidity are competitive rates and the maintenance of depositors confidence.
Such confidence is based on a number of factors including the Groups reputation, the strength of earnings and the Groups financial position.
66 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2004 Table A: Contractual Obligations Payments due by period Less than One to Four to After Total one three five five year years years years m m m m m Long-term debt 46,101 9,841 8,472 9,520 73,934 Capital lease obligations 100 93 121 39 353 Operating lease obligations 243 416 366 1,657 2,682 Purchase obligations 296 493 193 103 1,085 Other long-term liabilities 352 352 Total 47,092 10,843 9,152 11,319 78,406 Table B: Other Commercial Commitments Amount of commitment expiration per period Less than One to Four to After Total one three five five amounts year years years years committed m m m m m Acceptances and endorsements 294 9 303 Guarantees and assets pledged as collateral security 24,614 2,088 1,744 1,565 30,011 Other contingent liabilities 6,227 1,156 379 483 8,245 Arising out of sale and option to resell transactions 1 1 Documentary credits and other short-term trade related transactions 506 13 1 2 522 Forward asset purchases and forward forward deposits placed 9 46 55 Undrawn formal standby facilities, credit lines and other commitments to lend 97,710 14,688 17,762 3,313 133,473 67 Risk management Management of operational risk and business risk Operational and business risks are inherent in Barclays operations and Governance and Control Committees in each business monitor are typical of any large enterprise.
The Governance and Control Committee receives reports from the committees in the businesses and Operational Risk is the risk of direct or indirect losses resulting from considers Group-wide control issues and their risk mitigation.
inadequate or failed internal processes or systems, human factors, A Standard Owner agrees responsibility for each Board Governance or from external events.
Major sources of operational risk include: Standard, agrees policy and provides advice to business managers operational process reliability, IT security, outsourcing of operations, Group-wide.
Each monitors and reports upon the application of dependence on key suppliers, implementation of strategic change, their Standard.
integration of acquisitions, fraud, error, customer service quality, In the corporate centre, the Operational Risk Director oversees the regulatory compliance, recruitment, training and retention of staff, range of operational risks across the Group in accordance with the and social and environmental impacts.
Business Risk is the risk of adverse outcomes resulting from a weak The Internal Audit function provides assurance for operational competitive position or from poor choice of strategy, markets, risk control across the organisation and reports to the Board and products, activities or structures.
Major potential sources of business senior management.
risk include: revenue volatility due to factors such as macro-economic The Management and Measurement of Operational Risk conditions: inflexible cost structures: uncompetitive products or Risk Assessment A consistent approach to the identification and pricing: and structural inefficiencies.
assessment of key risks and controls is undertaken across all business Barclays is committed to the advanced management of operational units.
Scenario analysis and self-assessment techniques are widely and business risks.
In particular, we are implementing advanced used by business management for risk identification and for evaluation management and measurement approaches for operational risk of control effectiveness and monitoring capability.
Business to strengthen control, improve customer service and minimise management determines whether particular risks are effectively operating losses.
managed within business risk appetite and otherwise take remedial action.
The risk assessment process is consistent with COSO principles.
It is not cost effective to attempt to eliminate all operational and Risk Event Data Collection and Reporting A standard process is used business risks and in any event it would not be possible to do so.
Group-wide for the recognition, capture, assessment, analysis and Events of small significance are expected to occur and are accepted as reporting of risk events.
This process is used to identify where process inevitable: events of material significance are rare and the Group seeks and control requirements are needed to reduce the recurrence of risk to reduce the risk from these in a framework consistent with its agreed events.
Risk events are loaded onto a central database and reported risk appetite.
monthly to the Risk Oversight Committee.
Responsibility for and Control of Operational Risk Barclays has a Group Operational Risk Framework, which is consistent Barclays also uses a database of external public risk events to assist in with and part of the Group Internal Control and Assurance Framework.
Board Governance Standards have been established for all key areas of Reporting Business units are required to report on both a regular identified risk.
These Standards are high-level articulations of the and an event-driven basis.
The reports include a profile of the key risks Boards risk control requirements.
The Standards applicable to to their business objectives, control issues of Group-level significance, operational and business risks are: Brand Management, Capital and operational risk events.
Specific reports are prepared on a regular Planning, Corporate Responsibility, Financial Crime, Financial basis for the Risk Oversight Committee, the Board Risk Committee and Reporting, Tax and Budgeting, Legal, Operations, People Management, the Board Audit Committee.
In particular the Group Operational Risk Regulatory Compliance, Change and Strategic Planning.
Profile Report is provided quarterly to the Risk Oversight Committee.
Responsibility for implementing and overseeing these policies is to be Economic Capital Methodologies are used for both operational and found throughout the organisation as follows: business risks to calculate risk sensitive capital allocations.
These are The prime responsibility for the management of operational risk allocated to business units which incur risk-based capital charges, and the compliance with Board Governance Standards rests with as a consequence, providing an incentive to manage the risk within the business and functional units where the risk arises.
Additional investment is being made to enhance the risk managers are widely distributed throughout the Group in Operational Risk Capital model to improve risk sensitivity and to business units.
They service and support these areas assisting line obtain approval to apply the Advanced Measurement Approach AMA managers in managing these risks.
under the Basel II Accord when that option first becomes available Business Risk Directors in each business are responsible for in 2008. overseeing the implementation of and compliance with Group policies.
68 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2004 Risk management Disclosures about certain trading activities including non-exchange traded contracts The Group delivers a fully integrated service to clients for base metals, Discounting of expected cash flows back to present value is achieved precious metals, oil and oil-related products, power and gas and by constructing discount curves from the market price of observable other commodities.
interest rate products, such as deposits, interest rate futures and swaps.
In addition, the Group maintains fair value adjustments The Group offers both over the counter OTC and exchange traded reflecting the cost of credit risk where this is not embedded in the derivatives in these commodities.
The base and precious metals fair value, and the cost of trading out of a position all positions are business also enters into outright metal purchase and sale marked to mid-market and hence some bid offer transaction cost transactions, while the power and gas business trades both physical would be incurred.
The tables on page 70 analyse the overall fair value of the commodity The Group does not maintain any physical exposures in oil or derivative contracts by movement over time and source of fair value.
The Group also develops and offers a range Additionally, the positive fair value, adjusted for the impact of netting, of commodity-related structured products.
of such contracts is analysed by counterparty credit risk rating.
The Groups commodity business continues to expand, as market conditions allow, through the addition of new products and markets.
The Groups principal commodity related derivative contracts are swaps, options, forwards and futures, which are similar in nature to such non-commodity related contracts.
Commodity derivatives contracts include commodity specification and delivery location as well as forward date and notional value.
The fair values of commodity physical and derivative positions are determined through a combination of recognised market observable prices, exchange prices and established inter-commodity relationships.
In common with all derivatives, the fair value of OTC commodity derivative contracts is either determined using a quoted market price or by using valuation models.
Where a valuation model is used, the fair value is determined based on the expected cash flows under the terms of each specific contract, discounted back to present value.
The expected cash flows for each contract are either determined using market parameters such as commodity price curves, commodity volatilities, commodity correlations, interest rate yield curves and foreign exchange rates, or derived from historical or other market prices.
Fair values generated by models are independently validated with reference to market price quotes, or price sharing with other institutions.
However, where no observable market parameter is available then instrument fair value will include a provision for the uncertainty in that parameter based on sale price or subsequent traded levels.
69 Risk management Disclosures about certain trading activities including non-exchange traded contracts The following tables analyse the overall fair value of the commodity derivative contracts by movement over time and source of fair value.
As at 31st December 2004 this reflects a gross positive fair value of 4,955m 31st December 2003: 1,982m and a gross negative fair value of 4,780m 31st December 2003: 2,088m.
Realised and unrealised profits related to physical commodity and commodity derivative activities are included with dealing profits.
Physical commodity positions are held at fair value and reported with other assets in Note 21 on page 156.
Movement in fair value of commodity derivative positions Total Total 2004 2003 m m Fair value of contracts outstanding at the beginning of the year 106 40 Contracts realised or otherwise settled during the year 171 8 Fair value of new contracts entered into during the year 313 101 Other changes in fair value 203 37 Fair values of contracts outstanding at the end of the year 175 106 Source of commodity derivative fair values Fair value of contracts at 31st December 2004 Maturity Maturity Maturity Maturity Total less than one to four to over fair one year three years five years five years value m m m m m Prices actively quoted 38 86 16 17 81 Prices provided by other external sources 8 8 Prices based on models and other valuation methods 5 63 23 21 102 Total 51 149 39 38 175 The following table analyses the positive fair value, adjusted for the impact of netting, arising on commodity derivative contracts.
As at 31st December 2004, this reflects a gross positive fair value of 4,955m 31st December 2003: 1,982m adjusted for the Groups ability to net amounts due to the same counterparties 31st December 2004: 3,198m, 31st December 2003: 864m.
Analysis of net positive commodity derivative fair value by counterparty credit risk rating Total Total value value 2004 2003 m m Ato AAA 1,004 792 BBBto BBB 538 280 BB and below 215 46 Total 1,757 1,118 All credit exposures are actively managed by the Group.
Refer to page 49 for more information on the Groups approach to credit risk management.
In particular, at 31st December 2004, 69% of all of the commodities credit exposure was to counterparties with cross asset class netting agreements, that is, netting agreements allowing exposure on commodities products to be reduced by amounts owed to the same counterparties in other asset classes.
This percentage is consistent across the credit ratings applying to BBB and below as well as higher rated counterparties.
Additionally, collateral agreements are held with a majority of these same counterparties that allow collateral to be called against commodity exposures.
All non-collateralised exposures are subject to credit limits, and credit or risk tendency reserves are created against these exposures 70 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2004 Risk management Derivatives The use of derivatives and their sale to customers as risk management Interest Rate Derivatives products is an integral part of the Groups trading activities.
These The Groups principal interest rate related contracts are interest rate instruments are also used to manage the Groups own exposure to swaps, forward rate agreements, basis swaps, caps, floors and fluctuations in interest and exchange rates as part of its asset and swaptions.
Included in this product category are transactions that liability management activities.
include combinations of these features.
Barclays Capital manages the trading derivatives book as part of the An interest rate swap is an agreement between two parties to market risk book.
This includes foreign exchange, interest rate, equity, exchange fixed rate and floating rate interest by means of periodic commodity and credit derivatives.
The policies regarding market risk payments based upon a notional principal amount and the interest management are outlined in the market risk management section on rates defined in the contract.
Certain agreements combine interest pages 61 to 64. rate and foreign currency swap transactions, which may or may not include the exchange of principal amounts.
A basis swap is a form of The policies for derivatives that are used to manage the Groups own interest rate swap, in which both parties exchange interest payments exposure to interest and exchange rate fluctuations are outlined in the based on floating rates, where the floating rates are based upon treasury asset and liability management section on page 64. different underlying reference indices.
In a forward rate agreement, Derivative instruments are contracts whose value is derived from one two parties agree a future settlement of the difference between an or more underlying financial instruments or indices defined in the agreed rate and a future interest rate, applied to a notional principal contract.
They include swaps, forward rate agreements, futures, amount.
The settlement, which generally occurs at the start of the options and combinations of these instruments and primarily affect contract period, is the discounted present value of the payment that the Groups net interest income, dealing profits, commissions received would otherwise be made at the end of that period.
and other assets and liabilities.
Notional amounts of the contracts are Equity Derivatives not recorded on the balance sheet.
The Groups principal equity related contracts are equity and stock The Group participates both in exchange traded and OTC derivatives index swaps and options including warrants, which are equity options markets.
An equity swap is an agreement between two parties to exchange periodic payments, based upon a notional Exchange Traded Derivatives principal amount, with one side paying fixed or floating interest and The Group buys and sells financial instruments that are traded or the other side paying based on the actual return of the stock or stock cleared on an exchange, including interest rate swaps, futures and index.
An equity option provides the buyer with the right, but not options on futures.
Holders of exchange traded instruments provide the obligation, either to purchase or sell a specified stock, basket margin daily with cash or other security at the exchange, to which the of stocks or stock index at a specified price or level on or before holders look for ultimate settlement.
Over the Counter Traded Derivatives OTC Credit Derivatives The Group also buys and sells financial instruments that are traded The Groups principal credit derivative related contracts include over the counter, rather than on a recognised exchange.
credit default swaps and total return swaps.
A credit derivative is an These instruments range from commoditised transactions in derivative arrangement whereby the credit risk of an asset the reference asset markets, to trades where the specific terms are tailored to the is transferred from the buyer to the seller of protection.
requirements of the Groups customers.
In many cases, industry A credit default swap is a contract where the protection seller receives standard documentation is used, most commonly in the form of a premium or interest related payments in return for contracting to master agreement, with individual transaction confirmations.
The make payments to the protection buyer upon a defined credit event.
existence of a signed master agreement is intended to give the Group Credit events normally include bankruptcy, payment default on a protection in situations where a counterparty is in default, including reference asset or assets, or downgrades by a rating agency.
the ability to net outstanding balances where the rules of offset are legally enforceable.
For further explanation of the Groups policies on A total return swap is an instrument whereby the seller of protection netting, see Accounting policies on page 128. receives the full return of the asset, including both the income and change in the capital value of the asset.
The buyer in return receives Foreign Exchange Derivatives a predetermined amount.
The Groups principal exchange rate related contracts are forward foreign exchange contracts, currency swaps and currency options.
A description of how credit derivatives are used within the Group is Forward foreign exchange contracts are agreements to buy or sell provided on page 51. a specified quantity of foreign currency, usually on a specified future A description of the impact of derivatives under US GAAP is set out on date at an agreed rate.
A currency swap generally involves the page 215. exchange, or notional exchange, of equivalent amounts of two currencies and a commitment to exchange interest periodically Commodity Derivatives until the principal amounts are re-exchanged on a future date.
The Groups principal commodity related derivative contracts are swaps, options, forwards and futures.
The main commodities transacted Currency options provide the buyer with the right, but not the are oil, base metals, precious metals, US and UK natural gas, and UK obligation, either to purchase or sell a fixed amount of a currency at electricity.
a specified exchange rate on or before a future date.
As compensation for assuming the option risk, the option writer generally receives A description of commodity derivatives is provided on page 69. a premium at the start of the option period.
71 Risk management Statistical information Statistical and Other Risk Information This section of the report contains supplementary information that is more detailed or contains longer histories than the data presented in the discussion.
For commentary on this information, please refer to the preceding text pages 42 to 71. Credit Risk Management Table 1: Risk Tendency by Business Cluster 2004 2003 m m UK Banking 375 385 UK Retail Banking 150 150 UK Business Banking 225 235 Private Clients and International 70 75 Private Clients 5 5 International 65 70 Barclaycard 860 775 Barclays Capital 70 135 Transition Businesses 20 20 Total 1,395 1,390 Also see chart on page 51.
The category other personal includes credit cards, personal loans and personal overdrafts.
The industry classifications in tables 7-9 have been prepared at the level of the borrowing entity.
This means that a loan to the subsidiary of a major corporation is classified by the industry in which the subsidiary operates, even though the parents predominant business may be in a different industry.
Loans to customers domiciled outside the country where the office recording the transaction is located are shown in the table under Overseas customers and not by industry.
Note a In the UK, finance lease receivables are included in Other lending, although some leases are to corporate customers.
76 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2004 Table 13: Loans and advances to borrowers in currencies other than the local currency of the borrower for countries where this exceeds 1% of total Group assets Commercial Banks industrial and other Governments and other As % of financial and official private assets Total institutions institutions sectors m m m m At 31st December 2004 United States 4.1 21,556 10,102 2 11,452 Germany 1.4 7,128 6,614 514 France 1.1 5,562 5,019 27 516 At 31st December 2003 United States 2.712,110 4,679 7,431 Germany 1.2 5,127 4,662 7 458 At 31st December 2002 United States 4.2 17,140 9,672 1 7,467 Germany 2.5 10,094 9,841 7 246 France 1.2 4,871 4,484 24 363 At 31st December 2004, there were no countries where Barclays had cross-currency loans to borrowers between 0.75% and 1% of total Group assets.
At 31st December 2003, there were cross-currency loans to borrowers in France of between 0.75% and 1% of total Group assets, amounting to 3,570m.
At 31st December 2002 there were cross-currency loans to borrowers in the Netherlands and Ireland of between 0.75% and 1% of total Group assets amounted to 7,552m.
Table 14: Off-balance sheet and other credit exposures as at 31st December 2004 2003 2002 m m m Off-balance sheet exposures Contingent liabilities 38,559 33,694 26,546 Commitments to lend 134,051 114,847 101,378 On-balance sheet exposure Balances arising from off-balance sheet financial instruments OTC derivatives 18,174 15,812 13,454 London Metal Exchange warrants and other trading positions 952 1,290 829 Debt securities held for trading 87,671 59,812 53,961 non-trading 39,757 37,581 40,268 Current year credit cards commitments to lend have been calculated on a contractual basis rather than a modelled basis.
Had this method been applied in earlier years, reported commitments would have been increased by 5,899m to 120,746m in 2003 and by 5,230m to 106,608m in 2002.
77 Risk management Statistical information Table 15: Notional principal amounts of credit derivatives at 31st December 2004 2003 2002 m m m Credit derivatives held or issued for trading purposes 186,275 43,256 10,665 Credit derivatives held for the purpose of managing non-trading exposures 5,133 4,194 7,736 Total 191,408 47,450 18,401 Table 16: Non-performing loans summary 2004 2003 2002 2001 2000 m m m m m Non-accrual loans 2,115 2,261 2,542 1,923 1,539 Accruing loans where interest is being suspended with or without provisions 492 629 611 561 496 Other accruing loans against which provisions have been made 842 821 819 830 692 Sub total 3,449 3,711 3,972 3,314 2,727 Accruing loans 90 days or more overdue, against which no provisions have been made 521 590 690 648 713 Reduced rate loans 15 4656 Total non-performing loans 3,985 4,305 4,668 3,967 3,446 78 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2004 Table 17: Non-performing loans 2004 2003 2002 2001 2000 m m m m m Non-accrual loans: United Kingdom 1,583 1,572 1,557 1,292 1,223 Other European Union 194 143 108 90 96 United States 249 383 744 306 119 Rest of the World 89 163 133 235 101 Total 2,115 2,261 2,542 1,923 1,539 Accruing loans where interest is being suspended with or without provisions: United Kingdom 431 559 480 386 351 Other European Union 31 29 35 30 36 United States Rest of the World 30 41 96 145 109 Total 492 629 611 561 496 Other accruing loans against which provisions have been made: United Kingdom 764 760 751 756 543 Other European Union 27 35 27 20 71 United States 26 11 2 Rest of the World 25 26 41 43 76 Total 842 821 819 830 692 Sub totals: United Kingdom 2,778 2,891 2,788 2,434 2,117 Other European Union 252 207 170 140 203 United States 275 383 744 317 121 Rest of the World 144 230 270 423 286 Total 3,449 3,711 3,972 3,314 2,727 Accruing loans 90 days overdue, against which no provisions have been made: United Kingdom 484 566 687 621 695 Other European Union 34 24 3 1 United States 1 Rest of the World 2 27 17 Total 521 590 690 648 713 Reduced rate loans: United Kingdom 2 4446 Other European Union United States 13 Rest of the World 21 Total 15 4656 Total non-performing loans: United Kingdom 3,264 3,461 3,479 3,059 2,818 Other European Union 286 231 173 140 204 United States 289 383 744 317 121 Rest of the World 146 230 272 451 303 Total 3,985 4,305 4,668 3,967 3,446 Also see chart on page 56.
79 Risk management Statistical information Table 19: Interest foregone on non-performing loans Year ended 31st December 2004 2003 m m Interest income that would have been recognised under the original contractural terms of the non-performing loans: United Kingdom 266 247 Rest of the World 52 65 318 312 Interest income of approximately 59m 2003: 47m from such loans was included in profit, of which 54m 2003: 39m related to domestic lending and the remainder to foreign lending.
The balance was not received or was suspended.
Table 20: Analysis of the provisions charge for bad and doubtful debts Year ended 31st December 2004 2003 2002 2001 2000 m m m m m Net specific provisions charge release United Kingdom 1,198 1,132 1,041 964 688 Other European Union 57 37 14 20 12 United States 33 84 385 136 17 Rest of the World 13 67 46 45 60 Total net specific provisions charge 1,301 1,320 1,486 1,165 777 General provisions release charge 210 27 2 16 40 Total 1,091 1,347 1,484 1,149 817 Also see chart on page 58.
Table 21: Bad debt provisions charge ratios Loan loss ratios Year ended 31st December 2004 2003 2002 2001 2000 % %%%% Provisions charge as a percentage of average banking loans and advances for the year: Specific provisions charge 0.65 0.71 0.85 0.74 0.64 General provisions charge 0.11 0.02 0.01 0.03 0.54 0.73 0.85 0.73 0.67 Amounts written off net of recoveries 0.67 0.74 0.64 0.53 0.47 Provisions charge as a percentage of average loans and advances for the year including trading business : Specific provisions charge 0.41 0.46 0.58 0.52 0.44 General provisions charge 0.07 0.01 0.02 Total 0.34 0.47 0.58 0.52 0.46 Amounts written off net of recoveries 0.42 0.48 0.43 0.37 0.32 Also see chart on page 58.
80 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2004 Table 22: Analysis of provision balances for bad and doubtful debts As at 31st December 2004 2003 2002 2001 2000 m m m m m Specific provisions United Kingdom 1,860 1,856 1,790 1,605 1,343 Other European Union 104 97 84 89 112 United States 128 121 257 89 20 Rest of the World 110 159 130 188 118 Total specific provision balances 2,202 2,233 2,261 1,971 1,593 General provision balances 564 795 737 745 760 Total provision balances 2,766 3,028 2,998 2,716 2,353 Average loans and advances for the year excluding trading business 200,180 184,765 174,764 157,904 122,333 including trading business 317,136 285,963 256,789 223,221 176,938 Table 23: Provisions balance ratios As at 31st December 2004 2003 2002 2001 2000 % % % % % Excluding trading business Provisions balance at end of year as a percentage of loans and advances at end of year: Specific provision balances 1.01 1.19 1.29 1.22 1.06 General provision balances 0.25 0.42 0.42 0.46 0.51 1.26 1.61 1.71 1.68 1.57 Including trading business Provisions balance at end of year as a percentage of loans and advances at end of year: Specific provision balances 0.66 0.77 0.86 0.85 0.79 General provision balances 0.17 0.27 0.28 0.32 0.38 0.83 1.04 1.14 1.17 1.17 Table 24: Movements in provisions charge for bad and doubtful debts 2004 2003 2002 2001 2000 m m m m m Provisions balance at beginning of year 3,028 2,998 2,716 2,353 1,983 Acquisitions and disposals 21 62 11 46 119 Exchange and other adjustments 34 18 77 1 4 Amounts written off 1,595 1,474 1,220 973 683 Recoveries 255 113 106 142 113 Provisions charged against profit 1,091 1,347 1,484 1,149 817 Provisions balance at end of year 2,766 3,028 2,998 2,716 2,353 Also see chart on page 59.
81 Risk management Statistical information Table 25: Amounts written off 2004 2003 2002 2001 2000 m m m m m United Kingdom 1,411 1,175 950 814 595 Other European Union 58 54 31 36 45 United States 71 215 215 94 26 Rest of the World 55 30 24 29 17 Total amounts written off 1,595 1,474 1,220 973 683 Table 26: Recoveries 2004 2003 2002 2001 2000 m m m m m United Kingdom 220 95 88 106 100 Other European Union 8 7 7 5 6 United States 15 10 9 27 4 Rest of the World 12 1 2 4 3 Total recoveries 255 113 106 142 113 Table 27: Provisions charged against profit 2004 2003 2002 2001 2000 m m m m m New and increased specific provisions charge: United Kingdom 1,571 1,373 1,210 1,157 843 Other European Union 82 57 33 35 35 United States 67 118 404 173 27 Rest of the World 47 80 72 75 76 1,767 1,628 1,719 1,440 981 Releases of specific provisions charge: United Kingdom 153 146 81 87 55 Other European Union 17 13 12 10 17 United States 19 24 10 10 6 Rest of the World 22 12 24 26 13 211 195 127 133 91 Recoveries 255 113 106 142 113 Net specific provisions charge 1,301 1,320 1,486 1,165 777 General provision release charge 210 27 2 16 40 Net provisions charge to profit 1,091 1,347 1,484 1,149 817 82 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2004 Table 28: Specific provision charges for bad and doubtful debts by industry Net specific provision charged for the year 2004 2003 2002 2001 2000 m m m m m United Kingdom: Banks and other financial institutions 1 13 1 2 7 Agriculture, forestry and fishing 3 1 6 6 Manufacturing 28 79 80 62 8 Construction 10 23 41 12 7 Property 42 3 8 3 1 Energy and water 3 13 22 1 8 Wholesale and retail distribution and leisure 66 38 37 44 21 Transport 19 100 7 6 2 Communications 1 116 1 Business and other services 64 76 62 75 27 Home loans 17 948 10 Other personal 890 757 748 782 577 Overseas customers 181 66 13 34 6 Finance lease receivables 2 93 8 1,198 1,132 1,041 964 688 Foreign 103 188 445 201 89 1,301 1,320 1,486 1,165 777 The category other personal includes credit cards, personal loans and personal overdrafts.
The industry classifications in tables 28, 29 and 30 have been prepared at the level of the borrowing entity.
Loans to customers domiciled outside the country where the office recording the transaction is located are shown in the chart under Overseas customers and not by industry.
84 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2004 Table 33: Ratios of general and specific provision balances 2004 2003 2002 2001 2000 % % % % % Specific provisions balances coverage of non-performing loans 55.3 51.9 48.4 49.7 46.2 General provisions balances coverage of performing loans excluding trading book 0.26 0.43 0.43 0.47 0.52 General provisions coverage of performing loans including trading book 0.17 0.28 0.28 0.33 0.38 Also see chart on page 60.
Liquidity Risk Management Table 34: Analysis of weighted-average receive fixed and pay fixed rates by reset maturity date and nominal amount at 31st December 2004 Sterling denominated contracts Non-sterling denominated contracts Pay fixed Receive fixed Pay fixed Receive fixed Nominal Average Nominal Average Nominal Average Nominal Average amount rate amount rate amount rate amount rate m % m % m % m % Reset maturity date Not more than three months 993 4.60 1,380 6.23 776 2.66 671 2.67 Over three months but not more than six months 2,633 5.11 1,242 6.43 778 2.70 385 3.70 Over six months but not more than one year 1,553 4.62 4,221 5.70 3,063 2.88 854 4.58 Over one year but not more than five years 5,806 5.24 24,250 5.04 2,382 4.23 4,711 4.03 Over five years 4,475 4.63 6,520 5.92 1,499 4.53 5,647 6.45 Total 15,460 4.94 37,613 5.36 8,498 3.51 12,268 5.10 Table 35: Analysis of weighted-average receive variable and pay variable rates by reset maturity date and nominal amount at 31st December 2004 Sterling denominated contracts Non-sterling denominated contracts Receive variable Pay variable Receive variable Pay variable Nominal Average Nominal Average Nominal Average Nominal Average amount rate amount rate amount rate amount rate m % m % m % m % Reset maturity date Not more than three months 17,093 4.24 29,649 5.10 10,070 2.26 13,073 2.66 Over three months but not more than six months 5,725 4.96 15,821 5.03 1,601 2.35 2,433 2.51 Over six months but not more than one year 542 5.05 43 5.31 633 2.19 144 2.95 Over one year but not more than five years 424 2.27 Over five years Total 23,360 4.44 45,513 5.07 12,304 2.26 16,074 2.63 85 Section 3 Results 87 Financial data Barclays PLC 225 SEC Form 20-F cross reference and other information 89 Business description 227 Glossary 92 Financial review 228 Barclays Bank PLC data 92 Overview 94 Critical accounting estimates 239 US GAAP financial data 97 Results by nature of income and expense Net interest income 240 Reconciliation of economic profit 98 Average balance sheet 102 Results by nature of income and 241 Shareholder information expense continued 106 Analysis of results by business 241 Dividends 113 Total assets and liabilities and 242 Trading Market for Ordinary Shares capital resources of Barclays PLC 116 Deposits and short-term borrowings 243 Shareholdings at 31st December 2004 117 Securities 244 Memorandum and Articles of 119 Life assurance business Association 120 Off balance sheet arrangements 245 Taxation 247 Exchange Controls and Other Limitations Affecting Security Holders 122 Independent Auditors reports 247 Documents on Display 247 Shareholder Enquiries 124 Consolidated accounts Barclays PLC 248 Group senior management 124 Accounting policies and principal offices 131 Accounting presentation 132 Consolidated profit and loss account 133 Statement of total recognised gains and losses 134 Consolidated balance sheet 136 Consolidated statement of changes in reserves 137 Consolidated cash flow statement 138 Parent company accounts 139 Notes to the accounts 86
