operating and financial review RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information contained in this Annual The Group has in the past and expects in the future to Report, investors in Cable & Wireless should consider dedicate significant resources to integrate any businesses that carefully the risks described below.
The Groups financial it has or will acquire and to effect any rationalisation of its condition or results of operations could be materially operations.
There is an ongoing programme of internal adversely affected should any of these risks arise.
The risks transformation that seeks to create the structures and described below are not the only risks facing the Group.
processes needed for the future of Cable & Wireless.
Additional risks not currently known to the Group or risks Implementation of both these elements is complex, timethat the Group currently regards as immaterial could also consuming and expensive, and without proper planning and have a material adverse effect on the Groups financial execution, could signicantly disrupt the Groups business.
condition or results of operations.
The challenges involved include: r combining service and product offerings and convincing Risks specic to Cable & Wireless business customers and distributors not to defer purchasing Failure to improve the performance and financial decisions or not to switch to other suppliers due to position of the Group successfully or to adapt as uncertainty about the direction of the Groups product needed to changing market conditions could adversely offerings and our willingness to support and service affect the Groups business, results of operations and existing products: this could result in incurring potential for growth.
additional obligations in order to address customer uncertainty: In June 2003 Cable & Wireless announced that it was r demonstrating to customers and distributors that the undertaking, over a three year period, a restructuring of its transaction or organisational changes will not result in businesses to improve its position in a rapidly changing adverse changes in service standards or business focus market place.
Cable & Wireless plans for the and helping customers conduct business easily: implementation of this restructuring are incomplete in many r consolidating, rationalising and improving corporate and respects, and the success of the restructuring will depend in subsidiary IT infrastructure, including implementing part on factors that are beyond the Groups control.
Delays information and contract management and system in implementation may lead to management not being able processes that enable increased customer satisfaction, to concentrate on developing their businesses with certainty, improved productivity, lower costs, more direct sales or to pursue opportunities in their respective marketplaces.
It and improved inventory management: may lead to staff retention problems, or staff resistance, such r consolidating and improving administrative as industrial action or non-compliance with Group policies.
infrastructure, including IT systems, and maintaining Efforts to achieve desired cost savings are based on certain adequate controls throughout the integration: assumptions regarding the cost structure of the business r coordinating sales and marketing efforts to which may or may not be correct.
In addition, costs incurred communicate the Groups strategy effectively: in connection with restructuring efforts may be higher than estimated.
Furthermore, as Cable & Wireless renes the r preserving distribution, marketing or other important plans for its restructuring, the Group may encounter relationships and resolving potential conicts that may significant obstacles that it has not yet anticipated and that arise: prevent it from fully implementing the restructuring or fully r minimising the diversion of management attention from achieving its strategic goals.
As a result, the Group cannot ongoing business concerns: assure shareholders that the goals of its strategy or r coordinating and combining operations, subsidiaries, restructuring plan will be fully achieved.
Cable & Wireless relationships and facilities, which may be subject to also cannot assure shareholders that completion of the additional constraints imposed by local laws and restructuring will result in the success of its strategy.
regulations and also may result in contract terminations or renegotiations and labour and tax law implications: and Transformation initiatives can lead to execution risk.
r managing integration issues shortly after or pending the The Group has been in rapid transition in the past few years, completion of other independent reorganisations.
acquiring and disposing of a number of businesses, as well as implementing a number of reorganisation initiatives.
In US exit June 2003 Cable & Wireless announced its intention, over time, to expand its investment in national In June 2003, Cable & Wireless announced that it planned to telecommunications operations.
This may include acquiring withdraw from the US domestic market.
On 8 December further entities and businesses.
2003 CWA led for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection under Page 47 operating and financial review the US Bankruptcy Code.
As a result of the court sanctioned The Groups results depend on the introduction of auction process that ensued, SAVVIS Communications appropriate new products and services as the industry Corporation acquired substantially all of the assets of CWA undergoes rapid changes.
for a sum of US$155 million in cash and approximately US$12.4 million of assumed liabilities on 8 March 2004.
All sectors in which Cable & Wireless operates are characterised by changing customer demand for new products and services as new technologies become available.
Cable & Wireless understands that the proceeds will be applied to satisfy outstanding liabilities of CWA and the remaining assets of CWA will be wound down by the CWA If the new products and services that the Group develops estate.
The CWA estate is responsible for dealing with and implements do not meet the demands of its existing and creditors and related aspects of the Chapter 11 process.
The target customers, then the Group may not be able to recover CWA estate has led a Plan of Liquidation and associated its costs in developing such new products and services and it documents with the US Bankruptcy Court.
There is no may lose market share.
This could result in a material guarantee that the Plan of Liquidation will be implemented adverse effect on the Groups financial results.
as currently set forth or on the timetable currently contemplated or at all.
If the Plan of Liquidation is not implemented claims against CWA, Cable and Wireless plc Network failure may expose the Group to potential and its non-bankrupt afliates will not be released.
As a liability or loss of customers.
result of Cable & Wireless withdrawal from the US domestic market, the Company has had to initiate a The Groups operations are dependent upon networks, which customer migration programme.
Their customers may may or may not be controlled by Cable & Wireless.
decline to migrate their business to the remaining Cable & Catastrophic network failure or a major network interruption Wireless network in the United States.
Cable & Wireless may occur as a result of natural disasters, a loss of a major failure to implement the Plan of Liquidation, obtain the element of the network, security breaches, terrorist action or releases contemplated by the Plan or retain its customers computer viruses.
These failures or interruptions could cause may adversely impact the Groups financial condition.
delays or service interruptions resulting in the loss of customers.
They could also expose the Group to claims from customers or could require expensive repairs or The Group may not be able to adapt adequately to modications, any of which could have a material adverse technological changes in communication and effect on the Groups business.
The telecommunications industry is subject to rapid and significant changes in technology.
The development of new Dependency on key personnel and skills.
technologies could render its current services obsolete and non-competitive and require the Group to write-down further A number of key executive ofcers manage the Groups the book values of investments it has made in existing businesses.
In addition, the Groups future success will technologies.
The Groups business plan contemplates the depend in a large part on its continued ability to attract and introduction of services using new technologies and it may retain highly skilled and qualied personnel, including those have to make substantial additional investments in new with project management experience and skills.
The loss of technologies in order to remain competitive.
New key personnel or an inability to attract personnel of suitable technologies that it chooses to acquire may not prove to be calibre could have a material adverse effect on the business successful, and the cost of implementation for emerging and of Cable & Wireless.
future technologies could be significant and constitute a negative return on the investment.
In addition, Cable & Wireless may not receive the necessary licences to provide The Group is reliant on third parties for certain activities services based on new technologies in jurisdictions in which under outsourcing contracts.
Failure of those third it operates.
It may also be forced to change its product and parties to provide the contracted services may expose service offerings or pay higher costs if the third-party the Group to additional cost and liability.
technology that it employs changes or if the price of such technology increases.
As a result, the Group could lose The Group has outsourced a number of support activities to customers, fail to attract new customers or incur substantial third parties.
In the event that the outsourcing company fails costs to maintain its customer base.
Any such occurrence to deliver the contracted services, the Group may incur could have a material adverse effect on the Groups financial additional costs as it attempts to nd an alternate supplier results.
and its financial results might be adversely impacted.
Page 48 operating and financial review The Group is dependent on a number of critical IT regulated terms and conditions by local or national systems to be able to conduct its business and process incumbent telecommunications operators.
Future regulation may materially impact the Group, for In carrying out its business, the Group is dependent on the example by resulting in changes to the terms of availability and reliability of a number of IT systems.
In the interconnection agreements with other network operators and event that any of these systems fail and disaster recovery other similar agreements: imposing market-access barriers: and business continuity plans are ineffective, the Group may setting price caps or other forms of price regulation: be exposed to additional costs and liabilities.
In addition, imposing limitations or investment obligations on many of these IT systems, such as billing, are legacy construction of new facilities.
The number of regulatory systems that operate on different platforms.
The Group may measures may also signicantly increase, or become be exposed to additional costs and liabilities in endeavouring signicantly more onerous as the jurisdictions in which the to upgrade or integrate systems and may sustain costs or Group operates reform their telecommunications and related liabilities as a result of the inefficiencies posed by having laws and regulations.
Complying with new or more onerous multiple systems that in some instances cannot be readily regulations and restrictions may be costly for the Group, and reconciled.
may adversely impact the results of the Groups operations and business condition.
Regulatory risk Cable & Wireless business may be materially adversely Exposure to other telecommunications operators and affected by changes in regulation and government the behaviour of other market participants may have a policy in the countries in which it operates.
detrimental effect on the Groups operations.
The Group operates in some highly regulated markets, and The Groups operations are, in part, dependent upon access its exibility to manage its business can be constrained by to networks that it does not own or entirely control.
Cable & regulation in these markets.
Wireless operations depend on network operators to provide interconnection services for the origination, carriage and or The Groups ability to provide telecommunications services termination of some of its telecommunications services.
depends in most countries on receiving and maintaining government licences and authorisations.
Failure to acquire The Group has experienced interconnection capacity and retain necessary regulatory approvals could impair its shortages in the past, and it may do so again if it is unable results of operations.
Furthermore, regulatory regimes in to obtain and maintain the necessary interconnection and some countries in which the Group operates are often less other transmission services in a timely fashion and on well established than in other countries where competition in acceptable commercial terms in each country in which it the telecommunications sector has been established for intends to introduce or continue to offer its longer.
As a result, its business in these countries could be telecommunications services.
The Group may also be subject subject to unexpected political, economic or legal to the constraints, including financial constraints, of the developments that impact telecommunications regulations relevant network operator, which may be unable to provide and lead to the Group being unable to acquire or retain the any or all of the capacity that the Group requests.
If it regulatory approvals necessary to its business.
Any such cannot obtain the capacity it requires to adequately serve all development could have a material adverse effect on its of its existing customers or to connect all of its potential results or operations either in that jurisdiction or in new customers, the Group may lose them to its competitors.
All of this could adversely affect the Groups business, financial condition and results of operations.
The Group operates in a number of markets in which it has or, until recently had, exclusive licences for the provision of telecommunications networks and services.
In the majority The Group may lose revenue if unlicensed operators of these markets, the group is working with local are able to gain access to the Groups network.
governments and regulators to facilitate liberalisation of In certain markets where the Group operates it suffers from these markets.
Liberalisation usually results in the imposition revenue leakage where operators gain illegal access to its of new regulatory requirements on group companies.
The Group takes considerable action to identify and new requirements are associated with the large or dominant prevent such occurrences, but the level of actions available market position which group companies have as a legacy of to it may be limited by local regulation.
To the extent that their exclusivity.
the Groups efforts are not wholly successful, it may lose In other jurisdictions, the Group is dependent upon access to revenue and the Groups financial performance be adversely interconnection services and leased lines supplied under impacted.
Page 49 operating and financial review Risks specic to the telecommunications industry infrastructures and service offerings more quickly than the Group.
In addition, some competitors have entered and will The Groups business may be affected by a business likely continue to enter into joint ventures or alliances to downturn.
provide additional services against which the Group may be A significant percentage of the Groups revenue is generated unable to compete.
The Group also believes the sector may by providing business customers with telecommunications, experience consolidation in the near future, which could IP, voice, data, managed hosting services and content result, amongst other things, in further competition that delivery.
would make it more difficult for Cable & Wireless to compete effectively.
Any slowdown in capital spending by service providers and other customers may affect revenues more than currently As the markets for some of the Groups services expand in expected.
Moreover, economic and geopolitical uncertainties certain locations, additional competition may emerge and and their potential impact on customer demand, create existing competitors may commit more resources to the uncertainty as to market demand.
As a result, revenues and markets in which it participates.
For example, governments operating results for a particular period can be difficult to in various countries in which the Group provides predict.
In addition, there can be no certainty as to the telecommunications services, in some cases on an exclusive severity or duration of the current industry adjustment and basis and in others where it until recently provided services the downturn in the business environment.
The Groups on an exclusive basis, have begun liberalising the revenues and operating results have been and may continue telecommunications industry by introducing regulated to be materially and adversely affected by the continued competitive markets for some products and services in place reductions in demand from its customers.
The Group may lose market share to some of the competitors entering the market as a result of In addition, a business downturn or fear of terrorist attacks this transformation and its operating results and revenues may reduce the number of international tourists.
This may may be adversely affected.
depress local economies in some areas where the Group has businesses for example in the Caribbean and consequently Competitors of Cable & Wireless may gain competitive adversely impact the financial results of the Groups advantage by successfully completing a restructuring or operations.
Generally unfavourable telecommunications market Certain of the Groups competitors in the United States have conditions may adversely affect the Groups financial led for Chapter 11 Bankruptcy protection under the US condition and results of operations.
There is a possibility that where such competitors emerge from their restructuring with a The telecommunications industry is currently facing signicantly lower cost base than Cable & Wireless they unfavourable market conditions, including amongst other will be able to compete more effectively than the Group.
factors, the decline in demand for certain This could result in the Group losing market share which telecommunications products and services, pricing pressures could in turn negatively impact the Groups financial and over-capacity.
These market conditions have condition and results of operations.
precipitated, in recent times, bankruptcy and insolvency lings by several telecommunications companies.
In some In addition, given its own recent losses, the Group may lose cases the Group has outstanding debts with these companies customers to competitors if the customers have significant and may not be able to collect all the debts due.
concerns over the future financial strengths and strategy of the Group.
Some telecommunications markets in which the Group operates are in very early stages of development.
If Continued overcapacity and other factors could lead to unfavourable market conditions prevent some or all of these lower prices for the Groups products and services.
markets from developing, or if they develop more slowly than Cable & Wireless anticipates, then the Groups results The transatlantic, pan-European and US markets are all of operations could be materially adversely affected.
currently experiencing considerable levels of overcapacity.
Overcapacity coupled with low levels of demand growth The Groups operations could suffer from adverse contributed to a severe price decline in these markets.
This effects of competition and price pressures on the in turn has recently resulted in many network operators demand for products and services.
becoming nancially distressed and ling for bankruptcy or The Group faces competition and downward pressure on Chapter 11 protection.
This could compel the Group to prices in many areas and markets of its business.
The lower prices to prevent erosion of its market share or to Groups competitors may be able to expand their network continue attracting new customers.
Page 50 operating and financial review If the Group is forced to lower its prices the financial Penders directors are independent and based in the Isle of condition and results of operations may be adversely Man.
It was advised by insurance and reinsurance brokers affected.
and service providers in the placing of its cover.
Some of its operations were carried out by Cable & Wireless Group If the current overcapacity situation is not resolved or personnel under contract to Pender.
worsens, prices may continue to decline in the affected regions and such price decline could have a material adverse During calendar year 1997, Pender began to write policies effect on the Groups operations.
for other companies connected with the telecommunications industry on a shared limits basis.
Pender off-laid some of its Legal and Other exposure under these policies to the insurance market by way of reinsurance.
However, Pender retained some The Group may not have or may be unable to obtain exposure itself.
Notwithstanding the reinsurance, Pender sufficient insurance to cover all foreseeable risks.
remains legally liable for all its policies.
Cable and Wireless plc is a commercial organisation and, as With effect from 1 April 2003, Pender entered into an such, takes risk based decisions on the purchase of agreement with PMIC by which risks under the unexpired insurance.
The Group buys insurance appropriate to a group portions of the policies written in favour of the 43 Pender the size, nature and geographical spread of Cable and policyholders including Cable & Wireless were transferred Wireless, and monitors the availability of coverage and the to PMIC.
PMIC is owned by the majority of the former security of its insurers and reinsurers.
It does not insure Pender policyholders including Cable & Wireless and every risk that may affect the business even if insurance is certain new members who joined on or after 1 April 2003. available at commercial rates.
Professional insurance brokers Following transfer of risk in the outstanding policies to are used to assist in this process.
PMIC, Pender notied and sought written releases from Since 1 April 2003 Cable and Wireless plc has purchased liability from all of its former policyholders in recognition of the majority of its commercial insurances via the the assumption of risk by PMIC.
telecommunications mutual, Pender Mutual Insurance Company Limited PMIC.
This vehicle was established A majority, but not all, of Penders former policyholders in 2003 by some 45 telecommunications companies supplied Pender with written releases in the requested form.
worldwide, including Cable and Wireless plc, for the Pender purchased limited reinsurance from PMIC to cover purpose of providing insurance to its members.
The concept any remaining exposure to the former policyholders arising of mutuality is the sharing of similar superior risks.
The in respect of post 1 April 2003 claims.
However, since the cover provided by Pender was wider than the reinsurance availability of insurance protection via this vehicle has cover made available by PMIC, there is a risk that any claim advantages, such as coverage not typically available in the successfully brought against Pender might not be fully general market: and certain limitations, including the possibility of coverage limits being exhausted by other covered by reinsurance.
The non-availability of this facility From 1 April 2003, Pender began running off the pre would potentially result in increased premiums to the Group.
1 April 2003 insurance claims and has not taken on any new The Cable & Wireless Groups wholly owned insurance business for non-Cable & Wireless Group companies since subsidiary, Pender Insurance Limited, reinsures certain risks then.
Certain of Penders pre-existing policies with third to PMIC.
The reinsurance provided by PMIC provides cover for a number of these policies.
The historic activities of the Groups insurance subsidiary may result in material claims.
The adverse factors that have affected the telecommunications industry in recent years, particularly as a Pender Insurance Limited Pender was established in the result of US securities class actions, led to a significant Isle of Man in 1990 to provide insurance to the Cable & increase in the seriousness of insurance claims against Wireless Group and is regulated by the Isle of Man Pender prior to 1 April 2003, testing policy terms and limits.
It provided cover for various types of potential claims against or losses incurred One such insurance claim arose under a directors and by the Cable & Wireless Group.
The cover included, for ofcers liability policy issued to Global Crossing Inc.
This example, catastrophe cover, property damage, business claim was paid during the year at a cost, net of reinsurance interruption, professional indemnity and directors and recoveries, to Pender of approximately 19 million.
expects to recover further sums from its reinsurers in support Since September 2003 Pender has been managed by Thomas of this settlement to reduce the net cost of the settlement to Miller Risk Management Isle of Man Ltd.
The majority of the company further.
Page 51 operating and financial review Certain other insurance claims, notied by policyholders The Group manages its exposure to movements in exchange prior to 1 April 2003, remain with Pender, but as these rates on a net basis and uses forward foreign exchange claims have not yet been fully quantied or substantiated by contracts and other derivative and financial instruments to the claimants, it remains impracticable to estimate their reduce the exposure.
In the event that Pender is unable to resist To the extent that this hedging activity does not cover the these insurance claims successfully and, in those cases where exposure then the Groups results of operations and financial reinsurance exists, its reinsurance cover were to prove condition may be negatively impacted by currency exchange inadequate, Pender may be subject to significant liabilities rate movements.
which its assets may not be sufficient to meet.
Moreover, there can be no assurance that these arrangements will not Class actions may adversely impact the Groups have a material adverse effect on the financial condition of financial condition.
The class actions detailed in Business Description Legal Proceedings have been led against members of the Group Pursuant to an internal investigation of the management in the United States.
If any such class action is upheld by practices at Pender, Cable & Wireless commenced suit, on the US courts, it could, individually or in the aggregate, 30 March 2004, against five companies and six individuals adversely impact on the Groups financial condition.
In five of whom were former Cable & Wireless employees.
addition, Cable & Wireless is from time to time involved in The Cable & Wireless Board does not believe that the other material litigation, which if decided adversely to the circumstances giving rise to this suit have had or will have a Group could, individually or in the aggregate, adversely material adverse effect on the Cable & Wireless Group.
impact its financial condition or reputation.
Mobile communications devices may pose health risks.
Volatility in the financial markets may require the Group to provide further cash funding to its pension funds.
Media reports have suggested that radio frequency emissions from mobile telephone handsets and transmission facilities Cable & Wireless currently maintains various dened benefit may pose various health risks, including cancer, and may plans, which cover various categories of employees and interfere with various electronic medical devices, including retirees.
The Groups obligations to make contributions to hearing aids and pacemakers.
Research and studies into the fund benefit obligations under these plans are based on health risks posed by mobile telephone handsets and actuarial valuations, which themselves are based on certain transmission facilities are ongoing.
Cable & Wireless assumptions about the long-term operation of the plans, provides mobile services principally in the Caribbean, including employee turnover and retirement rates, the Panama and Macau and also provides national and performance of the financial markets, interest rates and international network capacity to mobile operators.
If the actual operation of the Wireless continues to monitor scientific and medical research plans differs from the assumptions, additional contributions and studies, media, legal, regulatory and other developments, may be required.
The equity markets can be, and recently as well as the public perception of risk arising from the use have been, volatile, and therefore the estimate of future of mobile telephone handsets.
scientific research on mobile contribution requirements can change signicantly in a short telephone handsets and health has been reviewed by a period of time.
Similarly, changes in interest rates may also number of independent expert scientific panels.
None of impact funding requirements.
If the Group is required to these panels has concluded that the use of mobile telephone make significant contributions to fund the dened benefit handsets is harmful to health.
plans, the reported results could be materially and adversely affected and the cash ow available for other uses may be Nonetheless, increased speculation regarding health risks signicantly reduced.
associated with mobile telephone handsets and transmission facilities or any subsequent substantiation of such risks could have a material adverse effect on the Groups business Fluctuations in currency exchange rates may adversely including through: affect the Groups reported results and financial condition.
r a reduction in the number of actual and potential customers: A significant percentage of Cable & Wireless business is r reduced usage per customer: conducted outside the United Kingdom.
The Group is thus r exposure to potential litigation or other liability: exposed to movements in exchange rates in relation to r regulatory intervention and new legislation: or foreign currency receipts and payments, dividend income r exposure to adverse publicity and damage to reputation.
from foreign subsidiaries, reported profits of foreign subsidiaries and the net asset carrying value of foreign investments.
