26 Schroders Annual Report & Accounts 2004 Governance Risk management and internal control Risk management The liquidity of the banking entities within the Group is monitored by the Principal Risk Committee and that of the Group by the Group The Board is accountable for risk and is responsible for oversight Capital Committee.
The Group Capital Committee monitors and of the risk management process.
The Board has considered the controls the use of the Groups non-operating capital resources.
principal risks facing the Group and the exposure in relation to each of those risks.
Dedicated personnel are responsible for producing and maintaining market and liquidity risk reports based upon the Financial Services The Group Management Committee has approved a risk Authoritys methodologies under the Capital Adequacy Directive.
The management framework and structure established by the Group underlying methodologies and limits are reviewed and set centrally by Risk function.
The framework defines the principal risk categories the Principal Risk Committee.
Local risk committees and the Principal and sets out the methodology for the identification, assessment, Risk Committee review exposures against limits on a regular basis.
mitigation and reporting of risks.
A risk management structure is in place which embeds risk management within the business.
Group Compliance undertakes detailed monitoring activities to The Group Management Committee reviews the key corporate review compliance with legal and regulatory requirements.
Group risks facing the Group and receives regular reports as to the Internal Audit carries out a programme of audits approved by the current status of each risk.
Audit Committee, including reviews of the risk management process and advice and recommendations on improving the The Group Risk Committee oversees the key risks and the risk control environment.
The Committee is chaired by the Chief Financial Officer, and includes representatives from the businesses Internal control and the control functions.
Local management is responsible for operational risk controls where appropriate and, depending on the The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control size and complexity of the business unit, risk and control maps and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system can provide only have been prepared which have been captured on an on-line reasonable and not absolute assurance against material financial world-wide risk management system.
The Group Risk Committee misstatement or loss and is designed to mitigate, not eliminate, risk.
receives reports from line management regarding any matters giving cause for concern and ensures appropriate remedial action On behalf of the Board, the Audit Committee has carried out its is taken.
annual assessment of the effectiveness of internal control during 2004 using the following to support its conclusions: In respect of credit risk, limits are reviewed and set centrally by the Group Agency and Principal Risk Committees supported by the assessment of the Group Management Committee of key a dedicated team of credit professionals.
Local management is corporate risks and responsibilities for those risks responsible for monitoring exposure against these limits and reports from the Group Compliance and Risk Director on the reporting to Group management by exception.
In respect of results of the twice-yearly Business Standards and Controls principal risk, the Group sets the overall Group limit and Survey, summarising the work undertaken by the Group Risk delegates authority to set credit limits within the overall limit to Committee and highlighting any significant control issues arising the Groups banking businesses in Guernsey and Switzerland.
a report from the Group General Counsel outlining the Groups legal risks The Group does not run a trading book.
The Private Banking a report from the Group Compliance and Risk Director on the subsidiaries hold certain financial instruments debt securities, fraud prevention measures in place within the Group forward foreign exchange contracts and interest rate swaps for customer facilitation purposes.
It is Group policy to hedge interest a report from Group Compliance summarising activity during the rate risk which is largely mitigated by the short-term nature of our year and highlighting any major instances of non-compliance holdings of interest-bearing assets and liabilities.
Group Internal Audits review of the effectiveness and application of the risk management process and its report on Group Internal The Group has a number of overseas subsidiaries whose Audits work during the year shareholders funds, revenues and expenses are denominated annual and regular reports from the Head of Group Internal Audit principally in local currencies.
Forward foreign exchange contracts on the control environment.
with third parties are used to mitigate exposure to currency movements where it is considered that the sterling values of such The Board is of the view that there is an ongoing process for amounts are at risk.
The use of such instruments is limited and is identifying, evaluating and managing the Groups significant risks subject to approval by the Group Capital Committee.
and that: In addition, the Groups seed capital investments may also be it has been in place for the year ended 31st December 2004 and hedged in respect of market risk where it is possible to construct up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts an effective hedge and there is a perceived risk of volatility in it is regularly reviewed by the Board and complies with the the value of the investment due to market movements.
The internal control guidance for directors in the Combined Code.
decisions to hedge market risk on seed capital investments, typically using futures, are taken by the Group Capital Committee The Board advocates, encourages and supports continuous in consultation with the business.
improvements in all Group activities, systems and procedures.
