AstraZeneca Annual Report and Risk Factors Form 20-F Information 2004 155 Risk Factors Risk of loss or expiration of patents, marketing exclusivity, products protected by weakening of the US dollar is generally marketing exclusivity or trade marks a valid trade mark usually generate higher favourable.
We cannot ensure that exchange Scientific development and technological revenues than those not protected by a trade rate fluctuations will not have a material innovation are crucial if AstraZeneca is to mark.
We believe that we have trade mark adverse effect on AstraZenecas financial deliver long term market success.
In the protection for many of our most important condition and results of operations in the pharmaceutical market, a drug, diagnostic or products.
However, trade mark protection future.
medical device is normally only subject to may expire or be challenged by third parties.
competition from alternative products, in the Risk that R&D will not yield new products same therapy area, during the period of Limitations on the availability of patent that achieve commercial success patent protection or other types of marketing protection in developing countries or the As a result of the complexities and exclusivity, but once patent protection or expiration or loss of certain patents, uncertainties associated with pharmaceutical other types of marketing exclusivity have marketing exclusivity or trade marks would research, it cannot be ensured that expired the product is generally open to have an adverse effect on pricing and sales compounds currently under development will competition from generic copy products.
with respect to these products and, achieve success in laboratory, animal or Products under patent protection or other consequently, could result in a material clinical trials and ultimately be granted the types of marketing exclusivity usually adverse effect on AstraZenecas financial regulatory approvals needed to market such generate significantly higher revenues than condition and results of operations.
For example, in 2004, those not protected by patents or other development of a number of our products types of marketing exclusivity.
We believe Impact of fluctuations in exchange rates was discontinued due to failure to meet our that we have patent protection for many of The results of AstraZenecas operations are target profile: these included AZD0303 for the our most important products.
accounted for in US dollars.
Approximately treatment of thrombosis: AZD4750 for the 49% of our 2004 sales were in North America treatment of multiple sclerosis: and AZD0902 For example, during 2004 compared to comprised of the US and Canada with a for the treatment of chronic obstructive 2003, sales in the US of Losec Prilosec, significant proportion of that figure being in pulmonary disease.
There can be no absolute Zestril and Nolvadex fell significantly following respect of US sales.
The US is, and is assurances regarding the development and anticipated patent expiries or the end of expected to remain, our largest market.
commercial success of any of the products in marketing exclusivity.
Sales in certain other countries are also in our current pipeline.
The commercial success US dollars, or in currencies whose exchange of pipeline products is of particular Increasingly, manufacturers of generic rates are linked to the US dollar.
Major importance to us in view of the recent expiry pharmaceutical products, whether based in components of our cost base are, however, of patent protection in major markets for a developing countries, such as those in Asia, located in Europe, where an aggregate of number of our key current products.
or elsewhere in the world, seek to challenge approximately 60% of our employees are our patents or other types of marketing based.
Movements in the exchange rates Competition, price controls and price exclusivity in order to allow access to the used to translate foreign currencies into US reductions market for their own generic products.
dollars may therefore have a material adverse The principal markets for our pharmaceutical effect on AstraZenecas financial condition products are the Americas, the countries of For example, AstraZeneca was involved in and results of operations.
the European Union and Japan.
These litigation in the US and elsewhere during markets are highly competitive.
We compete 2004 relating to omeprazole, the active Certain subsidiaries of AstraZeneca import in all of them, and elsewhere in the world, ingredient in Losec Prilosec, concerning the and export goods and services in currencies against major prescription pharmaceutical infringement of certain patents, including other than their own functional currency, companies which, in many cases, are able to formulation patents, by generic although we minimise this practice.
The match or exceed the resources which we manufacturers.
Patent litigation relating to results of such subsidiaries could, therefore, have available to us, particularly in the areas omeprazole and certain other of our be affected by currency fluctuations arising of R&D and marketing investment.
Industry products is described in Note 30 to the between the transaction dates and the consolidation has resulted in the formation of Financial Statements.
settlement dates for those transactions.
We a small number of very large companies.
hedge these exposures through financial Some of our most important products for In addition to challenges to our patented instruments in the form of forward contracts future growth, such as Crestor, compete products from manufacturers of generic and currency swaps.
The notional principal directly with similar products marketed by pharmaceutical products, there is a risk that amount of financial instruments used to some of these companies.
Increasingly, we some countries, particularly those in the hedge these exposures, principally forward also compete directly with biotechnology developing world, may seek to impose foreign exchange contracts and purchased companies and companies which limitations on the availability of patent currency options, at 31 December 2004 was manufacture generic versions of our protection for pharmaceutical products, or $31m.
We have policies that seek to mitigate products following the expiry or loss of patent the extent to which such protection may be the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on protection or other marketing exclusivity.
the value of foreign currency cash flows and in turn their effects on the results of the In most of the principal markets in which we Trade mark protection for our products is various subsidiaries, but do not seek to sell our products, there is continued also an important element of our overall remove all such risks.
In general, a unilateral economic, regulatory and political pressure product marketing programmes.
Combined strengthening of the US dollar adversely to limit the cost of pharmaceutical products.
with patent protection or other types of affects our reported results whereas a Certain groups have been involved in AstraZeneca Annual Report and Risk Factors 156 Form 20-F Information 2004 Risk Factors continued exerting price pressure on pharmaceutical prices by incentives and sanctions to Risk of substantial product liability claims companies to ensure medicines are encourage doctors to prescribe costGiven the widespread impact prescription affordable to those who need them.
Efforts by the European drugs may have on the health of large patient Commission to harmonise the disparate populations, pharmaceutical and medical Currently there is no direct government national systems have met with little device companies have, historically, been control of prices for non-government sales in immediate success.
The industry is, subject to large product liability damages the US.
In 1990, however, federal legislation therefore, exposed to ad hoc national costclaims, settlements and awards for injuries was enacted which required drug containment measures on prices and the allegedly caused by the use of their products.
manufacturers to agree to substantial consequent parallel trading of products from Adverse publicity relating to a products rebates in order for the manufacturers drugs markets with prices depressed by safety, such as that affecting Crestor in 2004, to be reimbursed by state Medicaid governments into those where higher prices may increase the risk of product liability programmes, and an additional rebate if prevail.
Substantial product liability claims manufacturer price increases after 1990 that are not covered by insurance could have exceed the increase in inflation.
In addition, The importation of pharmaceutical products a material adverse effect on AstraZenecas certain states have taken action to require from European countries where prices are financial condition and results of operations.
further manufacturer rebates on Medicaid low to those where prices for those products drug utilisation and for other state are higher may increase.
The accession of Risk of reliance on third parties for pharmaceutical assistance programmes.
additional countries from central and eastern supplies of materials and services Congress has also enacted statutes that Europe to the European Union could result in Like most, if not all, major prescription place a ceiling on the price manufacturers significant increases in the parallel trading of pharmaceutical companies, in some of its may charge US government agencies, pharmaceutical products.
Movements of key business operations, such as the thereby causing a substantial discount, as pharmaceutical products into North America, manufacture, formulation and packaging of well as establishing a minimum discount in particular the movement of products from products, AstraZeneca relies on third parties comparable to the Medicaid rebate on Canada into the US, may increase despite for the timely supply of specified raw manufacturers sales to certain clinics and the need to meet current or future safety materials, equipment, contract hospitals that serve the poor and other requirements imposed by regulatory manufacturing, formulation or packaging populations with special needs.
The effects of any increase in the services and maintenance services.
government initiatives, together with volume of this parallel trade could result in a Although we actively manage these third competitive market pressures, have material adverse effect on AstraZenecas party relationships to ensure continuity of contributed to restraints on realised prices.
financial condition and results of operations.
supplies on time and to our required specifications, some events beyond our Recently introduced and future US legislation There is formal central government control of control could result in the complete or partial concerning the Medicaid and Medicare prices in Japan.
New product prices are failure of supplies or in supplies not being programmes are likely to significantly affect determined primarily by comparison with delivered on time.
Any such failure could our US business.
It is difficult to predict with existing products for the same medical have a material adverse effect on certainty the actual effect on our business of condition.
All existing products are subject to AstraZenecas financial condition and such changes to the legislation.
a price review at least every two years.
Regulations introduced in 2000 included In addition, realised prices are being provisions allowing a drugs price to be set Risk of delay to new product launches depressed by pressure from managed care according to the average price of the product AstraZenecas continued success depends and institutional purchasers, who use cost in four major countries the US, the UK, on the development and successful launch of considerations to restrict the sale of preferred Germany and France.
The anticipated launch drugs that their physicians may prescribe, as dates of major new products have a significant well as other competitive activity.
Such limited Taxation impact on a number of areas of our business, lists or formularies may force manufacturers The UK is party to various double tax treaties including investment in large clinical trials, the either to reduce prices or be excluded from with foreign jurisdictions which enable manufacture of pre-launch stocks of the the list, thereby losing all the sales revenue AstraZenecas revenues and capital gains to products and the timing of anticipated future from patients covered by that formulary.
The escape a double tax charge to both UK and revenue streams from commercial sales of use of strict formularies by institutional foreign jurisdiction tax.
If any of these double the products.
Any delay to the anticipated customers is increasing rapidly in response to tax treaties should be withdrawn or launch dates may therefore impact the current cost-containment environment, amended, or should any member of the AstraZenecas business and operations in a resulting in lower margins on such sales.
AstraZeneca Group become involved in number of ways.
For example, we had taxation disputes with any tax authority, such expected Crestor to be launched in the US in Some governments in Europe, notably Italy withdrawal, amendment or a negative the second half of 2002.
However, the and Spain, set price controls having regard to outcome of such disputes could have a approval of products in the same class as the medical, economic and social impact of material adverse effect on AstraZenecas Crestor was subject to additional regulatory the product.
In other European countries, financial condition and results of operations.
scrutiny partly as a result of the previous primarily Germany, the UK, the Netherlands withdrawal from the market of cerivastatin.
and, more recently, France, governments are Crestor was launched in the US in exerting a strong downward pressure on September 2003.
Significant delay to the AstraZeneca Annual Report and Risk Factors Form 20-F Information 2004 157 anticipated launch dates of new products following a failure to comply with such could have a material adverse effect on could have a material adverse effect on ongoing regulatory oversight, could have a AstraZenecas financial position and results AstraZenecas financial condition and results material adverse effect on AstraZenecas of operations.
Risks associated with forward-looking Difficulties of obtaining government Performance of new products statements regulatory approvals for new products Although we carry out numerous and This report contains certain forward-looking AstraZeneca is subject to strict controls on extensive clinical trials on all our products statements about AstraZeneca.
Although we the manufacture, labelling, distribution and before they are launched, for a new, recently believe our expectations are based on marketing of pharmaceutical products.
The launched product, it can be difficult, for a reasonable assumptions, any forwardrequirement to obtain regulatory approval period following its launch, to establish from looking statements may be influenced by based on safety, efficacy and quality before available data a meaningful and reliable factors that could cause actual outcomes such products may be marketed in a assessment of its eventual efficacy and or and results to be materially different from particular country and to maintain and to safety in clinical use on the market.
Forward-looking comply with licences and other regulations the relatively short time that a product has statements are identified in this report, by relating to their manufacture are particularly been marketed and the relatively small using the words anticipates, believes, important.
The submission of an application number of patients who have taken the expects, intends and similar expressions.
to a regulatory authority does not guarantee product, the available data may be immature.
These forward-looking statements are that approval to market the products will be Simple extrapolation of the data may not be subject to numerous risks and uncertainties.
The countries that constitute accurate and could lead to a misleading Important factors that could cause actual material markets for our pharmaceutical interpretation of a new products likely future results to differ materially from those in products include the US, the countries of the commercial performance.
forward-looking statements, certain of which European Union and Japan.
Approval of are beyond our control, include, among other such products is required by the relevant The successful launch of a new things: the loss or expiration of patents, regulatory authority in each country, although pharmaceutical product involves a marketing exclusivity or trade marks: in Europe, single marketing authorisation can substantial investment in sales and exchange rate fluctuations: the risk that R&D govern the approval of products throughout marketing costs, launch stocks and other will not yield new products that achieve the European Union through a centralised items.
If a new product does not succeed as commercial success: the impact of procedure.
In addition, each jurisdiction has anticipated or its rate of sales growth is competition, price controls and price very high standards of regulatory approval slower than anticipated, there is a risk that reductions: taxation risks: the risk of and, consequently, in most cases, a lengthy the costs incurred in launching it could have a substantial product liability claims: the impact approval process.
Furthermore, each material adverse effect on AstraZenecas of any failure by third parties to supply regulatory authority may impose its own financial condition and results of operations.
materials or services: the risk of delay to new requirements and may refuse to grant, or product launches: the difficulties of obtaining may require additional data before granting Environmental liabilities and maintaining governmental approvals for an approval even though the relevant AstraZeneca has environmental liabilities at products: and the risk of environmental product has been approved in another some currently or formerly owned, leased liabilities.
For example, in 2004 the FDA did and third party sites in the US, as described not approve Exanta for any of the indications in more detail on page 111.
There is no sought and although the Japanese reason for us to believe that current and regulatory authority granted approval for expected expenditure and risks occasioned Crestor, this was conditional on a postby these circumstances are likely to have a marketing surveillance programme being material adverse effect on AstraZenecas carried out.
financial position and results of operations although they could, to the extent that they Risk of failure to observe ongoing exceed applicable provisions, have a material regulatory oversight adverse effect on AstraZenecas financial AstraZenecas products are only licensed position and results of operations for the following exhaustive regulatory approval relevant period.
In addition, a change in processes.
Once a product is licensed it is circumstances including a change in subject to ongoing control and regulation, applicable laws or regulations may result in such as the manner of its manufacture, such a material adverse effect.
Although we distribution and marketing.
Regulatory take great care to ensure that we operate our authorities have wide-ranging administrative business at all of our sites within all applicable powers to deal with any failure to comply with environmental laws, regulations, licences and their ongoing regulatory oversight.
These permits, a significant environmental incident powers include withdrawal of a licence for which we were responsible could result in approval previously granted, product recalls, AstraZeneca being liable to pay seizure of products and other sanctions for compensation, fines or remediation costs.
Regulatory sanction, In some circumstances, such liability
