138 BT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2004 Risk factors The business of BT is affected by a number of factors, may lead to a fall in BTs turnover and an adverse not all of which are wholly within BTs control.
Unlike its competitors, BT Although many of the factors inuencing BTs continues to be obliged by the current regulatory performance are macro economic and likely to affect regime to serve customers in the United Kingdom, the performance of businesses generally, some aspects whether or not such provision of service is economic, of BTs business make it particularly sensitive to and the competitive measures described above may certain areas of business risk.
This section highlights have the effect of accelerating the diversion of its more some of those specic areas.
However, it does not profitable existing customers without it being able to purport to be an extensive analysis of the factors reduce its costs commensurately.
These changes in the affecting the business and some risks may be unknown regulatory environment and ensuing increased to us and other risks, currently believed to be competition on its xed network may cause adverse immaterial, could turn out to be material.
All of these effects on its business, results of operations, financial could materially adversely affect our business, condition and prospects.
turnover, profits, assets, liquidity and capital resources.
They should also be considered in BTs business is dependent on the ability to exploit connection with the forward looking statements in this technological advances quickly and successfully document and the cautionary statement regarding BT operates in an industry with a recent history of forward-looking statements on page 141 of this fast technological changes.
It expects that new document.
products and technologies will emerge and that existing products and technologies will develop If BTs activities are subject to significant price and further.
BT needs to continually develop its services other regulatory controls, its market share, and products to exploit those next generation competitive position and future profitability may be technologies.
However, BT cannot predict the actual affected effect of these technological changes on its business Most of BTs xed network activities in the UK are or on its ability to provide competitive services.
For subject to significant regulatory controls.
The controls example there is evidence of substitution by regulate, among other things, the prices BT may customers using mobile phones for day-to-day voice charge for many of its services and the extent to which calls in place of making such calls over the xed it has to provide services to its competitors.
Additionally, some calls are now being years, the effect of these controls has been to cause routed over the internet in place of the traditional BT to reduce its prices.
BT cannot assure its switched network.
If these trends accelerate, BTs shareholders that the regulatory authorities will not xed network assets may be used uneconomically increase the severity of the price controls, nor extend and its investment in these assets may not be the services to which controls apply including any new recovered through profits on xed-network calls and services that BT may offer in the future, nor extend line rentals.
Impairment write-downs may be incurred the services which it has to provide its competitors.
and margins may decline if xed costs cannot be These controls may adversely affect BTs market share, reduced in line with falling turnover.
the severity of competition and its future profitability.
During 2004 Ofcom is undertaking a strategic review BT is carrying out a transformation strategy, of the UK telecommunications market in order to including the targeting of significant growth in new formulate the principles on which it can base its business areas regulatory decisions in the future.
This review is BT has a strategy to transform its business.
This may scheduled to be completed before the end of 2004.
It result in changes to its products, services, markets and is not possible to predict the outcome or implications culture.
If the groups transformation strategy is for BT of Ofcoms review.
Further details on the unsuccessful there is a risk that the future turnover and regulatory framework in which BT operates can be profitability will decline.
In particular BT has targeted found in Business Review regulation, competition significant growth in new business areas, such as and prices on pages 17 to 23 of this document.
broadband, mobility and Information and Communications Technology ICT solutions.
In view of BT faces strong competition in UK xed network the likely level of competition and uncertainties services regarding the level of economic activity, there can be BT continues to have a significant market share in no certainty that BT will meet its growth targets in some aspects of UK xed network services.
In these areas, with a consequential impact on future particular, in the 2004 financial year we estimate we turnover and profitability.
had a market share of 70% of consumer calls and 42% of business calls in the UK.
Regulators have promoted BTs businesses may be adversely affected if they competition in this area by allowing BTs competitors fail to perform on major contracts to site equipment in or adjacent to its exchanges local BT has entered into a number of complex and high loop unbundling, to make it easier for BTs customers value services contracts with customers.
Failure to to route some or all of their calls over competitors manage and meet BTs commitments under these networks carrier pre-selection and by the introduction contracts may lead to a reduction in BTs future of a wholesale access product wholesale line rental.
turnover, profitability and cash generation.
Reduction in BTs market share in the xed network 139 Risk factors BT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2004 BTs businesses may be adversely affected if their networks or systems experience any significant failures or interruptions BTs businesses are dependent on their ability to transfer substantial volumes of data speedily and without interruption.
Any significant failure or interruption of such data transfer due to factors outside their control could have a material adverse effect on the businesses and their results from operations.
BT has a business continuity strategy designed to deal with such catastrophic events, including for example major terrorist action, industrial action, extreme virus attack, hurricane or ooding, that may impact the ability to maintain an effective service to customers.
A failure to deliver that strategy may result in a material loss and there can be no assurance that material adverse events will not occur.
Declining investment returns and longer life expectancy may result in the funding cost of the dened benefit pension scheme becoming a significant burden on the financial resources of BT The dened benefit pension scheme, the BT Pension Scheme BTPS, was closed to new members on 31 March 2001 and has been replaced by a dened contribution scheme BTRP.
The latest full triennial actuarial valuation of the BTPS was completed as at 31 December 2002.
As a result, BT agreed to make normal contributions of 12.2% of pensionable pay and annual deficiency payments of 232 million.
This will apply until the next triennial actuarial valuation is completed as at 31 December 2005.
In March 2004 a 380 million prepayment of deficiency contributions was made, representing most of the deficiency contributions for the 2005 and 2006 financial years.
The results of future scheme valuations will be impacted by the future investment market performance, interest rates and the general trend towards longer life expectancy, all of which are outside the control of BT.
In the event that investment returns decline or life expectancy increases, the cash funding cost to BT may increase and may have a significant effect on the financial resources of BT.
