Risk factors Our business, financial condition and results of operations, and Hanson is subject to potential liabilities arising out of former consequently the price of the Hanson shares and the amount and timing businesses and activities.
of any dividends that we pay, will be inuenced by a range of factors, many Former and existing subsidiaries have engaged in businesses and of which are beyond the control of Hanson and its Board.
The risk factors activities, unrelated to the business and activities presently being carried set out below and the other information in this Annual Report and Form on by our group, which give rise to bodily injury and property damage 20-F should be considered carefully.
There may be other risks which are claims concerning environmental and health issues.
Claims and lawsuits not known to the Company or which may not be material now but could have been led against these subsidiaries, either directly or as a result turn out to be material.
of indemnity obligations, relating to products incorporating asbestos, coal by-products and chemicals, in particular for the wood treating industry.
Changes in economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on the level of demand for Hansons products.
With respect to asbestos related claims, the Companys approach Our performance is affected signicantly by changes in economic to accounting for the asbestos claims against its US subsidiaries is conditions, both globally and in the particular countries in which we conduct to provide for those costs of resolution which are both probable and our operations, especially in the USA, the UK and Australia where we reliably estimable.
The costs of resolving possible claims are accounted have our most significant operations.
The demand for our products, which for as contingent liabilities.
At present, based on detailed analysis and are mainly aggregates, concrete products, ready-mixed concrete, asphalt the assumptions contained in note 17 of the Notes to the accounts, and clay bricks, is closely linked to general economic conditions in each the provision for those costs which are both probable and estimable of the territories in which we operate.
As a result, depressed economic equates to approximately eight years of gross cost at current levels.
conditions could have an adverse effect on demand for, and pricing of, Whilst further claims are likely to be resolved beyond this eight year our products, which could result in reduced sales and reduced profits.
period, the associated costs of resolution are not able to be reliably estimated and hence no provision has been made to cover these Changes in government policy or legislation could signicantly possible liabilities.
affect Hansons regulatory compliance and other operating costs and Hansons ability to establish additional aggregates reserves.
Factors which could cause actual results to differ from these estimates Our performance is affected signicantly by national and or local government and expectations include: i adverse trends in the ultimate number of policy and legislation in the regions and territories in which we operate.
asbestos claims led against the Companys US subsidiaries: ii increases in the cost of resolving current and future asbestos claims as a result Many of our products are subject to government regulation in various of adverse trends relating to settlement costs, dismissal rates, legal jurisdictions regarding their production and sale, and our operating fees and or judgment sizes: iii decreases in the amount of insurance units are subject to extensive regulation by national and local agencies available to cover asbestos claims as a result of adverse changes in concerning such matters as zoning and environmental and health and the interpretation of insurance policies or the insolvency of insurers: safety compliance.
Numerous governmental permits and approvals are iv the emergence of new trends or legal theories that enlarge the scope required for our operations.
We believe that our operating units are of potential claimants: v the impact of bankruptcies of other companies currently operating in substantial compliance with, or under approved whose share of liability may be imposed on the Companys US subsidiaries variances from, various national and local regulations in all applicable under certain state liability laws: vi the unpredictable aspects of the US jurisdictions.
In the past, our subsidiaries have made significant capital litigation process: vii adverse changes in the mix of asbestos-related and maintenance expenditures to comply with zoning, water, air and diseases with respect to which asbestos claims are made against the solid and hazardous waste regulations, and these subsidiaries may Companys US subsidiaries, and viii potential legislative changes.
be required to do so in the future.
In light of such factors, the liability of the Companys US subsidiaries The existence of these national and local regulations in many for resolving asbestos claims may be materially different from current jurisdictions in which we operate also means that it is often difficult to estimates and the impact of such claims might have a material adverse establish new greeneld aggregates reserves and brick manufacturing effect on the Companys consolidated financial condition, results of plants with clay reserves in areas where demand would justify the operations and cash ow.
However, assuming that current trends continue, capital expenditure required.
the Company does not expect that the liability and costs associated with these asbestos claims will have such a material adverse effect and, even Changes in government regulations and the imposition of industry assuming a material deterioration in current trends, on the evidence related taxes such as the Aggregates Levy and the Climate Change available to it the Company does not expect that such claims would Levy in the UK could increase our operating costs.
impact the ability of the Company to continue as a going concern.
Changes in government policy or legislation relating to public works With respect to claims involving coal by-products and chemicals, expenditure and housing could have a material adverse effect on the US subsidiary involved has not entered into a material settlement the levels of demand for Hansons products.
or been subject to a material adverse judgment since the demergers National governments policies with regard to the development of as described below.
Nevertheless, in light of the uncertainties involved transport infrastructure and housing, both in terms of funding and in litigation and in particular in the USA, where there is the added potential planning requirements, have a significant effect on demand for our for punitive damages, our subsidiary may be required to participate in products and, as a result, our profitability.
For instance, the US Federal settlements or be subject to judgments in future, the impact of which may Government has yet to approve SAFETEA, the successor to TEA-21, be material on our financial condition, results of operations and cash ow.
which earmarks federal funds to be supplemented by state funds in the USA to improve the highway network.
We expect these funds to Four companies into which former Hanson businesses were demerged contribute to demand for our products in the USA, but we cannot agreed in connection with their respective demergers to indemnify us be certain as to how much, if any, of these funds will be deployed for against liabilities of the businesses transferred to these companies.
improvements to the highway network.
Decreases in governmental We have not incurred any liability in respect of any claim that related funding or in the allocation of those funds for transport infrastructure to the above-mentioned businesses demerged by it, any such liability and housing projects could reduce the amount of money available for being borne by the relevant demerged company without liability to us.
spending on our products, potentially thereby reducing sales and profits.
The Energy Group plc, one of the demerged companies, was acquired by TXU Corp. in 1998.
In November 2002, TXU Corp. announced that several of TXU Corp. s UK subsidiaries had been placed under the administrative process in the UK similar to bankruptcy proceedings in the USA, including The Energy Group.
The Energy Group is, therefore, unlikely to be able to full its indemnification obligations to Hanson if it were required to do so.
We are, however, not aware of any claim against us or our subsidiaries that would give rise to an indemnity obligation on the part of The Energy Group.
44 Risk factors Risk factors continued Hansons acquisition strategy may be unsuccessful due to an inability to Hanson is subject to risks relating to changes in exchange rates.
identify suitable acquisition targets and to integrate acquired companies In the year ended December 31, 2004, approximately 75% of our into its business.
pre-exceptional operating profit including joint-ventures and associates We plan to continue making selective acquisitions to strengthen, was earned in currencies other than pounds sterling and a significant develop and expand our existing aggregates, concrete products, portion of our revenue is denominated in US dollars.
At December 31, ready-mixed concrete, asphalt and clay brick activities.
2004, approximately 70% of our capital employed was located outside the UK and approximately 173% of our net debt and foreign exchange The successful implementation of our acquisition strategy depends on contracts was denominated in currencies other than pounds sterling.
a range of factors, including our ability to identify appropriate opportunities, complete acquisitions and achieve an acceptable rate of return from those Since our results are reported in pounds sterling, exchange rate acquisitions, including past acquisitions.
movements affect our reported profits, assets, cash and debt balances.
This effect may be positive or negative depending on the nature of the There may also be substantial challenges or delays in integrating and actual exchange rate movement and the nature of any currency hedging adding value to the businesses which we acquire.
In addition, the costs of instruments that we have put in place.
Fluctuations in exchange rates integration, which are not presently capable of being estimated, could be could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results material and the projected synergies resulting from such acquisitions may of operations to the extent that we have not effectively hedged against not be realised.
Material costs or delays in connection with the integration those exchange rate movements.
of the operations that we acquire or the inability to realise synergies from those acquisitions could result in increased expenditure and, consequently, Ineffective implementation of computer software systems could reduced profitability and rates of return for us from such acquisitions.
The implementation of software to improve the efficiency and effectiveness Hanson operates in an extremely competitive market.
of various business processes is an important contributor to our ongoing Most, if not all, of the markets in which we operate are extremely operations and growth strategy.
Failure to design, select appropriate competitive.
The competitive environment in which we operate can be suppliers or implement such systems effectively could result in unplanned signicantly affected by local factors, such as the number of competitors costs or reduced levels of customer satisfaction which could adversely and production capacity in the local market, the proximity of natural affect the results of our operations and profitability.
resources to the local market and economic conditions and product demand in the local market.
The pricing policies of competitors and If Hanson is characterised as a passive foreign investment the entry of new competitors in the local markets in which we operate company, US persons who hold Hansons ordinary shares or can have an adverse effect on demand for our products and on the ADSs US shareholders may suffer adverse tax consequences.
results of our operations and profitability.
If, for any taxable year, our passive income, or assets which produce passive income, exceed specified levels, we may be characterised as Disruption to or increased costs of the supply of materials, energy a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for US federal income and fuel to Hanson and the supply of nished products to Hansons tax purposes.
This characterisation could result in adverse US tax customers could signicantly reduce Hansons profitability.
consequences for our US shareholders, which may include having gains We are a significant purchaser of materials, including cement for use realised on the sale of our ordinary shares or ADSs treated as ordinary in our ready-mixed concrete and concrete products operations, steel income, rather than as capital gains income and having potentially punitive for use in our concrete product operations, bitumen for use in our asphalt interest charges apply to the proceeds of sales of our ordinary shares or activities, gas and other energy supplies for use in our cement and brick ADSs.
We believe we were not a PFIC for the year ended December 31, manufacturing operations and fuel for the processing and transport 2004.
However, the tests for determining PFIC status are applied annually of our products.
The non-availability of power can materially disrupt and it is difficult to make accurate predictions of future income and assets, our operations.
The cost of such materials, energy and fuel uctuates, which are relevant to this determination.
Accordingly, we cannot assure sometimes by material amounts, and increases in the costs of such US shareholders that we will not become a PFIC.
In particular, depending materials, energy and fuel or their non-availability, could signicantly on the composition of our assets and other factors, including our market impact our operating costs and consequently reduce profitability.
capitalisation, there is a possibility that we may become a PFIC for the year which commenced in January 1, 2005.
A more detailed discussion Transport logistics play an important part in the Companys supply of the consequences of Hanson being classied as a PFIC, is set out chain, whether by road, rail, sea or river and any material disruption or under the heading Taxation information for US shareholders referred non-availability of such transport support, could signicantly impact to in ancillary information.
US shareholders are urged to consult with on operating costs and reduce profitability.
their own US tax advisors with respect to the US tax consequences of investing in Hansons ordinary shares or ADSs.
Inclement weather conditions could signicantly impact levels of construction activity and hence demand for Hansons products.
Extended periods of inclement weather, especially periods of heavy or sustained rainfall during peak construction periods during the year, can result in a material reduction in demand for our products at important times, as well as impact our ability to produce our products, and consequently result in reduced revenues and profits.
