Annual Report 2004 Vodafone Group Plc 21 Risk Factors and Legal Proceedings commercial launch of, or reduce the potential revenue benefits from, 3G services.
The Risk Factors introduction of software and other network components may also be delayed.
The Regulatory decisions and changes in the regulatory failure of vendor performance or technology performance to meet the Groups expectations or the failure of a technology to achieve commercial acceptance could environment could adversely affect the Groups result in additional capital expenditures by the Group or a reduction in profitability.
Because the Group has ventures in a large number of geographic areas, it must The Groups business would be adversely affected by comply with an extensive range of requirements that regulate and supervise the the non-supply of equipment and support services by a licensing, construction and operation of its telecommunications networks and major supplier.
In particular, there are agencies which regulate and supervise the Companies within the Group source their mobile network infrastructure and related allocation of frequency spectrum and which monitor and enforce regulation and support services from third party suppliers.
The removal from the market of one or competition laws which apply to the mobile telecommunications industry.
Decisions more of these third party suppliers would adversely affect the Groups operations and by regulators regarding the granting, amendment or renewal of licences, to the Group could result in additional capital expenditures by the Group.
or to third parties, could adversely affect the Groups future operations in these geographic areas.
The Group cannot provide any assurances that governments in The Companys strategic objectives may be impeded by the countries in which it operates will not issue telecommunications licences to the fact that it does not have a controlling interest in new operators whose services will compete with it.
In addition, other changes in the regulatory environment concerning the use of mobile phones may lead to a some of its ventures.
reduction in the usage of mobile phones or otherwise adversely affect the Group.
Some of the Groups interests in mobile licences are held through entities in which it Additionally, decisions by regulators could further adversely affect the pricing for is a significant but not controlling owner.
Under the governing documents for some of services the Group offers.
Further details on the regulatory framework in certain these partnerships and corporations, certain key matters such as the approval of regions in which the Group operates can be found in Business Overview business plans and decisions as to the timing and amount of cash distributions Regulation.
require the consent of the partners.
In others, these matters may be approved without the Companys consent.
The Company may enter into similar arrangements as it Increased competition may reduce market share or participates in ventures formed to pursue additional opportunities.
has not been materially constrained by the nature of its mobile ownership interests, no The Group faces intensifying competition.
Competition could lead to a reduction in the assurance can be given that its partners will not exercise their power of veto or their rate at which the Group adds new customers and to a decrease in the size of the controlling influence in any of the Groups ventures in a way that will hinder the Groups market share as customers choose to receive mobile services from other Groups corporate objectives and reduce any anticipated cost savings or revenue providers.
enhancement resulting from these ventures.
The focus of competition in many of the Companys markets continues to shift from Expected benefits from investment in networks, customer acquisition to customer retention as the market for mobile licences and new technology may not be realised.
telecommunications has become increasingly penetrated.
Customer deactivations are The Group has made substantial investments in the acquisition of 3G licences and in measured by the Groups churn rate.
There can be no assurance that the Group will its mobile networks, including the rollout of 3G networks.
The Group expects to not experience increases in churn rates, particularly as competition intensifies.
An continue to make significant investments in its mobile networks due to increased increase in churn rates could adversely affect profitability because the Group would usage and the need to offer new services and greater functionality afforded by experience lower revenues and additional selling costs to replace customers, although 3G technology.
Accordingly, the rate of the Groups capital expenditures in future years such costs would have a future revenue stream to mitigate the impact.
could remain high or exceed that which it has experienced to date.
Increased competition has also led to declines in the prices the Group charges for its Please see Business Overview Licences and network infrastructure for more mobile services and is expected to lead to further price declines in the future.
information on expenditures in connection with the acquisition of 3G licences and Competition could also lead to an increase in the level at which the Group must expected expenditure in connection with the roll-out of 3G services.
There can be no provide subsidies for handsets.
Additionally, the Group could face increased assurance that the commercial launch of 3G services will proceed according to competition should there be an award of additional licences in jurisdictions in which a anticipated schedules or that the level of demand for 3G services will justify the cost member of the Group already has a licence, whether 2G or 3G.
of setting up and providing 3G services.
Failure or a delay in the completion of Delays in the development of handsets and network networks and the launch of new services, or increases in the associated costs, could have a material adverse effect on the Groups operations.
compatibility and components may hinder the deployment of new technologies.
The Group may experience a decline in revenues per The Groups operations depend in part upon the successful deployment of customer notwithstanding its efforts to increase continuously evolving mobile telecommunications technologies.
The Group uses revenues from the introduction of new services.
technologies from a number of vendors and makes significant capital expenditures in As part of its strategy to increase usage of its networks, the Group will continue to connection with the deployment of such technologies.
There can be no assurance that offer new services to its existing customers, and seek to increase non-voice service common standards and specifications will be achieved, that there will be interrevenues as a percentage of total service revenue.
However, the Group may not be operability across Group and other networks, that technologies will be developed able to introduce commercially these new services, or may experience significant according to anticipated schedules, that they will perform according to expectations or delays due to problems such as the availability of new mobile handsets or higher than that they will achieve commercial acceptance.
Commercially viable 3G handsets may anticipated prices of new handsets.
In addition, even if these services are introduced not be available in the timeframe required or in the amounts needed, which may delay Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2004 22 Risk Factors and Legal Proceedings continued in accordance with expected time schedules, there is no assurance that revenues Legal Proceedings from such services will increase ARPU.
Save as disclosed below, the Company and its subsidiaries are not involved in any The Groups business and its ability to retain customers legal or arbitration proceedings including any governmental proceedings which are pending or known to be contemplated which are expected to have, or have had in the and attract new customers may be impaired by actual twelve months preceding the date of this report, a significant effect on the financial or perceived health risks associated with the position or profitability of the Company and its subsidiaries.
transmission of radiowaves from mobile telephones, The Company is a defendant in four actions in the United States alleging personal transmitters and associated equipment.
injury, including brain cancer, from mobile phone use.
In each case, various other Concerns have been expressed in some countries where the Group operates that the carriers and mobile phone manufacturers are also named as defendants.
These electromagnetic signals emitted by mobile telephone handsets and base stations may actions are at an early stage and no accurate quantification on any losses which may pose health risks at exposure levels below existing guideline levels and may interfere arise out of the claims can therefore be made as at the date of this report.
The with the operation of electronic equipment.
In addition, as described under Legal Company is not aware that the health risk alleged in such personal injury claims have Proceedings below, several mobile industry participants, including the Company and been substantiated and will be vigorously defending such claims.
Verizon Wireless, have had lawsuits filed against them alleging various health Between 18 September and 29 November 2002, nine complaints were filed in the consequences as a result of mobile phone usage, including brain cancer.
While the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York against the Company Company is not aware that such health risks have been substantiated, there can be and Lord MacLaurin, the Chairman of the Company and Sir Christopher Gent, Julian no assurance that the actual, or perceived, risks associated with radiowave Horn-Smith and Ken Hydon, executive officers of the Company.
The Court transmission will not impair its ability to retain customers and attract new customers, subsequently consolidated these actions and designated lead plaintiffs and lead reduce mobile telecommunications usage or result in further litigation.
In such event, plaintiffs counsel.
The plaintiffs filed a consolidated class action complaint on because of the Groups strategic focus on mobile telecommunications, its business 6 June 2003 which alleged, among other things, that certain public statements made and results of operations may be more adversely affected than those of other by or attributed to the defendants and the timing of the Companys decision to write companies in the telecommunications sector.
down the value of goodwill and certain impaired assets in the financial year ended 31 March 2002 violated Sections 10 b and 20 a of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 10b-5 thereunder.
The complaints sought, among other things, unspecified damages on behalf of the purchasers of the Companys securities during the period between 7 March 2001 and 28 May 2002.
On 9 October 2003, the Court ordered that the complaint be dismissed, with leave for the plaintiffs to re-plead.
On 10 November 2003, the plaintiffs filed a second consolidated amended class action complaint, which contained allegations and claims which were substantially similar to those in the original complaint and it added allegations that certain other statements by one or more of the defendants were materially false or misleading and in violation of the United States Federal Securities laws.
That new complaint no longer included Lord MacLaurin as a defendant.
On 26 March 2004, the Court struck a number of the allegations in the second consolidated amended complaint and dismissed without prejudice all of the individual defendants from this action.
It also gave the plaintiffs a further opportunity to re-plead.
On 7 May 2004, the plaintiffs filed a third consolidated amended class action complaint.
The new complaint names only the Company as a defendant and contains allegations and claims which are substantially similar to those asserted in the prior complaints.
The Company intends to defend the action vigorously.
