Financing Policy and Risk Management Objectives Interest rate management 56 The aim of British Lands financing policy is to fund the Group to service The Group borrows principally in Sterling at both fixed and floating rates its evolving corporate strategy and needs, and provide the flexibility to of interest, then uses derivatives to generate the desired interest rate take advantage of opportunities as they arise.
The principal objectives profile and to control the Groups exposure to interest rate fluctuations.
are to ensure that: The proportion of debt held at variable interest rates is varied as new transactions whether corporate, direct property or financing emerge, to significant committed undrawn facilities are available to support rebalance the overall mix.
Normally, the Group maintains around 85% current and future business requirements: of debt subject to a 5% tolerance either side at fixed or capped rates the Group is financed over the long term with debt levels supported to provide long-term protection.
The time horizon for this policy is a by recurring, committed income: rolling 3-5 years.
The use of derivatives is managed and monitored the Groups cost of capital is minimised: and by the Board of British Land Financing Limited and its Derivative Subthe Group maintains a prudent financial position by active manageCommittee, which includes four executive directors, and also retains a ment of financial risks, including interest rate, liquidity and counter specialist external firm of consultants.
The Groups credit exposure to party risks.
each derivative counterparty is monitored on a regular basis, as are external credit ratings.
Financing policy Through a mix of debt and equity finance, together with a wide variety of Foreign currency management debt sources, the Group aims to minimise its cost of capital, consistent To manage the impact of foreign exchange movements, the Group with its other strategy aims as outlined above.
Most joint ventures have borrows in currencies other than Sterling, principally Euros, and uses their own financing see pages 76 to 78, which is entirely independent cross-currency swaps to match foreign currency assets with foreign of the Groups financing.
The Groups financing policy is to leverage currency liabilities.
equity returns through strategic gearing, and at the same time maintain a When attractive terms are available to do so, the Group borrows defensive debt structure.
The mortgage ratio is maintained at or around in freely available currencies other than Sterling.
The Group fully hedges 50% subject to the Boards view of the property market, the future growth its foreign currency risk on such borrowings through derivatives.
The prospects of British Lands portfolio and recurring cash flows.
Groups policy is to have no material unhedged net assets or liabilities denominated in foreign currencies.
Liability management Liability management is not a profit centre and no speculative transacLiquidity and cash management tions are undertaken.
The Groups debt and derivative positions are The Group maintains a high level of undrawn revolving bank facilities to continuously reviewed to meet current and expected debt requirements.
The property portfolio is stringently reviewed The Group maintains a balance between longer-term and shorterto identify appropriate properties for sale, with a view to converting nonterm financings.
The latter provide flexibility of repayment at no penalty.
cash assets into cash if required.
Deposits are placed to optimise the Acquisitions are often funded initially by shorter-term credit facilities and rate of return, subject to the creditworthiness of the counterparty.
then refinanced with longer-term funding when market conditions are favourable.
Short-term financing is principally raised through bilateral Profit and loss account and balance sheet management and syndicated revolving bank facilities, which can be repaid at will The Group monitors the current and projected financial position using without penalty and redrawn again when the need arises.
All bank several key internally generated reports: cash flow, borrowing, debt facilities are unsecured and on standard terms to maintain operational maturity and derivatives schedules.
The Group also undertakes flexibility.
Medium to longer-term financing comprises public and private sensitivity analysis to assess the impact of proposed transactions and bond issues, including convertibles and securitisations.
British Lands movement in interest rates on the key balance sheet, liquidity and property portfolio is well placed to take advantage of new asset-specific profitability ratios.
At the Groups option, the 150 million 6% and cash-flow financing structures.
Financing risk is spread by using a Irredeemable Convertible Bond can be converted into preference shares, range of banks and a variety of types of finance.
The maturity profile of augmenting equity.
These preference shares can subsequently be debt is managed by spreading the repayment dates and extending and switched back to Bonds see page 82. expanding bank facilities.
Financing Policy and Risk Management The British Land Company PLC
