RISK FACTORS Risk factors ICI operates in competitive markets.
If the Group does not continue While the Group maintains insurance at levels that it believes are to compete in its markets effectively by developing innovative appropriate for its industry, some of these operational risks and products and responding effectively to the activities of its problems could result in uninsured losses or liabilities or in losses and competitors, it could lose customers and its results of operations liabilities in excess of its insurance coverage.
The occurrence of major could be adversely affected.
operational problems resulting from the above or other events may have an adverse effect on the results of operations of a particular ICI has a wide portfolio of business units competing across a diverse manufacturing facility, or with respect to certain of these risks, the range of geographic and product markets.
The Groups business may results of operations and cash flow of the Group as a whole.
be adversely affected if it does not continue to develop innovative products that satisfy customer needs and preferences, develop new ICI derives a significant percentage of its revenue in some of technology or enhance existing technology that supports product its businesses from sales to major customers, and if it is unable development or provides cost or other advantages over its to retain these customers, its results of operations could be 123 competitors, and attract and retain skilled employees that are key adversely affected.
Because the Group is subject to price While no single customer accounted for more than 10% of Group sales competition from its competitors, it must also continue to satisfy in 2004, sales to major customers in some of its businesses, particularly these objectives while maintaining a competitive cost base.
in the Paints and Quest businesses, are significant.
ICI believes that the In addition, some of ICIs competitors in certain markets are larger wide selling range and nature of the specialty products it supplies reduce and have greater financial resources than the Group, which may the potential adverse consequences of the loss of business from any enable them to deliver products on more attractive terms or to invest one customer for any one of its products or in any one of its businesses.
larger amounts of capital into their businesses, including expenditure Nevertheless, the loss of major customers, without replacement, could for research and development.
If any of the Groups current or future have an adverse effect on the Groups results of operations.
competitors develop proprietary technology that enables them to The Groups reliance on key suppliers in some of its businesses produce new products or services or to deliver existing products could result in an adverse effect on results of operations.
or services at a significantly lower cost, the Groups products and services could be rendered uneconomical or obsolete.
Some of the Groups business units rely on a small number of suppliers for their key raw materials.
If any of these suppliers is unable While some of the Groups product range comprises products and to meet its obligations or increases its prices, the Group may not be services that are protected by proprietary knowledge or patents, some able to find a replacement supplier that is able to provide such raw of its businesses use technology that is widely available.
Accordingly, materials on similar terms.
Consequently, the Group may be forced to certain product segments of the Groups business may be vulnerable pay higher prices to obtain raw materials, which it may not be able to to new competitors and may be adversely affected by increased pass on to its customers in the form of increased prices for its finished price competition.
Any of these developments could lead to a loss products.
In addition, some of the raw materials used may become of customers and could adversely affect the Groups results unavailable, and there can be no assurance that the Group will be of operations.
able to obtain suitable and cost effective substitutes.
Furthermore, The price volatility of some of the raw materials ICI uses could any consolidation in the industries that supply the Groups raw adversely affect its results of operations.
materials could further reduce the number of available suppliers.
ICI uses significant amounts of various chemicals and other materials Any interruption of supply or price increases caused by these or as raw materials in manufacturing its products.
Prices for some of these other factors, which the Group is not able to mitigate by securing raw materials are volatile and are affected by cyclical movements satisfactory replacement suppliers, could have an adverse effect in commodity prices, availability of such raw materials, demand for on its results of operations.
a variety of products which are produced using these raw materials, ICIs indebtedness and resulting leverage could reduce its levels of price competition among local and global suppliers and general operational and competitive flexibility, increase its vulnerability to economic conditions.
The Groups diverse portfolio of value added adverse economic and industry conditions, increase its interest products provides some ability to pass on higher input prices to its costs and adversely affect results of operations and cash flow.
customers, but this ability is, to a large extent, dependent upon market conditions.
There may be periods of time in which the Group is not able ICIs outstanding net indebtedness amounted to 920m as of to recover increases in the cost of raw materials for some products due to 31 December 2004.
ICIs indebtedness could affect the Group in weakness in demand for such products or the actions of its competitors.
adverse ways, in particular by requiring the Group to dedicate a This may adversely affect the Groups results of operations.
significant portion of its operational cash flow to service payments on such indebtedness, and by limiting its ability to borrow additional The occurrence of major operational problems could have an funds or refinance existing indebtedness on attractive terms.
adverse effect on the Groups results of operations and cash flow.
Furthermore, its indebtedness could increase its vulnerability to The Groups revenues are dependent on the continued operation adverse economic and industry conditions, limit its ability to fund of its various manufacturing facilities.
Operational risks include: future capital expenditures, research and development and other general corporate requirements and limit its flexibility to react to equipment and systems failures: changes in its business and the industries in which the Group failure to comply with applicable regulations and standards and operates.
to maintain necessary permits and approvals: In addition, like many other companies, ICI is dependent on its raw material supply disruptions: ability to obtain short-term financing to fund a portion of its financing requirements.
While ICI has access to 718m in committed and labour force shortages or work stoppages: undrawn bank facilities as of 31 December 2004, limitations on ICIs events impeding or increasing the cost of transporting products: ability to access short-term financing could increase its interest costs and could adversely affect its results of operations and cash flow.
natural disasters: and terrorist attacks.
ICI ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 RISK FACTORS Risk factors continued A decision by the rating agencies to downgrade ICIs credit rating Risks associated with the Groups international operations could would reduce its funding options, increase its cost of borrowings adversely affect its results of operations.
and have an adverse impact on results of operations and cash flow.
ICI is an international business with operations located in over 50 A number of factors, some of which are not within the Groups control, countries and conducts business in many currencies.
These may, individually or in combination, affect the rating agencies view of operations are subject to the risks associated with international the Groups credit profile and lead them to place the Group on credit operations which include: watch or downgrade its credit rating, including: slowdown or recession in global, regional or national economic a significant deterioration in the Groups operating performance: growth: the inability of the Group to restore the profitability of its core tariffs and trade barriers: specialty chemicals business in the near term: exchange controls: 124 the incurrence of material, unexpected additional cash charges fluctuations in national currencies: leading to a weakening in cash flow debt metrics: social and political risks: a significant deterioration in the economic environment in which the Group operates: national and regional labour disputes: the occurrence of any of the events described in the other risk required compliance with a variety of foreign laws, regulations and factors contained in this Annual Report and Accounts.
standards: and Recently disposed businesses may expose ICI to costs that could the difficulty of enforcing legal claims and agreements through some have an adverse effect on its results of operations, cash flow and foreign legal systems.
Furthermore, some of ICIs businesses are subject to cyclical In recent years, ICI has carried out a programme of strategic fluctuations in the industries and economies in which they operate.
disposals, in the course of which it has given to other parties in Finally, like all international businesses, ICI faces the risk of exposure those transactions certain indemnities, warranties and guarantees, when costs arise in a different currency than sales and the risk arising including indemnities, warranties and guarantees relating to known from the need to translate foreign currency denominated profits into and potential latent environmental, health and safety liabilities.
There pounds sterling, the Groups reporting currency.
Any of the risks are also a number of contracts relating to businesses that ICI exited discussed above could adversely affect its results of operations.
as part of its disposal programme which have not been novated to Economic, social and political conditions in developing economies the purchasers of these businesses.
could adversely affect the Groups results of operations and future ICIs original disposal of the Chlor-Chemicals business to Ineos Chlor growth.
included an agreement for ICI to provide Ineos Chlor with a 100m ICI has operations in many developing economies in Asia and Latin loan facility.
As part of an overall refinancing package for Ineos Chlor, America, and its strategy includes continuing to expand its business ICI agreed on 31 July 2003 to make available new funding of 60m in these regions.
However, many developing economies have recent alongside 45m of new funding from the Ineos Group and 50m of histories of economic, social and political instability brought about Regional Selective Assistance RSA from the UK Government.
by a number of factors, including unexpected changes in local laws, As a consequence of this, the 65m claim previously notified to ICI regulations and standards, substantial depreciation and volatility in by Ineos Chlor in connection with the original sale of the business national currencies, the imposition of trade barriers, and wage and has been withdrawn.
By October 2004 ICI had advanced 105m out price controls.
In particular, ICIs businesses in Argentina and Brazil of its total funding commitment of 160m.
have been, and may continue to be, affected by recent economic In October 2004 Ineos agreed to take over ICIs outstanding funding conditions in those countries.
Any of these factors could adversely commitments to Ineos Chlor of 55m.
ICI wrote off all existing affect ICIs results of operations and future growth.
indebtedness from Ineos Chlor and took an exceptional charge of ICIs exposure to consumer markets exposes it to legal risks, 5m before tax in its third quarter results.
regulation and potential liabilities from product liability claims In connection with the sale of the Groups 50% interest in Teesside asserted by consumers which could have an adverse effect on Gas Transportation Ltd and Teesside Power Ltd, the Group received results of operations and financial condition.
counter guarantees from Enron Corp. for guarantees that it had given A significant proportion of the Groups products is sold directly or and which currently remain in place for certain pipeline capacity and indirectly to end-user consumers, even if the Group does not itself gas purchase contracts.
While the two businesses for which ICI have provide these products directly to consumers.
This exposure to provided these guarantees continue to operate normally, Enron Corp. consumer markets exposes the Group to legal risks, regulation by has filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in the United States.
As relevant authorities and potential liabilities to consumers of these of 31 December 2004, the estimate of the Groups maximum potential products, which may not be covered by the Groups existing insurance liability under these guarantees was 312m.
coverage or may exceed its insurance coverage.
Any of these factors The extent to which ICI will be required in the future to incur costs could have an adverse effect on the Groups results of operations and under any of the indemnifications, warranties, guarantees or contracts financial condition.
discussed above or any similar contractual provision which the Group Certain companies in the Group are defendants in various lawsuits entered into in connection with its disposal programme, is not which, if successfully asserted against them, could have an adverse predictable and, if the Group should incur such costs, the costs effect on its results of operations and financial condition.
could have an adverse effect on results of operations, cash flow and financial condition.
Certain companies in the Group are defendants in various lawsuits.
These lawsuits concern issues such as alleged product liability and contract disputes.
For a more detailed discussion of these lawsuits, see note 39 to the consolidated financial statements.
ICI ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 RISK FACTORS The Glidden Company Glidden, a wholly owned subsidiary of ICI, by asset value and projected benefit terms and covers approximately is a defendant, along with former lead paint and pigment producers as 76,500 former and current employees in the UK.
ICI guarantees the well as other lead product manufacturers and their trade associations, solvency of the Fund.
in a number of law suits in the United States.
These suits seek damages On 16 October 2003, ICI announced the completion of the triennial for alleged personal injury caused by lead-based paint or the costs valuation of the Fund.
The valuation concluded that as of 31 March of removing lead-based paint.
An alleged predecessor of Glidden 2003, the ICI UK Pension Fund had a deficit for funding purposes of manufactured lead pigments until the 1950s and lead-based consumer 443m and a solvency ratio of 93%.
Glidden is currently a defendant in four active suits and is also named in three unserved cases.
Glidden is unable ICI has agreed to make top-up contributions to the Fund of 62m to quantify the amount being claimed although the suits are likely to per year for nine years from 2004 and has provided an asset-backed involve substantial claims for damages.
Rulings adverse to Glidden guarantee, via a wholly owned subsidiary specifically incorporated or other defendants could lead to additional claims.
to provide the guarantee, for 250m to support its commitments 125 to the Fund.
Such asset-backed guarantee is secured by way of a The successful assertion of claims made under these or other current fixed and floating charge over the assets of the subsidiary.
or future lawsuits could have an adverse effect on the Groups results of operations and financial condition.
At 31 December 2004, over 84% of the Funds assets were invested in investment grade fixed-interest and index linked securities or cash.
Violations of environmental, health and safety and other laws, The balance of the Funds assets were invested mainly in equities.
regulations and standards could restrict the Groups operations, expose it to liability, increase its costs and have an adverse effect Accordingly, ICI is exposed to the financial performance of its retirement on its results of operations, cash flow and financial condition.
benefit schemes and particularly to the financial performance of the ICI UK Pension Fund.
In certain circumstances, ICI may be required ICI is subject to a broad range of laws, regulations and standards in to increase its top-up contributions to the Fund.
This could have an each of the jurisdictions where it operates, relating to pollution, the adverse impact on the Groups results of operations and cash flow.
health and safety of employees, protection of the public, protection of the environment and the generation, storage, handling, transportation, treatment, disposal and remediation of hazardous substances and waste materials.
These regulations and standards are becoming increasingly stringent.
In the ordinary course of business ICI is subject to inspections and monitoring by the appropriate enforcement authorities.
ICI also requires relevant permits and approvals for its operations which require compliance with their terms and which may be subject to renewal, modification and, in some circumstances, revocation.
It is the Groups policy to require that its subsidiaries comply with relevant laws, regulations and standards.
However, violations of applicable laws, regulations and standards, in particular provisions of environmental, health and safety laws including spills or other releases of hazardous substances to the environment or of permit or approval requirements, could result in restrictions on the operation of the Groups facilities, damages, fines or other sanctions, increased costs of compliance as well as reputational damage.
ICI is also subject to environmental laws and regulations, principally in respect of soil and groundwater remediation, that in the future may require it to take action to correct effects on the environment of prior disposal or release of chemical substances by the Group or other parties.
ICI has established provisions in respect of future environmental, health and safety liabilities that are not covered by enforceable indemnities from third parties, for which expenditure is probable and the cost of which can be estimated within a reasonable range of outcomes.
These actual and potential liabilities, however, are inherently difficult to predict and to quantify.
Existing provisions could therefore be inadequate to cover these liabilities, and additional costs to meet such actual and potential obligations could have an adverse effect on the Groups results of operations, cash flow and financial condition.
ICI has given undertakings and guarantees relating to pension funds, including the solvency of the ICI UK Pension Fund, which could have an adverse effect on its results of operations and cash flow.
ICI provides retirement benefits for the majority of its former and current employees through a variety of defined benefit and defined contribution schemes.
These include the ICI UK Pension Fund Fund, which is ICIs largest defined benefit scheme and which, at 31 December 2004, had liabilities of approximately 6.9bn.
This fund accounts for approximately 85% of ICIs retirement benefit schemes ICI ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004
