BUSINESS REVIEW Corporate responsibility At Meggitt, we recognise our responsibility to shareholders, employees, customers, suppliers and the wider community.
We will comply with all relevant national laws and regulations and aim to improve our financial, social and environmental performance continually.
Policy Meggitt is committed to upholding sound corporate governance minimising the environmental impact principles of products and processes providing a supportive, rewarding and acting as a responsible supplier and safe working environment encouraging our contractors and suppliers to do the same conducting business relationships in an ethical manner supporting our local communities Action For our stakeholders, this means financial probity effective risk identi cation robust internal and external reporting and controls dynamic business continuity plans safe working environments independent audits  environmental management systems professional and comprehensive employee training programmes modern operational practices the social and economic enrichment of local communities 22 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 10-1012 Meggitt Front Section.
indd 22 22 09 03 2010 09 03 2010 14:16 14:16 Meggitt is a signatory to the Sustainable Our US facility in Rockmart, Georgia Governance and compliance Aviation Strategy of the A|D|S Group installed an ef cient compressed air Meggitts Corporate Responsibility CR the UKs primary aerospace, defence system with a variable speed drive.
com and security trade association and This saves approximately $1,000 underpins the way we manage social, is represented on its environmental per month in electricity costs and, ethical and environmental issues and working group.
because it recovers and recirculates we devote signi cant internal resources air for heating, conserves gas.
The to implementing it across Meggitt We provide data to the Carbon sites newly-installed water cooling facilities worldwide.
Every site records Disclosure Project CDP, a nontower, reduces waste water and important data on environmental, health governmental initiative that measures cooling time.
Fluorescent lights and safety, employees and supply chain and discloses the greenhouse gas have replaced a metal halide lighting performance for analysis by the group.
emissions and climate change strategies system, halving energy consumption.
of 2,500 organisations around the world.
CR is overseen by our Group Corporate Meggitts aircraft braking systems Our UK sites will participate in the Affairs Director.
Health, Safety site in the UK implemented signi cant Carbon Reduction Commitment and Environmental matters, Trade environmental improvements in Energy Ef ciency Scheme CRC.
We Compliance and Ethics are managed by a its carbon vapour deposition CVD are currently developing systems and highly experienced team of professionals.
process, reducing waste carbon strategies to manage CRC requirements, The Board has appointed an Ethics and gas.
These included technical whilst minimising any financial impact.
and Trade Compliance Committee to alterations to the CVD waste gas ensure we have effective programmes While we are committed to minimising system, resulting in a rise in gas rein these two areas and to oversee their the environmental impact of all our sites, usage from 30% to 95%.
Divisional presidents and some of our engineering processes Meggitts Danish piezoceramics facility site directors are responsible for the cannot be substituted for those with installed a new waste water treatment implementation of our policies on these less impact because of performance plant, reducing the waste water for matters at a local level.
demands on our defence and aerospace deposit at government treatment products.
However, in 2009, nearly all plants by 40% and generating Corporate responsibility in action Meggitts key environmental measures signi cant operational ef ciencies.
Environment decreased in absolute terms.
While some of this occurred because of lower Many of Meggitts products respond Meggitts Group Environmental production, a signi cant proportion to the requirements of environmental Policy commits us to arose from active initiatives.
Products that weigh less, for complying with applicable Electricity usage decreased by 11% to example, save fuel.
environmental legislation 148 GWH 2008: 167 GWH Weighing up to 20% less than the reducing the environmental impact Gas usage declined by 6% to 195 GWH current standard, Airbus accredited of our own and our suppliers 2008: 207 GWH Meggitts new interior seal polymers products and operations in 2009.
Carbon emissions decreased by 10% to 114,932 tonnes 2008: 127,378 We continue to work with a major Our global environmental audit 1 tonnes as restated airframer on energy-conscious programme, supported by external electro-thermal ice protection consultants, operates according to Water consumption decreased by 9% systems using a smart control the same continuous improvement 3 3 to 639,807 m 2008: 704,438 m feature that, based on ight philosophy as our production facilities.
Waste decreased by 5% to 9,804 conditions, applies heat selectively to We use it to review compliance standards, tonnes 2008: 10,370 tonnes wing surfaces.
reveal shortfalls in performance, recommend remedial action and share Meggitts electric brake control In 2009, Meggitt sites continued to best practice.
In 2009, we audited nearly system is responding to the reduce their environmental impact: one third of Meggitt sites.
Over two airframers requirement for thirds have now attained environmental Our Swiss facility reduced emissions electrically-powered services that management standard ISO14001, with the to air by decommissioning its gasresult in less drag on engine power.
remainder working towards certi cation, red heating system and connecting Our engine condition-monitoring which is mandatory at Meggitt, in 2010 to its local authoritys biogas system.
enables airline operators and engine and 2011.
This will save around 27,000 tonnes power providers to plan costIn 2009, we boosted information of CO emissions and 100,000 Swiss 2 effective maintenance and manage gathering and sharing through our Francs in carbon taxes annually.
global Meggitt conferences and our intranet, where we posted new halfyearly environmental bulletins.
1 Meggitts carbon emissions data is derived from electricity, gas and fuel oils usage which is converted using the 2009 greenhouse gas conversion factors of the UK Department for Environment and Rural Affairs DEFRA.
For electricity only, DEFRA update prior years conversion factors annually and so Meggitts carbon emissions arising from electricity usage in 2008 have been restated.
MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 23 10-1012 Meggitt Front Section.
indd 23 23 09 03 2010 09 03 2010 14:16 14:16 BUSINESS REVIEW Corporate responsibility continued Under the EU Seventh Framework Health and safety In 2009, we enhanced our health and Programme FP7, which funds safety programme, rolling out a training Meggitts Group Health and Safety projects that fall into its Strategic module for senior managers throughout Policy outlines our commitment to Priorities for Research, Technological the group and on-line health and safety Development and Demonstration formal management systems for training for all UK employees.
We are Activities for 2007 to 2013, Meggitts regulatory and legislative compliance piloting a similar programme in the US Swiss facility has received funding and guidance on best practice and aim to provide it at all our facilities for the development of its pioneering worldwide.
We introduced quarterly integrating the identi cation, turbine tip blade measurement health and safety bulletins for all assessment and control of health technology.
While this technology can employees, a manual of health and safety and safety risks into operational be used to prevent unnecessary hotprocedures and a graphic device to brand management section overhauls and the destruction safety communications and promote our of engines by loose blades, every incorporating health and safety safety ethos throughout the group aircraft engine manufacturer has thinking into business plans see below.
identi ed rotor blade measurement instilling the importance of health and monitoring as critical to reducing and safety in employees at all greenhouse gas emissions and fuel levels and providing all employees consumption.
The technology will and temporary workers with extend the life of aero-engines by appropriate health and safety enabling clearance control systems information and training to reduce the gap between the engine case and the tip of a turbine delivering products and services blade to within 0.25 of a millimetre.
that can be installed, operated and This improves fuel ef ciency by maintained without risk to health 1%, reduces noxious emissions by and safety as far as possible 10% and decreases exhaust gas consulting stakeholders on health temperature by six degrees celcius.
and safety risk management Across large eets of aircraft and industrial gas turbines, such gains would be signi cant.
Meggitt Sensing Systems fter several years at Meggitt Avionics, I have Keeping track of chemical A assumed Meggitts first divisional health, safety and environment HSE function.
obsolescence Instead of analysing chemicals, I analyse data, sourcing and coordinating information from our highly professional site specialists.
This is all part of Meggitts maturing HSE organisation, a global team that is standardising metrics and establishing generic procedures.
This will enable us to assess where our capabilities can be strengthened as we maintain safe working environments for our employees around the world.
REACH, the EUs chemicals legislation, presents a major challenge to HSE professionals in any industry, worldwide.
In aerospace, phasing out hazardous substances may require design changes to safety-critical equipment and recerti cation by industry regulators.
Thats where effective due diligence comes in.
My role includes making sure Meggitt sees what is on the horizon in terms of Above: Kerrill Grealy, divisional HSE director, with a user-friendly Meggitt chemical obsolescence.
We need to take steps in good time chemicals safe containing a new EU-compliant cleaning agent.
to comply with the law, without disrupting our businesses and disappointing our customers.
24 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 10-1012 Meggitt Front Section.
indd 24 24 09 03 2010 09 03 2010 14:16 14:16 We continue to disseminate information Business ethics Institute of Mechanical Engineers and best practice through the intranet Schools Aerospace Challenge, the local Meggitts Ethics and Business and intra-group conferences.
We form Community Foundation and the Poole Conduct Policy commits us to: project teams to manage complex new Hospital Staff Excellence Awards.
legislation such as the Regulation on conducting business fairly, Meggitt PLC and individual staff support Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation impartially and in full compliance Julias House, Dorsets only hospice and Restriction of Chemicals REACH.
with applicable laws and dedicated to children with life-limiting regulations conditions.
There were no fatalities at Meggitt Employees by division sites in 2009 2008: none.
In 2009, the integrity and honesty in all our 2 number of reported injuries declined to business relationships internally CROSS-GROUP 60 2008: 74 and our accident incident and externally FACILITIES 3 DEFENCE 258 4% rate AIR decreased to 832 2008: 908.
SYSTEMS Our Ethics and Business Conduct 762 10% Trade compliance Policy and Code of Conduct, which AEROSPACE are overseen by the Ethics and Trade EQUIPMENT Meggitts Trade Compliance Policy 7,204 4,309 26% Compliance Committee, must be 60% outlines our commitment to comply followed by all employees and advisers.
SENSING fully with the laws and regulations SYSTEMS All employees have received Code of 1,875 governing trade controls in the Conduct training and are required to jurisdictions in which we operate.
view the Ethical Moments training videos which are released regularly.
Recently, Employees length of service years Meggitts company-wide trade we signed the Statement of Adherence to compliance programme is based on the Global Principles of Business Ethics the model of excellence outlined in the for the Aerospace and Defence Industry.
Nunn-Wolfowitz Task Force Report of 7,204 2000 the in uential report on export During 2009, Meggitt published its compliance best practice and US comprehensive manual on doing Government guidelines.
We achieve business with the US government and multiple levels of accountability using launched five on-line courses dealing five key process tools assessment, with government contracting laws and 3,088 Less than 5 327 15-20 compliance improvement, veri cation, regulations.
Sites are measured against 1,377 5-10 449 20-25 corrective action and audit which are the standards described in it.
Plans arising from the review elements enable 16 Our people, local communities and sub-processes for 39 businesses to charitable donations Employees by region be tracked by managers at all levels, At the end of 2009, Meggitt employed REST OF WORLD 205 3% including the executive leadership team.
MAINLAND over 7,000 people, a diverse workforce EUROPE Meggitts trade compliance teams who enjoy our equal opportunity policy 1,016 14% 27% receive training and access to key and access to educational opportunities UK 1,957 subject matter experts inside the group worldwide from apprenticeships 7,204 and from global trade compliance and MBAs to graduate courses and advisors, JP Morgan Trade Management leadership development initiatives.
Meggitts trade compliance Meggitt makes an important economic AMERICA website, a customised database of 4,026 contribution to our local communities, training modules, forms, templates, with salaries, tax and social security regulations, editorial and company policy contributions across the group and procedures, is comprehensive and amounting to approximately 370 million well-respected by experts in the eld.
Individual Meggitt facilities work with the local community and for charities at their discretion.
Yearly reports reveal the exceptional generosity of many employees who give time and money to a wide range of national and local initiatives.
Meggitts headquarters, which are based in Dorset, UK, continued to sponsor the Arkwright Scholarship Trust, the 2 We fide ne reported injuries as those which are reportable under local laws regulations at each facility.
3 The AIR is calculated by taking the number of reported injuries multiplied by 100,000 and dividing it by our total staff gure as at 31 December.
MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 25 10-1012 Meggitt Front Section.
