Business review Chief Executive Of cers statement continued UK Japan North America 20% revenue growth in licence fees Japan grew revenues for the eighth 1,900 financial services customers, versus FY2008 consecutive year in FY2009 including 60 of the top 100 corporations Foreign exchange and treasury Most of the Groups intellectual property is not covered by a patent The Group is not exposed to signi cant foreign exchange or patent application and includes trade secrets and other know-how transactional exposure as generally its subsidiaries trade in their own that is not considered patentable.
In addition, some of the Groups currency.
The Groups principal exposure to foreign currency is the intellectual property includes technologies and processes that may translation of overseas pro ts into US$.
Due to its limited exposure, be similar to the technologies and processes of third parties that are the Group does not hold any financial instruments such protected by patent, copyright or trade secret law.
The Group takes appropriate steps to enforce its intellectual The Group is also exposed to foreign currency translation risk property rights particularly in international markets including on the translation of its net investment overseas into US$ where litigation where appropriate.
the functional currency of those subsidiaries is not the US$.
This is partially mitigated by the overseas subsidiaries incurring costs Note 3 to the summary of signi cant accounting policies gives denominated in their local currency.
additional information on additional financial risks that the Group could be exposed to.
Economic risks The Groups business may be subject to inherent risks arising from Corporate and social responsibility the general and sector speci c economic conditions in the markets in The board is committed to running the Company in accordance which they operate.
The performance of the Group may be affected with best practice in corporate governance.
This commitment by changes in economic or market conditions.
The growth and includes recognition by the Company of the importance of taking development of the markets in which the Group operates depend into account its corporate social responsibilities CSR in operating on numerous factors many of which are beyond their control and the business.
In this context, Micro Focus seeks to integrate CSR the exact effect of which cannot accurately be predicted.
Such considerations relating particularly to social, ethical and health, factors include general economic and political activities including safety and environment HS&E issues in its day-to-day operations.
the extent of any governmental regulation, legislation and taxation.
The board acknowledges its duty to ensure the Company conducts its activities responsibly and with proper regard for all its stakeholders The Group has demonstrated that it can grow and perform well including employees, shareholders, business partners, suppliers and on both sides of the economic cycle.
The relevance of the customer the local communities.
The Company is a member company of the proposition and resilience of the Group business model continues FTSE4Good Index Series.
This index identi es companies that meet to encourage that the outlook is positive.
The Group bene ts from globally recognised corporate responsibility standards.
having a business model with a high proportion of predictable and recurring revenue.
In exercising its corporate social responsibility, Micro Focus seeks to ensure that: Intellectual property The board takes account of the signi cance of social, ethical The Group depends on its intellectual property, and rights to such and HS&E issues: intellectual property may be challenged or infringed by others or Business practices are managed ethically: otherwise prove insuf cient to protect its business.
The Group The business is focused on delivering value to stakeholders: relies on trade secret, trademark and copyright law to protect its Existing legislation, regulations and guidelines are adhered intellectual property.
Failure to protect, maintain and enforce the to as a minimum: Groups existing intellectual property or pursue registrations for Employees are recognised as key to the business with individual new rights may result in the loss of the Groups exclusive right skills and experience being valued and developed: and to use technologies which are included in their respective software Health, safety and environmental issues are treated as critical products or are otherwise used in their respective businesses.
areas of concern for the business.
Micro Focus Annual Report and 18 International plc Accounts 2009 Environment PLC Board Ethical Health & Safety Social Our CSR focus Social Health and safety The health, welfare and development of the Companys employees The Company has well-developed health and safety policies and are a priority.
With the intent of attracting, recruiting, developing procedures, safeguarding staff, contractors and visitors in compliance and retaining key employees, Micro Focus maintains a number with applicable legislation and best practice.
of policies and procedures for the bene t of its employees, for example an equal opportunities policy approved by ACAS.
Employee Environment development is encouraged through appropriate training.
Regular Micro Focus complies with applicable environmental legislation.
and open communication between management and employees The directors acknowledge that the Companys business as a is viewed as essential for motivating a highly educated workforce.
provider of enterprise application management solutions has Brie ngs are held regularly to provide updates on Company a minimal direct impact on the environment but there are areas business and to provide opportunity for questions and feedback.
in which the Company does have an impact on the environment.
Review meetings are also held regularly within each department.
The Company has introduced a number of automated processes The Company maintains both an Internet website which is freely to reduce the quantity of paper and packaging that is used in the accessible and an Intranet site accessible to all employees.
Employees are encouraged to eliminate unnecessary the year, two additional Sharesave plans and US ESPP plans were travel and use video conferencing facilities and other methods of introduced and the directors actively encourage employee equity communication in its place.
Computer and other of ce equipment participation, subject to compliance with the Groups share dealing that has reached the end of its working life are resold, recycled policy.
Details of the current employee share option schemes and or donated to local organisations as appropriate.
Having many options granted during the year are given in note 23. of ces worldwide, the Company is conscious of its total energy consumption and the amount of waste materials generated and is The Company plays an active part in its local communities, actively working to reduce both energy usage and the quantity of participating in charitable initiatives and local community support waste materials produced that cannot be recycled.
Two recent examples took place in Bulgaria and Italy.
In Shiroka Laka, Bulgaria, the Micro Focus team supported an orphanage by building a fully functional computer room and conducted training sessions for the children.
In Italy, the Company has donated of ce furniture to schools and public of ces in the earthquake areas of Abruzzo, Aquila and the surrounding communities to effectively contribute to the rebuilding of this unfortunate area.
Ethical The Company manages its resources prudently to ensure appropriate investment is made in its research and development programmes and its commercialisation activities.
Up-to-date security systems are utilised to protect the Companys IT systems.
The Companys intellectual property is protected through an appropriate trademark registration and patenting programme.
Close attention is paid to maintaining relationships with key stakeholders including business partners, suppliers and shareholders.
The Company has adopted a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics policy with which all Company staff are required to comply.
Micro Focus Annual Report and 19 International plc Accounts 2009
