40 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc 41 Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Corporate Social Responsibility Introduction Following this review we have established that the carbon footprint of the Responsible Hospitality Groups UK hotels was: This report describes our activities regarding safety, health and the Tonnes CO emissions 2 environment, our employees and the wider community.
It provides 2007 2008 2009 information on our performance, engagement with stakeholders and addresses the environmental and social impacts that are pertinent to 40,224 39,226 38,643 our business.
This report primarily reflects what is happening within our European operations and will, in due course, be expanded to report on our activities in all our operating regions.
Responsible Hospitality and our Social impacts Our Group represents more than just the day to day operation of quality Our employees represent the foundation of our business and as such, we hotel assets.
We are aware of the impact that we have environmentally, strongly believe in cultivating and enhancing this valuable human asset.
We believe that people are going to become We are committed to creating a positive workplace where employees increasingly conscious of the choices they make and we want those work in an inclusive environment and are rewarded fairly.
The Group has people to opt for Millennium & Copthorne: because we are becoming, a workforce of approximately 11,000 employees the bulk of which are and will be seen as becoming, a responsible choice.
deployed as hotel operating staff.
In addition to upholding the International Labour Organisation and UN Global Compact on human rights and labour, Strategy and Values the Group practices fair employment with a policy to provide equality of We believe that all our stakeholders make a choice in staying with us, opportunity for all without discrimination.
supplying us with food or investing in our shares: a choice that reflects our responsibility values of outstanding services, open mindedness and Staff Breakdown 2009 2008 respect.
Our Responsible Hospitality strategy is still being developed and whilst much effort has been made to collate the information in this report Hotel Operating Staff 8,809 10,186 we recognise that there is still much work to be done.
With this report Management Administration 1,255 1,376 we are setting targets not only to improve our social and environmental Sales and Marketing 519 575 performance but also to start tracking and measuring our efforts where Repairs and Maintenance 548 641 possible.
We aim to keep our stakeholders abreast of our activities and performance so demonstrating our commitment to be a Responsible Total 11,131 12,778 Hospitality company.
We will continue to invest time and resources to sustain our responsibility activities and initiatives.
We are working towards Gender an ecologically and socially sustainable society and we are beginning to % Male 48.84 49.64 incorporate this into everything we do.
% Female 51.16 50.36 Age in years During 2008 we started to formalise our approach to Corporate and % Below 30 36.03 40.84 Social Responsibility CSR and developed an outline corporate % 30-50 45.18 44.98 responsibility framework and began to roll out our aims and policies for % Above 50 18.79 14.18 safety, health and environmental performance.
The economic turmoil in our major trading markets experienced in 2009 meant that the primary We are proud of having a strong workforce with a diverse background focus of management attention was directed to the Groups operational and we value highly the rich ethnic and cultural diversity of our people.
As a consequence some of the CSR activity planned for strength and success of our Group is not attributed to any one individual 2009 was temporarily put back and will be pursued in 2010.
The Group but to the competent and resilient team that works together in harmony.
has established a CSR committee, comprising the Group Chief Executive Officer, Company Secretary and Global Head of Human Resources.
This committee is charged with maintaining momentum of the Groups We also recognise the benefit of having a well trained workforce and offer CSR initiatives.
We are continuing to work towards attaining ISO 14001 a wide variety of internally managed programmes covering human resource accreditation for the Environmental Management System EMS that issues and industry specific training including recognised qualifications.
operates in our European hotels and accreditation of our health and safety We support our employees that wish to further their academic studies management systems to OHSAS 18001. through sponsorship of part time academic or certifiable courses and we regularly take placement students to facilitate knowledge sharing and young professional development within the hospitality industry.
Responsible Hospitality and the Environment The Group has continued to benefit from its relationship with the Carbon Responsible Hospitality and our impact on the wider Community Trust.
In conjunction with the Carbon Trust, the Group engaged Enviros We have extensive links with the community through partnerships as consultants to provide advice on refining processes for calculating our established by employees and management, at hotels and at a corporate carbon footprint.
This project will establish working methodologies which level.
Across the Group, staff and management are involved with a range are consistent with international Greenhouse Gas protocols and set out of charitable organisations and the Group donated 85,000 to charities our framework for metering and monitoring.
These processes are being during the last financial year.
Our employees are actively encouraged developed in the UK and will then be rolled-out to our other operations and we provide sponsorship programmes for them to get involved with around the globe, ensuring a consistency of approach and reliability of volunteering and fundraising.
The project will also assist in meeting the Groups obligations towards complying with the UKs Carbon Reduction Commitment legislation.
Through consultations at our hotels, team members take part and get involved in active initiatives for effectively helping local communities rather than making monetary donations.
We want to create the right values that we share with our team members, guests and suppliers which will help further our efforts with the aim of being a responsible company in a responsible industry.
40 41 Corporate Social Responsibility Beyond our business operations we believe in giving back to society and thats why we are putting in place a range of plans and activities to foster environmental and community harmony in the areas we serve.
We have begun our journey and now have a top level commitment to our stakeholders as a Responsible Hospitality Company.
We are working towards creating greater transparency and accountability to our stakeholders.
Richard Hartman GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER 18 February 2010
