Corporate social responsibility Corporate governance The Board is also responsible for the CSR highlights Our Company is underpinned with a Companys internal risk management On average we record 80,000 under age high level of corporate governance and system.
More details can be found in the refusals a month recognises its role in creating a successful, Risks and uncertainties section of this report.
We We have donated over 95,000 to Marie have implemented business conduct Alcohol and Social Responsibility Policy Curie Cancer Care during our first year of guidelines describing the standards of Our pubs operate in hundreds of partnership with the charity behaviour expected from those working communities across the UK, serving Our pubs have recycled 21,000 tonnes for the Company.
thousands of customers every day.
Our of waste in 2009 Alcohol and Social Responsibility Policy The Company has adopted a Code of has been in place since 2000 and aims Ethics the Code to promote honest and to ensure that all of our licensed premises Mitchells & Butlers continues to aim to ethical conduct throughout our business.
are operated responsibly, safely and within deliver quality and value to customers, The Code, which previously applied to the parameters of the law: while providing whilst maintaining our corporate social all senior managers, was extended during an inclusive environment for the sensible, responsibility values.
We are committed 2009 to cover all corporate employees.
to operating our business responsibly: The Code requires: from the way we run our pubs, to how we compliance with all applicable rules and In September 2009, to reflect the support our local communities and the regulations that apply to the Company introduction of the Licensing Scotland Act products we source.
By building awareness and its officers: 2005, we launched a separate Alcohol and and understanding of the importance of the ethical handling of actual or apparent Social Responsibility policy for Scotland.
these values, we can manage our corporate conflicts of interest between internal The policy reflects our investment in social responsibility programme effectively.
and external personal and professional the Scottish licensing law changes and relationships: and incorporates the Acts five prime licensing Pubs are at the core of the countrys social that any hospitality from suppliers must objectives, the staff training requirements interaction and bring together people be approved, with a presumption against and details the mandatory conditions on from different walks of life in a way that no its acceptance.
Thousands of customers enjoy visiting the pub, safely, In addition Mitchells & Butlers offers an Pricing and promotions responsibly and without risking their health.
independently administered confidential We clearly support the ambition for a This section provides the highlights of hotline, also known as a whistle-blowing safe and vibrant leisure economy and our corporate social responsibility activity.
hotline, for any employee wishing to report acknowledge that safe and responsible A more detailed account of Mitchells & any concern that they feel is inappropriate operation is in everyones interest.
One Butlers corporate social responsibility to raise with their line manager.
All of the more overlooked roles of the pub practices can be found in our separately whistle-blowing allegations are reported is that it supervises not only the sale but published Corporate Social Responsibility to and considered by the Executive and also the consumption of alcohol lowering Review 2009 at www.
the risk and ensuring its proper regulation.
However this has been put to the test over The Board takes regular account of the years, as the unsupervised off-trade social, environmental and ethical matters can price more cheaply without this extra concerning the Company through the supervisory responsibility.
In fact we Chief Executives regular reports to the refuse service to some 20,000 people a Board and presentations to the Board at its month believed to be intoxicated, showing strategy meetings.
The Company Secretary the scale of the challenge facing our staff is responsible for ensuring that Directors every day.
are made aware of and receive training in respect of such matters.
The principle of Challenge 21 to support and We are a major funder of Drinkaware, who The Best Bar None scheme promotes best educate our employees and customers on the aim to promote responsible drinking and practice in the responsible and safe operation issues relating to under age sales is now firmly find innovative ways to challenge the national of pubs across the country.
We continue to embedded in our company culture.
drinking culture to help reduce alcohol misuse encourage our businesses to enter local and minimise alcohol-related harm.
schemes and this year we are proud to have Mitchells & Butlers pubs accredited or named as Best Bar None winners.
14 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Operating and Financial Shareholder Overview financial review Reports statements information Glossary 1 2 3 1.
ONeills Therefore we have incorporated into On average we record 80,000 under age Cheltenham our Alcohol and Social Responsibility refusals a month, which is equivalent to 2.
The Red Lion Policy strict guidelines on the pricing 11 per pub per week.
Sizzling Pub Co. Elstow, Bedford and promotion of the alcohol we sell.
For example we do not allow promotions such Alcohol awareness 3.
Windhover Manor as 2 for 1s, happy hours or pay 10 and The nature of our industry is such that it Harvester, Bursledon, Southampton drink all you can.
Our aim is always to is essential that we operate our pubs in a ensure we offer our customers real value, highly responsible manner.
This involves at fair competitive prices: however we supporting initiatives to reduce alcohol are also mindful of our duty to price our misuse and helping promote clear messages products responsibly.
Challenge 21 We are currently supporting a number of The principle of Challenge 21 to support industry-wide projects in support of public and educate our employees and customers educational, community and awareness on the issues relating to under age campaigning.
For example Mitchells sales is now firmly embedded in our & Butlers is one of around 45 drinks company culture.
producers, pub operators and off-trade retailers who have agreed to take part in Through our retail training programme the Campaign for Smarter Drinking, a major we continue to underline the importance marketing initiative to tackle binge drinking of Challenge 21 to our staff, as well as and drunkenness.
The campaign will be educating our customers that this is a key delivered over the next five years and it principle of how we operate our businesses.
is the first time that the trade has united behind one social responsibility campaign.
Our pub managers are supporters of Pubwatch, Mitchells & Butlers is one of around 45 drinks a voluntary scheme operating in hundreds of producers, pub operators and off-trade retailers who communities across the UK.
Its purpose is to have agreed to take part in the Campaign for Smarter promote a safe, secure and responsibly led social Drinking, a five year major industry marketing drinking environment in all licensed premises.
initiative to tackle binge drinking and drunkenness.
Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2009 15 Corporate social responsibility continued Mitchells & Butlers has been actively involved in the preparation of the campaign.
Following its launch in September 2009, our marketing teams have worked to incorporate the Campaign for Smarter Drinking messaging into our marketing materials.
The campaigns strapline Why let good times go bad?
is being communicated across our pubs in various forms including posters, beer mats, food and drink menus and online as well as being introduced into our training programmes.
Disorder We believe that threatening the safety and well-being of staff, customers and the public in general is unacceptable, and that those guilty of creating disorder or committing other crime should be dealt with using the full force of the law.
Equally we believe that the authorities should deal severely with licensed premises that persistently break Launch of charity partnership with the law or encourage antisocial behaviour.
Marie Curie Cancer Care Chris Edger HR Director, Louise Coway, Industry partnerships Susan Osborne, Denise Attenbrow Marie Curie As a pub operator it is essential we play an and Nick Owen BBC Midlands Today active part in liaising with our key authorities and industry bodies in pursuit of our commitment to responsible retailing practices.
Corporate charity partner, Marie Curie Cancer Care We are a longstanding member of the British Beer & Pub Association and have In November 2008 Mitchells & Butlers announced on the West Highland Way Walk.
More than senior managers and retail business a new charity partnership with Marie Curie Cancer 100 northern Sizzling Pub Co. pubs supported managers representing the Company Care.
In addition to employee fundraising, the the effort by hosting individual fundraising events at policy-making level.
Company pledged a 25,000 donation to the with everything from a hair-raising sky dive to charity to kick start the relationship.
Their combined efforts raised Mitchells & Butlers supports a number of an astounding total of 33,000 in just a few weeks.
Our first year of partnership has been a huge Business Improvement District schemes success, with our employees supporting the Arun Sharma, Head of Corporate Fundraising BIDs, including Broad Street, Birmingham partnership through fundraising activities and at Marie Curie Cancer Care said: The amount and Nottingham, which is the only taking part in our departmental fundraising Mitchells & Butlers employees have raised is a completely licensed trade supported BID.
This has resulted in our employees magnificent achievement and will help us make view BIDs as an important channel to drive raising over 70,000 for the charity in just a real difference to terminally ill people and their 12 months through their enthusiasm, generosity families.
95,000 will help us provide 4,750 hours down crime, build excellent relationships and dedication to the partnership.
of nursing care, so I would like to thank everyone with key local authorities and provide a for their fantastic efforts and were looking forward platform for benefiting the local area.
This fundraising has been boosted by our Sizzling to another year of fundraising ahead.
Pub Co. pubs in the north of England and Scotland Health and safety pledging their support for Marie Curie Cancer Care We are extremely proud of this achievement and by supporting the West Highland Walk Challenge.
hope to build on this success as we continue the We strive to ensure our pubs provide a safe Nine willing team members bravely trekked more partnership into 2010. environment for all our staff and customers.
than 90 miles across the Scottish Highlands In addition, we: aim to protect the health of our employees through our health and safety management strategies: seek to minimise the risk of injury from company activity: and ensure that sufficient resources and information are made available and suitable management systems are in place to address health and safety matters.
16 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Operating and Financial Shareholder Overview financial review Reports statements information Glossary Carbon Positive Award In May 2009 Mitchells & Butlers celebrated being one of the first companies to win a Midlands C Carbon Positive Award for being one of the regions greenest businesses.
The new awards scheme, organised by Business in the Community and supported by Advantage West Midlands was presented as part of the Princes May Day Summit event in Birmingham.
Mitchells & Butlers won a Highly Commended Award in the C Carbon Positive Footprints category.
The Company was praised for successfully cutting carbon emissions and internally managing our carbon footprint.
The judges specifically acknowledged Mitchells & Butlers energy metering and measuring processes, as well as our waste-stream and recycling management.
David Darlaston, Regional Director of Business in the Community, was delighted with the response from the region: It is vitally important for our region to embrace the Carbon Reduction Commitment and these Mitchells & Butlers commended at Business accolades will perform a dual role in promoting in the Community Carbon Positive Awards the companies who are leading the way and act Carl Wassell and Ian Gosling Purchasing Managers as inspirations for others to follow.
The Company requires pub managers Mitchells & Butlers is one of the first pub Our customers are able to access full to keep records of all safety checks for companies to agree to publish information analytical, nutritional information for every food, fire and health and safety.
Plus each on the calorie content of dishes on the menu item via the Harvester website and year we operate designated safety weeks menus in two of our brands Harvester a full breakdown for carving deck items aimed at reinforcing the Companys policies restaurants and Scream pubs as part of on the Toby Carvery and Crown Carveries and making our pubs even safer places our involvement in the Food Standards websites.
Our menus are constantly for our customers and staff.
evolving and we will continue to look for awareness weeks, staff receive appropriate opportunities to provide our customers refresher training and specific topics or The trial, which began in June in around with nutritional information in the future areas of best practice are highlighted, 25 of our businesses, aimed to help improve to further enhance our menus.
for example, fire evacuation drills, customer awareness of the nutritional hazard spotting exercises, food safety content of a dish, at the point when they Community messages, Challenge 21 policy and are looking to decide on their menu choice.
Through the hard work and dedication robbery prevention training.
Supporting this voluntary scheme has of our customers and staff alike we have enabled our Menu Development team to developed a strong network of local pubs, Food monitor customer reaction to the wide range focused on forging good relations with a We remain consistent in our approach of healthy options we serve and therefore portfolio of charities, whilst enhancing our to offering our customers choice whilst expand our commitment to providing pubs vital role within the community.
investing in enhancing the nutritional good nutritious food in our businesses.
Our integrated community involvement, We held our own customer discussion charity and sponsorship programme Nutrition and calorie information groups to gain feedback during the trial, as encourages and supports this positive We operate a variety of styles of pubs and well as allowing the Food Standards Agency local impact.
Furthermore these efforts are have a wide selection of dishes available on access to our pubs to conduct consumer central to maintaining Mitchells & Butlers our menus.
We work closely with our food research.
Now the trial is completed we reputation and showing the British pub suppliers to develop our range of menu have a better understanding of which of our continues to be the true home of safe, items, again with the focus on improving healthy meal choices are popular, and are responsible and social drinking.
Adding to this we are currently working on how we can expand also focusing on food preparation and, these options and continue to give our We acknowledge the time, effort where possible, how we can incorporate customers choice.
and enthusiasm our pub teams invest healthy cooking practices into our kitchens.
throughout the year in charity relationships for the benefit of both individuals and the wider community.
Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2009 17 Corporate social responsibility continued This year we are particularly proud of the We regularly conduct energy audits to Mitchells & Butlers CSR publications following initiatives: identify high usage pubs and produce a In March both Ember Inns and Crown series of action points for our pub managers.
Carveries supported the do something This is proving very effective and can often More detailed information on Mitchells funny for money comic relief challenge.
result in immediate cost savings through & Butlers CSR policies and initiatives Over the month Ember Inns raised simple measures such as resetting external can be accessed online at: 65,000 and Crown Carveries generated lighting timers or heating clocks.
Harvester restaurants were proud to Staff energy awareness The following publications are also present a cheque for 23,500 to the Central to our strategy is the communication available online: Make-A-Wish Foundation UK following and training of energy management practices a number of charity balloon launches at to help drive operational best practice.
Annual corporate social Harvesters across the country in Autumn We have integrated energy awareness responsibility review 2008.
In addition to the balloon launches, messages into all our retail training packages Mitchells & Butlers publishes a many of our restaurants put on extra ensuring our retail operations directors, comprehensive corporate social events to raise money for Make-A-Wish retail business managers, pub managers, responsibility review every December.
through fundraising raffles, competitions kitchen managers and full and part-time This review covers seven areas that are and quiz nights.
retail staff are all given guidance.
In addition, of key importance to us as a company, Following the Clink Pink month in March, our ongoing energy campaign uses a as well as to our customers, employees, Community Pubs and Cornerstone series of tools and regular communications local communities, suppliers and raised a fantastic 10,000 for the charity messages to maintain interest and shareholders, namely: Against Breast Cancer.
The money was compliance with our strategy.
We have raised by donating 5p for every 175ml of identified team members with a real passion Alcohol, Food, Employees, Customers, ros wine sold and also via pub specific for energy management and elected them Community, Environment, Corporate fundraising events.
as energy champions to offer advice and Governance help to colleagues.
We have also included Energy management energy reduction targets in our pub manager Reducing energy consumption makes good and retail manager bonus structures business sense: it saves us money, enhances to ensure we underline the importance our reputation and most importantly helps and long-term business commitment to tackle the effects of climate change.
to our energy management programme.
Reducing energy consumption Waste management In early 2008 we created a dedicated Our priority remains to continue to look energy team to establish a coherent for ways to reduce the levels of waste company-wide approach to energy we produce and recycle what we do use.
Therefore over the last Responsibility policies 12 months our focus has been to establish Recycling Our Alcohol and Social Responsibility the importance of energy efficiency and the Our aim is to maximise the recycling policies for England & Wales and Scotland opportunity to reduce consumption and opportunities across our estate and we detail our responsible operational, costs across Mitchells & Butlers businesses.
continue to deliver a robust recycling promotional and training guidelines.
programme which now involves glass, Our initial aim has been to tackle energy cardboard and waste cooking oil.
We now have a team of regional energy managers who We now have four out of every five work alongside our Operations and Mitchells & Butlers pubs taking part in Commercial departments to ensure our our recycling initiatives.
We continue to energy reduction strategy is co-ordinated maintain our recycling levels with 21,000 across the business.
This may involve tonnes of waste recycled this year.
helping individuals at high consuming sites to reduce consumption or managing the We collect and recycle waste cooking oil upgrades of utility equipment to ensure from all our pubs.
The waste oil is converted we are operating our pubs as efficiently as into bio-diesel or renewable energy and possible, whether switching equipment off helps support our aim to reduce carbon when not in use or spotting equipment that emissions.
In the last year we have collected needs fixing.
Trade lights in a pub which 1,939 tonnes of cooking oil resulting in a UK are turned on an hour earlier than required CO emissions reduction of 3,684 tonnes 2 could be wasting 250 per year: a fryer per annum.
turned on an hour early will waste 500 per year: and a dripping tap could waste 500 of water a year.
18 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2009
