qxd:Layout 1 28 5 09 12:15 Page 31 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 31 Business review Business review Corporate responsibility Despite the challenging global economic Think situation, our commitment to Corporate Our Corporate Responsibility strategy Responsibility CR remains undiminished is fully integrated into our long-term and undeterred.
CR is a key differentiator mission to responsibly deliver quality for us and our commitment to, and delivery services, opportunity for our people of, our CR strategy makes sound business and sustainable growth.
Our CR programme contributes Manage to our ability to sustain our growth in the Our CR activities draw on professionals future as clients look to do business with from across the whole MITIE Group with responsible, like-minded organisations.
a diverse range of skills, qualifications and experience.
Together they bring a wealth of good ideas on how we can act responsibly, and deliver effectively to our stakeholders.
Deliver Its everyone at MITIEs responsibility to support and contribute to MITIEs CR objectives: working hard to improve their surroundings, and upholding our reputation as a world-class business delivering world-class services.
Key CR Social, Economic, Ethical and Environmental Business Risks and Opportunities Key CR issues Business impact MITIE action A decrease in public investment levels Employee volunteering in community Social Issues could impact business opportunities.
community investment Employee pro-bono professional support.
Shortage of funds for community infrastructure development In-kind donations of equipment and vehicles.
Potential challenges in recruiting high Skills Pledge skills for life literacy Economic Issues calibre employees due to low literacy, and numeracy training.
barriers to employment numeracy and employability skill levels Comprehensive learning and insufficient skill levels in some area.
Educational under-achievement Construction Skills Centres and Low aspiration levels Real Apprentice programme.
Potential damage to MITIEs reputation Ethical Business Practice Policy Ethical issues affecting business if MITIEs supply compliance.
business practice chain partners are perceived to be Prequalication procedures and Ethical procurement within supply chain operating unethically.
CR audits of suppliers undertaken.
Ethical business relationships Reducing carbon footprint should reduce significant internal capacity utilised Environmental issues costs and impact of volatile energy prices.
to measure, monitor and manage carbon footprint carbon footprint.
Reduce energy consumption and waste Investment in IT solutions reducing Increase recycling travel dependency.
Company vehicle carbon cap and improved fuel procurement reducing transport related costs and emissions.
qxd:Layout 1 28 5 09 12:15 Page 32 MITIE Group PLC 32 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Business review Corporate responsibility MITIE Group PLC endorses the Business for Health and safety Social Responsibility denition of Corporate We recognise that for effective Responsibility as: achieving commercial management of health and safety success in ways that honour ethical to occur throughout MITIE, ownership values and respect people, communities, and engagement begins at the highest and the natural environment.
Responsibility for health and safety recognition we have received and the is led at main board level by Ruby numerous achievement awards we have McGregor-Smith, Chief Executive.
won to date demonstrate our commitment Ruby is supported by the management to implementing CR.
team of each business, MITIEs Head of Stakeholder engagement is central Health, Safety and Environment HSE, to our CR practices: motivating and and a network of experienced and rewarding our people, working with clients, dedicated HSE professionals.
Corporate Responsibility report 2009 developing a responsible and profitable Our annual Corporate Responsibility During the year we commenced the first business for investors, and interacting with report gives a comprehensive phase of a health and safety leadership local communities.
overview of our CR approach, programme aimed at enhancing the performance and targets.
To order We are proud of our public profile in knowledge of MITIEs senior managers a copy or download a PDF version, please visit: CR and are particularly pleased to have in modern health and safety risk www.
co. uk cr increased our score of 81.5% and retained management.
The first phase of the our Silver status in the Business in the programme was targeted at the operating Community BitC Financial Times board of each MITIE business.
117 senior Companies that Count index.
We are managers have since taken part in the pleased to announce that our Real workshops: actively participating and Apprentice scheme and Construction committing to an improved re-focus Skills Centres have also been reaccredited on risk management.
Our significant in The BitC Big Tick Awards for Excellence investment of time and resource in this 2009.
Our 2009 report on CR activities has area is a demonstration of our commitment been published and is available on our to achieving continual improvement in website at www.
The key CR social, economic, ethical Effective management systems and environmental business risks and We are wholly committed to improving the material impact that these may our health and safety performance have on the business have been via a management system approach.
MITIE has carefully To this end it is a requirement for every MITIE considered these risks and has realised business to be certified to the internationally opportunities and implemented initiatives recognised standard for health and safety to mitigate them.
During the year, our Property Management division achieved certification in full to OHSAS 18001 and, in addition, two newly acquired businesses one in Property Management, the other in our catering business were subject to a rigorous integration programme into the health and safety management system.
Both new businesses achieved certification to OHSAS 18001 during April 2009.
We are happy to report that 98% of MITIE businesses have now achieved 18001 certification.
We are pleased to have retained our Silver status in the BitC Financial Times Companies that Count index with a score of 81.5%.
qxd:Layout 1 28 5 09 12:15 Page 33 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 33 Business review Health and Safety training Skills Pledge MITIE respects the rights of its people At MITIE our people are our greatest asset, In our Corporate Responsibility report and those of our supply chain partners and as such we place the highest priority 2008 we reported our commitment by endorsing the tenets of the International in ensuring our people have the right to the UK Governments Skills Pledge.
Labour Organisation Declaration on competencies to carry out their work safely.
Over the past year weve established Fundamental Principles and Rights at We have developed a prioritised approach a dedicated Skills Pledge team drawing Work and the Ethical Trading Initiative to managing health and safety risks, on the knowledge and expertise of our Base Code.
Our investment and with significant training focus and resource HR, Training, and Communications commitment to equality and diversity directed at key risks to the business, such specialists from across MITIE.
The team has increased signicantly during the as work at height, occupational road has developed the framework, established past year and will continue to develop as risk, slips and trips and manual handling.
the relationships, and implemented the we implement new initiatives and training Our formal training programmes in support policies to offer our people some excellent opportunities to support our people.
of these areas continued during the year, learning and development opportunities.
with the following training achievements: MITIEs Facilities Management division Service delivery Course 2009 2008 is the first to implement the Skills Pledge.
MITIE is committed to proactively Working in conjunction with our delivery Health and Safety developing mutually beneficial trading partner Jigsaw Training, we now offer Leadership 117 relationships and promoting corporate our people a number of Skills for Life responsibility with our commercial IOSH Managing Safely 390 297 courses to help them brush up on their stakeholders, based upon a foundation Maths and English skills, as well as access Managing Work at Height 423 138 of trust and co-operation.
to National vocational qualifications In 2007, we established a Supplier NVQs and apprenticeships.
People Improvement Programme to ensure that Our challenging target is to deliver our significant suppliers are aligned with MITIE is dedicated to implementing a 8,700 National Vocational Qualifications our CR principles and are accountable comprehensive and proactive Human by 2012.
This investment will enable for their own supply chains.
The supplier Resources strategy with policies to ensure us to have a better skilled and qualified improvement programme includes CR that all employees are treated equally, workforce, bringing tangible business audit reviews of significant suppliers fairly and in a responsible manner.
benefits and competitive advantage undertaken by professionals from our Were committed to providing an as well as enhancing the literacy, Sustainable Procurement Forum.
This has environment that enables our people numeracy and employability potential proven to be invaluable in sharing best to reach their full potential.
practice and also in identifying areas Employee development and training is where room for further improvement Talent management essential for us to maintain our competitive can be made.
Our award-winning Real Apprentice edge in our challenging market sectors.
Scheme is now in its fourth year and has MITIEs Sustainable Procurement Forum We offer a comprehensive range of career recently been reaccredited in the BitC was established to: and personal development programmes.
In the last During the year we spent over 3.4m Adopt and share best practice four years, the scheme has also won the on training courses providing over 35,000 purchasing and supply standards: 2006 Premises and Facilities Management delegate days across 445 different courses.
PFM Partners with People Award and Develop mutually beneficial collaborative Our training centre at Frimley Green, the Greater London Training Award.
trading relationships: and Surrey was used on 200 days during the In particular, were very proud that four same period, hosting training courses Promote sustainable and ethical of the original seven apprentices who and meetings for over 2,600 people trading practices.
joined MITIE following the pilot scheme including six Corporate Responsibility in 2005 are still with us today.
Our clients expect us to be able to Awareness seminars.
demonstrate high levels of CR performance The Real Apprentice scheme has and because of our commitment to an 80% retention rate after six months CR, we are able to respond positively to employment.
The 77th apprentice to their increasingly tougher prequalication successfully complete the programme and tender requirements.
We also utilise has recently been offered a full-time job our considerable environmental with us.
The East London Business Alliance experience and capabilities by providing now cites the scheme as a blueprint sustainability related guidance for our for other employers to follow and has clients, helping them to reduce their rolled out Real Apprentice programmes carbon footprint.
with ten other employers across three East London boroughs.
qxd:Layout 1 28 5 09 12:15 Page 34 MITIE Group PLC 34 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Business review Corporate responsibility We will continue to reduce the average Sustainability strategy Environment vehicle fleet CO2 emissions by purchasing MITIE is a member of the Renewable Energy We are aware of the impact that our another 100 low emission vehicles as Certification Scheme, British Wind Energy business operations may have on the part of our replacement programme Association and have Building Research natural environment and we endeavour and by investing in on-board telematic Establishments BRE micro-regeneration to minimise and mitigate such effects tracker systems.
where possible by utilising environmentally benign materials and practices.
We respect We constantly seek to improve the We have significant sustainability expertise our environment and share best practice environmental performance of our vehicle at every level of our organisation which with all of our stakeholders as we strive to fleet by investigating alternative fuels and is demonstrated in the comprehensive achieve our environmental targets.
range of services offered to our clients.
This expertise and experience is underpinned Vehicle fleet fuel consumption accounts Vehicle fleet management by formal academic qualifications and for around 90% of our CO2 emissions and Between April 2008 and March 2009 we professional chartered status of many of improvements in fleet management to have purchased 150 low CO2, emission, its key people.
MITIE provides continuing reduce this impact have been prioritised fuel efficient vehicles as part of our vehicle professional development opportunities with immediate improvements realised.
replacement programme helping to to its people to enhance their potential.
New fleet vehicles purchased have decrease the impact on the environment.
We currently have 12 qualified Low Carbon the latest Euro V compliant engines and We have achieved our aim to reduce Energy assessors and 21 going through the lower emissions ratings.
Changes to fuel our average vehicle fleet CO2 to below CIBSE approved training process to become procurement, the introduction of car 160 CO2 g km.
Our fleet average emissions qualified Energy Assessors Low Carbon sharing schemes and the installation of for 2009 are nearly 4% lower at 154 CO2 g km.
Consultants to enable them to inspect telematic vehicle trackers to optimise This has seen a reduction of around 14% buildings and authorise them to issue Energy travel distances have reduced fuel in CO2 emissions compared to the vehicles Performance Certificates and Display of consumption and emissions.
During the year we also made further investments in telephone and video conferencing facilities to help reduce business related travel.
Key Performance Indicators Change Unit 2009 2008 % Total revenue m 1,521.9 1,407.2 8.2 Average number of employees No.
50,054 47,959 4.4 e Total CO2 emissions Tonnes 32,280 30,627 5.4 e Normalised CO2 emissions per employee Tonnes 0.64 0.64 e Normalised CO2 emissions per m revenue Tonnes 21.2 21.8 2.7 CO2 equivalent emissions were calculated using DEFRA conversion factors.
MITIE has increased revenue by 8.2% and employed 4.4% more people over the previous financial reporting period.
CO emissions have 2 increased by 5.4% whilst normalised emissions per employee have been maintained and normalised emissions per m revenue have decreased by 2.7%.
qxd:Layout 1 28 5 09 12:16 Page 35 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 35 Business review During the year our people participated Construction Skills Centres Community in seven World of Work events at schools MITIEs Construction Skills Centres at seven MITIEs community investment strategy throughout the UK: a number of schools, schools throughout the UK are providing is not simply about making financial including Stoke Newington School, craft skills and vocational education to donations to causes and charities.
are home to MITIEs Constructions Skills about 500 students each year significantly We pride ourselves on committing our Centres where we offer vocational improving their employment prospects.
time, resources and specialist skills to training to pupils.
MITIEs volunteers We were proud to host a Seeing is supporting the communities we serve.
always go above and beyond the Believing visit at our Skills Centre at Castle In return we create long-term call of duty.
The pupils find their passion Vale School, Birmingham in 2008.
This event relationships with future MITIE clients, infectious and they play an integral role demonstrated the value of employer suppliers and employees.
in showing them that there is a whole engagement and helped to increase world of jobs out there for the taking, understanding of social issues among At the cornerstone of MITIEs community Les Prior, Work Related Learning Project business leaders and educationalists.
investment strategy is our extensive Officer, Ealing and Hillingdon Education volunteering programme.
During the The Skills Centre visit inspired action by Business Partnership.
year professionals from every level of encouraging other business leaders to MITIE participated in seven World of Research underpins our own experiences work together to address serious issues Work days across the UK.
The days are that clear business benefits result facing society such as skills shortages a great way to share our experiences, from employee supported volunteer and low aspiration levels.
Our example knowledge and offer advice to the programmes.
Clients increasingly expect was commended by HRH Prince Charles bright young minds of the future, their suppliers to add value above at St. James Palace in February 2009. all while raising the profile of our business and beyond their contracted service We feel our direction echoes the BitC and promoting career opportunities commitments and our community statement: Education, employability with MITIE to people from a diverse investment programme is clearly and economic renewal are serious issues range of backgrounds.
able to demonstrate that we do this.
across the UK which impact on both In total, we spent 458 days on volunteering business and society.
They need to be top projects during the year.
of the corporate agenda its never been more important.
Community Investment Change Unit 2009 2008 % Total Community investment k 603.7 592.1 2.0 Profit before tax m 75.9 67.9 11.8 Total Community investment as % of profit before tax % 0.80 0.87 0.07 Donations to charity and community projects k 184.0 151.2 21.7 Match-funded cash donations to charities k 21.1 13.4 57.5 Value of employee time volunteered k 103.2 102.9 0.3 Value of gifts in-kind donations k 200.9 211.1 4.8 Community affairs management costs k 94.5 113.5 16.8 Political donations it is not MITIEs policy to contribute political donations.
MITIEs community investment increased by 11.6k 2.0% compared to the previous reporting period.
For clarity and accountability purposes we have reported separately the value of gifts in-kind and expenses and leveraged funds.
Increased donations to charities 21.7% and match-funding 57.5% respectively are the most notable differences reported for this period.
Our actions speak louder than words and were committed to embedding our corporate responsibilities into everyday operations, policies, procedures and practices, while remaining true to the core MITIE value that defines the business: providing opportunities for people to develop to their full potential.
