Sustainability review Sustainable development is integral Four key objectives underpin our Summary Report.
Our printed and to our business as it addresses the sustainability vision: online reports have been developed in accordance with the Global delivery of long-term value to producing sought-after products in Reporting Initiatives GRI G3 shareholders, employees, customers a responsible manner: guidelines, with Mondi declaring a and the communities in which we securing continued access to raw B level of reporting.
Our products are inherently materials in a resource-constrained to the UN Global Compact, we also sustainable based on natural world: report in compliance with its fibres, manufactured using attracting and retaining talented requirements on an annual basis.
renewable sources and easy to people: and recycle.
maintaining our licence to operate Sustainable within our host communities.
development footprint We aim to be the best-performing paper and packaging company in the This is a brief review of our approach Mondi is a leading international paper world and, as such, we recognise to sustainability and the most material and packaging group and our that we need to integrate sound issues facing the Group.
We publish sustainability footprint is extensive, principles governing safety, business more detailed information in the spanning developed and developing conduct, social, environmental and sustainability section of our website at countries on four continents.
At the economic activities into our business www.
com sustainability end of 2009, we operated 101 plants practices and decision-making.
and in our printed Sustainability across 31 countries and managed 34 Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group All our planted land in South Africa is FSC certified and in Russia we have certified some 1.35 million hectares of our leased land 2.44 million hectares of land, of which environmental and social impacts.
Management approach The DLC sustainable development 380,000 hectares are plantations in Our approach to sustainability is committee, which guides policy, South Africa and 2.06 million hectares supported by our broader business reviews performance and monitors are natural forests in Russia.
ethics and guided by our over-arching progress made in implementing our sustainable development policy.
This strategy, is chaired by independent In 2009, the Group employed an in turn, is supported by seven sector non-executive director, Colin average of 31,000 people.
The committee met on six Restructuring undertaken during the sustainable forestry: occasions in 2009, receiving regular environment: year in response to challenging reports from executive team climate change: market conditions resulted in the members.
Sustainability is also an product stewardship: closure, sale, mothballing or agenda item at every meeting of the corporate citizenship: downscaling of various operations, Mondi Boards.
global employment: and which in turn resulted in a decrease in safety and occupational health.
Our Group-level sustainable development function provides These policies are reviewed on a Our business is highly integrated, strategic guidance on sustainability regular basis.
They are available in a issues and policy, compliance, spanning the entire product life downloadable format from the international best practice and the cycle, from the development and Groups website at integration of sustainability management of forests, to the www.
The production and marketing of a variety function is also responsible for of sustainable paper and packaging Our Sustainable Development sustainability reporting.
Recycling also forms an Management System SDMS, line management is responsible for comprising policies, standards and integral part of our business.
Mondi the day-to-day management of safety, performance requirements, is considers the global threats posed health, environment, community integrated within the Groups core by climate change and ecosystem matters, people processes and other business processes to ensure that degradation to be very serious and sustainability issues.
our commitments are met at every we acknowledge the role that we can level.
We have put in place the play in counteracting these effects We also work with many international necessary resources and training to by reducing our carbon emissions and local stakeholders, including the meet our objectives, and maintain World Wide Fund for Nature WWF in and promoting the protection of pro-active, multi-stakeholder Russia and South Africa: Silver Taiga in ecosystems.
Operating an efficient engagement with communities, nonRussia: the Wildlife and Environment and effective business in a resourcegovernmental organisations NGOs, Society of South Africa WESSA and constrained world is one of our key peers and other groups to improve For further information please click on objectives and involves partnerships our understanding of stakeholders www.
com sustainability with a wide range of stakeholders.
concerns and address our Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group 35 Directors report Sustainability review continued The Forest Dialogue TFD sustainability initiatives, including: performance against key performance internationally.
We also actively the WWF New Generation indicators and their assurance statement participate in the World Business Plantation NGP Project: appears on the Mondi website.
Council for Sustainable Development the High Conservation Value WBCSD, a CEO-led, global Resource Network: and Managing sustainability at Mondi is association of some 200 companies The Forest Dialogue TFD topics, part of the Groups overall approach dealing exclusively with business and such as: Poverty Reduction to integrated risk management.
A its role in sustainable development.
Through Commercial Forestry: review of these risks and mitigating We are specifically involved in the Investment in Locally Controlled measures is undertaken on an annual Sustainable Forest Products Working Forestry: REDD : Company-led basis.
Key sustainability risks Group, the Ecosystem Focus Area Approach to Conflict Resolution in identified in 2009 are aligned with the Action Team FACT, Climate and The Forestry Sector.
The Energy FACT and the Water Project.
following table classifies the primary In 2009 we supported and, in some An independent and credible assuror, risks identified and mitigating cases, co-sponsored the ERM, was appointed to undertake an development of a number of global annual independent audit of our measures that are in place.
Material sustainability risk issues identified in 2009 Potential risk Mitigation measures Loss of access to credible fibre associated with unsustainable forestry practices High inherent risk owing Sustainable forestry management practices to external scrutiny of Third-party certification to FSC standards or equivalent international credible certification planted forests and the system of forestry activities harvesting of natural Application of FSCs Controlled Wood Standard to ensure wood, fibre and biomass is not forests purchased from controversial sources Chain-of-custody certifications for operations Participation in international forestry dialogues to stay abreast with internationally recognised best forestry practices Fatalities, serious injury and illness Continued high inherent Management commitment to Zero Harm in the workplace, a business value with clear risk of fatality and serious objectives safety has the same priority as other business objectives injury illness in all parts of Applying our safety management system provides clear guidelines for decisions the Group to promote Zero Harm Defining and observing safe practices and behaviours that hold a prominent place in procedures, rules and practices 36 Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group Material sustainability risk issues identified in 2009 continued Potential risk Mitigation measures Fatalities, serious injury and illness continued Ensuring performance standards that are well communicated, widely understood and part of daily life Keeping risk register of significant safety risk up to date Working within externally accredited safety management systems such as OHSAS 18001 Benchmarking our practices against recognised good international industry practice Aiming to be the safest company in our industry sector Climate change footprint Continued moderate inherent Deliver specific carbon dioxide reduction goal of 15% over 10 years against 2004 baseline risk as fossil fuel emissions Participate in annual carbon disclosure projects CDP with the aim of benchmarking reducing at a slower pace Evaluate opportunities to increase share of biomass in on-site energy generation 2009: 53% Establish product carbon footprints using a scientifically acceptable method Land claims in South Africa Continued moderate inherent Mondi has developed an innovative win-win model and is working constructively with risk for loss of fibre supply Government and communities to develop claimant communities into sustainable forestry enterprises, thereby ensuring continued fibre supply Fire or explosion Continued high inherent risk Safety risks are managed through clear standards, a regular review of our hazard analysis and due to volumes of combustible a risk register of significant safety risks in 2009 in our control of work and management of materials at plants and change were audited and reviewed warehouses and potential for In forestry, a dedicated fire safety resource and a modernisation of our fire fighting capabilities large wild fires in forestry has taken place Mechanisation of plantation forestry High inherent risk due to Social and environmental risks and challenges are addressed and mitigated on area level on a public perception of the case by case base change, loss of rural support The Food 4 Forests programme provides balanced, nutritious meals for forestry workers with and significant chronic the aim to reduce absenteeism and injuries due to lack of concentration and physical ill-health of current contractors endurance, and improve quality of life in South Africa The Mondi Mkhondo Development Programme offers people access to economic opportunities and social services Public health claims in South Africa Moderate inherent risk owing All Mondi operations comply with local emissions regulations to perceived health effects in The first phase of the odour reduction project in Richards Bay is expected to be completed in surrounding communities 2010 Environmental impact from loss of containment Moderate inherent risk for Ongoing programme of assessments of past disposal activities pulp manufacturing and previous landfill activities Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group 37 Directors report Sustainability review continued believing that an injury-free workplace involvement, participation and Creating economic value respect for human rights.
is not only achievable but is imperative As a corporate taxpayer, major to the ongoing success of our employer, investor and purchaser We invested some 2.24 million hours business.
The Group therefore of goods and services, Mondi 2008: 1.55 million on training and undertakes significant initiatives on a makes a significant contribution to development during the year.
In South continuing basis to achieve further the economies in which we operate.
Africa in particular, we focused on improvements in safety and Key economic parameters for the the recruitment, training, development year under review include: occupational health performance.
and retention of previously E862 million relating to employees, disadvantaged South Africans and including base wages, other related The main focus of the Groups women.
Reviews of the Groups costs and any restructuring costs diversity initiatives is in South Africa.
organisational structure and talent where applicable: Mondi is committed to meeting the management processes have been E3,861 million paid to suppliers, for conducted to maximise effectiveness requirements of the Broad-Based goods and services: and efficiency.
Black Economic Empowerment Capital expenditure, including the BBBEE Acts charter and has taken purchase of intangible assets, of The Group places considerable value active steps to this end.
E522 million: on employee involvement and we E190 million paid in taxes and have continued to keep our people Applications for employment by related payments to host countries, informed about issues that impact disabled persons are fully considered.
including company tax, employee them as employees and factors that In the event of employees becoming tax, royalties, import and export affect the performance of the Group.
disabled, every effort is made to duties, transfer and sale duties: and This is achieved through formal and ensure that their employment with the E48 million paid to shareholders, informal meetings and through a Group continues and that appropriate range of other internal communication including minority interests, by way channels, including publications and of dividends.
It is the policy of electronic communications.
Employee the Group that the training, career representatives are consulted Mondi a fair and development and promotion of regularly on the range of matters responsible employer disabled persons should, as far as affecting their current and future possible, be consistent with that of Mondi is committed to the interests.
In the UK, the Group other employees.
development and well-being of its operates a Share Incentive Plan and a employees and contractors.
Mondi also places a strong Groups health and safety policies emphasis on the training and and standards are fundamental to We subscribe to the human rights development of employees and this commitment.
Mondis goal is to principles advocated by the achieve Zero Harm in the workplace, on employee communication, International Labour Organization ILO, 38 Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group We use our SEAT process to identify and address significant issues concerning employees and communities in particular employees right to HCV areas and have consequently Governance freedom of association and collective set aside pristine forests in the We recorded a number of important bargaining.
We do not engage in Komi Republic of Russia and achievements relating to governance under-age labour, forced or compulsory ecological networks in our South issues and have embedded our labour and none of our operations are African plantations.
sustainability systems into our deemed to be at risk in this regard.
We have also developed footprint by achieving targeted and implemented our own Mondi Sustainability reductions in emissions in energy policies and structures, following our commitments usage, carbon dioxide CO2, effluent separation from the Anglo American load to receiving waters and waste In 2007, we published five key group in 2007. to landfill.
We have also implemented sustainable development the international environmental commitments, addressing the most Significant emphasis has been placed standard, ISO14001 at all our significant and material sustainability on information gathering and auditing environmentally material operations.
We set specific systems to facilitate the monitoring, Making Just No Harm a reality targets and developed strategies and management, control and reporting of by implementing effective safety plans to meet these commitments by sustainable development parameters and health programmes and 2010, or in some cases, 2014. and performances.
Of particular developing a diverse, trained and importance has been our decision to participative workforce.
Our commitments cover: increase the level of reporting on Improving our social footprint and Governance the establishment of sustainability issues during the year to a engaging with local communities information gathering and auditing B level in terms of the GRI guidelines.
by implementing community systems to facilitate the monitoring, engagement plans based on our management, control and reporting Sustainable forestry region-specific socio-economic of sustainable development Our commitment to sustainable assessment toolbox SEAT process parameters and performances.
forestry continues to underpin the and addressing significant issues Extending our sustainable forestry way we work, with these principles that concern both employees and footprint this includes the firmly entrenched within our forestry communities.
certification to Forest Stewardship management systems.
Council FSC standards of all our These commitment areas and specific owned and managed forests and Land we own, lease and manage is targets were in place throughout 2009. the introduction of standards and accredited to FSC standards.
In South systems to ensure that we can Africa, all our planted land 243,000 Performance in 2009 trace the origins of our procured hectares is FSC certified.
In Russia, all wood, virgin fibre and biomass.
We We made good progress in addressing our leased land 2.06 million hectares support the development of global our commitments and targets in 2009 has been assessed by the FSC and methodologies for identifying and and are confident that we will meet our some 1.35 million hectares 71% are protecting high conservation value commitments in 2010. already certified.
Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group 39 Directors report Sustainability review continued We reached a major milestone when a significant social dimension as well Environmental performance our last uncertified area was assessed and FSC certification is a good Ensuring cleaner production and for FSC certification in December measure of our adherence to important reduced energy usage is an 2009.
The area, comprising 707,000 social standards.
hectares of natural forest in the remote We operate in a highly regulated region of the Komi Republic, Russia, As an active participant in the environment in this respect, particularly required a complex multi-stakeholder development of both TFD Review on in Europe, and have acted in compliance process to agree on substantial offsets Intensively Managed Planted Forests in all the regions in which we operate.
Our agreement not to October 2008, and the WWF New harvest or construct roads on any of Generation Plantation NGP Project In 2009, together with ClimatePartner, an our leased areas within the proposed synthesis report August 2009, we Austrian climate change consultancy, we HCV forest areas provided key support emphasise the need to swiftly introduce calculated our carbon footprint as a aspects of new generation plantations for the HCV process and enabled the Group, as well as the carbon footprints of that demonstrate how responsibly delayed FSC assessment to proceed in a selection of individual products.
Alongside our managed plantations can support annual greenhouse gas emissions totalled leased land, we have also certified biodiversity conservation, benefit local 5.92 million tonnes of CO2 from fossil communities and contribute to 1.76 million hectares of state forest to fuels, including 1.45 million tonnes of CO2 economic growth.
While a number of FSC standards.
Another objective for from purchased energy.
the South African plantations already 2010 is to extend our chain of custody to recycled fibre so that a greater meet the current NGP criteria, we will By 2009 we had reduced our direct continue to participate in the second proportion of our products can be scope 1 and indirect scope 2 specific phase of the project to define the FSC-labelled.
CO2 emissions by 14% against a 2004 importance of water management, baseline, meeting our 2014 15% While the environmental aspects of biomass for bio-energy and forest reduction target in almost five years.
sustainable forestry are critical, there is carbon within the plantation context.
Absolute emissions are down by almost 12% against the 2004 baseline.
Specific CO2 emissions tonnes per saleable tonne of production An important objective for the Group is 1.2 improving the way in which we produce 1 and use energy.
In 2009 we reached 0.8 83% self-sufficiency in electricity 0.6 production, while our use of renewable 0.4 energy increased from 47% to 53% 0.2 from a 2004 baseline.
In 2009, our 0 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 energy usage amounted to 6.1 million Scope 1 direct Scope 2 indirect MW h, with 58.4 million GJ coming 40 Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group In 2009, for the first time, there were no reportable fatalities from fossil fuels and 70.4 million GJ Three principles underpin our vision improvement compared with 2008 from biomass.
In 2009 specific energy for safety and health: and a 44% improvement compared all incidents, injuries and consumption was down almost 12% with 2007.
We also achieved a 16% occupational illnesses are against the 2004 baseline, but overall reduction in our overall injury preventable: efficiency of site energy usage was up frequency rate measured using the all necessary steps must be taken 4% reflecting the change towards Total Recordable Case Rate TRCR.
to learn from incidents so that they biomass in our energy mix.
are not repeated: and Although our focus on safety resulted our safety and occupational health We have also initiated a process to in a commendable workplace safety standards must be applied measure the water footprints of our record for the year, two people sadly consistently at all times.
products given the increasing lost their lives outside the workplace importance of water in many of the in Russia in 2009, one in a business We measure our safety performance regions in which we operate.
travel-related road accident and one in using the industry standard Lost Time a trailer-home fire in a logging camp.
Injury Frequency Rate LTIFR, which is Safety and health In 2010, we are disappointed that we based on 200,000 hours worked.
In We value the well-being of our people 2009 we recorded an LTIFR of 0.13 have already experienced a fatality in above all else and focusing on injuryagainst a target of 0.14.
This is a 28% our forestry operations in South Africa.
free workplaces remained a priority area in 2009.
Just No Harm has had per 200,000 hours worked Mondi LTIFR 0.6 a positive impact on the quality of life LTIFR employees 0.5 LTIFR combined for everyone working at a Mondi site.
LTIFR contractors 0.4 0.3 Embracing a safety culture requires 0.2 constant attention but it is imperative 0.1 for us to do everything we can to 0 ensure that our employees and 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 contractors return home safely every day.
It is also a critical factor in giving Total TRCR per 200,000 hours worked our shareholders the confidence that 1.6 strong safety performance drives 1.4 1.2 operational excellence.
1 0.8 We are very pleased to report that, for 0.6 the first time, there were no 0.4 0.2 reportable fatalities in 2009 involving 0 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Mondi employees or contractors.
Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group 41 Directors report Sustainability review continued This underlines the need to continue best practice by industry peers and We spent E9.3 million on social being vigilant about potential dangers government.
Mondi has achieved investment directly related to our and safety hazards and to correct atsignificant progress in the area of land business in 2009 2008: E5.3 million, risk behaviours and unsafe conditions reform by transferring land to two with a focus on health and education.
as soon as they are observed.
communities and signing settlements The Group also made charitable with a further seven.
We continue to Communities be committed to working with donations totalling E1.3 million 2008: government and communities to find E1.9 million.
Operating within We value our relationships with local guidelines set by the Group, Mondis commercially sound solutions with communities and are concerned for local businesses are responsible for sustainable and mutually beneficial their well-being and sustainability.
choosing and funding causes through outcomes.
Over the past two years we have discretionary volunteering, donations made substantial efforts to develop and sponsorships.
This devolved The Mkhondo Mondi Development appropriate community engagement approach has resulted in support for Programme, a public-private plans at all our operations, based a variety of programmes that have an partnership based in Piet Retief, puts specifically on our socio-economic impact on Mondis employees and the us in a leadership role.
The assessment toolbox SEAT process.
communities in which they work and programme offers people resident on The SEAT review for the Syktyvkar live.
Mondi land, but not necessarily forestry operations was completed in employed by Mondi, the chance to 2009.
While the Group was praised The Groups policy is that no relocate to either an urban or agrifor meeting all the community social company in the Group shall make village settlement where they can agreements, the topic of new capital contributions or donations for political improve their livelihoods, access investments in the Komi Republic was purposes.
better economic opportunities and raised as a concern in terms of the social services while also accruing potential impact on employment.
Recognition personal assets through home Details on specific issues and the full ownership and land rights.
The response from the management team We have again been included in the Jabulani Agri-Village has been chosen are available in the SEAT report, London Stock Exchanges by the Premier of the Mpumalanga which is available on our website.
FTSE4Good index as well as the province as a flagship pilot site for Working in partnership with the JSE Limiteds Socially Responsible rural development in the province.
Russian state, we have also launched Investment SRI index.
the Mondi Academy in the Komi We believe that community social Republic to provide local people with We also participated in the Carbon investments are best managed by the new skills required to support a Disclosure Projects survey of energy modern forest industry.
local operations, because they have usage, CO2 emissions and our an intimate understanding and approach to climate change.
Further knowledge of local needs and Our South African land restitution information is available at models are widely acknowledged as circumstances.
42 Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group We are included in LSE FTSE4Good and JSE SRI indices Mondi was also recently awarded as focused on improving the quality and the best performer in the Basic range of products in terms of both cost and environmental factors.
Materials Sector of the Forest Expenditure on research and Footprint Disclosure Project FFD.
development during 2009 was The FFD Project is a new initiative, E8 million 2008: E10 million.
backed by 34 financial institutions with US$3.5 trillion in collective assets A number of new sustainable under management.
It was created to products were introduced to the help investors identify how an market in 2009, including lightweight organisations activities and supply papers and boards that minimise the chain impact deforestation and link use of natural resources, a range of this forest footprint to their value.
bio-degradable plastics, a low-cost Further information is available at and more resource-efficient liner www.
product and a carbon-neutral office paper.
Research and development Our research and development activities aim to provide continuous and proactive improvements in processes and products.
Research is Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group 43 Directors report
