Corporate Responsibility Corporate Responsibility Report the Hospice of the Good Shepherd.
The Hospice, which The Group operates with an underlying awareness of its is on the outskirts of Chester, exists to provide highly wider responsibilities to society.
specialised palliative care for people living with advanced diseases from the communities of Chester, Communities and charities Deeside, Ellesmere Port and rural Cheshire.
Community initiative was launched in 2008 course of the year the Groups employees raised and has continued to develop throughout 2009.
The 6,003 for the Hospice through a wide variety of initiative is focused on providing support to charities fundraising events.
The Group made a donation of located within a few miles of the Groups offices in 6,020 bringing the total donated to the Hospice Ewloe and so support is targeted primarily in Flintshire during the year to 12,023. and Cheshire.
Employees have selected Hope House Childrens A volunteer group of employees meet each month to Hospice as its 2009 10 Charity of the Year.
The charity review requests for donations from charities and to runs two centres, in Shropshire and Conwy, serving the allocate funds according to agreed donation guidelines.
North West of England and North Wales.
The Hospice Employees are also active in researching and seeking provides free care to terminally ill children and their out local good causes that the Group can help support.
Over the course of the year the Groups The initiative has been effective at harnessing the employees raised 522 for Hope House with the Group energy and enthusiasm of the Groups employees to donating 3,624, bringing the total donated to Hope benefit the communities in which it operates.
In 2009 the Group made 2,000 per month available Environment for the.
This funding has been The Group strives to reduce energy and raw material channelled via the Charities Aid Foundation, enabling usage to support environmental and financial the Group to make gross donations to registered performance.
The Group has chosen not to set environmental key Over the course of the year the Group has supported performance indicators due to its relative size and the the following 17 charities: limited impact it has on the environment.
The Group does however participate in the Carbon Disclosure Hawarden Air Cadets Project.
The Money Advice Trust Blacon Childrens Centre Employees Jolly Tots The Group actively encourages employee involvement Daffodils and consultation and places considerable emphasis on Highway Playdays keeping its employees informed of the Groups activities Save The Family via formal half yearly business performance updates, Blacon Community Trust regular update briefings, regular team meetings, the Clatterbridge Centre for Oncology Groups intranet site which enables easy access to the Age Concern Cheshire latest Group information as well as Group policies, and North West Air Ambulance the circulation to employees of relevant information Bryn Gwallia including corporate announcements.
This also helps to Macmillan Cancer Support Cheshire achieve a common awareness amongst employees of Chester Youth Club the financial and economic factors affecting the Domestic Abuse Safety Unit Deeside performance of the Group.
C-Saw Deafness Support Network The Group has established an employee forum through The Group also works with local organisations to which nominated representatives ensure that promote financial inclusion and awareness.
The Group is employees views are taken into account regarding involved in the North Wales Financial Capability Forum issues that are likely to affect them.
A robust employee and over the course of the year has worked with engagement survey process is also in place to ensure Flintshire Trading Standards to hold surgeries for that employees are given a voice in the organisation consumers on loans and debt, and with Deeside Citizens and that the Group can take action based on Advice to help people in fuel poverty.
Community initiative, the Group and The Group is committed to an equal opportunities its employees continues to select and support a charity policy.
The Group aims to ensure that no employee is on an annual basis.
The 2008 9 Charity of the Year was discriminated against, directly or indirectly, on the 26 Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC Annual Report 2009 Business Overview Business Review Management Corporate Responsibility Corporate Governance Financial Statements General grounds of colour, race, ethnic and national origins, sexual orientation or gender, marital status, disability, religion or belief, being part time or on the grounds of age.
The Group recognises the importance of health and safety and the positive benefits to the Group.
Therefore the Groups commitment to health and safety makes good business sense.
The Group has a health and safety policy which is communicated to all employees through a health and safety handbook, which is regularly reviewed and updated.
Supporting students In order to build links between the Group and local schools and colleges, work experience and placements are offered to a number of students.
In doing so, the Group strives to make work placements positive, challenging and relevant to participants current studies and their future job prospects.
Customers The Group is committed to providing a high quality price comparison service to its customers, enabling them to compare a wide range of products in the money, insurance, travel and home services markets, and to find the product most suited to their needs.
To maintain high levels of customer satisfaction, the Group is constantly assessing the views of its customers and undertaking customer testing of its websites and any new developments it makes.
The Group provides customers with information from a wide variety of sources such as editorial content, customer and expert reviews, forums and community features to enrich their experience and to help them find the product most suited to their needs.
com Group PLC Annual Report 2009 27
