38 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 Business Review Corporate Sustainability continued Society Socio-economic development The Group places importance on good community relations through The Group aims to manage the social impact of its activities and maximise respecting local people and cultures, building local capacity and hold benefits it can provide.
The social and environmental strategy see page 33, constructive dialogue with local stakeholders.
It gains feedback from local launched in 2009, sets out how it will achieve this objective.
people through perception surveys and engages with communities through various means including meetings, radio programmes and newsletters It sets out how the Group intends to maintain its social licence to operate see case study on Los Pelambres below.
and to establish its reputation as a socially responsible company capable of establishing relationships based on trust and mutual benefits with Through its role as taxpayer, employer, and purchaser of local goods and its stakeholders.
services, the Group aims to have a positive socio-economic impact on the communities in which it operates.
The Groups Social Relations Policy commits AMSA is developing criteria to monitor performance and to assist in companies to help local people access job opportunities by training local implementation of the social and environmental strategy.
In 2009 the people in the skills needed at sites see case study on Esperanza at page 39. business launched guidelines setting out best social and environmental practice in exploration projects.
Key initiatives in 2009 included: an ADASA programme to teach young people the skills they need to succeed in the workplace and to encourage them to start their own businesses.
The entrepreneurship education programme will target third and fourth grade high school students in the regions major cities.
support for the Fundacin Minera Los Pelambres the Foundation efforts to contribute to sustainable development in the Choapa Valley near Los Pelambres.
The Foundation is working to create 1,500 metres of irrigation channels to reduce water losses, and is providing resources and expertise to help farmers boost productivity: and an Esperanza project to strengthen family values among residents of the nearby towns of Sierra Gorda and Michilla.
Other AMSA initiatives in 2009 included: support for music concerts near Michilla, El Tesoro and Esperanza, as well as the national ballet in the Choapa valley near Los Pelambres: the provision of free internet access for communities around Consulting the Los Pelambres: and Cuncumen community a project to improve the local fishermens wharf in Michilla.
Los Pelambres has been working closely with the residents of Cuncumen, the community closest to its old Quillayes tailings dam.
The site established a forum in 2008, with representatives from the community and the company, to discuss residents concerns about the closure of Quillayes.
The residents had concerns about the stability of the dam, and dust and water quality.
Through the forum, Los Pelambres and the community jointly developed a closure plan for the dam.
This included a commitment to provide the community with independent technical advice and to include them in all future closure proposals.
Los Pelambres also agreed to use fitostabilisation in the old Quillayes tailings dam, a technique that uses vegetation to stop dust being caught by the wind and to make it blend in more with the landscape.
