Overview Business Review Financial Review Governance Financial Statements Other Information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 33 The social and environmental strategy sets out the Groups objective Group social and to create economic, social and environmental value as a participant of the mining sector.
It is founded on the principle that managing sustainability environmental strategy performance is key to maintaining the Groups social licence to operate and grow.
During 2009, the Group achieved another important This strategy defines how the Group intends to generate social milestone in its sustainability efforts when the Board of and environmental value.
The strategy has two core elements: Antofagasta Minerals S. A. AMSA, approved a social Social Responsibility defined as building relationships of trust and and environmental strategy for the mining division mutual benefit with stakeholders.
This will be achieved by taking action which is integral to the Groups business plan.
in three areas: Behaving responsibly by prioritising the health and safety of employees and contractors, maintaining a beneficial work environment, preventing adverse impacts on society, engaging with key stakeholders, creating local employment opportunities for local suppliers.
Managing risk by identifying and managing socio-political risk and managing crises.
Developing human capital by providing development opportunities to workers, contractors and suppliers, contributing to local development in the communities within an operations area of influence, supporting education and training, implementing initiatives to improve local life quality and supporting other economic activities see the description of Fundacin Minera Los Pelambres on page 38.
Environmental Responsibility defined as using natural resources efficiently and where possible more economically and adding environmental benefit.
This will be achieved by taking action in three areas: Achieving operational efficiencies including managing waste, water, electricity, fuel consumption and land use.
Controlling environmental impacts including air and water quality, water availability, biodiversity, greenhouse gas emissions and environmental incidents.
Providing environmental benefits by providing environmental education, using renewable energy, enhancing biodiversity and protecting cultural heritage and developing beneficial new technologies.
The Group is working further to embed sustainability issues into management systems and decision making to ensure delivery of its strategy.
It is developing key performance indicators through social and environmental performance assessments and defining social and environmental criteria for project due diligence and design.
The Choapa Valley near Los Pelambres
