Overview Business Review Financial Review Governance Financial Statements Other Information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 35 Risk assessment and Stakeholder engagement management systems The Group recognises the importance of stakeholder engagement at the Risk assessment local, national and international levels.
Together with continual monitoring The Group has a risk management system to monitor centrally the risks of national and international trends, this dialogue enables the Group and its relevant to each operating company, including social and environmental operating divisions to identify and address the most material sustainability risks, and to enable its management to prevent or mitigate possible issues and maximise its opportunities to contribute to local development.
situations and incidents that might have a negative effect on business It enables the Group to understand the perspectives of others, explain its objectives.
The findings of the stakeholder engagement activity see below operations and plans, and build relationships of trust and mutual benefit.
are fed into the risk identification process.
Risk maps are prepared to identify The Group has identified its key stakeholders as: investors, employees and the main areas of risk in each division and risk management processes contractors, communities, local and national governments and regulators, are incorporated at each level of the Groups operations and projects.
More may be read about key risks on pages 14 and 15 and the Groups internal control Examples of stakeholder engagement in 2009 included: systems on pages 56 and 57. client satisfaction surveys in ADASA and FCAB: and a buyers survey Safety and environmental management systems conducted at Los Pelambres for copper and molybdenum concentrates: Each operating division has implemented management systems for safety community engagement programmes by all operating companies.
The major copper mining operations have independent For example Los Pelambres has developed a formal procedure to allow certification to both the environmental management standard ISO 14001 participation of the neighbouring communities in operational decisions such and the safety management standard OHSAS 18001.
Antofagasta Railway as the eventual closure plan for the Quillayes tailings dam see case study Company is also certified to OHSAS 18001. on page 38 : All the mining operations and Antofagasta Railway Company are certified to an annual reputation survey conducted by mining companies among their the ISO 9001 quality standard.
principal stakeholders including local communities and authorities, workers Certification ISO 14001 ISO 9001 OHSAS 18001 and contractors, and the media: Los Pelambres investor meetings to gain feedback on the Groups sustainability reporting El Tesoro and performance: and Michilla engagement with government and regulatory authorities through direct Antofagasta Railway Company dialogue and through industry associations such as the Sociedad Nacional fide Minera and the Consejo Minero, and other representative bodies.
At each operating company, an Environmental Manager and a Public Affairs Manager are responsible for management of sustainability issues.
Both report directly to the Chief Executive Officer of their respective companies.
Operating companies have established internal reporting systems to monitor performance.
Sites are frequently audited to review operational, environment, health and safety, labour and legal compliance performance against Group and certification standards every two to three months.
Third-party auditors conduct certification audits every six months at El Tesoro, Michilla and the Antofagasta Railway Company and every 12 months at Los Pelambres.
Community engagement in the Sierra Gorda district
