36 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 Business Review Corporate Sustainability continued Activity in 2009 Workforce Health and safety is one of the Groups key priorities and work to improve performance will continue over the year.
The Groups lost time injury Safety frequency rate improved in 2009 to an average of 2.8 injuries per million Safety is a major priority for the Group given the inherent risks in the different hours worked, from 4.4 in the previous year see below.
operations and development projects and hence requires constant vigilance.
The Groups goal is to create a safety culture through regular training and Employee development and labour relations awareness campaigns for employees, contractors, families and local The Group applies an equal opportunities policy throughout its operations communities.
Focus areas also include road safety training and awareness and believes that all employees and contractors should have opportunities to prevent transport accidents.
for development and receive fair reward for their contribution and potential.
The Group investigates serious incidents and implements action plans to In 2009 the Group reviewed and strengthened its employment policies.
Safety performance is reviewed at regular divisional Contractors form a significant element of the Groups total workforce and board meetings.
Safety and health management systems are established under Chilean law are subject to the same obligations and responsibilities across the Group, and its major mining operations and railway are certified as employees.
At the end of 2009 the Groups mining division workforce in Chile comprised The Group invests in preventative health programmes, including health approximately 2,500 employees and 19,000 contractors.
Of the total number examinations and risk awareness and accident prevention training.
of contractors, 14,000 worked on specific projects including construction at Occupational health issues among employees and contractors are relatively Los Pelambres and Esperanza.
rare, but the Group provides support for affected people, even if the illness was contracted before working for the Group.
The Group continues to make a significant investment in employee training and development.
Programmes include: The Board deeply regrets the death of five of its workforce who lost their the AMSA talent management programme to develop leadership ability and lives during the year at the Groups operations as a result of three separate promote high performance and site level training programmes: incidents.
Three people lost their lives in a driving accident within the Los Pelambres open pit: one person lost his life at the Los Pelambres the ADASA management and technical skills programme to develop concentrator plant and another lost his life at El Tesoro.
specific competencies within teams: and the FCAB leadership training programme and sponsorship of preand The Board has a clear target of zero fatalities and considers any fatality post-graduate training courses.
Each incident was investigated by the authorities concerned, as well as by AMSA and mine management which took action to prevent a recurrence.
AIFR Number of accidents with and without lost time during the year per million hours worked.
Chilean mining industry source Servicio Nacional fide Geologa y Minera.
2009 full year figures have not yet been released by Servicio Nacional fide Geologa y Minera and therefore are not shown above.
Overview Business Review Financial Review Governance Financial Statements Other Information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 37 The Group respects freedom of association and union membership by its workforce.
Labour relations are managed at operating company level with management working to maintain compliance with the requirements of the Chilean Labour Codes.
There are 13 labour unions across the Group.
In 2009 Esperanza agreed a two-year contract with employees with its recently formed union, with the result that collective agreements are in place in all mining operations until 2011.
These agreements cover remuneration levels as well as terms and conditions of employment.
The Group was not involved in any labour disputes in 2009.
The Group aims to keep employees informed about the business and uses a range of channels including a company intranet, newsletters, bulletin boards and social events.
In 2009 it held training and awareness sessions to inform Boosting gender employees about Group strategy and its plan to face the economic crisis.
diversity at El Tesoro The downturn in the global economy and the sharp drop in commodity In 2009, El Tesoro completed a three-year project to increase the prices at the end of 2008 significantly affected the mining industry.
proportion of women in its workforce.
Despite the economic crisis, AMSA continued with the Esperanza project and the Los Pelambres plant expansion project as scheduled and increased In 2007, it launched the project by becoming the first privately owned employee and contractor numbers at these sites during 2009. company in Chile to adhere to the Good Practice Code for Non 120 employees were made redundant at El Tesoro and Michilla in early Discrimination developed by the National Women Service Sernam.
2009 as a result of the decision to stop production at the high-cost The Code aims to overcome gender inequality by promoting womens open-pit at Michilla and to defer operational stripping at El Tesoro in access to the job market, ensuring better working conditions, opportunities response to low copper prices.
These workers were provided with and equal salaries for women.
support and benefits beyond legal requirements.
In the second year, El Tesoro developed a training plan for local women The Group complies with legal requirements contained within employment to give them the skills needed to work at the mine.
It hired 22 women laws in Chile, including those relating to child labour, discrimination and to operate mining equipment.
By the end of 2009, 10% of El Tesoros equal opportunity.
Human rights considerations form part of human capital workforce were women.
As in previous years, no cases of human rights The success of the project inspired the Esperanza project to launch breaches have been identified in 2009. its own programme, which resulted in 64 women joining its workforce.
Both companies have received recognition for their initiative from the Chilean President.
Recognition for labour relations In 2009 Los Pelambres became the first mining company to win the Carlos Vial Espantoso national award for best practice in labour relations.
75 companies in Chile were nominated for the award.
Los Pelambres was selected from the shortlisted companies by a jury comprising public and private sector professionals.
The award recognises the companys efforts to build strong working relations based on trust between employees and business partners, its high level of staff training and the close working relationship between the companys top executives and workers.
The award is a reflection of the value Los Pelambres places on ensuring the development and wellbeing of every employee.
