Overview Business Review Financial Review Governance Financial Statements Other Information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 39 Environment The Group takes into account the environmental impact of its activities including mine planning, construction, operation and closure and endeavours to prevent negative impacts where possible.
Where impacts cannot be avoided the Group implements mitigation and compensation programmes in accordance with legal and international standards.
The mining operations have the most significant environmental impact within the Group and AMSA management continued to implement its management plan in 2009 in support of the divisions environmental policy.
As explained above, the Board agreed the Group social and environmental strategy in 2009.
In order to implement the strategy, the Group has focused on strengthening AMSAs team of environmental managers and empowering them to promote Creating local skills a culture of environmental protection in their respective companies and to embed environmental thinking into decision making.
and employment at Esperanza Esperanza is determined to ensure that the project benefits local people The mining division developed a performance assessment tool called as much as possible and it has set a goal for at least 30% of construction Assessment of Environmental Performance based on key performance and operational workers to come from the Antofagasta Region.
indicators for the three environmental focus areas identified in the environmental and social strategy: operational efficiency, impact control Esperanza has launched an extensive training programme in surrounding and environmental benefit.
Using this framework, each company set its villages to give 800 residents the skills they need to be recruited to work own goals reflecting its main impacts and priorities.
In 2009, the AMSA team of environmental managers conducted gap The programme includes: analyses to review implementation of its environmental policy, implemented training for 800 people, mainly school leavers, in the Antofagasta area the Assessment of Environmental Performance and measured AMSAs in safety, quality, the environment and community relationships: and carbon footprint.
training for 200 people selected from previous courses on specific The team also completed the Groups submission to the Carbon Disclosure construction areas.
Project for the first time in 2009.
Additionally, the company has developed a competency training programme for operators and maintenance personnel for the mine and plant areas: training for 150 people in the region as mine operators.
90 of them currently work at Esperanza: and training for 270 school graduates in the area of plant maintenance.
70 of them now work at Esperanza.
Esperanza offers training for up to 100 people in how to prepare social projects and how to manage trade services and deal with local suppliers.
Fundacon Minera Los Pelambres Agricultural project El Manque 40 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 Business Review Corporate Sustainability continued Audits and assessments The Group continues to work towards securing alternative energy supplies and establishing longer term agreements and contracts with energy suppliers.
The Group conducted an environmental performance assessment of its principal operations in 2009, evaluating their environmental management In 2009 AMSA signed an agreement with Carbon Energy of Australia against performance indicators in three areas: operational efficiency, impact to assess jointly and eventually develop a coal deposit in Mulpun, Chile, control and benefits to the environment.
using Underground Coal Gasification UCG technology.
If trial projects are successful, the project will generate energy from gasified coal.
The Group established a reporting system that companies can use to report against environmental performance indicators.
The Group acquired a 40% stake in Inversiones Hornitos S. A. the owner of the Hornitos thermoelectric power plant which is being constructed in It conducted two internal environmental audits of mining operations in Mejillones in the Antofagasta Region.
The power plant is expected to begin 2009, which were coordinated by AMSAs environment team and conducted commercial operation in 2011 and will supply up to 150MW to the Esperanza in partnership with site environment teams.
The teams assessed whether project, under a long-term supply agreement.
This will be a coal-powered sites are managing environmental issues in a proactive, prioritised and plant also capable of burning biomass and other fuels.
risk-preventive way and assessed the implementation of 2009 environmental programmes including at the Esperanza mine due to start production at Together with Empresa Nacional del Petrleo ENAP, the Chilean the end of 2010. state-owned oil company, AMSA created Energa Andina, a new company with aims to acquire concessions and explore for and eventually develop Environmental incidents geothermal power stations.
During 2009, the Group implemented new protocol for identifying and reporting environmental incidents at its mining operations.
The protocol Water management and supply records all operational incidents including those with no environmental Using water efficiently is key to ensuring the availability of water for local consequence.
Two operational incidents were reported at Los Pelambres communities and our operations.
The Group closely monitors its water during the year.
These incidents were of serious concern to both the consumption and quality to ensure it complies with legislative requirements Group and the local communities.
In February 2009 a crack in one of the valves of the energy generator station All operating companies implement water management plans that seek caused minor discharge to a local stream.
The authorities were informed and to minimise demand on local water resources, in particular through water subsequent monitoring did not identify any environmental damage.
Los Pelambres recycles approximately 85% of the water it uses and El Tesoro recycles the majority of the water it uses.
Michilla uses 100% The second operational incident occurred in August 2009 when a faulty seawater as will Esperanza when it commences operations.
monitoring valve at Los Pelambres caused a spill of copper concentrate into the River Choapa in the locality of Panguesillo.
The incident was notified to ADASA is seeking to increase the supply of desalinated water for domestic the authorities who initiated an investigation.
Los Pelambres performed consumption in the Antofagasta Region.
As part of this strategy it acquired a monitoring and a full technical analysis to ensure there was no the desalination plant located in the city of Antofagasta in March 2009 for environmental damage.
which it was previously the sole customer.
No other operational incidents were reported.
Energy security, management and carbon emissions The Group recognises the need to conserve energy and develop a suitable response to climate change which recognises the needs of the business.
Operations implement energy efficiency projects and look for ways to use renewable energy where possible.
Operations also invest in innovative technology to reduce energy use.
For example at Los Pelambres, the concentrator plant is located 1,600 metres below the mine site and the loaded conveyor belt system between the two points uses the height difference to generate around 10% of the power used at the operation.
Desalination plant at ADASA Overview Business Review Financial Review Governance Financial Statements Other Information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 41 Waste management Developments in environmental regulation The Group implements solutions to enable waste reduction and reuse where REACH possible.
The Groups operations have arrangements in place to dispose of The European Union EU has introduced the Regulation, Evaluation and waste according to applicable legal requirements.
Authorisation of Chemicals REACH to control risks to human health and the environment.
REACH requires companies involved in manufacturing At Los Pelambres, the Mauro tailings dam is now operational, providing or importing chemicals into the EU to collect or generate toxicity data on sufficient waste disposal capacity for the remaining life of the existing mine.
Due to Esperanzas geographical and meteorological location, it will be Antofagastas molybdenum and copper products are covered by REACH.
able to use thickened tailings technology, which will reduce water Through the Consortia of Copper and Molybdenum Producers and consumption and improve evaporation, mitigating the risk of soil Manufacturers, AMSA has been working to conduct research and to contamination.
The technology will also ensure a high level of stability prepare classification dossiers.
The Group has met its pre-registration for the tailings during operations and after the mine has closed.
and is on track to meet the November 2010 registration deadline.
Biodiversity Global Harmonising System The Group recognises the importance of maintaining existing ecosystems The Global Harmonising System GHS will be implemented jointly with and biodiversity and minimising habitat disturbance.
The Group takes into REACH in the EU by the end of 2010.
The GHS is intended to create an account the interests and concerns of different groups when dealing with internationally consistent system of chemical hazard management and biodiversity issues, including farmers and landowners, local communities reporting through standard product labelling and Safety Data Sheets.
All mining operations have formal It will require industry to classify hazards and modify current labelling closure plans for the restoration of land.
The Group is on track to meet all GHS requirements.
Sites implement biodiversity plans in compliance with legislative requirements and planning conditions.
At Los Pelambres there are more than 25,000 hectares of protected areas, including the Laguna Conchal, a Ramsar Convention area.
The site implements mitigation and compensation plans, internal management procedures to reduce environmental impact and monitoring programmes.
Los Pelambres manages a nature sanctuary at the Laguna Conchal wetlands which has significant biological diversity, variations in forest structure and provides a habitat for endangered species.
Los Pelambres conducted basic research on the area and after consulting with local people established a conservation zone with an information centre with the objective of improving the use of this area in a more sustainable way.
Closure provisions The group has prepared Closure Plans for all its operations according to local regulations, and provisions have been allocated for these plans accordingly.
These plans and provisions will be routinely updated.
All new projects contain outlines for closure plans within the Environmental Impact Assessment report submitted to authorities.
