32 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 Business Review Corporate Sustainability As explained in the Chairmans Statement on pages Strategy As set out in more detail on pages 6 to 8, the Group adopted a strategic plan 3 and 4, the Board continues to place importance on for its mining operations in 2008 to cover the period 20092015.
The plan a range of considerations including health and safety, is based on three pillars: management of human resources, environment and securing and strengthening the core business of the Group in Chile, community relations.
Sustainable development forms comprising its existing operations and new projects under development an integral part of the Groups decision-making process.
Los Pelambres expansion and Esperanza : continuing to grow this core business in the longer term with particular focus on the significant Sierra Gorda, Los Pelambres and Michilla districts: and continuing to develop and search for additional opportunities beyond the core business for early-stage growth in copper both in Chile and abroad, such as the Groups interests in Reko Diq in Pakistan, Nokomis in the United States and the international exploration programme.
The Group recognises that achieving its strategic plan depends on effective management of social and environmental issues and maximising the benefits the Group provides.
Achieving good sustainability performance is a key part of meeting the expectations of the Groups stakeholders and complying with current and future regulation.
For more information on the Groups strategic plan see pages 6 to 8, and for more information on the Groups stakeholders see page 35.
Sustainable Development Principles The Board has approved ten Sustainable Development Principles to guide the decision making and actions of its employees and contractors.
The principles underpin the Groups approach to gaining the approval of its stakeholders and maintaining its social licence to operate and grow.
The Principles were adopted during 2008 together with Social and Environmental Policies for the mining division and have been framed within the context of the Groups strategic plan.
Employees and contractors can review these in a single document, The Way We Think, The Way We Act which is available on the Groups website.
Since the adoption of the Principles, the Group has continued to enhance its governance structure from corporate level to operations to ensure their implementation.
