48 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Overview Annual Report 2009 Business review Governance Financial statements Corporate responsibility Corporate responsibility policies Our Anti-Trust Compliance Programme Introduction and procedures helps ensure that we comply with anti-trust At Morgan Crucible, corporate responsibility Core values and competition laws around the world.
is integral to our business, supporting each of our five strategic priorities.
In this section Morgan Crucibles approach to corporate The programme has been in place since we report on our policies, procedures and responsibility is encapsulated in our Core 2002 and was updated in 2008 to include performance in respect of business ethics, Values Statement which was first published new training materials and an updated community relations and suppliers and in 2004 and is regularly reviewed.
Subsequent pages cover work to implement our strategic priorities Community Environment, health and safety EHS our Core Values Statement provides the Our practice is to engage with local and Our people.
In addition, our 2009 framework for our policies, programmes communities in relation to matters of mutual EHS Report, planned for publication on and relevant procedures.
The statement interest and concern.
At a local level, where our website in April 2010, will provide is available on our website and applies Morgan Crucible often has long-established a more comprehensive review of our to all Morgan Crucible businesses and roots and is frequently a major employer, 2009 environmental and health and employees worldwide.
this helps to foster mutual understanding safety performance.
In addition, Morgan Crucible The Audit Committee is responsible for engages with local and national The Board is accountable for corporate overseeing the Groups Ethics Policy, and governments and agencies, both directly responsibility policies and procedures.
The reports to the Board on its effectiveness.
Donations Chief Executive Officer, Mark Robertshaw, to political parties or causes are prohibited.
is the executive in charge of all corporate Our Core Values Statement and Ethics responsibility matters including internal Policy oblige all employees to operate Customers and suppliers and external stakeholders.
in accordance with applicable laws and Morgan Crucibles customer service strategy regulations and specifically prohibit the During the year, all of Morgan Crucibles is: to respond quickly to changing customer giving or receiving of bribes.
These policies corporate  and other demand: to identify emerging needs: apply, so far as is appropriate, to our policies went through a review and updating and to improve product availability, quality business partners, including contractors, process, with external benchmarking where and value.
We stay close to our current agents, joint ventures and suppliers.
The revised policies were and potential customers, building longCompany also requires that no employee agreed by the Executive Committee and term relationships.
shall suffer discrimination as a result of approved by the Board.
refusing to pay or receive a bribe.
The Company relaunched its Group-wide intranet in January 2010.
This provides During the year the Morgan Crucible Ethics employees with online access to the Policy was reviewed and updated.
Senior Groups policies and related procedures management training has been taking and guidance notes.
The Group-wide launch of the policy and related training programme took place with the launch of the intranet, as referred to above.
49 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Overview Annual Report 2009 Business review Governance Financial statements Business ethics Community Over 90% of the Groups manufacturing The Board of Morgan Crucible is committed The implementation of our communitycapacity is accredited to ISO 9001 and our to ensuring that the Companys policies related policies and procedures is aligned quality management systems help ensure that our products meet or exceed customer relating to business integrity are upheld.
with the management of our overall requirements.
Management of the supply Our Core Values Statement and Ethics Policy business and is focused at site level on chain is a key part of ISO 9001 and ISO are translated into appropriate languages engagement and initiatives which are 14001 accreditation and includes supplier for our sites worldwide.
The statement and relevant to the local community and to questionnaires as appropriate.
policy are promoted to employees globally, our business.
Divisional and Group support in particular through coverage in the global is made available where appropriate.
We aim to work with our customers, employee magazine, which is available in All charitable and other donations are suppliers and other partners in mutually eight languages.
Appropriate training is fully accounted for.
beneficial ways and, so far as is practicable, provided, including induction training for Customers and suppliers require that our customers and suppliers, new employees and via e-learning.
The Chief Executives of each of our Divisions joint venture partners and contractors The Morgan Crucible Whistleblowing line have specific responsibility for customers throughout the supply chain act in enables employees and other stakeholders and suppliers and the related policies and accordance with our policies and values.
who are aware of, or suspect, misconduct, procedures within their respective Divisions.
Our support for the Universal Declaration illegal activities, fraud, abuse of Company of Human Rights, referred to in the Our Verification of ESG disclosures assets or violations of Morgan Crucibles people section on page 54, commits us Our Company Secretary, the Director of Ethics Policy to report these confidentially in respect of all those who work for the Risk Assurance and the Director of EHS without fear of retribution should they Company and those who have dealings work with independent external consultants feel they cannot use a local channel.
to review and where appropriate verify our environmental, social and governance Corporate responsibility policy Morgan Crucibles global Anti-Trust disclosures.
This process covers the implementation Compliance Programme is ongoing, with environmental and health and safety-related The implementation of our corporate regular training for appropriate employees non-financial key performance indicators  policies and across the Group.
Anti-Trust Compliance included in this Report.
procedures is aligned with the overall Officers within each business report to the governance structure of the Group.
Company Secretary as Global Compliance All Morgan Crucible businesses are regularly The implementation of our environmental, Director on the continuing effectiveness of reviewed under the Groups Compliance health and safety and people-related the programme.
The Anti-Trust Compliance Audit Programme and those sites and policies is covered in more detail on Programme includes independent audits, businesses certified to ISO 9001, ISO 14001, pages 51 to 55. the results of which are considered by the OHSAS 18001 and other standards have Company Secretary who reports to the regular external audits.
The Group also uses We describe below some of the processes Executive Committee and the Board on external professional advisers in relation to for implementing and monitoring our the effectiveness of the programme and specific health and safety and environmental key corporate responsibility policies on any issues arising.
and procedures and those in respect of verification of our environmental, social The Board considers that these procedures and governance ESG disclosures.
provide a reasonable level of assurance that the Groups ESG disclosures are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
50 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Overview Annual Report 2009 Business review Governance Financial statements Corporate responsibility continued During 2009, Morgan Crucible supported The Carbon Divisions site near Corporate responsibility policy a number of initiatives at Group, Divisional Johannesburg, South Africa, organised effectiveness and site level.
The main emphasis of this a wellness day.
Some 100 employees Business ethics During the year ethics-related issues support is to help disadvantaged young participated, increasing their awareness raised through the Whistleblowing line, the people and sponsor local community of the importance of a healthy lifestyle, dedicated ethics email facility or via other projects which can also engage and involve preventative screening and staying HIV channels were followed up by the Director employees.
The wellness day is planned of Risk Assurance in consultation with the to be an annual event in future.
The Group continued its three-year, Company Secretary.
Further investigations 60,000 programme to support the Our staff also support a variety of local and may be conducted through the Audit Army Cadet Force Association ACFA national initiatives and projects, helping to Committee as required.
raise funds and giving their time.
Examples disciplinary action is taken and or additional Morgan Crucible continues to support of employee activities include: guidance and training provided.
In respect the joint Barnardos Outward Bound of the Anti-Trust Compliance Programme, Employees at the Carbon site in initiative which provides opportunities the independent audits referred to above Greenville, SC, USA and at the Technical for young people to develop life skills confirm the continued effectiveness of Ceramics site in New Bedford, MA, at a centre in Ullswater, UK.
USA continue to be strong community Our Divisions sponsor a number of local supporters.
Working closely with sports facilities and the teams that use Customers and suppliers United Way, employees pledge payroll them.
For instance, NP Aerospace is a Morgan Crucible continues to benefit deductions to local charities, make major sponsor of the Godiva Harriers, from long-term relationships with many donations to local United Way the oldest athletics club in Coventry, UK.
customers and suppliers, reflecting the programmes and participate in the Formed in 1879, the Godiva Harriers effectiveness of our customer service and United Way Day of Caring, when cater for all types of athletic events supplier-related strategies.
Some examples they help with landscaping, painting and age groups.
In addition, Technical of our customer relationships are included and other community tasks.
Ceramics, Stourport, UK provides on pages 6 to 27 of this Annual Report.
The Technical Ceramics site in support to the local football team, Waldkraiburg, Germany held an on-site Community and in the USA, the Carbon Division auction which raised 1,500 for a local During the year, and including donations supports a number of athletic teams childrens day-care centre.
of 235,592 made by NP Aerospace, the in St Marys, PA, USA.
The Morgan Crucible head-office Groups charitable donations increased NP Aerospace also supports Help for team participated in the 26.2 mile to 302,232 2008: 114,736.
This is in Heroes, the UK based charity which Maidenhead relay marathon to raise addition to the time given and donations helps wounded Servicemen and money for The Link Foundation, a made by Morgan Crucible employees women, as well as a number of charity which helps care for children around the world.
The Company also supports the British Transplant Games, an annual four-day event which encourages transplant patients to regain fitness whilst also increasing public awareness of the value of organ donation.
51 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Overview Annual Report 2009 Business review Governance Financial statements Environment, health and safety Our EHS Policy requires high standards Training is an integral part of our EHS Our Environment, Health and Safety EHS of EHS management at all sites.
During 2008 we Policy and implementation programmes achieved through risk assessment and implemented an in-depth EHS training support our five strategic priorities and our Core Values Statement.
The regular the management and mitigation of programme at all of the Groups facilities collection and reporting of EHS key identified risks to help provide continuous in China.
The programme was carried out performance indicators KPIs and the improvement in environmental, health with the assistance of external consultants setting of EHS-related targets assist us and safety performance in support of and included comprehensive training of in the development and monitoring of our strategic priorities.
senior management and the development programmes to reduce the impact of and implementation of EHS management EHS Policy implementation our operations on the environment.
The EHS Compliance Our EHS Policy forms the basis of our Audits carried out at all of these facilities environment, health and safety management The Company is committed to conducting in 2009 showed a substantial improvement systems and processes.
The management of all its activities in a manner which achieves in EHS performance.
A small number of our environmental and health and safety the highest practicable standards of health areas requiring further improvement were performance is aligned with the operation of and safety for our employees and others identified and these are being addressed our day-to-day business.
The Chief Financial affected by our operations.
in the next stage of the programme, which Officer has specific responsibility for EHS is currently underway.
This Report includes a summary of our EHS Policy and performance, supported by the Policy and its effectiveness as demonstrated Director of Environment, Health and Safety.
The success of the Chinese programme through our EHS KPIs and programmes.
Operational responsibility is delegated to demonstrated the benefits of focused Further detail will be included in our 2009 the Chief Executive of each Division and EHS training and a similar programme EHS Report to be published on our website the manager of each operation.
In practice, is being developed for the Groups six in April 2010.
The EHS Report will also all employees are responsible for ensuring manufacturing facilities in India.
This include case studies to help demonstrate that our EHS Policy is implemented and programme will be implemented in 2010. our approach to enhancing the sustainability for identifying additional areas and Environmental management systems are of our business.
in place at 89 sites worldwide, representing EHS Policy over 90% of output, including 34 major Morgan Crucibles environmental and The Groups EHS Policy applies Group-wide.
sites or 38% of output certified to ISO health and safety management processes It is made available to all employees and is 14001 2008: 27 sites and 43% of output.
include the EHS Compliance Audit published on our website and in our annual Seven sites achieved certification in 2009, Programme carried out by external auditors EHS Report.
however, the proportion of our output in Europe and Asia and in-house resources covered by ISO 14001 certification declined in the Americas.
This programme provides During 2009, we reviewed and externally due to the consolidation of NP Aerospace.
assurance of the EHS management at each benchmarked our Group EHS Policy.
The We plan for the main NP Aerospace sites site and helps ensure compliance with local revised policy has been agreed by the to be certified over the period of 2010-11. regulations and good management practice.
Executive Committee and approved by All of the Groups manufacturing facilities These new certifications are in addition to the Board.
In addition to statements of are audited on a three-year rolling cycle.
the ongoing programme of recertifications.
EHS policy, the new EHS Policy clearly sets Thirty-three sites were audited during 2009, All of our major sites worldwide have health out the responsibilities for EHS matters including all seven of the Groups Chinese and safety management systems in place, throughout the Group.
This enabled the effectiveness of with nine sites certified to or working the first stage of the Groups Chinese EHS towards OHSAS 18001. training and improvement programme to be independently assessed.
Our target for 2010 is to audit a further 26 sites.
52 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Overview Annual Report 2009 Business review Governance Financial statements Corporate responsibility continued Environment, health and safety continued EHS Policy effectiveness Environmental performance CO intensity 2 In addition to the EHS Compliance Tonnes m revenue Wherever possible we work to minimise the Audit Programme, the Group monitors impact of our business on the environment 2009 400 the effectiveness of its EHS Policy through and to maximise the positive environmental 2008 464 a series of EHS KPIs.
These are reported benefit of our products.
2007 487 Group-wide on a monthly basis and Our environmental target for the two years 2006 516 the Executive Committee and the Board 2009-10 is to reduce the intensity of our receive reports every six months.
CO emissions due to all sources of energy 2 Energy intensity During 2009 we extended our EHS use by 5% in real terms.
CO intensity was 2 mWh m revenue reporting to cover NP Aerospace.
In absolute terms in this Report includes the environmental total CO emissions due to energy use were 2 2009 1,283 and health and safety impacts of this some 393,000 tonnes against 464,000 2008 1,471 business following the Groups acquisition tonnes in 2008, 444,000 tonnes in 2007 2007 1,541 of a majority stake in January 2009. and 419,000 tonnes in 2006.
Our waste 2006 1,692 intensity was down by 11% in the year, Where necessary, historic data has been ahead of our 5% reduction target for the Waste intensity restated to reflect changes to the business two years 2009-10.
The proportion of total Tonnes m revenue with environmental intensity KPIs reported waste which was recycled was 28% in at constant currency.
The summary charts 2009, down one percentage point on 2009 65 on pages 52 and 53 represent the Groups the prior year and thus we are not on track 2008 73 EHS performance in real terms, covering to achieve our target to increase the level 2007 85 100% of production sites during the year.
of recycling to 35% of total waste over 2006 94 the period 2009-10.
Water intensity was The verification of our environmental, social down 9% in 2009 and we are ahead of # and governance disclosures is discussed on Water intensity the targeted 5% reduction over the two 3 page 49. m m revenue years 2009-10.
2009 2,563 We will again be targeting reductions in our 2008 2,816 energy, emissions, waste and water intensity 2007 3,321 in 2010 to ensure we achieve our targets 2006 4,450 for the two-year period 2009-10.
Further details will be included in our EHS Report to be published on our website in April 2010.
CO equivalent from all energy sources, 2 including country-specific electricity.
Constant currency basis, includes inter-company sales.
Includes process and irrigation use.
53 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Overview Annual Report 2009 Business review Governance Financial statements Health and safety performance The number of days lost due to accidents was Lost time accident frequency Our long-term health and safety objective LTAs 100,000 hours down 13% in the year but, as a result of the is to have no accidents.
In 2010 we will reductions in working time at many facilities 2009 0.56 continue to extend our accident prevention worldwide, relative lost time performance 2008 0.69 and training programmes throughout the was flat at 0.14% of working time although 2007 0.55 Group with the objective of reducing the many businesses improved performance in 2006 0.70 time lost per lost time accident and placing this area.
However, with the reduced number particular focus on those sites with below of lost time accidents, the average time lost average performance.
per lost time accident increased to 32 days, Health and safety-related lost time although this figure includes a small number % of total working time Our health and safety KPIs include accident of more long-term cases.
frequencies and causes and related lost 2009 0.14 working time.
These are used to monitor the 2008 0.14 effectiveness of our health and safety policies 2007 0.08 and related systems on a monthly basis.
2006 0.07 The Groups accident reporting and analysis Lost time per LTA systems continue to be refined to enable us Days per LTA to produce KPIs that more accurately reflect the health and safety situation throughout 2009 32 the Group.
2008 26 2007 19 Our EHS Policy implementation 2006 13 programmes, including the training programme mentioned on page 51, helped to drive down the frequency of lost time Accident causes accidents across the Group to 0.56 per % 100,000 hours worked.
The number of Cuts & abrasions: 46% lost time accidents was down by over 25%.
Manual handling: 12% Manual handling cuts and abrasions are Slips, trips, falls: 8% Struck by object: 8% the most common cause of accidents Strike stationary object: 8% and we will be working to address this, Moving machinery: 5% specifically targeting businesses with Other: 13% below-average performance.
Lost time accident LTA : accident which results in one or more days lost time.
54 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Overview Annual Report 2009 Business review Governance Financial statements Corporate responsibility continued Our people communicate regularly through We recognise and celebrate the During a period of global economic employee forums, team briefs and accomplishments achieved by our people recession, the capabilities, flexibility Divisional magazines.
We are committed to individually or as teams.
In acknowledging and tenacity of our people have enabled Morgan Crucible to achieve a resilient providing our people with the opportunity and celebrating achievement, loyalty, performance in 2009.
In almost every to give feedback through regular global innovation and creativity, we strive to area of the business our people have employee surveys.
Listening to our people motivate and inspire employees towards the been affected in some way and while the and harnessing their knowledge and pursuit of performance excellence, creating business has been constrained to directly experience of Morgan Crucible is essential a sense of pride in their work and in Morgan reward them their commitment and effort to continuously improve and grow the Crucible.
Our compensation systems reward have not waned.
We will continue to leverage business over the long term.
people who apply their knowledge, skills that commitment and the significant talents and talents to support the achievement Demands on the business are constantly of our people around the world to create a of business goals.
We pay for performance growing and changing, requiring the network that reaches our customers and in all our compensation practices.
The total placement of current and new talent into supports their individual needs globally.
reward package includes a mix of base pay, jobs that fit those business requirements, variable pay and benefits.
We establish at the time they are needed.
We review People policies compensation levels that are both competitive shortand long-term business needs on We support the Universal Declaration of and affordable to Morgan Crucible.
We have a regular basis and carry out succession Human Rights and our Human Rights Policy the flexibility to respond to changing market planning and talent reviews to identify commits us to protect the rights of everyone conditions and competition for high-demand any skill gaps.
When recruiting for a who works for the Company and all those skills, while maintaining equity in salary vacant position we will draw from internal who have dealings with it.
The principles of ranges and pay levels.
talent and where necessary seek external the policy cover child labour, forced labour, candidates.
Selection is based on many Implementation of our people-related health and safety, freedom of association, factors including a candidates relevant policies discrimination, discipline, working hours education, work experience, competencies The implementation of our Human Rights and compensation and the policy is published and performance record.
We provide Policy is supported by an online learning on our website.
The Director of Human equal opportunities in recruitment programme that is translated into Brazilian Resources reports to the Chief Executive and employment ensuring we do not Portuguese, Latin American Spanish and Officer and is responsible for the discriminate against any person based on Mandarin Chinese.
The assessment of development of human rights policy and sex, race, caste, origin, religion, disability, compliance with this policy is part of related matters, with the Chief Executive gender, sexual orientation, age or any our annual certification process.
of each Division having responsibility other status protected by law.
Should for policy implementation within their During the year we launched the Morgan existing employees become disabled, our respective Divisions.
The Morgan Crucible Crucible intranet, renamed by our people Whistleblowing line enables employees policy is to provide continuing employment as MorgaNet.
MorgaNet provides fast who are aware of or suspect issues under and training wherever practicable.
and efficient access to information from our Human Rights Policy to report these For the business to achieve superior diverse sources across the globe.
performance there is an expectation that introduced our global 360 e-magazine our people need to operate at superior in an online version in addition to having Our global Human Resources Policy provides levels.
We aim to support them through hard copies available in 13 languages.
an infrastructure of human resource a formalised performance management The Divisions continue to issue regular activities that enables the business to system cascaded through the businesses Divisional newsletters in both soft and hard attract, retain and engage people with the that focuses on setting clear results-based formats.
In Europe we have an established skills and capabilities to deliver its business objectives directly linked to the strategic consultative arrangement that provides plans and outperform the competition.
goals and annual objectives of the business.
an arena for the exchange of relevant Key to building and maintaining the trust Providing people with the skills to perform and appropriate information across the and respect of our people is open, timely at a superior level is also critical, and we see European region.
We also held our 13th and factual communication.
Our systems continuous learning and their professional annual European Employee Forum in April provide two-way communication forums development as a major investment in 2009 where site representatives attended through online working areas encouraging our future.
from France, Germany, Hungary, Italy, the greater collaboration.
The Divisions Netherlands and the UK.
55 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Overview Annual Report 2009 Business review Governance Financial statements the Americas, and 28% in Asia Pacific.
Of We have introduced a Learning Management Total lost time these employees 97% are permanent and System that enables managers and employees % of working time 73% are male.
Lost time as a proportion of to track and record their learning and 2009 2.7 development and link specific development total working time was 2.7% with lost time 2008 2.4 to the achievement of business goals and due to accidents in the workplace of 0.14%.
In our online Development Centre, The training hours per employee were 12.4. we added a number of new e-learning This reflects a reduction in expenditure on programmes throughout the year: Microsoft Employee turnover direct training during this period.
However, IT, e-appraisal and compliance training, while % per year we are looking forward to this increasing continuing with a Business English language in 2010 with the ability to collate data from module.
A number of new employee 2009 16.7 our new Learning Management System.
development initiatives have been introduced 2008 14.2 Our employee turnover increased to 16.7% 2007 14.0 in our businesses.
This regrettably reflects an increase has developed and introduced e-learning in the number of people made redundant programmes to support the implementation Training during the year and the challenges of of its World Class Manufacturing Hours per employee retaining talent in China where the labour programme, while Carbon China has set market is exceptionally fluid.
up a Virtual Learning Resource Centre with 2009 12.4 Time Guanghua School to support a breadth 2008 14.9 During this period 19 employees around the of technical and business management 2007 13.5 world celebrated 40 years of loyal service training.
A new training centre has been with Morgan Crucible, with 117 employees opened at Morgan Carbon South Africa celebrating anniversaries of 20, 25 and 30 providing greater flexibility to support a years service.
This year we regretfully said range of training initiatives from adult basic goodbye to Bill Byrd who retired at the age education through to production technology of 83.
The transportation specialist based qualifications.
in our Insulating Ceramics plant in Augusta, GA, USA, decided to retire after 62 years In pursuit of growing capability in the of loyal service with Morgan Crucible.
To labour market, Morgan Crucible continues reflect our long-serving employee base we to sponsor annually the Science, Engineering have improved our method of calculating & Technology Student of the Year Awards.
employee tenure for 2009 and our average We are proud to sponsor this event as we length of service is 11.3 years.
believe it allows high-calibre students to showcase their remarkable research work Morgan Crucible carried out an employee and demonstrate the depth of ability of survey in October 2008 and an overview of graduates in the UK.
In 2009 the winner the results was reported in the 2008 Annual of the Best Materials Student award was Report.
Throughout 2009 we have focused Michael Robinson from Sheffield University.
on completing actions related to improving communications and growing the skills People policy effectiveness of our employees through effective At the end of the year, Morgan Crucible performance management and focused employed some 9,400 people, a reduction development programmes.
Our geographic coverage has 35% of employees in Europe, Middle East and Africa, 37% in 2009 data covers 100% of employees 2008: 96%: 2007: 66% for comparison purposes these KPIs exclude the Indian facility which was subject to a lock-out during part of 2008 and 2007.
