Corporate responsibility Last year we reported for the first time on Environment: Understanding and managing Much of the day-to-day work is done by four our developing corporate responsibility our impact on the environment the carbon management groups which address issues programme: what the term means to us, footprint of our stores, warehouses and relating to waste and energy, responsible how we manage it and what we had vehicles, the waste we dispose of and the sourcing, new product development and achieved.
Since then we have made good packaging on our products.
Mothercare has a progress across all four areas: cutting fuel choice of products that have environmental small central CR team to provide expertise use, expanding our ethical trade work, credentials for our customers.
giving more through the Mothercare Community: Playing our part as a corporate Our CR targets Group Foundation and rising up the list citizen, supporting charities and community We have chosen to drive our CR of the Sunday Times 20 Best Big Companies activities that affect our staff, customers and programme through six long term targets to Work For.
We believe that good people in our supply chain.
focused on the year 2013 five years from financial performance goes hand in our start in 2008.
These are as follows: hand with responsible business practices.
Good employer: Treating our staff fairly and equally, investing in them and making To cut the absolute carbon emissions from Defining and managing corporate sure everyone can develop and contribute.
both our UK buildings and our UK fleet by responsibility 15 per cent compared to the 2007 baseline : For us, corporate responsibility CR has The board has delegated this important four linked elements: activity: a steering committee of To cut the packaging associated with every representatives from both brands under 100 of products that we sell by 20 per cent Responsible sourcing: Ensuring that our the co-chairmanship of Clive Revett group compared to the 2007 baseline : suppliers and partners particularly those company secretary and Gillian Berkmen we buy from directly respect human rights, To cut the number of single-use carrier group brand and commercial director offer decent working conditions and pay bags by 50 per cent compared to the meets approximately bi-monthly.
This attention to environmental issues.
Ensuring 2007 baseline : committee makes the essential decisions, we are a fair and honest company to recommends all key policies for approval We will ensure that over 50 per cent of the do business with and providing safe, good by the board and monitors progress wooden products we sell are made from quality products.
towards the groups CR targets.
wood that is either recycled or certified by the FSC Forest Stewardship Council : Mothercare corporate responsibility Policies, governance and reporting Responsible sourcing Environment Community Good employer 19 Mothercare plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Business review Business review continued Pushing up recycling, ensuring that at least 2008 09 in more detail a platform for suppliers to share their 75 per cent of our waste is recycled: and Responsible sourcing ethical and environmental information The Mothercare group has a robust and confidentially.
A condition of our business For the groups community programme sustainable ethical trade programme which we is that all own brand suppliers and factories to be raising 1 million for charity.
continue to review and improve as we learn used to manufacture our products must join We are considering amending our target and understand more about the issues that SEDEX, complete an online self assessment on wood sourcing slightly to recognise affect our global supply base.
In the last 12 and present an independent third party the improvements made in other forest months we have continued in our pursuit audit together with a corrective action plan certification schemes and also to take of factory compliance with our Responsible where required.
We are currently able to an explicit stance against unsustainable Sourcing Code of Practice: detailing the access social audit information on 383 sites.
The revised standards we expect suppliers to achieve Full service suppliers suppliers who manage target will be reported upon next year.
across ten areas including health and the relationship with factories on our behalf safety, working hours and minimum wages.
are expected to engage with and monitor In 2007 we joined SEDEX Supplier Ethical the factories they use against the standards Data Exchange which is the worlds largest in our Code.
Our Technology team monitors database of labour standards.
It provides full service suppliers and their supply base using SEDEX to ensure continuous progress is made.
We support our CR targets with year-by-year objectives.
Last years were: We also have a dedicated Responsible Objective Status Sourcing team that works closely with the factories that we have a direct relationship Cut store energy use including bringing Largely done: Staff awareness campaign with providing support and training.
Last ELC stores into Mothercares energy will follow completion of meter installation year we reported our intention to strengthen management system and running programme.
our resource in this area.
The team has a staff energy awareness campaign.
expanded from a head count of four to six, with the addition of a Responsible Sourcing Consolidation of the businesss delivery Done: Fleets consolidated and fuel use cut Manager and a Code Compliance fleets to gain efficiencies and look for by 15 per cent.
Executive based in Hong Kong and China.
ways to increase our use of rail transport for goods.
A series of supplier conferences were held in the UK, Hong Kong, China and India.
Commence a project to systematically Under way: Project under way.
Presentations and question and answer review and reduce the amount of sessions were used to facilitate learning packaging on our products and and suppliers were asked to share both investigate ways to cut carrier bag use.
best practice and challenges that they Establish baseline data on our waste from Done: New contractor appointed with had faced in implementing the Code.
The stores and Distribution Centre by running this remit.
conferences were well attended, reaching a pilot project to investigate ways to approximately 200 suppliers and feedback reduce the amount of store waste being was positive.
We will build on this in 2009. sent to landfill.
Our project work in India is ongoing.
In Development of a new group-wide policy Under way: Existing policies remain pending attempting to improve supply chain standards on the purchase and use of wood and development of group policy.
we have spent significant resource to try paper products, bringing the whole group to uncover the more complex issues that up to the same high standards.
may not be picked up during an audit.
Through worker interviews we are gaining Review our approach to charitable giving Under way: We have met with some possible an understanding of what could be done with an aim to concentrate more of our partners but have not yet made a decision.
to make their lives easier.
activity through a single large-scale partnership that can apply to all of the groups worldwide business, including our franchise partners.
20 Although we had identified a project in The final aspect of our strategy involves China which we hoped to start during 2008 internal communication and training on the factory was flooded and the supplier ethical issues.
A number of related articles was unable to accommodate our plans.
have been published in Small Talk, A new project partner has been identified Mothercares employee magazine, and and the project will be initiated during 2009. information is provided in the updated staff handbook.
The buying teams Our membership of the Ethical Trading received training in March 2008 which Initiative ETI, which is a tri-partite will be updated during 2009.
Ongoing membership group comprising unions, dialogue with the buying teams is fostered non-government organisations NGOs through the responsible sourcing and businesses, continues to provide us committee meetings which are attended with a platform for discussion with likeby representatives from across the buying minded colleagues.
In the last year we and sourcing functions.
have joined two ETI committees: the China Forum and Homeworkers Group.
Environment This has directly led to the development The groups most important environmental of policies on homeworkers and child aspects are: labour.
By publishing and implementing Our stores, using energy and producing our policies, we are encouraging our waste: suppliers to engage in the process with honesty and transparency.
Our warehouses, again using energy and producing waste: Some social and environmental issues are too deep rooted for us to resolve alone.
Our transport fleets, bringing products In early 2009, Mothercare initiated a brand from the docks to the warehouses, from the collaboration, working with Labour Behind warehouses to stores or customers homes: the Label an NGO that supports garment Our products, and the materials used workers efforts worldwide to improve their to make them: and working conditions to help resolve issues within a factory in our supply chain.
The packaging and other bulk materials that we use.
In the coming year we aim to further investigate the potential for collaboration with other brands at the factory level.
All of the above pictures show the work of the Liverpool Centre for Better Births.
2007 08 2008 09 % change Building energy use m kWh 71.2 63.5 11% Transport fuel used m litres 2.6 2.2 15% Transport mileage m miles 6.1 5.2 15% Carbon emissions tonnes 39,500 36,000 9% Of which: Buildings 32,600 30,200 7% Transport 6,900 5,800 16% Packaging used tonnes 11,500 8,600 25% Mothercare carrier bags used m 17.4 13.9 20% Certain of the figures reported in 2007 08 have been adjusted following an in-depth review after the acquisition of ELC.
21 Mothercare plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Business review Business review continued Energy management: During the year Packaging: We have formed a working Community Mothercare and ELC energy contracts were group to tackle packaging reduction.
The group invests significantly in community consolidated to one supplier and we have Early actions include simple steps to and charitable activities via its donations begun installation of Automatic Meter remove unnecessary filler and standardising to the Mothercare Group Foundation.
The Reading equipment in all stores to provide box sizes allowing us to use them in Foundation is an independent charity immediate information about energy usage, our warehouse racks.
A new packaging chaired by Karren Brady with Ian Peacock, allowing us to promptly correct overtechnologist has been employed and Ben Gordon and Clive Revett acting as consumption and waste.
Once the installation has started work on a Group Packaging additional trustees.
It has the following programme is complete a staff awareness Manual, designed to better specify the objectives: campaign will help everyone understand packaging we should use.
We have much ensuring the good health and well-being of how to benefit from this equipment.
better data this year on the packaging mums-to-be, new mums and their children: on our imported products, which has All Mothercare stores and a growing resulted in a big drop from previous special baby-care needs and premature number of ELC stores have energy years.
Our carrier bag usage in the UK births: and management systems.
Heating and has also dropped by 20 per cent as staff lighting controls are all pre-set and other parenting initiatives relating to and customers become more sensitive managed centrally with some degree family well-being.
to this form of waste: store staff are of local flexibility to enable staff to maintain careful to only offer bags when necessary.
In 2008 09 we donated 125,000 2007 08: a comfortable environment.
Throughout During 2009 we plan to standardise our 100,000 directly to the Foundation.
In the the year we started installing voltage range of bags and re-launch these with same year the Foundation made awards stabilisers in both new and current stores 40 per cent recycled content.
The main which achieve a 15 per cent energy saving projects supported were: in each store they are fitted.
We have also Waste: Much of the waste from stores is begun a programme of light reduction the packaging removed from products schemes in 10 stores to date, which are needed to get the product safely onto Wellbeing of Women 40,000 reducing energy usage by a further 10 per display.
The Packaging Working Group The Centre for Better Births 35,000 cent per store.
Our warehouses are all is tackling this at source to help reduce The University of Cambridge modern and energy efficient buildings also store waste.
During the year we appointed Foundation Baby Growth Study 35,000 benefiting from voltage trimmers, lighting a new waste contractor.
They were chosen Richard House 20,000 controls and energy management systems.
because of their environmental credentials Kidsout 22,000 and recycling expertise to support the The Chairmans Fund 20,000 Transport fleet: We have made big achievement of our 75 per cent recycling changes to our transport fleets, combining target.
Waste from all warehouses is Wellbeing of Women: The Foundation has those from ELC and Mothercare, increasing separated and recycled where possible.
made a second significant donation to fund efficiency, reducing the miles travelled The National Distribution Centre at Daventry Wellbeing of Womens Eating for Pregnancy and the carbon footprint.
We have started recycled 1,100 tonnes of waste last year, service, approving funding of a further to use double decker trailers, driver award sending only 130 tonnes to landfill.
Our schemes and upgraded a number of older initial funding last year enabled Wellbeing vehicles in a bid to further reduce emissions.
Products: The Eco-Product Working Group of Women to set up a new online resource A further saving on diesel usage has been was formed in 2008 and comprises to support pregnant women and new made by limiting our speed to 52mph and representatives from both Mothercare mums with advice on eating well with the new better driver standards.
and ELC to focus on increasing our range website www.
A priority has Our route patterns have changed this year.
Almost 32,000 people have been helped been to look at the purchase of wood We have implemented a programme to since the site was launched with a 20 per and paper materials for our products, and use our empty vehicles to collect stock direct cent increase since August 2008. we commissioned an independent review from suppliers who previously delivered during the year.
The review showed that The Centre for Better Births: The Centre it into our warehouses for us.
This has tended our current level of FSC certified product for Better Births is a collaborative initiative to increase our mileage, but has reduced was well on the way to our 50 per cent between the University of Liverpool and the overall number of vehicles on the roads target, but also highlighted the growing the Liverpool Womens Hospital, which aims on group business.
Unfortunately, we have credibility of other certification schemes.
to make births better and safer for mothers had to reduce rail use to our depots in and babies everywhere.
The Centre aims Scotland and Daventry as changes to rail to gain new insights into why labour can go pricing made these routes uneconomic.
22 wrong, to improve pregnancy and labour This year we have recognised the outcomes for women and to significantly increasingly international nature of the reduce the numbers of emergency group and have been making the caesarean sections and miscarriages.
The necessary changes to our approach.
We Foundations donation funded a research have reviewed and re-launched 57 policies project into foetal distress in labour, paying in a global format, simplifying them and for a research assistant for 12 months to testing each for cultural appropriateness investigate this special area.
The University of Cambridge Foundation: The business is committed to providing The Foundation is supporting the Cambridge equal opportunities for all staff regardless Baby Growth Study, which looks into of race, gender, age, disability or religious many issues surrounding baby growth, background.
We have investigated our in particular the effect of environmental gender diversity, and taken some steps chemicals on the foetus.
The study is to ensure that the business is representative ongoing and progressing well.
in stores and head office.
The Chairmans Fund: This is an annual Training and development has this year allocation donated following a competition focussed on leadership, through an extensive among staff to propose the most deserving programme delivered personally by our HR or inspiring cause.
This year the fund was director and based on an independent and doubled to 20,000 to mark the coming established framework.
Feedback has been together of Mothercare and ELC.
As a good and we plan to extend the programme.
result 13 charities benefited from donations There are two staff consultative bodies of between 5,000 and 1,000. our Sounding Boards operating at head Our people office and at store level, which gives us Mothercare group relies on the effort and a great opportunity to hear and respond performance of around 7,500 people, the to the opinions of staff.
We have made vast majority of whom are in the front line heavy use of these and other consultative serving customers.
Everything we do in approaches this year as we have prepared people management revolves round four the business for the prevailing economic core elements our DNA that define how conditions and integrated the two brands.
we want to behave: In recognition of our status as a good Care for parents employer, we have again been voted one of the 20 Best Big Companies to Work For Top ELC store team some of our people.
Make the business stronger by our people: moving up to 13th place Middle Myleene Klass at the launch of the Pull together from last years position at 18th and the Baby K range.
highest ranked retailer in the survey.
Get it done Below Tirupur hospital fundraising.
The award is adjudicated by the Sunday These elements are embedded in all our HR Times and is based on anonymous survey processes the way we recruit, appraise responses from at least 40 per cent of a and promote people recognising and randomly selected group of staff.
This is the rewarding staff who display them.
This first year we have entered as a group.
When activity has been led from the very top ranked on peoples sense of belonging of the organisation, with our Executive Mothercare moves up to 3rd position.
team appraised equally against this The Sunday Times said: Theres a feelgood framework.
The DNA has had a profound factor at Mothercare that makes employees effect on our culture.
feel part of one big happy family.
23 Mothercare plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Business review
