888 Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Corporate Social Responsibility Employees High Potential Programme At 888 we work hard to nurture and maintain the pool of talent of our A high profile programme designed to identify and develop key employees.
We acknowledge and value all our employees and strive talent within the Company, this programme is a global project with to be an employer of choice.
888 values everyones contribution, participants from all of 888s divisions, sites and locations.
The regardless of their background or gender, and believes that diversity programme includes two groups: team leaders, who are the future helps meet the need of our global customers.
potential managers, and employees, who are the future potential team leaders.
The programme is either 12 or 18 months long, with Since our employees are one of our key stakeholders we value their the time set according to location and includes both individual and opinion.
Therefore, during the last quarter of 2009 we conducted group training sessions.
The project aims to identify future leadership a global employee opinion survey to understand our employees and maximise internal human capital, reducing reliance on sourcing feedback towards different aspects of their life at 888.
The surveys new talent externally, creating an internal tool for career progression, findings form the base for defining our 2010 goals.
forming a tool for retention of key personnel and driving business success by relying on internal business knowledge.
Professional development and training We strive to enable our employees to grow with the business, helping us to retain talent.
During 2009 two major programmes were developed for our employees.
Panoramic Training A global project designed to connect and enhance employees knowledge about the Companys products.
This project aimed to provide a panoramic outlook on both the internal and external parts of the business.
The objectives of the programme are to improve employees connection to the customer experience and enhance the employees understanding of the end user experience, broaden employees understanding of 888 activities and what the Company offers its customers: and increase employees awareness to important Company processes.
The programme includes four categories: customer Voice live calls from the support team: tools understanding operational tools such as reporting systems: products internal product lectures: and tailor-made plans training needs analysis and designed programmes for each division.
com Life at 888 Community At 888 we like to treat our employees as individuals and ensure that 888 is committed to supporting the various local communities in they work in a relaxed and stimulating environment.
which it operates and the broader global community through its ability to reach millions of consumers worldwide.
During 2009, every division had a dedicated division day and during the year over ten special days were marked.
Celebrations were held Our community investment programme includes cash donations and at different times according to locations, their holidays and relevant long-standing community involvement in our key areas across the events.
As happens once a year, during the first quarter staff from a wide Local community involvement variety of levels, from team leaders to senior management, met for a The Gibraltar, Antigua and UK offices focused their community work global summit.
this year on raising funds for a wide range of issues, including Cancer Research UK, Tarik School of Dance, Teen Tales, the Gibraltar To combine creativity and fun at 888, 2009 saw the initiation of a Philharmonic Society and various other global charities.
The exhibition included works of 888 employees, giving them an opportunity to present their work and Our employees in Israel have continued their year long relationship express their creative side.
with the local Derech Haetgar charity, which focuses on enhancing the education of disadvantaged teenagers.
Twenty-six representatives from all 888 locations took part in the exhibition, which included different forms of art such as painting, As has been the case for each of the past three years, employees photography, sculpture, knitting and many more.
in Israel joined the Ruach Hatova national volunteering organisation for a day of goodwill.
A group of 25 employees helped at a special The exhibition was presented at 888 premises in various locations school for refugees, with volunteers working with the children to for 14 days, with the art works then printed onto a calendar and create baskets and ornaments.
indd 23 30 03 2010 12:34 30 03 2010 12:34 888 Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Corporate Social Responsibility continued Online Charity day Responsible gaming 888 held its third annual charity day.
The 2009 charity day offered 888s Our values place the community and the customer at the centre of all customers across all brands the opportunity to take part in the day and our endeavours.
We are constantly creating new and innovative ways play on the sites for a good cause.
Together, 888 and its costumers to create a caring, responsible gaming environment and to ensure donated a total of US$70,000 to help with the East Africa Crisis.
Environment 888 aims to provide responsible adults with the best online gaming As an online business 888s activities have a relatively small entertainment experience.
However, we acknowledge that within our impact on the environment.
However, we continue to develop our business there is the possibility of danger that the games may pose commitment to environmental issues in order to ensure that this for a small minority of people.
impact is kept to a minimum, and 2009 saw a number of initiatives in this area.
We continuously train all our staff and provide them with the tools necessary to provide a safe gaming experience.
Our training Green IT was targeted as one of our major challenges which programme incorporates methods and techniques that assist our we approached on various levels a Recycling IT: all old and employees in recognising and taking appropriate actions when they nonfunctional IT equipment from all of our locations is now sent for identify compulsive or under-age gambling.
recycling and b Virtualisation VDI project : more than 120 stations were transformed from a PC to the VDI system, enabling us to use Protecting Customers less hardware.
As a responsible, regulated gaming Company we comply with both the GamCare and the eCOGRA guidelines, and during 2009 had our Alongside these projects we continuously measure our energy certification renewed.
consumption to make sure steps are taken to minimise it at all times.
We try to recycle as many materials as possible.
Paper, bottles and GamCare is the leading authority on the provision of counselling, cans are collected regularly from all of our sites on a monthly basis.
advice and practical help in addressing the social impact of gambling We use only ecological detergents in our offices and continue using in the UK.
water saving devices in all our locations.
To minimise the impact of travel on the environment we encourage employees to either cycle to eCOGRA ensures that approved online casinos are properly and work and, in certain locations, provide buses for commuters.
transparently monitored to provide player protection.
To reduce international travel we continue to invest in state-of-theOur site has links to helping agencies and we have placed many art technology and this year we offered the new option of 888Live safeguards for those who need help with controlling their gaming: Meeting to all our staff.
888LM is a web sharing information tool which allows all 888 employees to communicate globally while Self-assessment test: For gamblers who are worried about their viewing the same documents on their personal computer.
gambling habits and want to know more about the signs of compulsive gambling, Controlling deposit limits: Should clients feel the need to, they can control their gambling by self limiting the amounts they deposit per day, per week or per month.
Self exclusion: A member can request to be self excluded for a chosen period, due to different concerns.
Clients can choose from three options of exclusion period 7 days, 30 days and 180 days.
During this period, 888 blocks the account and no promotional e-mails are sent to the client.
com Protecting minors United Nations Global Compact UNGC Under-age gambling on our sites is prohibited and the Group takes During 2009, 888 joined United Nations Global Compact.
The UNGC the matter of under-age gaming extremely seriously.
Our offerings is the largest global initiative to promote the social responsibility are not designed to attract minors.
We use sophisticated verification of businesses.
It is a voluntary initiative, which brings together systems to identify and prevent minors from logging into our thousands of businesses across more than 100 sectors worldwide.
Representatives confirm their commitment to the UNGC in order to promote ten universally accepted principles in the field of human We make every effort to prevent minors from playing on our site.
rights, workplace standards and anti-corruption.
This year, we have added the age verification services of 192. com to complement the existing services provided by URU.
We believe that the activities of 888 are in line with the principles of the Global Compact, and it therefore seemed appropriate We train our staff to be highly sensitive to the possibility of under that we should publicly declare our support and ensure greater age gambling and make sure we immediately suspend any account exposure to a wider public.
By joining the UNGC we are now in line suspected to be an under-age account.
with an established and globally recognised policy framework of environmental, social, and governance policies and practices.
com, has been available, providing information regarding all aspects of responsible gaming.
The site was translated in June 2009 into three additional languages, and is now available in English, French, Spanish and German.
888safe 888 is committed to providing responsible gaming products which comply with the highest standards of gaming safety, security and fair practice.
In March 2009, we were awarded the prestigious TRUSTe Privacy seal of approval for all our websites.
As a result of a rigorous audit we are the first online gaming company to be awarded the Web Privacy Seal, a clear indication of the importance we place on being a highly trustworthy operator.
TRUSTe runs the worlds largest privacy seal programme, with more than 2,000 organisations certified.
It helps millions of consumers identify trustworthy online organisations through its Web Privacy Seal, E-mail Privacy Seal and Trusted Download Programmes.
TRUSTe ensures online privacy and protects confidential user information on more than 2,400 Websites and many of the most highly trafficked, including Yahoo, AOL, Microsoft, Disney, eBay, Intuit, and Facebook.
We continue to collaborate with external and regulatory bodies who guide us on all aspects of responsible gaming, and our dedication to this area is shown through our specialist website, http: safe.
