Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Corporate responsibility For more information on the Groups corporate responsibility performance visit www.
com nx1 corporate The need for developed countries to significantly reduce their Safety carbon emissions is now widely acknowledged.
This will require First and foremost we are responsible for the safety of the people who companies and individuals to adopt more sustainable use and deliver our services.
Safety is absolutely key and is at the approaches to their activities as we move to low-carbon economies.
forefront of all our operations.
We measure several safety indicators National Express is a relatively simple business that already provides across our operations.
There are huge net benefits which Preventable vehicle accident rates improved considerably in the UK arise when customers choose our services instead of the car or 18% better and in Spain 11% better during 2009.
In addition to plane, and we work hard to make public transport an ever more local initiatives, a new driver competency management system and a attractive option.
The greater the number of people who use warning system for low bridges, were among the factors leading the public transport rather than less efficient modes the greater improvement.
A small deterioration in performance was recorded in the benefits to the environment.
Sustainability is thus an integral North America though accident rates are at a very low level.
part of our core business strategy of organic growth.
While lost time injuries to employees in the UK remained stable, there But the environment is not the only beneficiary.
were increases in Spain and in North America, and specific injury Any organisation could test their sustainability by asking themselves reduction plans have been prepared to address the current trend.
the simple question: If we stopped operating tomorrow, would it In UK Rail, the incidence of Signals Passed at Danger fell by 7%.
Compared with travelling by car, you are at least ten times safer on As a public transport provider, the answer for National Express is public transport.
that there would be serious negative impacts on the many millions Environment of people who do not have access to cars, damaging the fabric of Governments around the world now recognise that we need to our society and our economy.
To an extent we are a social service make dramatic reductions in the emissions of greenhouse gases.
Emissions from transport are growing, and in the UK currently The key corporate responsibility issues for our businesses are: account for 21% of the countrys carbon emissions.
So addressing safety: this is essential.
the environment: In our view, the transition to a low-carbon economy must see an social inclusion: increase in public transport.
Coaches, for example, are the most affordability: and environmentally friendly form of mass transit, with CO emissions 2 our people.
per passenger around 80% less than those of an average car and even lower than the train.
Greenhouse gas emissions gCO per passenger km 2009 2 Scheduled or National Express 2,475 network coach East Anglia Reducing emissions After doubling its reduction of 30 48 certified emissions by 1,650 tons of CO in 2008, ALSA went one 2 Bus in West better by announcing it would certify Midlands c2c Charity focus a drop of 2,475 tons of CO in 2009.
2 The National Express Charity Panel was launched.
Ten members of staff representing 100 47 different areas of the business meet four times a year to allocate funding for charitable projects and events.
Data from an independent assessment by Ecometrica, more information is available on www.
com 26 National Express Group PLC Operating Performance and Corporate Financial Overview review financial review responsibility Governance statements Emission figures for buses are higher than for coaches as they of safety and training organisations some for the first time within operate in slow city traffic.
However they are still better than the our industry.
average car and many more people could be accommodated Almost 6,000 of our qualified drivers attended courses on customer on our buses with only a minimal CO increase.
2 care or defensive driving during 2009, and we also invested almost The irony for a company such as National Express, is that the more 100,000 in our vocational qualifications programme.
successful we are at growing our business and encouraging people We seek to develop management talent from within the business, and to change their mode of transport, the greater our own emissions in Birmingham alone more than 70 people began or completed the will become.
Yet this is entirely consistent with the transition to a Diploma in Team Leading or the Diploma in First Line Management.
low carbon economy, as we explain in our vision for the future of In North America, we have been providing customer service transport More is Less which is available on the Group website.
courses to our drivers, with training focused on how to handle Social inclusion difficult situations and how to interact effectively with students, Public transport cannot only play a major part in tackling climate customers and the public.
change, it can also improve the quality of peoples lives, delivering Our new centralised driver recruitment process, established in huge benefits in terms of social inclusion.
In the UK, for example, North America, has processed 16,225 applications and filled 2,633 24% of households do not have access to a car.
driver and monitor positions during the year.
Centralisation has improved the effectiveness of our recruitment, and also benefits Our services are at the very heart of the communities they serve, our local managers.
often providing a lifeline for people who have no other means of getting around.
We give people access to shopping and medical In July, our Spanish business, ALSA, was recognised in the Merco facilities, to education and to one another.
Personas Ranking as one of the top 100 best companies to work for in Spain.
We also enable local economies to function by ensuring that millions of people can get to and from work.
Policy issues Affordability Having a workable, integrated, intelligent public transport system is essential, if people are to be enabled to reduce their personal carbon Public transport is only good public transport if people want to footprints, and for countries to achieve their emission targets.
It must be affordable and it must provide value for money.
Last year, for example, 1.43 million National Express coach Partnerships between national and local government, transport passengers travelled for 5 or less: and in the West Midlands, operators and town planners are key to removing the barriers to a monthly travelcard for buses will enable you to commute to work public transport use and positively encouraging uptake.
If we want consumers to use public transport more, it needs higher We are constantly working and investing to increase the appeal priority in public planning.
That means dedicated priority measures: and use of public transport by making travel more convenient and from extra bus lanes to intelligent traffic lights that recognise more comfortable.
It means better demand management, A balance must be struck, however, between making improvements through schemes such as congestion charge zones.
It also means to the provision and putting that provision beyond the reach of those working with city councils to create partnership schemes which that need it.
recognise the needs of local populations and put these at the top of the agenda.
But value for money demands high levels of punctuality and safety There are many possibilities.
But to make all of this practical, we as well as low prices.
These are core corporate responsibility issues need a shared vision and policy agreement.
Engagement in the for National Express, but are moving targets, as customers needs national debate on such issues is an integral part of our corporate and expectations change.
Providing real-time information is now an responsibility strategy: because we cant act alone.
Goals and progress People National Express sets specific goals and targets for its Although 2009 was a difficult year for the Group, we continued corporate responsibility performance our non-financial to recognise the importance of investing in our people in order KPIs are displayed on page 13 and are reported online at: to build capability across the business.
com In the UK, our operational training team and training centre have been recognised for the quality of the training they deliver by a range Poetic tribute ALSA published an anthology of the work of Spanish poet Angel Gonzlez to commemorate the first anniversary of his death.
The company freely distributed 10,000 copies of the book, called Late Spring, through its sales offices in Spain, on its website and among members of the Bus Plus loyalty programme.
Buses go green National Express Corporation NEC received two NEXBUS Hybrid-Electric school buses.
They are being tested in California and Kansas to assess their ability to reduce emissions, save fuels and cut maintenance costs.
