Directors Report and Business Review Next operates a centralised treasury function which is responsible for managing its liquidity, interest and foreign currency risks.
The Groups treasury policy allows the use of derivative instruments provided they are not entered into for speculative purposes.
Further details of the Groups treasury operations are given in Notes 30 to 34 to the financial statements.
EMPLOYEES People are key to achieving the Groups business objectives.
Next has established policies for recruitment, training and development of personnel and is committed to achieving excellence in the areas of health, safety, welfare and protection of employees and their working environment.
Equal opportunities Next is an equal opportunities employer and will continue to ensure it offers career opportunities without discrimination.
Full consideration is given to application for employment from disabled persons, having regard to their particular aptitudes and abilities.
The Group has continued the employment wherever possible of any person who becomes disabled during their employment.
Opportunities for training, career development and promotion do not operate to the detriment of disabled employees.
Training and development Next aims to realise the potential of its employees by supporting their career progression and promotion wherever possible.
It makes significant investment in the training and development of staff and in training and education programmes which contribute to the internal promotion prospects of employees.
Employee communication Next has a policy of providing employees with financial and other information about the business and ensures that the suggestions and views of employees are taken into account.
Next has an employee forum made up of a network of elected representatives from throughout the business who attend meetings at least twice a year with directors and senior managers.
This forum enables and encourages open discussion on key business issues, policies and the working environment.
Employee share ownership Approximately 9,000 Next employees held options over a total of 12.9m shares in Next plc at January 2009.
Its employee share ownership trust ESOT has purchased shares in the market and issues them to employees when options are exercised.
At the year end the ESOT held 4.1m shares, the voting rights of which are exercisable by the Trustee.
Pension provision The Next Group Pension Plan provides a valuable pension benefit to its participating employees, details of which are set out in the Remuneration Report on page 33 and in Note 23 to the financial statements.
As at 24 January 2009, there were 1,867 2008: 2,088 active members in the Defined Benefit Section and 2,024 2008: 2,042 members in the Defined Contribution Section.
SOCIAL & ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS Next is committed to the principles of responsible business.
For Next this means delivering value to customers and stakeholders, recruiting and retaining the best people to work for the Group, developing positive relationships with suppliers and developing healthy links with the communities in which it operates.
Next has a Corporate Responsibility CR forum of 15 senior managers and directors representing key areas of the business, co-ordinated by a CR Manager, to develop and implement its strategy.
The forum identifies potential issues and opportunities and evaluates the success of Nexts response.
The CR Manager holds regular updates with the executive director responsible for CR matters.
A third party provides independent assurance on the content of the Groups CR report which is published on the Companys website each year.
Nexts commitment to CR matters is also recognised externally by its continuing membership of the FTSE4Good Index Series.
14 Directors Report and Business Review Suppliers Next is a member of the Ethical Trading Initiative and operates a Code of Practice COP, an established set of ethical trading standards which forms an integral part of the Groups operations.
The Next COP has ten key principles that stipulate the minimum standards with which suppliers are required to comply in relation to workers rights and conditions of work including working hours, minimum age of employment, health, safety, welfare and environmental issues.
Through its COP Next seeks to ensure all products bearing the Next brand are produced in a clean and safe environment and in accordance with all relevant laws.
Next is committed to its internal supplier audit and management programme and has a COP audit team of 37 staff 2008: 37.
The COP team works directly with suppliers to identify and address causes of non-compliance.
Each audited factory is measured against the COP and is graded against its six tier rating system.
The supplier is made aware of its rating and what is required to improve that rating via a corrective action plan.
This direct approach also allows Next to build knowledge and understanding in the local communities, as well as monitoring suppliers through its auditing process.
Nexts policy for the payment of suppliers is either to agree terms of payment at the start of business or to ensure that the supplier is aware of the Groups payment terms.
Payment is made in accordance with contractual and other legal obligations.
Trade creditor days of the Next group at 24 January 2009 were 27 days 2008: 24 days based on the ratio of the trade creditors at the end of the year to the amounts paid during the year to trade creditors.
The Company had no trade creditors at 24 January 2009 or 26 January 2008.
Customers Next is committed to offering stylish, excellent quality products to its customers and aims to ensure they are safe and fit for purpose and are sourced in a responsible manner.
Its team of technologists works closely with buyers, designers and suppliers to ensure Next products comply with all relevant legislation.
The expertise of independent safety specialists for clothing, footwear, accessories, beauty and home products is used where required.
Next endeavours to provide inclusive, high quality service to all customers, whether they are shopping through its stores, catalogues or website.
The different methods of shopping must be easily accessible for all customers and be responsive to their particular needs.
Next Customer Services interacts with Retail and Directory customers to resolve enquiries and issues.
Findings are documented and the information is used by other areas of the business to review how a product or service can be improved.
Health and safety Next recognises the importance of health and safety at work and its management is designed to contribute to improving business performance.
Policies and procedures are reviewed and audited regularly to make safety management more robust and fully up to date.
The Groups objective is to manage all aspects of its business in a safe manner and take practical measures to ensure that its activities and products do not harm customers, employees, contractors, sites or equipment.
Procedures are in place to enable effective two way communication and consultation about health, safety and welfare issues in order to achieve a high level of safety awareness.
Environment Next recognises that it has a responsibility to manage the impact of its business on the environment both now and in the future.
Key areas of focus continue to be: energy use and emissions from stores, warehouses, distribution centres and offices: fuel emissions from the transportation of products to either stores or customers homes: and waste created in stores, warehouses, distribution centres and offices.
During the year all areas of the business have conducted trials and implemented energy saving initiatives.
Examples include replacing existing lighting schemes with more efficient bulbs, installation of occupancy sensors to dim or turn off lights when areas are unoccupied, trialling new technologies for air conditioning designed to draw in cold air from outside, so called free cooling, and staff awareness training.
