56 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Report on directors remuneration The board presents its report on directors remuneration The committee met four times during 2009.
This report complies with Schedule 8 discussed and actions taken were as follows: of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 and was 20 and 27 February 2009 approved by the board of directors on 10 March 2010.
Reviewed and approved 2008 annual incentive plan payouts The committee believes that the company has complied Reviewed and approved 2006 long-term incentive with the provisions regarding remuneration matters plan payouts contained within the UK Combined Code.
Approved vesting of 2004 and 2006 annual bonus share We will put a resolution to shareholders at the Annual matching awards General Meeting AGM on 30 April 2010 inviting them Reviewed and approved 2009 Pearson and operating to consider and approve this report.
company annual incentive plan targets Reviewed and approved 2009 individual annual The personnel committee incentive opportunities for Pearson Management David Arculus chaired the personnel committee for Committee the year 2009: the other members were Terry Burns, Reviewed and approved 2009 long-term incentive Ken Hydon and Glen Moreno.
David Arculus, Terry Burns awards and associated performance conditions for and Ken Hydon are independent non-executive directors.
Pearson Management Committee Glen Moreno, chairman of the board, is a member of Reviewed and approved 2008 report on directors the committee as permitted under the Combined Code.
remuneration Marjorie Scardino, chief executive, David Bell, director Reviewed strategy on 2009 long-term incentive awards for people, Robin Baliszewski who replaced David Bell for executives and managers as director for people on 1 September 2009, Noted companys use of equity for employee share plans Robert Head, compensation and benefits director, and Reviewed and approved treatment of David Bells Stephen Jones, deputy company secretary, provided outstanding share awards on his retirement from the material assistance to the committee during the year.
company on 31 December 2009 They attended meetings of the committee, although no director was involved in any decisions relating to his or 23 July 2009 her own remuneration.
Approved 2009 long-term incentive awards for To ensure that it receives independent advice, the executives and managers committee has appointed Towers Perrin now Towers Reviewed committees charter and terms of reference Watson to supply survey data and to advise on market trends, long-term incentives and other general remuneration matters.
Towers Perrin also advised the 11 December 2009 company on health and welfare benefits in the US and Reviewed status of outstanding long-term incentive provided consulting advice directly to certain Pearson awards operating companies.
Considered return on invested capital targets for long-term incentive plan The committees principal duty is to determine and regularly review, having regard to the Combined Reviewed 2010 annual incentive plan metrics Code and on the advice of the chief executive, the Considered Towers Perrins report on remuneration for remuneration policy and the remuneration and benefits Pearson Management Committee for 2010 packages of the executive directors, the chief executives of the principal operating companies and other members of the Pearson Management Committee who report directly to the chief executive.
This includes base salary, annual and long-term incentive entitlements and awards, and pension arrangements.
The committees terms of reference are available on the companys website.
