36 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Our impact on society At the end of 2009, Sir David Bell retired Our strategy: Four key areas as Pearsons director for people and also as the board director with oversight of 1 Product quality and impact corporate responsibility.
In his 39 years at 2 Valuing our people the company David did a huge amount to define what corporate responsibility means 3 Sustainable business practice for Pearson and I am very pleased to take on 4 Active citizenship the role and to try to continue Davids work in this field.
It has always struck me that the We report each year in conjunction with our annual idea of being a responsible business one financial results, so that our people and our other that makes a positive contribution to society stakeholders can review our activity across the through effective learning, great books and company and all over the world.
Youll find a table powerful journalism is in many ways the of last years targets and the new ones for 2010 at essence of Pearson.
the end of this section and a fuller overview of our work over last year in our Always learning: Our impact on society 2009 report.
Our corporate website will also be updated throughout the year if youd like to read more about our work and projects in detail, and our Facebook page is regularly refreshed with examples of our CR and sustainability work from our businesses all over the world.
Please feel free to share any comments and suggestions with me at robin.
com Robin Freestone Robin Freestone Chief financial officer It starts with being a values-based organisation Board member responsible in our words, one that is brave, imaginative and for corporate responsibility decent.
It is not about what we say but about how we behave across our large, complex and diverse organisation.
The kinds of businesses that were Our strategy in and the products that we make depend on our earning and constantly re-earning the trust of our 1 Product quality and impact readers, teachers and students for quality, accuracy and independence.
We are proud of Pearsons long Across Pearson, our brands have a hard-won history as a responsible business, but we always reputation for quality: whether that is the FT for feel that there is much more for us to do.
accurate, insightful and independent business Pearson will continue to be that values-led company, journalism: Penguin for high-quality books of fiction placing enormous importance on the impact and non-fiction: or our education company for we have on the world through our products and effective learning materials.
We are as determined to enhance the We are a major investor in new content, new learning experiences of our students of all ages and services, new technologies: in 2009, we invested walks of life as we are to reduce our impact on the approximately $800m in product development.
Our goal remains simple: to be a socially We adhere to external codes like those upheld by responsible company that has a positive impact on the Press Complaints Commission, supplemented society.
We focus on our impact in four key areas: by our own internal standards, and our editors and
