Introduction Our strategy Our performance Our impact on society Governance Financial statements Section 4 Our impact on society 41 Our impact on society: Progress and plans 1 Product quality and impact Target 2009 Progress Plan 2010 Continue and expand the Pearson Achieved.
In September 2009, Continue the summit at an event in Foundation Council of Chief State CCSSO and the Pearson Foundation London in 2010 to include a focus School Officers CCSSO Educational welcomed more than 40 international on ICT in education, a key concern Summit to include a focus on teacher education leaders to the second for educators in the classroom and quality and training, one of the key annual Pearson Foundation CCSSO for administrators hoping to improve learnings of the Singapore convening.
International Conference on Education academic systems, assessments in Helsinki, Finland.
The aim was and reporting.
for the international delegation to learn from Finlands own success in preparing its K-12 and university educators to meet the demands of an increasingly inter-connected and technologically advanced workforce.
Extend the Pearson Professional Achieved.
This programme has now Continue to provide professional Development Program for African run for the second year, spearheaded development for educators and educators to involve education by the Pearson Foundation and administrators in Southern Africa leaders in a cross-country dialogue Pearson Southern Africa teams.
and to integrate this programming addressing key education needs The 2009 programme included with educational programming that and solutions.
training teachers in Literacy and is based on the Bridgeit model first Numeracy, ECD and Technology introduced in Tanzania in 2009. in Botswana, South Africa, Zambia, Namibia and Tanzania.
2 Valuing our people Target 2009 Progress Plan 2010 Focus our international moves to Ongoing.
The NewDirections team Continue to develop our emerging develop our rising stars and create has now aligned the initiative with leaders through international assignments that even more closely our annual talent review process and experience and support Pearsons match our corporate priorities.
worked hard to create greater synergy needs in our developing markets.
between NewDirections placements and the business needs of Pearson in each of the regions.
Show evidence of progress in Achieved.
We have maintained the Continue to show evidence of retention of people with diverse segment of our UK workforce from progress in retention of people backgrounds for both entry level and a minority ethnic background 14% with diverse backgrounds for management positions by tracking and minority representation in the both entry level and management the success of women, people from US workforce now stands at 20.6%, positions by tracking the success minority ethnic backgrounds and up from 19.9% in 2008.
Minority of women, people from minority those with a disability within Pearson.
managers still make up 12% of the ethnic backgrounds and those US management team.
About 60% of with a disability within Pearson.
Develop more programmes and Pearson UK staff are female compared relationships to attract talented Continue to develop programmes with 51% of the UK population and people from the above groups into and relationships to attract talented 62% of Pearson UKs managers are our business.
people from the above groups into female.
Pearson wide, 27% of Pearson our business.
In the UK, Pearson was awarded Gold Standard in the 2009 Race for Opportunity Benchmarking survey on race equality in UK organisations, and our UK diversity summer internship Target ongoing programme was shortlisted for the Race for Opportunity Widening the Target achieved Talent Pool Award for work to increase New target for 2010 the diversity of our workforce.
