19 In difficult times it is even more important to be building from a strong base it is from a strong base that A. G. BARR is stepping up.
We have announced that after 31 years as Summary chairman, Robin Barr will step down to a Over the course of the last 12 months non-executive role and Ronnie Hanna will step the resilience of the business has been up to the role of non-executive chairman.
It is demonstrated by the growth of both sales expected to be a smooth transition as Ronnie revenue and profit in what has been a tough brings both experience and capability as well year.
Poor summer weather, volatility in costs as a strong knowledge of our business from and an increasingly difficult economic climate the five years he has spent as a non-executive have all challenged our market and our director.
We would also like to welcome to business.
The soft drinks market has held up our board Jonathan Warburton who brings well and we have out performed in that market.
an exceptional track record of brand building, asset development and FMCG experience.
In difficult times it is even more important to be building from a strong base it is from Throughout the business we have further a strong base that A. G. BARR is stepping up.
improved our Health & Safety performance We remain focused on managing our cost across the past year with fewer reportable base and understand the need to adapt quickly accidents and improved scores in our internal to any changes in the external environment.
Despite the progress The early integration of the Rubicon business we have made we cannot afford to be is a necessary challenge that will allow us to off complacent and Health & Safety remains set much of the impact of a weakened Sterling at the top of everybodys agenda.
and our further investments in sales execution and the development of our core brands provide Last year we entered our first year of working us with good growth opportunities across the with the Princes Trust supporting young market place.
people across the U. K. We have completed our first programme with the Princes Trust We look forward into uncertain times with 17.1m team and a group of young people and at the confidence that our business is financially same time we have raised a significant amount Profit attributable to shareholders strong and in the knowledge that we have of money to further support the Princes Trust the people and plans in place for 2009 10.
Thanks should be given to all of those people in the company who have given up considerable time to help support the Roger White Princes Trust.
Chief Executive We will continue to face communication challenges as our business grows in size and complexity.
Over the last year we have further developed our communication and consultation frameworks allowing us to better communicate with everyone across the business and importantly giving us increased understanding of how we can improve the business for the future.
