DIRECToRs REPoRT | BUsINEss REVIEW ensuring compliance with all health and OUR CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY OUR ETHICAL BUSINESS POLICY safety and environmental legislation, Alongside our social and environmental policy regulations and codes of practice so that CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY OBJECTIVES is our ethical policy.
The preservation of a our conduct is of the highest possible reputation for integrity and fair dealing is of We have the following corporate responsibility standard paramount importance to the Group.
Such a objectives, to which the targets of South West undertaking our activities in a way that reputation is essential to the long-term wellWater and Viridor are aligned: minimises potential adverse effects on being of the Group itself, its shareholders, to manage Pennon Group as a sustainable society, the environment and those living employees, customers, suppliers and the and successful business for the benefit of or working in proximity to the Groups sites communities in which it operates.
To maintain shareholders this reputation, our Group companies are procuring goods and services through required to: to aim to ensure that all our business approved suppliers and contractors whose activities have a positive economic, products and services meet the Groups conduct all transactions with fairness and social and environmental impact on the requirements and whose quality and honesty and in a professional manner communities in which we operate environmental practices correspond with our own build and maintain relationships with all to engage with all our stakeholders and to parties based on trust and treat everyone foster good relationships with them undertaking longer-term strategic with respect and dignity assessments of our activities and to strive for the highest standards of opportunities and adopting whole life not make any promises and commitments health and safety in the workplace so as to assessment methods for approaches which which they do not have the intention to minimise accidents, incidents and lost time are designed to benefit society: customers fulfil or which they do not believe they have of the Group: suppliers and partners: all to develop and motivate our employees, the resources to meet other stakeholders: and the environment to treat them fairly and to ensure that carry out all financial transactions and they are fully engaged in all aspects of the the challenges of climate change.
financial reporting, with due observance of Groups objectives This will involve action to optimise energy all relevant laws, regulations and financial and resource efficiency: maximising to comply with all legislative environmental standards opportunities for renewable energy standards and to exceed them where avoid any activities that could involve generation: and reducing the emissions appropriate or lead to involvement in any unlawful of greenhouse gases to aspire to leadership in minimising practice or any harm to the Groups reporting openly and transparently on emissions that contribute to climate reputation or image.
Group performance: setting targets for change, and to develop climate change continuous improvement and monitoring We have a whistleblowing policy which adaptation strategies progress: and addressing risk and adopting supports our approach to ethical employment to aspire to leadership in all aspects of policies related to wider sustainability practices by encouraging employees to raise, waste prevention and resource efficiency.
considerations in relation to our key in accordance with a formalised procedure, activities of water supply, waste water concerns which relate to potential unlawful WE OPERATE ENVIRONMENTALLY treatment, waste management and conduct, financial malpractice, dangers to the SENSITIVE AND SUSTAINABLE BUSINESSES renewable energy public or damage to the environment.
This Our objectives demonstrate that we are policy is reviewed regularly.
regularly assessing the Groups built committed to exemplary engagement heritage and ensuring its long-term with society and to the conservation and Through our Corporate Responsibility preservation enhancement of the natural environment.
Committee, we monitor performance against Our social and environmental policy ensures our ethical policy and our societal, making non-operational land accessible to that these activities are pursued, paying environmental and health and safety policies the public where practicable to satisfy, as particular attention to: and targets.
Further details of the work of the a minimum, the Groups obligations under the Countryside and Rights of Way Act.
Committee are set out on page 51. operating through best practice to ensure Wherever possible additional opportunities the sustainability of our activities by for conservation, access and recreation are maximising the efficiency of its resource provided, subject to health and safety and uses: effective project and programme environmental considerations.
delivery: and minimising waste Pennon Group Corporate Responsibility Target 2008 09 Status at 31 March 2009 Maintain corporate standing of Pennon Group Plc on sustainability credentials Continued inclusion in FTSE4Good index and success in Carbon Disclosure Project 34 Pennon Group Annual Report and Accounts CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY HIGHLIGHTS In pursuance of this policy Pennon Group and its subsidiary companies Green energy generation take such action as necessary and which is reasonably practicable and pay Renewable energy is generated by both subsidiaries.
Viridors renewable particular attention to the: power generation capacity from landfill gas continues to increase and provision and maintenance of a working environment for our employees at 31 March 2009 was 101MW compared to 84MW at the previous yearthat is safe, prevents injury and ill health and is adequate as regards end.
Viridor captures nearly 90% of the methane arising from its landfills facilities and arrangements for welfare and uses 70% of this for energy generation.
Viridors recently concluded Greater Manchester combined waste and renewable energy project has the protection of members of the public who may be affected by our work potential to provide a further 130MW of power generation capacity.
South West Water generates renewable energy from hydro-power and combined promotion of an improved health and safety culture by consulting with heat and power at waste water treatment works with a total installed and training the workforce and by making all employees and contractors capacity of 7MW.
aware of their individual responsibilities setting of health and safety objectives and targets within a Net electricity export continuous improvement framework that will be used to monitor Since 1999 2000, the Group has exported more electrical energy each year and measure performance than it has consumed.
In 2008 09 Viridor and South West Water generated 524GWh renewable energy through their operations.
This is 188% of the continual improvement of our health, safety and security performance Groups on-site electricity consumption of 279GWh.
through the revitalisation of our health and safety management systems.
The Chief Executives of South West Water and Viridor are responsible for Both South West Water and Viridor have made significant advances in arranging appropriate organisational and responsibility procedures for the enhancing their environmental performance, and their engagement with health, safety and welfare of employees within their respective companies the community, as detailed in our Corporate Responsibility Report, and other persons not employed by those companies but who may be which will be available online in August at pennon-group.
co. uk affected by the policy e. g. contractors and consultants.
The Group Director of Finance is responsible for such matters within Pennon Group Plc.
Investor survey results Pennon Group and each of its operating subsidiary companies: We are a member of the FTSE Environmental Opportunities All-Share Index.
has prepared a statement on their organisation and responsibilities We continue to be a constituent member of the FTSE4Good Index which in respect of health and safety which, together with this policy measures Corporate Social Responsibility.
statement, is brought to the attention of all employees and is displayed on notice boards and each companys intranet We boosted our environmental credentials by winning overall Best complies with all legislation, regulations and codes of practice Commitment to Carbon Reduction in the South West Financial and relevant to their businesses and consults employees on measures for Corporate Communications Awards 2008.
In addition the Group was highly promoting health and safety at work commended for Environmental Commitment and Social Engagement and won a further highly commended award for our 2008 Annual Report.
requires all contractors and consultants working for each company within the Group to comply with each companys health and safety Carbon Disclosure Project policy and each company communicates openly its policy, related Our ability to log our carbon emissions and assess how climate change objectives and performance to stakeholders.
will affect our businesses has put us in a leading position amongst other corporations.
We scored 85 points in the 2008 Carbon Disclosure International labour Organisation core conventions Leadership Index, placing us 30th out of the companies in the FTSE350.
We support the principles of the International Labour Organisations eight core conventions for the protection and safety of workforces.
Details of our EMPLOYEES employment practices are set out on page 41.
Health and Safety Policy The Pennon Group Board is responsible for establishing a health and safety policy to ensure the health, safety and welfare at work of all employees of the Pennon Group.
All subsidiary company boards have a responsibility to establish a similar health and safety policy for their respective companies and are required to comply with relevant statutory provisions.
Pennon Group Annual Report and Accounts 35 DIRECToRs REPoRT | BUsINEss REVIEW PENNON ENVIRONMENTAL AWARDS In 2008 the winning prize was awarded to the South West Water team that created the Water Calculator.
This tool helps customers compare their water usage against average water use and provides advice on water efficiency.
Jon Wood receives the award from Ken Harvey, Pennon Group Chairman ENVIRONMENT Climate change and sustainability We take appropriate action to minimise emissions of greenhouse gases and adapt to the potential impacts of climate change.
In addition we capitalise on the business opportunities from fully embracing the climate change agenda.
ELECTRICITy CoNsUmPTIoN AND GENERATIoN On-site electricity consumed Gwh 1 South West Water 260 Viridor 19 Total consumed 279 Electricity generation No of sites Capacity MW GWh South West Water Hydro 7 6 14 Biogas from combined heat and power 7 1 5 Viridor 2 Landfill biogas 30 101 505 Total generated 524 Generated consumed ratio 188% 1 includes Pennon Group Plc and partners related activity 2 includes sub-contracted sites in Suffolk Climate change strategy The Group seeks to optimise energy efficiency and maximise appropriate opportunities for renewable energy generation.
The Group is taking appropriate action to reduce the emissions of greenhouse gases for which it is responsible, wherever this is possible.
In planning for the future the Group works to ensure its readiness to meet the challenge of maintaining high quality levels of service in the face of a changing climate.
36 Pennon Group Annual Report and Accounts Carbon reduction commitment Group transport Pennon Group is well prepared for the Governments Carbon Reduction South West Water and Viridor review their transport fleets regularly to Commitment.
This is a mandatory emissions trading scheme based on meet their operational requirements.
Environmental criteria such as clean reductions in energy use for commercial and public sector organisations engine technology, fuel efficiency, reliability and end-of-life recyclability using annually over 6GWh of half-hourly metered electricity.
The baseline are considered during the selection process.
year for energy use was the calendar year 2008, and the earliest the scheme will begin is 2010, with the capped phase beginning in 2013.
Companies in the scheme will be placed in a league table: those which perform well will be rewarded and those at the bottom will face penalties.
GREEN ENERGy GENERATED oN-sITE ELECTRICITy UsE IN PENNoN GRoUP south West Water south West Water - electricity Viridor Viridor - electricity 550 300 500 250 450 400 200 350 KPI 300 150 250 200 100 150 100 50 50 0 0 Financial year Financial year NATIONAL GREEN HERO AWARDS South West Water was given a National Green Heroes award by the Green Organisation for promoting water conservation with business customers.
Rob Wynn, South West Water centre receives the award for Environmental Best Practice from Warren Edmondson left of sponsors Nettoyer and Professor David Bellamy OBE right Pennon Group Annual Report and Accounts 37 Gigawatt hours 2004 05 2005 06 2006 07 2007 08 2008 09 Gigawatt hours 2004 05 2005 06 2006 07 2007 08 2008 09
