DIRECToRs REPoRT | BUsINEss REVIEW SOCIAL AND COMMUNITY ISSUES COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT Pennon Charitable Donations Pennon Environmental Fund In 2008 09 the Pennon Charitable Donations Committee provided a The Pennon Environmental Fund awarded 47,404 to 11 projects in total of 65,624 of funding to over 200 good causes.
2008 09, including church repairs, community amenities, and various habitat creation schemes to benefit wildlife.
Decoy BMX Skate Park, Newton Abbot, Devon.
Viridor Credits grant: 10,000 RSPB Otmoor Nature Reserve, Oxfordshire.
Viridor Credits grant: 130,000 Viridor Credits Environmental Company During the year Viridor donated 9.7million via the Landfill Communities Fund LCF to Viridor Credits Environmental Company Viridor Credits, an independent charity established to distribute LCF funding in areas surrounding landfills.
Decisions on funding use criteria of sustainability, value for money and proven need and are made at grass roots level by established local steering groups for each area.
Projects supported during the year included creating, improving and restoring important habitats, new and improved village and amenity halls, and vital support for local museums and similar community assets.
For further details see Viridor Credits website at viridor-credits.
co. uk Vanessas Playground Project, Hernhill, Kent.
He is also Chairman of the Governments results of operations: cash flows: dividends: STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Environmental Sector Advisory Group, which financing plans: business strategies: operating Pennon maintains a regular dialogue with provides strategic advice to the Government on efficiencies: capital and other expenditures: institutional investors, City analysts, retail promotion of exports and inward investment in competitive positions: growth opportunities: shareholders, local stockbrokers and the the UK environmental sector.
plans and objectives of management: and other financial press through our proactive investor matters.
These forward-looking statements, relations programme.
Pennons Group Director of Finance is a member including, without limitation, those relating of the CBI Environmental Affairs Committee and to the future business prospects, revenues, South West Waters Chief Executive chairs the CBI South West Regional Council.
working capital, liquidity, capital needs, Water UK, the representative organisation interest costs and income in relation to the which brings together all of the UKs water CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY VERIFICATION Pennon Group and its subsidiaries, wherever and waste water utilities.
He represents the they occur in this business review, are company on the Environment Agencys Regional Pennons corporate responsibility performance for necessarily based on assumptions reflecting Environmental Protection Advisory Committee.
2008 09 has been audited by Acona Limited an the views of Pennon Group and its subsidiary independent risk and compliance management companies, as appropriate.
They involve a Viridors Chief Executive chairs the UKs company.
The verification statements for Pennon, number of risks and uncertainties that could Knowledge Transfer Network, which improves South West Water and Viridor are provided on cause actual results to differ materially from the competitiveness of UK environmental their respective websites with their corporate those suggested by the forward-looking industries.
He is a Director of Sustainability responsibility reports.
Such forward-looking statements South West, Deputy Master of the Worshipful should, therefore, be considered in the light Company of Water Conservators, a senior INTERPRETATION of relevant factors, including those set out in visiting research fellow in Earth Sciences at the sections entitled Risks and uncertainties Oxford University and a patron of Energy and FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS within this business review.
Compound Annual Growth Rate, being the rate of growth over a period, expressed as a single annual average figure Category 1 incident............................................................... A major water pollution incident as assessed by the Environment Agency Category 2 and 3 incidents...........................................
Waste water treatment works loadings from domestic, industrial and diffuse sources, averaged and stated as a population equivalent load, expressed as a percentage Periodic Review..........................................................................
Waste electrical and electronic equipment Pennon Group Annual Report and Accounts 39
