emergence of the broader agenda Business Review Corporate Responsibility 1 Building sustainable homes 1,720 homes built to Code for Sustainable Homes and EcoHomes standards.
2 Environmental management 75% of construction waste recycled.
3 Working with local communities 1,622 social affordable homes built for Housing Associations.
We believe that our corporate responsibility is to achieve high 4 standards of environmental Promoting health performance and sustainability and safety 40% reduction in our RIDDOR by ensuring that our policies and incident rate.
procedures are embedded by our management and employees into 5 our day-to-day activities.
Caring for our Neil Davidson Corporate Responsibility Committee Chairman customers 91% of our customers would recommend Persimmon to a friend.
22 Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2009 It will take some time to phase in the new Code standards to all our new developments.
During 2009 we completed 732 homes that met Code standard 2008: 17.
In addition, we completed a number of developments which were formerly assessed against the EcoHomes standard which are broadly equivalent to Code level 3.
During 2009 we built 988 homes to EcoHomes standards which, added to the Code homes, represents over 19% of all houses built by the Group last year.
Environmental management Our environmental policy, introduced in 2002, is supported by our Environmental Management System EMS which has now been in place for six years.
Our EMS is modelled on the requirements of ISO 14001 and is integrated into our Group health and safety monitoring systems to Code level 3 homes at Risca, Ebbw Valley, Newport South Wales ensure direct relevance to all our operating businesses carrying out construction activities.
Space4, our specialist timber We have undertaken a Group wide review Building sustainable homes frame manufacturing plant, is fully certified on how we can meet the exacting Our customers have increasingly higher to ISO 14001. requirements of the Code.
One of the expectations of the environmental Waste is our largest potential operational strengths of Persimmon is our local, yet standards and the energy efficiency environmental impact.
We have a waste national approach which provides us with of the homes they wish to buy.
These and resource management policy a wealth of experience and knowledge we expectations are set against the backdrop developed with WRAP, a government can draw on.
There is no one size fits all of ever increasing regulatory standards for agency, which has been implemented solution and we have a range of different the houses that we build.
Our role is not across all our operating businesses.
This options to help us meet new Code however just to build houses, but to create outlines our commitment to improving standards for our housing developments.
We take into resource efficiency by reducing material account all of these issues when we are Across the Group we have researched use and waste disposal.
planning our developments to achieve the and tested an array of new technologies right balance.
We are continuing to work with our such as air and ground source heat suppliers to minimise waste through pumps, photovoltaic cells, solar thermal Since its launch in 2006, the Governments careful ordering of materials and panels, wind turbines, rainwater harvesting Code for Sustainable Homes the Code increasingly we are using prefabricated and water attenuation.
We are assessing has become a dominant factor in the way manufactured components.
We are also the results of our research and in which we design and build our homes.
increasing the amount of recyclable development into these new technologies The Code sets national standards for materials that we use as part of the with our suppliers to ensure that we sustainable design and construction of construction process.
provide the maximum benefit to our new homes measuring sustainability customers.
Each home is then rated using a rating system based on levels of 1 to 6, with 6 being the highest in order to communicate overall sustainability performance of each home.
Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2009 23 Business Review Corporate Responsibility continued Promoting health and safety The health and safety of our workforce continues to be an important priority for Persimmon.
We have again maintained a good record in relation to accidents, reflecting the commitment and involvement of personnel from all levels within the Group.
We undertake full health and safety risk reviews each year and set objectives and targets for our management teams and employees.
During 2009 we implemented a new management system audit process, verified by an external third party, which complimented the existing performance monitoring activities carried out by our internal team of health and safety advisors.
We increased the number of health and safety training days delivered to our staff by 12% during 2009.
Training was also dave bullock wins the nhbcs pride in the Job provided to all senior managers on their responsibilities under the new Construction supreme award 2009 for the second year running Design Management Regulations and health and safety legislation.
In 2009 we reduced the amount of waste with a further 14,000 being raised by our We are very pleased to report that there produced by our construction activities employees with a number of fundraising was a 40% reduction in the number of by 40% to 54,900 tonnes 2008: 91,000 activities.
incidents reported under the UK Reporting tonnes.
More importantly, during this of Incidents Diseases and Dangerous During 2009 we built 63% of our new period we reduced the amount of waste Occurrence Regulations 1995 RIDDORS.
homes on land which has previously been generated per home built from 8.9 tonnes There were 47 RIDDORS in total 2008: used for development 2008: 62%.
This is to 6.1 tonnes, a 31% reduction.
78, but we are particularly pleased to the second year where we have exceeded see that the number of major injuries In addition, we increased the amount of the Governments target of 60% of new reduced from 28 to 16 during the year.
waste that we recycled to 75% 2008: housing to be developed on brownfield Our RIDDOR rate per 1,000 employees 70% with only 25% of our waste sent to land.
The remediation and decontamination reduced from 9.1 to 5.8. landfill.
These substantial improvements of brownfield sites, particularly in our major in our waste management have brought cities, has had a very positive impact on Our workforce both environmental and financial benefits.
the local environment whilst preserving We are proud to report that Dave Bullock site the open countryside.
manager at Wyncliffe Gardens Cardiff has Working with local In 2009 we built 1,622 homes for housing won the NHBC Pride in the Job Supreme communities associations, the majority of which are for Award 2009 for the second year running.
As part of our development of new homes rental, which represents 18% of our In addition the Groups site managers won and communities during 2009, Persimmon total house sales 2008: 2,416 homes.
a further 29 Pride in the Job awards.
invested over 17m in providing new This small reduction reflected the fact that community facilities such as schools, During the year volunteers have been housing associations have been under affordable housing and open spaces.
At a appointed at each of the Groups similar funding pressures to the private Group level we continued to support our operating businesses as Environmental sector, which has resulted in them nominated charities, Marie Curie Cancer Awareness Champions to encourage ordering fewer new affordable homes.
Care and Dreams Come True to support employee involvement in the Groups the community.
Charitable contributions Environmental Awareness Campaign were made by the Group of over 79,500, relating to recycling office waste and reducing energy consumption.
24 Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2009 In 2009 we increased the number of access to mortgages at the most Our 2009 survey has again shown a high training days for our workforce to 4,615 favourable interest rates.
During the last level of customer satisfaction with over days.
Our continued investment in training year 1,350 of our customers chose to 91% of our customers stating that they for our employees on both our procedures purchase a property under the HomeBuy would recommend Persimmon to a friend and on regulatory and legislative changes, Direct shared equity scheme.
ensures all our employees have the requisite We have continued to improve the Conclusion skills and knowledge to maintain the Groups quality of the homes that we build for market leading position.
We have made good progress during our customers.
We have set further objectives are set out in our customer charter, the Caring for our customers and targets for 2010 for our operating Persimmon Pledge.
We monitor and The credit crunch and the resulting lack of businesses and staff to ensure that they review our customers satisfaction, both mortgage finance have continued to make focus on issues which could make a through internal surveys and from external it very difficult for first time buyers to enter tangible difference to our business surveys undertaken by the National House the housing market.
As a result we have performance, whilst meeting the needs Building Council.
continually reviewed the affordability of the of our stakeholders.
Our customer satisfaction survey asks homes that we sell and looked closely at Further information on our management our customers 10 detailed questions to all our specifications and build costs to structure, policies and procedures determine how satisfied they are with their make sure that we provide homes that together with our 2009 Sustainability new home.
These include matters relating are good quality and well appointed, Report can be found on our website at to the service they receive from our sales whilst being financially accessible to www.
and construction teams, the quality of their our customers.
new home and our after sales service.
Our By order of the Board We are therefore particularly pleased management monitor the results of our to have been successful in obtaining surveys on a regular basis, which allows HomeBuy Direct grant funding from the us to identify any trends and issues upon Neil Davidson Chairman, Homes and Community Agency, which which we can focus our efforts.
Corporate Responsibility Committee provides a shared equity loan of up to 1 March 2010 30% of the purchase price, co-funded by the Government and Persimmon.
This allows buyers without substantial deposits Sophie and her competition winning garden design at Lily Gardens, Hilton, Derbyshire Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2009 25
