sustAiNABility RePoRt Governance the Board of Directors sets and reviews the groups sustainability policy.
A health, safety and environmental committee hse committee was established at Board level to monitor, review and make appropriate recommendations to the Board on the industry best practices, the most recent requirements of the london market and the state of health, safety, environment, social and community relations issues within the group, making use of an independent consultancy and management reports where appropriate.
Regular reports on operational hse performance are submitted to the Board.
internal hse audits are undertaken on a frequent basis and independent assurance audits and reviews and undertaken on a regular basis.
More information regarding the groups corporate governance and the committees established at Board level can be found on page 62 to 69 of this Annual Report and Accounts.
Workforce engagement and support Qualified, experienced and motivated staff are central to the success of the group.
from the outset, the group has focused on the training and development of its staff.
the continued growth and success of the group depends on its ability to attract, train, develop and retain the best possible workforce.
the group is one of the top three employers in the Amur region, with approximately 5,500 of its workers living and working in the region.
the group seeks to align wage levels to the regional Key highlights average and provide workers with long-term career and personal integration of health and safety management systems across the development opportunities.
group following the merger with Aricom: the group seeks to recruit staff from nearby settlements.
however, independent health, safety and environmental operations reviews due to the remote location of some of its projects, large numbers undertaken concluded that the groups operations are well-run of the groups workforce come from further afield and stay on-site and meet Russian regulatory requirements: in purpose-built accommodation during the time of their shift.
the commissioning of an independent gap analysis against the group is committed to providing first-rate accommodation compliance with the international cyanide Management code for staff working at its mines.
At the Pokrovskiy mine worker icMc, which concluded that the Pokrovskiy and Pioneer accommodation includes and canteen facilities and recreational mines were broadly compliant with the code: and and sporting facilities.
there is a fully-equipped medical facility the commissioning of an environmental and social impact on-site together with trained full-time medical staff.
Assessment esiA for the Malomir gold project.
the group offers off-site housing to some of its workforce and their families who have worked for the group for over five years.
Our approach since 2003, an independent trade union has represented workers Petropavlovsk recognises that operating in a safe and responsible interests to the group.
company management undertakes regular manner will ensure that its business is respected at a local level, consultation sessions with employees to ensure that there is clear federal level and by the investment community worldwide.
the communication within the company.
the company publishes a group takes compliance with Russian health and safety and monthly internal newspaper to keep employees up to date with environmental legislation seriously and is seeking to go beyond company developments.
this by bringing its projects in line with international best practice.
the group seeks to ensure that its workforce feel valued and respected through the provision of first-rate facilities and safe and comfortable working conditions.
it is committed to supporting local educational institutions, providing its operations with a suitablyqualified workforce and allowing individuals to reach their personal full potential.
44 Petropavlovsk PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 overview Performance governance financial statements other information Opposite sunset near the Pokrovskiy mine.
Below the medical centre at the Pokrovskiy mine.
Education the group undertakes an active programme of community sponsorship in three key areas: the group has a long-term programme of investing in various educational projects.
this includes: education RuR 4 million in 2009 : Providing financial support, books and equipment for nurseries, culture and sport RuR 6 million in 2009 : primary schools and secondary schools: healthcare RuR 6 million in 2009.
Providing financial support to promising high-school students Requests for financial support or other assistance are regularly who are entering higher education: received from local residents and organisations.
At present, these offering internships and work placements to local students: requests are dealt with on a case-by-case basis but the group is currently evaluating the introduction of a group-wide community Providing lecturers for chemistry courses at Amur state university: investment fund.
supporting over 90 group staff in undertaking degree courses Health and safety expenditure million RUR at leading universities throughout Russia: and 2009 89.00 hosting regular internal technical conferences to exchange 2008 55.97 experience and spread best practice.
2007 23.30 in 2008, the group established the Pokrovskiy Mining college, located in the village of Zeya, close to the Pokrovskiy mine.
Lost time Injury frequency rate LTIFR the college provides training in 42 technical disciplines for 2009 3.80 approximately 150 students per year.
Community and stakeholder engagement Health and Safety the group is committed to developing long-term and positive relationships with the communities within which it operates.
Petropavlovsk recognises that it is obliged to protect the health of all All operations undertake an ongoing and active dialogue with its workers and that its staff have a right to operate in a safe working local communities and regulatory authorities, using standard environment.
All staff receive health and safety training as part of the group policies and procedures and supported by the corporate initial induction process.
Job-specific training is then provided within communications department in Blagoveschensk.
Dialogue goes each department workplace.
health and safety monitoring and beyond Russian regulatory requirements and encompasses internal inspections of working environments are undertaken to international good practice for community engagement.
ensure compliance with Russian regulatory requirements.
the group undertakes active community dialogue as part of the All of the groups operating companies are required to have in place project development process for new projects.
A stakeholder health and safety management systems to meet Russian regulatory engagement Plan to meet ifc guidelines has recently been requirements.
the group is now seeking to integrate Russian prepared for the Malomir gold project, and similar plans have compliance-based systems with international best practice.
been developed and implemented previously for the groups iron ore projects.
one specific ethnic group encountered in the Amur region are the evenk people an indigenous community who are found in north-eastern Russia and china, and whose traditional lands are in the vicinity of the kuranakh iron ore project in the north-west of the Amur region.
the group has good relations with the evenk people and purchases a wide range of traditional goods and foods as a way of supporting the traditional evenk way of life.
the group is preparing an indigenous Peoples Plan, which it will sign with the Association of indigenous Peoples of the Amur region.
Petropavlovsk PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 45 sustAiNABility RePoRt coNtiNueD Below the canteen facilities at the Pokrovskiy mine.
health and safety is managed at an operating company level, with support provided at a group level.
following the acquisition of Aricom, health and safety management systems have been reorganised to operate in an integrated manner across gold and Attributable gold production oz Resource efficiency for 2009 Pokrovskiy and Pioneer iron ore divisions.
A senior full-time executive committee member based in Amur has been appointed to coordinate and drive forward Energy GJ kg Au 2009 486,800 the implementation of new health and safety management systems 2008 401,600 Petropavlovsk 95.8 and report directly to the hse committee on health and safety 2007 297,300 Industry Average 143 matters.
At the groups principal projects these health and safety 2006 261,300 management systems are being, or have been, aligned with Water l kg Au 2005 249,300 international best practice.
Petropavlovsk 80,050 external auditors appointed by the hse committee visit the Industry Average 691,000 Average realised gold price US$ per oz companys operations annually.
oAo Pokrovskiy Rudnik the entity Greenhouse gas emissions t CO2-e kg Au 2009 975 that holds the Pokrovskiy and Pioneer licences has implemented independently verified health and safety management syst Petropavlovsk ems in 5.6 2008 845 accordance with ohsAs 18001.
Industry Average 11.5 2007 668 while iron ore concentration relies on physical and magnetic 2006 the federal authorities Rostekhnadzor visit each of the groups 586 Cyanide kg CN kg Au processes, gold processing requires the use of cyanide in operations three times a year to inspect explosives storage, 2005 442 Petropavlovsk 146.9 extraction.
During 2009, an independent cyanide audit of industrial facilities and to check health and safety procedures Pokrovskiy and Pioneer was conducted which found existing Industry Average 141 and documentation.
Total Group cash costs US$ per oz procedures broadly in compliance with the requirements of the 2009 309 international cyanide Management code icMc.
the group is Serious environmental incidents and permit violations seeking to bring outstanding procedures into compliance with the 2008 319 2009 00.00 icMc in the near future.
2008 00.00 Pokrovskiy Mine total cash costs US$ per oz emissions from groups operations are managed in strict 2007 00.00 compliance with Russian regulatory requirements.
Monitoring 2009 296 data at Pokrovskiy and Pioneer has identified no air or water 2008 293 Health and safety expenditure million RUR Environment quality impacts.
2007 193 2009 89.00 Petropavlovsk manages the environmental impacts of its Petropavlovsks operations utilise electricity supplied from 2006 175 2008 55.97 operations across the full project lifecycle in accordance with hydropower.
As a result, the only significant emissions from 2005 159 2007 23.30 Russian regulatory requirements and is seeking to align these operations are from haul trucks and other vehicles.
consequently, practices with international best practice.
carbon emissions per ounce of gold or tonne of iron ore are Institute Standard GIS cash cost breakdown Lost time Injury frequency rate LTIFR significantly lower than at many comparable mining operations.
Pioneer Mine total cash costs US$ per oz All of the groups projects are subject to rigorous permitting 2009 3.80 requirements by the Russian authorities.
Russian regulation requires 2009 265 there is an ongoing rehabilitation programme at all operating mines a report assessing the impact that the mine will have on the to rehabilitate completed waste rock stockpiles in accordance with 2008 226 Funds spent on community and education initiatives RUR environment an ovos report to be drawn up for each mining regulatory and permit requirements.
outline closure plans have project.
Mining operations are also subject to rigorous ongoing All Operations been prepared for operating mines as part of the initial licensing environmental monitoring.
process and these will be updated as mines approach the end of 2009 57,132,293 their operating lives.
As part of the alignment of group activities to reflect international Pokrovskiy and Pioneer best practice, current and planned ovos assessments will be Total attributable gold production, as stated throughout this document, is comprised of 2009 52,246,000 combined with an environmental and social impact Assessment 100% of production from the Groups subsidiaries and the relevant share of production esiA to integrate risk-based approaches to environmental 2008 50,000,000 from joint ventures and other investments.
Figures for the comparative period are restated accordingly.
The Group has held c. 1.1% interest in Rusoro Mining Ltd since March 2009: management.
this will enable group operations to minimise 2007 1,300,000 no attributable ounces are included in the Group gures.
The Companys direct and risks by going beyond compliance where necessary.
it is believed indirect interest in Pokrovskiy Rudnik is 98.61%.
that this approach will also help in planning the closure and 2005 2006 2007 cash costs stated according to previously used Gold Institute Standard GIS cash cost breakdown.
decommissioning of facilities, once mines have reached their end of life.
currently an esiA to meet international requirements is being undertaken for the Malomir gold project, alongside the ovos.
46 Petropavlovsk PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009
