Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Corporate responsibility ARMs corporate responsibility CR programme encompasses accountability to shareholders, commitment to employees and their families, service to our partners, fostering good relationships with suppliers, involvement with local communities and minimising our impact on the environment.
Within each of these pillars, we focus on continuous improvement measured by internal objectives, external audits and benchmarking.
Employer awards ARM endeavours to attract and retain the best people available by being a good and ethical employer.
In the UK, ARM participated in the Sunday Times Best Company to Work For survey in 2008 and in January 2009, was presented with a 1 star award recognising us as a first class employer.
Benefits and communication Employees receive benefits including private medical healthcare: health, travel and life insurance: pensions 401k plan, sabbaticals and flexible working.
ARM aligns the interests of employees and shareholders by providing equity participation through restricted shares under the Employee Equity Plan and the opportunity to buy shares through savings plans.
ARM supports family-friendly initiatives such as a child care voucher scheme in the UK and a flexible spending account in the US.
ARM promotes knowledge sharing among employees and holds regular internal conferences to increase awareness, enable collaboration between engineering teams and to educate employees on corporate and divisional strategy.
Feedback, development and training ARM recognises the importance of enabling employees to learn and develop, encouraging each individual to embark on a path of self-betterment using a blend of reflection and feedback, coaching, mentoring, training and education.
At least once a year, employees and managers have a formal discussion on performance and development through the ARM Feedback and Development System.
Training needs are tracked and delivered and progress is monitored through our Learning and Development team, ensuring that the Groups skills base is increased in line with business needs and personal aspirations.
Health and safety The safety and welfare of employees, contractors and visitors is a priority.
ARM has adopted UK health and safety legislation as the global corporate standard due to its depth and breadth and maintains membership of the British Safety Council to reflect this standard.
ARMs global internal audit programme together with the Facilities Management Review, evaluate health and safety performance across all sites with a goal of consistency of health and safety provision worldwide.
In 2009, this process was further developed with guidance from our external auditors, Lloyds Register Quality Assurance LRQA to enhance consistent corporate standards and to introduce a Global Office Management Process.
Since incorporation, ARM has had no serious issues and retains a very low accident rate less than two recorded accidents per 100 employees annually.
Health and safety issues are communicated to employees through various media including the intranet, email and workshops.
As part of ARMs induction process, an extensive workshop introduces new employees to health and safety information relevant to the office in which they work and Group policies applicable across all sites.
Suppliers The Company engages in dialogue with larger vendors to assess their CR credentials.
ARM evaluates suppliers on several factors including vendor policies where applicable and the reputation of the supplier or contractor.
ARM encourages suppliers and contractors to abide by its Human Rights and Ethical Trading Policy.
ARM continues to work with suppliers and service providers to minimise environmental impact, wherever practicable.
Team ARM raised more than $25,000 for good causes in 2009.
Support for local communities Team ARM ARM believes it is a good corporate citizen which invests in and engages with local communities.
In 2009 ARM established Team ARM as a vehicle for employees to assist local communities and promote employee wellness and development through coordinated events.
Team ARM was piloted in our corporate headquarters and is now a global effort involving regional groups of employees.
In its inaugural year, more than 200 employees and family members participated in Team ARM events, including running and cycling, food, toy and school supply drives for those experiencing hardship, and cultural events.
In its first year, Team ARM raised more than $25,000 for good causes through fundraising, sponsorship and charitable gift matching by ARM.
37 Corporate responsibility continued ARM also encourages employees to support their local communities by providing paid volunteer time for employees who act as school governors, mentors to young people, or volunteers to organise events to raise money for charity.
Some employees volunteer time for work on engineering projects with school and college students.
Business community ARM is a founding member of both The Learning Collaboration and the Cambridge Network as well as a founding sponsor of the Electronics Knowledge Transfer Network.
Throughout 2009 ARM has supported the Cambridge Network which links like-minded people from business and academia to each other and to the global high technology community for the benefit of the Cambridge region.
ARM provided offices and facilities to the organisation.
In 2008, ARM co-founded the Cambridge Business Lectures whose lectures are free to participants through corporate sponsorship.
Environment ARM designs technology at the heart of low-power products across a wide range of application areas.
Intelligence within its low-power IP cores can be used to measure, manage and control the environmental performance of consumer electronics and IT equipment, while improving functional performance and reducing carbon footprint.
Additionally, ARM can leverage its Connected Community of partners to provide complete low-power solutions for products based on the ARM architecture.
ARMs activities do not produce harmful waste or emissions and the Ethical Investment Research Service EIRIS grades ARM as an environmentally low impact business.
However, ARM recognises the need to mitigate any form of environmental impact and our environmental performance is measured against targets to reduce resource usage, increase reuse and recycling and control carbon emissions.
In 2009 ARM began working with Trucost to establish a complete picture of its direct carbon impact globally.
Upon completion of this project ARM will have a more detailed benchmark to build its carbon reduction programmes on.
ARM works with environmental auditors from LRQA to develop and improve our environmental management system.
LRQAs twice yearly environmental and health and safety themed audits are now integrated with their other accreditation work, which has increased understanding of ARMs environmental objectives among our local management and provided action plans for achieving these objectives.
Adopting LRQAs Business Assurance approach provides an independent assessment of the ARM Management System and the various review procedures in place within the Group.
LRQAs Business Assurance scheme supports the Sarbanes-Oxley compliance activity and verifies ARMs compliance with ISO9001:2008 and components of other relevant ISO standards.
In UK offices where ARM procures its own energy, supplies are from renewable sources.
The application of a greener policy on energy procurement is being extended to other ARM locations where practicable.
For example, our 92,000 sq ft office in San Jose, California has incorporated some of the building technologies that score towards the Leadership in Energy & Environmental Design LEED Green Building Rating System and this principle will be implemented in future sites where feasible.
In 2009 ARM participated for the first time in the Carbon Disclosure Project.
Monitoring and analysis of energy usage and methods to reduce associated impacts ensures all our operations become engaged in improvement objectives.
Whilst we fall below the 6MWh criteria of the Carbon Reduction Commitment in the UK, we are well prepared for the reporting requirements of new legislation.
In 2008, ARM implemented an off-site regional Data Centre in the US and, by centralising these services, the number of server rooms distributed across multiple ARM locations was reduced with an associated reduction in environmental impact.
Usage of this facility has increased in 2009.
ARM is increasing the range of data it gathers across its operations to benchmark environmental performance.
Overall the three largest offices Cambridge, San Jose and Bangalore reduced carbon emissions by 9.33% in 2009 compared to 2008.
ARM continues to assess its waste management strategies and improve the provision for recycling.
Paper, cardboard packaging, glass, aluminium and plastic can be recycled in many locations.
In the UK, recycling of cardboard and paper grew by 7.5% from 2008 to 2009 105% from 2006 to 2009.
In addition, ARMs UK waste production decreased by 7.6% from 2008 to 2009 and waste is now sorted offsite to ensure further that recycling is carried out.
CO2 emissions Tonnes per employee 08 6.14 10.56 4.42 4.72 8.73 09 4.01 07 Operational activities 2.59 Flights 4.79 Data based on subset of ARM ofces only complete cross Company 08 3.39 5.66 monitoring will be implemented in 2010.
09 3.11 5.45 38 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Travel ARM recognises the environmental impact of travel and employees are encouraged to cycle to work, to share car journeys, or to use public transport.
Consistent with local custom and practice, bus transport is provided for employees in Bangalore to minimise the environmental impact of individual travel to work and to reduce congestion.
Business travel, particularly by air, is important to maintain ARMs very effective partner relationships, but ways this can be reduced are regularly reviewed.
Video conferencing is utilised where practicable and we are progressively upgrading our equipment to make this option more effective.
Data regarding flights is benchmarked with a view to reducing business travel while ensuring that good business relationships are maintained.
Despite ARMs increased headcount and number of locations, over the four years that ARM has recorded flight data, there has been a 23% reduction in flight-related emissions between 2006 and 2009.
Ethics and equal opportunities ARM recognises its ethical responsibilities to all stakeholders which are manifested in a range of policies and processes.
ARM conducts its business with integrity, respecting cultures and the dignity and rights of individuals.
The Group has an obligation to promote respect for and observance of human rights and fundamental freedoms for all, without distinction as to colour, ethnic origin, gender, age, religion or similar belief, political or other opinion, disability or sexual orientation.
Business continuity plans ARM has developed business continuity plans for all of its operations worldwide to enable business to continue should a serious event or incident occur.
These plans are designed to protect the interests of ARMs stakeholders and in particular ARMs employees, property and other assets and to provide facilities and infrastructure to reinstate business operations as quickly as possible after an event.
The continual review of these plans forms part of the management review process alongside environmental management and health, safety and welfare.
During 2009, the Company launched several initiatives to strengthen our ability to respond effectively including benchmarking ARMs Business Continuity Plans against the British Standard BS25999.
This has involved a complete review of current practices and documentation resulting in improved planning for contacting employees and managing press and other external stakeholder expectations.
A more detailed CR report is available on our website at www.
