Electric motors are responsible for ARM technology is making products more than half of electricity consumption.
Enabling more Smarter motors use more efficient control smarter so they use resources more algorithms that can halve the energy intelligently and efficiently.
sustainable consumed by each motor.
communities ARM technology is making products smarter so they use resources more intelligently and more efficiently.
This is not just in the home, but also in business and in the brain of the internet.
Much of the internet is run on large computers, containing hundreds In the home, we can reduce our energy of processors, hosted in server farms.
and water consumption by choosing These need a huge amount of electricity more efficient appliances.
For example, to power the computers and to power ARM-powered smarter washing machines the air-conditioning to keep them cool.
can fill with just the least amount of water Low-power ARM-based servers would and detergent that is necessary require less energy to power the computer depending on how dirty the clothes and much less air-conditioning.
The drum of the washing machine can be spun with advanced motor controllers that use less than half of the energy of older types of motors making them quieter too and by linking up to the smart-grid, the washing machine knows when the electricity is at its cheapest and so it costs less money to complete the wash.
LIFT Businesses are using smart ARM-based chips in building controls to reduce electricity consumption.
This ranges from sensors that turn off lights when no-one is around, to more efficient motors in air-conditioning and lifts and to remote control for PCs to make sure they are turned off at night.
Some ARM Partners are also looking at how ARMs low-power technology can be used to reduce the power consumption in the big server farms that run many applications on the internet.
By replacing power-hungry super-computers with many low-cost, low-power grids of ARM-based chips it Smart washing machines know Smart-grids communicate with the is believed that we could substantially Lighting in homes and how much water and detergent smart-meters in the home, giving the offices has the second reduce power consumption.
are required to clean clothes, current price of electricity.
This enables largest global energy depending on how dirty the clothes energy hungry white goods such as washing usage.
They also spin the drum more machines and dishwashers to switch on systems know where efficiently, reducing the electricity bill.
when electricity demand is low, and people are and ensure energy costs are therefore reduced.
the areas are well lit, but do not stay on when not needed, and so reduce energy use.
