Enabling sustainable societies An expanding global population, all wanting Global power consumption by product type % the best possible standard of living, is putting increasing demands on the worlds energy resources.
Rising energy costs combined with climate change concerns have also Electric motors 51% motivated many people to look for ways Lighting 19% to improve energy-efficiency.
Consumer electronics 12% Heating 11% We believe that more smart technology can Others 7% enable more efficient products, so that we can reduce energy consumption whilst all Electric motors consume over half of the worlds enjoying the same consumer experience.
electricity and can be found in appliances such as washing machines and refrigerators, and also in elevators, robotics and industrial automation.
ARMs technology is inherently low-power as Most of these are induction motors, but brushless it was designed for use in battery operated motors, that are much more efficient are already devices such as mobile phones.
ARM being used in everything from electric vehicles to technology is suitable for any device that DVD players.
These often need a smart ARM-based chip to run the motor controller.
needs to reduce power consumption.
Many Smarter control of electric lighting and heating, and consumer products such as laptops and low-power consumer electronics will also help reduce digital TVs need fans to keep the electronics our energy consumption.
Energy is being wasted as ARM estimates based on reports by Electronic Power Research Institute heat, and the fan is using even more energy.
EPRI and American Council for an Energy efficient Economy ACEEE ARM-based chips for consumer products are We believe that it may be possible, with low-power, and therefore cooler, and may improved use of smart technology, to not need fans at all.
reduce overall energy consumption Smarter appliances also use fewer resources.
without compromising the improvements Smart washing machines use the minimum in standards of living people are trying to amounts of detergent and water needed achieve.
We are encouraged that, all over to clean the clothes, and use advanced the world, individuals, societies, companies algorithms to efficiently spin the drum.
and governments are supporting and legislating for improvements in energyefficiency, and that smart technology is going to play an important part in these improvements.
