45 Premier Farnell Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Business Review R CSR Report Corporate Social Responsibility CSR a high This includes the industry-leading guidance and support we performance company working to build a provide on legislation that will affect both our customers and sustainable future suppliers, and the confidence that our products are sourced Premier Farnell takes seriously its role as a responsible from reputable manufacturers who meet appropriate corporate citizen and seeks to take account of the economic, workplace standards: for employees it means giving everyone social and environmental impacts of its operations.
It is our the opportunity to have their voice heard in the way that the belief that acting in this way is a source of business opportunity, business is run, listening to their ideas and communicating improved competitiveness and sound business practice.
openly and, for the communities in which we operate, the Company is a trusted and valued long-term partner in We have dened Corporate Social Responsibility as the addressing social issues.
sustainable development of our business balancing our responsibilities to our stakeholders, the environment and By bringing our CSR activities together with a number society.
We believe that by releasing the power of individuals of other internal initiatives, including the creation of our within Premier Farnell, we can have a positive impact on eCommunity, our work to improve further employee society and reduce our impact on the environment.
engagement around the business and our customers support programmes, we have built a solid core of good corporate As an organisation with strong core values, we are driven to governance and a highly ethical approach.
We are calling deliver results by being totally reliable, resourceful, customer this our Trust Agenda and it serves as a framework for focused and by conducting ourselves with integrity.
These everything we do as a business.
During the coming year the values translate into every aspect of our business.
We are a Trust Agenda will become much more visible and further forward thinking, innovative company that cares cares differentiate Premier Farnell.
about our people, our industry and our communities.
Environmental Focused on Working together Enhancing Developing commitment sustainability with suppliers customer best-in-class experience people Responsible Committed Community to open and Partner transparent TRUST communication Culture Accountable for Industry leading Ongoing risk Ethical business led organisation our actions and compliance management practices performance 46 Business Review continued R CSR Report Our CSR programme is focused on our environmental impacts: the communities in which we operate: our people: trading ethically with our customers and suppliers and the U health and safety of our employees.
We have been a member of the FTSE4Good Index of Corporate and Social Responsibility since its launch in July 2001 and the Group is also a member of Business in the Community BiTC, a movement of over 850 of the UKs top companies committed to improving their impact on society.
Striving to eliminate e-waste Our programme and reporting follow the framework used in the BiTC Corporate Responsibility CR Index, facilitating the external validation of our programme.
We use the feedback from our BiTC CR Index submission to assist us in identifying those areas where we should focus our efforts.
Every year we identify, publish and report against specic improvement targets in our CSR report and have been doing so since 2002.
The Board has overall responsibility for establishing the Groups CSR policies and the Chief Executive officer is accountable for ensuring that the Group operates in accordance with these policies and reviews progress on a monthly basis.
Reporting of our performance is led by the Company Secretary and the Board receives a report on Premier Farnell has publicly pledged its the Groups CSR performance at least every six months.
Periodic updates are provided on the premierfarnell.
com commitment to a number of initiatives aimed at website.
reducing the harmful impacts of the unregulated dismantling of waste electronic products.
A copy of our Corporate Social Responsibility Policy can be obtained on our website at It is estimated that up to 50 million tonnes of e-waste electronic www.
com premier farnell csr or by contacting waste are discarded every year, with around 70% of this waste Steven Webb, Group Company Secretary and Counsel reaching Africa, China and India, where it is dealt with by on 44 0 870 129 8608. recyclers that observe no health, safety or environmental considerations.
In India alone, it is believed that up to five million Note people many of them children and the majority with little or no References to years throughout the CSR Report are to protection against the harmful substances released are involved in this trade.
calendar years, rather than the Companys financial year.
This issue has been highlighted in the media by videos such as the Highlights of the year following, filmed by Greenpeace: Our major achievements this year have been: www.
com watch?gl GB&hl en-GB&v 0JZey9GJQP0 As part of our commitment to working to benefit the communities Achieved the Gold level of the BiTC CR Index: in which we operate, Premier Farnell is collaborating with a leading The inclusion of environmental impacts into the internal expert on the issue of lead poisoning resulting from the improper quarterly business performance reporting process: recycling of e-waste in India to assess the most appropriate and beneficial ways that the Company can contribute to addressing The further development of our approach to sustainable this serious issue.
procurement: The initiatives that are encompassed by the Premier Farnell The implementation of carbon reduction plans in the campaign are: Companys larger facilities: and We will be a leader in the electronics industry in raising awareness and understanding of the issue of electronic product A 6% improvement in the positive feedback scores from recycling and the resultant harm caused to human health and employees about our CSR approach.
This was again the the environment.
highest-scoring category in our all-employee engagement survey.
We will provide financial support and training materials over the next three years to train at least 500 teachers and therefore 250,000 students in India on the hazards of lead poisoning and the means to avoid it.
We will work with the appropriate industry bodies to lobby for the introduction and or ratification of legislation that would address this issue e. g. equivalents of the European Unions RoHS and WEEE legislation.
We will set up a charitable trust with wide input from industry, suppliers and customers to invest funds in the relevant projects.
47 Premier Farnell Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Our performance this year One of the principal drivers of better energy management is Environment employee behaviour and we actively encourage employees The pervasion of electronics in every aspect of todays world to conserve the Companys resources through our own means that we all rely on electronics for innumerable tasks green facilities award scheme.
This promotes environmentally each day.
Electronic design engineers are under pressure friendly working practices, enabling individual sites to to design more electronic products, faster, while still taking self-assess their performance, earning points for conserving into account the effects that their designs have on the energy, reducing waste disposal and increasing levels of environment and individual users both during the products recycling.
The scheme, which has been running since 2003, use and at its end-of-life.
has this year been given added impetus by our carbon reduction programme.
All our larger facilities have teams of Our responsibility to our customers and the environment is green champions and all of the Companys larger facilities at the heart of everything we do.
It is critical that we meet have now achieved the green facility award 16 in total.
our customers growing needs for environmentally friendly products, while decreasing our own environmental impacts.
Beginning in 2010, many larger businesses in the UK will be required to report their carbon emissions to the Our principal environmental impacts are carbon emissions, government-led cap and trade scheme, the Carbon our use of paper and packaging and waste.
We have set the Reduction Commitment.
They will also be required to following programmes and targets in order to reduce our purchase allowances for the carbon that they emit through impact on the environment.
We have been tracking the progress of this legislation, and planning for its impact on our business Three year carbon reduction programme and our carbon reduction activities leave us well-placed for We have dened our carbon footprint and developed a its implementation.
strategy and three year plan to increase energy efficiency and reduce our carbon emissions to the lowest practicable and Farnell in Leeds and CPC in Preston are accredited to the economic level.
We include in our carbon footprint those Energy efficiency Accreditation Scheme EEAS, which primary activities over which we have direct control all of recognises businesses that are making positive moves to our activities from the receipt of products into our warehouses reduce energy consumption, become more energy efficient to their final preparation for despatch to customers, including and reduce carbon emissions.
the production of catalogues and marketing material: our As part of their audit this year, we have been advised use and the disposal of packaging: business travel and the by experts at SGS that a more representative metric for energy required to operate our facilities.
We exclude the measuring our energy usage is to compare them to facility physical delivery of products from the manufacturer to the size, rather than to sales gures.
For this report, we are warehouse and from the warehouse to customers, as we applying both metrics, to facilitate transparency and do not have control over the associated emissions.
consistency with the previous year.
In those areas outside of our direct control for example the delivery of products to our customers by third party carriers, Driving high standards in our use of paper we are working to understand better the opportunities to and packaging collaborate with our parcel carriers for improved efficiency One of our principal environmental impacts is the use and reduced environmental impact.
of paper in the publication of our product catalogues, marketing material and packaging.
We take a proactive Highlights of our carbon reduction programme in 2008 approach to reducing the environmental impact of our include: publications and packaging, while taking into account The Company has begun to collect carbon emissions economic and market factors.
data monthly and produce management reports quarterly Premier Farnell communicates with its customers via a as part of the mainstream reporting of each business unit.
combination of catalogues, direct mail and the web.
Plans agreed and budgeted by business units to further While it is the Groups strategy to increase the level of reduce energy consumption and carbon emissions web-based business, paper materials continue to be during 2009. important in offering customers choice in the way they select and order products.
Reduced our carbon emissions to 79% of those of the baseline year of 2006.
The Group has formalised and made publicly available our policy and guidelines detailing the ways in which we aim to mitigate the impact on the environment of our paper publications by setting appropriate minimum standards for their production paper and print, distribution and recyclability.
R 48 Business Review continued R CSR Report It is our policy to: All our large facilities have recycling programmes and initiatives in place to increase the volume and types of waste Engage with suppliers of paper and print who can that are recycled.
The CPC facility in Preston, UK currently demonstrate their commitment to mitigating the achieves the highest proportion of waste recycled at 90% environmental impacts of their production processes and the Leeds facilities recycled 77% of their waste this year.
through certication to a recognised and properly managed and audited scheme: Overall, the Group recycles 71% of its waste, up from 63% in 2007.
Specify either virgin paper from certied, sustainable sources or recycled paper with the highest available As a supplier of electrical and electronic equipment, we have post-consumer recycled content according to cost producer obligations under the European Unions WEEE considerations and the production constraints of legislation to provide our customers with a service to enable individual publications: them to dispose of their waste electrical and electronic equipment correctly in compliance with the legislation.
Only place contracts with printers who have a published Akron Brass, which manufactures re-ghting equipment environmental policy and recognised environmental from brass and aluminium, re-uses and recycles the certications: industrial waste created by its manufacturing process.
Specify that the packaging used for protecting catalogues and direct mail in the delivery system is Embracing environmental legislation manufactured with recycled and recyclable materials: European environmental legislation is continually evolving and affects the Group's electronic component distribution Ensure we maintain up to date customer data which businesses.
The Restriction of Hazardous Substances ensures that the publication is relevant to the end RoHS Directive restricts the use of certain hazardous customer, thereby minimising wastage: and substances in electrical and electronic equipment.
Changes Encourage our customers to recycle all publications to the original legislation made by the so-called RoHS2 will and packaging at the end of their lifespan.
further affect industry by extending the scope of the original directive.
By restricting the hazardous substances in electrical We have been reducing the weight of the paper in our equipment, recycling, re-use and recovery become easier, product catalogues for the last five years and increasing and safer at the products end-of-life.
Beyond Europe, the proportion of post-consumer recycled material China is expected to announce its first restricted products where appropriate.
under its own RoHS legislation during 2009.
We are also concerned with reducing the environmental REACH Regulations impose tighter controls over the use impact of the packaging we use to protect the products of around 30,000 chemicals, in particular Substances of we supply and to ship our customer orders.
We are Very High Concern that cause considerable harm to human continuing to develop an environmentally friendly packaging health and the environment.
solution for components in the form of biodegradable, Finally, the Energy using Products Directive tracks and sets static dissipative bags and expect to launch this innovative measures to improve the energy consumption of a product product during 2009. from the mining of the raw material right through to its At our international distribution centre in Leeds we have recycling at end-of-life.
replaced air-lled plastic protective packaging materials with All these pieces of legislation affect, and are clearly an environmentally friendly alternative.
We now use recyclable communicated to, the Groups principal customer base of paper from sustainable sources.
Our new packaging process electronics design engineers through a variety of methods is also more energy efficient.
In the US, MCM now reuse the including e-shots, blogs and the Groups own web pages at void ll from inbound deliveries and donate their used ofce www.
For more detailed information on paper to a recycler for Habitat for Humanity.
Akron Brass how Premier Farnell is embracing environmental legislation, use recycled newspaper that is prepared for them by a local see the case study on page 21 of this report.
community group as void ll in their deliveries.
At the same time, we are moving to packing boxes which are Evaluation manufactured from sustainable, managed sources that are We collect data on the amount of energy used and carbon fully recyclable.
dioxide emitted, waste disposed and waste recycled by the Groups operations in order to assess our environmental Reducing waste to landll impact.
Premier Farnell has identied the generation of waste as To ensure that we have representative and reliable one of its three key environmental impacts.
The nature of environmental data, we review new data each quarter and our business is such that we order product from suppliers compare it with data from prior years.
This continual review in bulk and then break these orders down into the quantities and comparison allows us to detect and correct any errors required by our customers, resulting in waste packaging.
and may result in the restatement of certain prior year gures.
We also focus our efforts on minimising the volume of We have also engaged the SGS Group as expert external waste which goes to landll.
Where possible we re-use consultants this year to assess our data collection processes waste packaging and, where this is not achievable, we to ensure that they are robust.
The SGS audit statement ensure that it is sorted and recycled.
appears at the end of this report, on page 57.
Natural gas conversion factors obtained from DEFRA www.
uk environment business envrp conversion-factors.
Fuel oil and propane conversion factors obtained from US Department of Energy www.
Utilised World Resources Institute WRI recommended CO 2 conversion factors www.
org calculation-tools for all other conversions.
# We do not include business travel data as we currently do not have complete records for all business travel during the year.
Whilst we collect data on paper, print and packaging from our suppliers and internally, we have not yet developed a comprehensive collection of data for these and so do not report them in this table.
Business development resulted in 11 additional facilities in Asia in 2008.
R 50 Business Review continued R CSR Report Committed to sustainability We extend our approach to sustainability to our EDE customer base through Live EDGE.
Our first Live EDGE U competition winner was the developer of an energy-efficient ceiling fan, who Premier Farnell will support in the products development and distribution.
We held a second Live EDGE competition during 2009, to continue to promote the  design of electronic products.
In total we received innovative, environmentally friendly designs from more than 650 registrants in 65 countries.
The winner of this Listening to the voice of employees years Live EDGE competition was Pedro Rodrigues from Portugal.
Pedro designed an Intelligent Standby Energy Saver.
Mr. Rodrigues won a $25,000 cash prize and a support package worth the same that will help him bring his design into production and distribution.
The Live EDGE technical judges noted that the design takes a radically different approach to determining power usage and we are very proud to support this design.
In addition, the Live EDGE competition announced the creation of an engineering scholarship to support engineering students.
Health and safety Our aim is to provide a safe and healthy environment for our employees and visitors to our premises and to keep the number of working hours lost through health and safety 2008 saw the second iteration of Premier Farnells incidents to a minimum.
all-employee engagement survey, Your Voice.
We monitor both the number of workplace injuries and The response rate for 2008 was 80.55% of all illnesses and the number of lost-time workplace injuries and employees, compared with a rate of 76.6% in set a target to achieve rates of less than half of the averages 2007 and a benchmark response rate of 80.1% for our industry.
This year We have our own behaviour-based safety programme, the survey was conducted in two additional Safety STAR Safety Through Accountability and Recognition, languages Dutch and Finnish, improving its which requires supervisors to encourage safe work practices, promotes regular safety observations, encourages and holds accessibility to the Groups employees.
employees accountable for working safely and regularly asks When asked about their view of our strategy, 92% of employees for their ideas and suggestions for improving respondents told us that they clearly understood the goals safety at their facility.
With Akron Brass achieving Safety and objectives of the business that they work in, and 94% STAR status, our two largest distribution centres and understand how their personal contribution ensures that our largest manufacturing centre in the US now adhere to strategy is executed.
Both of these scores exceed the average this programme.
scores for high performance companies of 85% and 92% respectively, and, with 82% of respondents believing strongly One of our US businesses: MCM recorded no injuries in the strategy of the business, this shows the clarity with which and three of our US businesses MCM, Newark and TPC our strategy is communicated, understood and executed.
Wire & Cable qualied for the US National Safety Council The most improved response this year was for our training Occupational Safety Excellence Awards, having achieved and development category, with an increase of 8% in positive lost-time injury rates of less than half the industry average.
65% of employees claimed a positive attitude All our UK businesses facilities are accredited to OHSAS towards their long-term opportunities with the Company, surpassing the high performance benchmark by 1%.
The survey 18001: 1999, the internationally recognised standard for demonstrated an increase in the percentage of employees who health and safety management systems.
feel a positive engagement with the Company of 2% over 2007, The estimated cost incurred by our US operations for injuries with a score of 76%.
resulting in days away from work in 2008 was $645,000.
Perceptions of the Groups approach to corporate social This cost is based on a $43,000 average cost per disabling responsibility increased in 2008, with 84% of employees feeling injury as estimated by the US National Safety Council.
that the business is responsible within the local community This cost includes wage losses, medical expenses, 2007: 75% and 88% that it is responsible in its approach to administration expenses and employment costs.
Again, this constitutes a higher score than the average high performance organisation is expected to achieve 81%.
51 Premier Farnell Annual Report & Accounts 2009 In Europe and Asia Pacic, excluding the Lige distribution We also expanded our eLife to you, our investors, during centre, the estimated cost for injuries resulting in days away the year as we published our first online annual report which from work in 2008 was 12,582 applying UK estimates of received very positive feedback and won industry accolades.
2,097 per occurrence, based on Health and Safety Executive We thank everyone who visited our online annual report and gures.
For the Lige distribution centre, estimated costs encourage you to visit this years online annual report for an for injuries resulting in days away from work for 2008 was interactive report of our performance in the year, including 39,843 based on the same estimates per occurrence.
videos from our executive team www.
Marketplace We also wish to make a contribution to the communities in Our relationships with our customers and suppliers are at which we operate, building goodwill and a reputation as a the heart of our business and we believe we can and should good neighbour and employer.
Our community investment work together to build a sustainable business.
The Group has strategy and charitable giving policy support this aim.
a sustainable procurement programme, which identies the core impacts that are important to us and which we believe Highlights of our workplace and community programme we can inuence through our supply chain.
They are: include: Ethical trading labour practices and working conditions 85% of employees completing our all-employee in our own brand supply chain: engagement survey in 2008 thought that Premier Farnell is socially and environmentally responsible, an improvement Waste generation and disposal of waste: of 6% over the previous years score: Carbon emissions created by the delivery of goods Farnell in Leeds has formalised two service level to our distribution centres and our shipments to partnership agreements with community organisations in customers: and Armley which will secure the relationships over the course Paper used in the production of our product catalogues of the next two years: and marketing activity.
Farnell helped to secure a 10,000 grant for its Highlights of our marketplace programme in 2008 include: community partner Armley Helping Hands, by winning the Yorkshire Forward Creating Better Futures Award for its Our International Purchasing team performing workplace demonstration of a successful partnership between a social audits on eight of our most important own brand community organisation and a private business: suppliers against our labour practices and working conditions standards: A community consultation day attended by around 50 representatives of local community groups, local Successfully rolling out our sustainable procurement government and other companies, where the Groups workshop programme from the UK into the US, training approach was outlined and discussed: the businesses procurement teams to take elements of environmental and social impact into account when The Contact Centre at Rockside Road in Cleveland, purchasing from suppliers: and Ohio received a Corporate Sponsor of the Year Award from the American Red Cross for exceptional contribution Working with one of our third-party carriers to develop the to their blood donation drive: and monitoring of the environmental impacts of the deliveries they make of the Companys products.
The identication of community engagement leaders in the US to drive the formalisation of the US businesses Workplace and community community engagement.
Our aim is to be recognised by existing and future employees Our community investment strategy is based upon building as a responsible employer that values its people and sustainable partnerships with local community groups using provides an environment in which they can develop their skills our resources, particularly our time, to support their activities.
and make a contribution to the success of the business.
Our eLife programme supports this and contributes to our carbon reduction programme by providing a range of e-enabled tools to allow employees to develop their skills and knowledge, interact with colleagues and facilitate global collaboration.
As a new innovation during the year, a number of live, virtual question and answer sessions have been held that have allowed colleagues from all parts of the world to hear from and question the senior leaders of the organisation without the time and carbon cost of international travel.
R 52 Business Review continued R CSR Report U Participating in our local communities Premier Farnell operates a Community Investment Policy which aims to make a contribution to the communities in which it operates, by building goodwill and a reputation as a good neighbour and employer.
In recognition of the value of giving time to community partners, These examples of how Premier Farnell is offering support in kind Premier Farnell has formed a partnership with Armley Helping are only some of the ways they are helping the charity.
A protocol Hands, to contribute towards the sustainable provision of outlining all of the assistance offered by Premier Farnell has been services which support elderly people in West Leeds.
created and agreed with Armley Helping Hands.
Armley Helping Hands is a registered charity supporting older The benefits for Armley Helping Hands include the long-term people and their families within the area of Leeds 12.
The charity sustainability that has been secured thanks to their ability to aims to provide facilities for education, recreation and leisure time demonstrate guaranteed access to volunteers, resulting in activities with a view to improving quality of life and reducing increased funding.
Armley Helping Hands board of trustees are social isolation.
now confident that the organisation is financially secure for the next three years.
Premier Farnell has agreed to help Armley Helping Hands in a number of areas to facilitate them in becoming a sustainable The needs and priorities of the elderly service users are being organisation.
Premier Farnell is working in a technical capacity addressed effectively and the service provided is being delivered by providing IT and web design support.
The team are assisting against a coherent and co-ordinated action plan.
This enables a the charity in networking and upgrading the charitys computers reduction in social isolation and improvements in community within the office and the mobile laptops.
This is enabling the interaction in the target group of elderly people in West Leeds.
Premier Farnell team to share information and therefore making The ongoing support provides Premier Farnells Leadership the service more efficient.
development programme with experiential learning opportunities.
They have also assisted in provided support on a more personal The projects that have been identified have also been chosen to level by providing shopping escorts to the elderly people, assist in the development of Premier Farnells employees skills.
and by making available 24 hour security and access to the Armley Helping Hands provide quarterly feedback to Premier charitys minibus.
Farnell outlining volunteer support and advice to employees The festive season saw Premier Farnells team deliver who have caring responsibilities to the elderly patrons.
50 Christmas hampers to the elderly patrons whom they The action plan agreed by Premier Farnell and Armley Helping had identified as being most at risk of social isolation.
Hands runs until the 30 January 2010.
The culmination of the celebrations was a Christmas party for 120 elderly people, organised and supported by the Premier Farnell team.
53 Premier Farnell Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Employees are encouraged to volunteer in Company time.
The Group recognises that these types of activity not only Funds are raised principally through employee fundraising benefit the community groups and good causes involved, activities and supplemented for specic projects with funds but also deliver business benets in providing training and from the corporate charity budget.
All employees are eligible development opportunities for those employees who to apply for funds and these can be a cash donation, participate.
Our online personal development planning matched funds or goods in kind.
The budget of 20,000 has system Futures enables employees to capture the been fully utilised this year.
In September, the Group matched volunteering activities they have undertaken, assess the the fundraising of employees globally, and donated $11,000 development opportunities and benets delivered and to support the victims of the Chengdu earthquake, which discuss these as part of their performance review process occurred near to one of the businesss facilities.
Our community partners and projects represent causes The community investment programme was this year for which our employees have demonstrated through piloted as a module in the Groups Leadership Development discussion groups and surveys their interest and support.
Members of the Operational Leaders training Through dialogue with the community partners, activities programme were involved in a community event as the are identied which can be supported by the employee second of their three training modules in order to experience volunteering programme.
These include large projects, delivering a project in an unfamiliar setting and also to drive met by team challenges and ongoing, regular activities the Companys aims to embed our community engagement met by individual volunteers.
at all levels of leadership, both existing and developing.
In the US, all of the Groups businesses participate in the Awards and achievements United Way, a community-based umbrella organisation We are delighted to report that three Premier Farnell supporting various human services organisations with which companies qualied this year for the US National Safety the businesses have had a relationship since the 1980s.
Council Occupational Safety Excellence Awards.
In each of our US businesses we have employees who These awards recognised exemplary safety records undertake leadership roles in United Ways fundraising at Newark, MCM and TPC Wire & Cable sites.
activities and every year they run a pledge and donations In addition, Ken Manchen, our Director of Safety, Health and drive.
A number of team and individual initiatives have Environmental Affairs for the Americas, was honoured with this year benefited local community groups and charities an Champion of Excellence award by the Academy of including donations of clothing to a homeless shelter, the Certied Hazardous Materials Management for his continued hugely popular annual American Cancer Societys Daffodil contributions to awareness of environmental, health, safety days fundraiser, and the American Red Cross blood donor and security issues.
scheme, for which the Cleveland Rockside Road ofce received a Corporate Sponsor of the Year award.
Premier Farnell was this year recognised as one of Where Women Want to Work top 50 companies for 2008.
Our largest site in Europe and Asia Pacic is in Leeds, UK.
This position was awarded for our innovative approaches This is located in an inner city area which borders on the to recruiting, developing and retaining female employees in prosperous and fast developing city centre.
This year, Farnell in Leeds has completed the process of We remain a member of the FTSE4Good Index of Corporate formalising partnership agreements with two organisations and Social Responsibility.
We participated in the BiTC local to the Leeds business.
Regular activities such as Corporate Responsibility Index for the third time this year escorted shopping trips and tea dances for the elderly, and improved our ranking from the Silver to the Gold level.
supporting primary age children in reading programmes, We are also among a small number of companies that have mentoring of young people and team gardening challenges participated in the Business in the Environment regional are still undertaken by committed groups of volunteers, survey of Corporate Environmental Engagement every year underlined by the agreements we now have in place.
since its inception in 1999 and shown improvement annually Across the Group, employees have identied the good from 2001 onwards, increasing our overall score by 3% in causes they want to support by donating their time, money the latest survey.
and commitment in a variety of ways: examples include the sponsorship of and participation in a three-day event for children in an Indian orphanage, a collection of Christmas presents for children spending the season in a local domestic violence refuge and supporting the American Red Cross Ready When the Time Comes scheme.
R 54 Business Review continued R CSR Report Performance against 2008 environmental targets and actions planned in 2009 Target 2008 Progress Target 2009 Achieve green facility status at all The green facility status has been Expand the green facility programme: remaining large facilities.
achieved at all the remaining large Develop a higher tier of achievement facilities in the Group this year.
Achieve ISO 14001 accreditation at for high-performing green facilities.
ISO 14001 accreditation was achieved at Institute a reassessment programme the Farnell France facility in September for facilities that were awarded the 2008. status two or more years ago.
Expand the programme to include at three mid-sized facilities to achieve standard green facility status.
Implement carbon reduction plans in each In 2008 the Group achieved a reduction Implement additional carbon reduction of the larger facilities to achieve a 10% in CO2 emissions of 171 tonnes.
projects at large facilities to ensure we reduction in the carbon emissions achieve our goal of a CO2 emission The Group has, so far, achieved a typically created by the heating and light reduction equal to 10% of the emissions reduction of 21% of CO2 emissions of those facilities by 2009 against the from these facilities in 2006 by the end of the baseline year of 2006. baseline of 2006 carbon emissions.
Achieve EEAS accreditation at the During the year, the EEAS accreditation European Distribution Centre Lige.
scheme became wholly sponsored by the Carbon Trust and was renamed the Carbon Trust Standard.
The Carbon Trust restricted the scheme to the UK.
Therefore, the Lige facility was not able to apply for the accreditation.
Evaluate US accreditation schemes for The US Environmental Protection Agency Extend the evaluation to include the external validation of the US businesses National Performance Track programme eStewards recycling programme and environmental programmes and, if has been evaluated and deemed suitable assess this accreditations suitability appropriate, target accreditation of at for the external validation of the US during FY10.
Carry out an audit of printing and copying The rationalisation project has been Progress the rationalisation of office equipment to maximise the use of energy completed in Leeds and the experience equipment in the major US facilities.
and paper efficient equipment and has been shared with the US facilities, achieve a 5% reduction in paper where the programme has not yet been consumption at two of the Companys rolled-out.
Work with printers and paper Premier Farnell has influenced printers Continue to reduce the total tonnage of manufacturers to quantify the carbon and paper manufacturers to engage in paper used by the Group to produce emissions created by the production of routine collection and reporting of carbon catalogues by 10%.
the catalogues and direct mail pieces emissions data.
Continue to use our influence as a and determine for what percentage of All of the main suppliers now provide company to drive our suppliers to develop the Groups carbon footprint this this data and are working on processes papers with a higher recycled material activity accounts.
to enable consistent reporting on an content and processes with lower ongoing basis.
Specify recycled paper and or FSC Both the Farnell and CPC 2008 Continue to specify recycled and or certified paper for catalogues and or catalogues were printed on the lightest  paper e. g. direct mail where available and grade FSC Forestry Stewardship Council FSC certified, where available and competitively priced.
certified paper that is feasible for the competitively priced.
Newark 2008 catalogues were printed on recycled content and or FSC or Sustainable Forestry Initiative certified paper.
As of April 2008, all of MCMs direct mail flyers and catalogues were printed on recycled content and or FSC certified paper.
Achieve a further increase in All of the large facilities in the Group have Maintain the high levels of recycling that recycling globally.
recycling programmes and initiatives in have been achieved.
place to facilitate the recycling of the maximum possible volumes and types of waste.
The CPC facility in Preston has again achieved the highest proportion of waste recycled at 90%.
Overall, the Group recycled over 71% of its waste in 2008, compared with 63% in 2007.
55 Premier Farnell Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Performance against 2008 health and safety targets and actions planned in 2009 Target 2008 Progress Target 2009 Continue to monitor the number of In 2008, the rate at which industrial Continue to monitor the number of recordable and lost-time workplace injuries and illnesses occurred at recordable and lost-time workplace injuries and illnesses that occur at our Premier Farnell facilities worldwide was injuries and illnesses that occur at our facilities in 2008, and achieve rates of less 0.68 injuries per 100,000 hours worked.
facilities in 2009, and achieve rates of than 50% of the averages for our industry.
Our goal was to have a rate of 50% or less than 50% of the averages for less than the average for our industry.
our industry in the US, Europe and The Groups occupational industry and Our industry average was 0.63 injuries Asia Pacific regions, excluding the illness rate is compared to occupational per 100,000 hours worked, therefore distribution centre in Lige.
injury and illness rates for other industry not achieving the target.
segments as compiled and published by Review and develop systems to reduce the US Department of Labor, Bureau of The number of lost-time injuries and the number of recordable and lost-time Labor Statistics for 2007 being the latest illnesses that occurred at Premier Farnell workplace injuries and illnesses and statistics available.
facilities worldwide was 0.52 lost-time achieve a rate for 2009 that is lower injuries and illnesses per 100,000 hours than the 2008 rate at the Lige worked Our target was 0.18 lost-time Distribution Centre.
injuries and illnesses per 100,000 hours worked.
We achieved 76.9% of the industry average, missing our target of 50%.
The Lige Distribution Centre recorded 7.50 workplace injuries and illnesses and 7.50 lost-time injuries per 100,000 hours worked.
Excluding this figure from the Group facilities totals, the remaining facilities achieved 0.45 recordable workplace injuries and illnesses and 0.28 lost-time injuries per 100,000 hours, which would result in the Group achieving its recordable injuries target, but not its lost-time injuries target.
The Lige Distribution Centre is subject to labour laws and practices that differ substantially from most other regions in which the Group operates in respect of paid time off work, but nevertheless it has been identified as a priority area and plans and actions will be developed during 2009 to reduce the number of recordable and lost-time workplace injuries and illnesses.
Achieve Safety STAR status at Akron Brass achieved Safety STAR status Akron Brass.
in the fourth quarter of FY09.
Develop and deliver training on The risk assessment training has been Deliver the risk assessment training implementing risk assessment online and developed, but implementation was programme online and face to face at face to face in Farnell Leeds and CPC.
delayed by changes to compliance Farnell Leeds and CPC in Preston.
requirements which necessitated a change in the training course.
The training has been appropriately updated to meet these requirements.
National Examination Board for One of the key managers has completed Key manager to complete the final Occupational Safety and Health the entire course and is achieved examination in the first half of FY10.
NEBOSH certificate level training for certificate level.
The remaining manager two key managers at the Leeds has completed two of the three exams.
R 56 Business Review continued R CSR Report Performance against 2008 marketplace targets and actions planned for 2009 Target 2008 Progress Target 2009 Complete the labour practices and The eight most important own brand Assess a further 20 own brand suppliers working conditions assessment and Asian manufacturers have been audited in Asia using the Groups workplace have agreed plans in place as appropriate for workplace standards during 2008. standards assessment questionnaire and for the Groups eight most important The team that conducted the audits was conduct site visit audits on a selection of by sales value own brand manufacturers provided with supplementary training the surveyed suppliers.
by the Groups EAP Safety, Health, Evaluate if there is a need for the Group Environment and Quality Manager for SHEQ Manager and or a member of Europe and Asia Pacific.
the International Purchasing Office to undertake SA8000 social auditing training.
Develop a sustainable procurement A training programme on sustainable Identify one or more priority products at programme at Newark, sharing learning procurement was developed for the US Newark and develop understanding of the and best practice from the European businesses and delivered to a group of sustainability impacts of the associated programme.
18 from across the US in September.
Progress actions to improve the issues identified.
Engage with key suppliers on waste and We have engaged with our main UK and carbon emissions.
European parcel carrier UPS to begin to develop the reporting of carbon emissions associated with deliveries to customers.
Sign up to the BiTC Marketplace The Group signed up to the Marketplace Principles.
Principles in quarter one of FY09.
Performance against 2008 workplace and community targets and actions planned in 2009 Target 2008 Progress Target 2009 Achieve a further improvement in our The 2009 CR Index survey results will Achieve Platinum status in the BiTC score in the BiTC CR index as part of our be published in June in a supplement to CR Index.
progress towards our target of achieving the Financial Times.
Premier Farnells Platinum status by 2010. ranking improved from the Silver band in 2008 to the Gold band in the results released in 2009.
Continue to monitor the rates and causes The Group monitors the rates and causes Continue to monitor the rates and causes of employee absenteeism and take of absenteeism across the business units.
of employee absenteeism and take actions to achieve reductions.
The average rate of absenteeism in the US businesses has kept parity with US national rates and so reduction targets are not set.
In Europe, targets were set for each of the distribution centres and contact centres.
The absence rates represent hours lost divided by hours available and targets were achieved with the exception of the Maybrook distribution centre.
The rate of absenteeism at Maybrook is affected by a number of cases of long-term sick leave and these are being managed with the expectation of a resolution early in the current financial year.
New management processes have been implemented at Lige, improving communication between management and employees, resulting in it achieving its target this year.
