Corporate social responsibility Energy Carbon -5.2% -7.7% Reduction of energy consumption kWh tonne Reduction of Carbon CO e emissions kg tonne 2 2009 target of -5% exceeded 2009 target of -5% exceeded Waste Packaging -37.7% -2.0% Reduction of waste to landfill kg tonne Reduction in packaging weight kg tonne 2009 target of -20% exceeded 2009 target of -2% achieved Transport Water -3.5% -6.1% 3 Reduction of delivery mileage miles tonne Reduction of water usage m tonne 2009 target of -5% part achieved 2009 target of -3% exceeded Note: All targets were against a 2008 baseline and were relative to tonnes of product manufactured in 2009.
44 Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Stock code: PFD Our business Business review Governance Financial statements Other information OUR RESPONSIBILITIES Doing the right thing... We place a high value on the labour, ingredients and natural resources used in the manufacture of our products.
We believe that practising good environmental and social stewardship and running an efficient and successful business are complementary.
In 2009 we set out six key environmental targets set out in Case Study the table opposite which are aligned to our aim of reducing Empowered people in a waste and increasing efficiency.
During the year we made capable organisation excellent progress across the range of targets with five of the six targets either achieved or exceeded.
We are proud of our support for UK farmers particularly within the arable, meat and dairy sectors.
This commitment has been further strengthened by our announcement that we will source 100% British wheat across the entire Hovis range in 2010.
Other achievements of note is our move to sourcing 100% certified sustainable Palm Oil through the GreenPalm Certification Scheme and the 205,000 raised by staff in 2009 Food Manufacturing Excellence Awards for our corporate charity Cancer Research UK.
In November 2009 Premier received two major awards We have set out the four core areas that we focus on as part at the Food Manufacturing Excellence Awards which of our Corporate Social Responsibility CSR initiatives: recognises the best food and drink manufacturers and their employees.
Marketplace Premier was named as the winner of the Judges Special Environment Award for the successful completion of the Groups Workplace operational restructuring following the acquisitions of Community Campbells and RHM.
The project, which demonstrated excellent cross functional communication and coAn overview of these four areas is set out in this report operation, saw the Groups operating footprint reduced together with our key aims and objectives for 2010. from 21 sites to 12.
This resulted in the investment in 5 core manufacturing sites and the closure of 9 factories, In addition, for the first time we have produced a dedicated all achieved in 12 months.
Copies of this report and further details of the progress we are making in this important area can be found In addition Martyna Zelazek, a senior operator at our on our website www.
co. uk Methwold factory, won the Apprenticeships Award.
Since completing her apprenticeship last year, Martyna has been promoted to team leader and now runs a production line of 28 people producing Quorn and Cauldron products.
co. uk Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2009 45 Corporate social responsibility continued MARKETPLACE Our overall marketplace objective is to balance our responsiveness to consumer demands with a responsible and ethical approach to sourcing.
Underpinning our approach are the many cases of strong partnerships we have formed with our UK food producers combined with our focus on the health and nutrition agenda.
Our aims We believe that food must be affordable to the consumer whilst enabling our food producers to generate sufficient profits to enable investment and productivity improvements to drive sustainable and secure food sourcing.
Product labelling is also important because it allows consumers to organizations such as the Leatherhead Food Research and make informed choices.
Our responsible marketing initiatives Campden BRI.
are compliant with both mandatory and voluntary codes of practice as set out by Ofcom and BCAP including rules for Premier Foods believes that labelling should clearly responsible advertising to children.
communicate the nutritional content of products to allow for informed decisions by consumers to encourage balanced diets.
Link to performance Wherever feasible, Premier Foods brands voluntarily provide Our investment in our sourcing arrangements enables us to nutrition labelling on energy, protein, carbohydrate, sugars, fat, manage our cost base.
This ensures quality products that saturated fat, fibre and sodium in a simple tabular format.
our consumers continue to love and that continue to support our proud iconic brand heritage.
Informed labelling protocols and responsible marketing enables our consumers to make good choices that attract them to our well-known and wellloved brands.
Leadership Additionally, all Premier Foods brands excluding foodservice Our commitment to sourcing 100% wheat from UK wheat are working towards displaying, on the front of pack, the fields for use in our Hovis range directly contributes an percentage of the Guideline Daily Amounts GDAs a serving additional 18m back into the UK economy.
provides for: energy, sugar, fat, saturated fat and salt equivalent.
We are actively involved in many industry groups and Learn more online at working bodies including the Food and Drink Federation, www.
co. uk the Institute of Grocery Distribution as well as research Our key aims Our key deliverables in 2010 To meet, or exceed, the voluntary Food Standards Agencys FSA 2010 Salt Reduction Target To seek to increase GDAs on front of pack to 75% of our branded Health and Nutrition products To review 100% of our branded products against our internal Health and Nutrition guidelines To source 100% British wheat across the entire Hovis range in 2010 UK Agriculture 46 Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Stock code: PFD Our business Business review Governance Financial statements Other information ENVIRONMENT Our environmental objectives orchestrated through our Five Star Environmental Award Programme FSEAP focus on a number of areas underpinned by the climate change agenda and include energy use, waste management, water use and conservation, transport management, packaging reduction and involvement in a consumer education campaign to reduce food waste.
Our aims The FSEAP aims to raise the profile of environmental management within the Group and improve environmental performance throughout the Group, as part of our desire to promote good business practice.
Initiatives category in recognition of our approach to environmental management across the Group.
Link to performance Tangible benefits of the programme include cost and risk Leadership: reduction, the identification and dissemination of best practice, Our soil doctors work extensively with our farmers to advise on active engagement of local managers and employees and how to get the best from their land, a resource that farmers find the fostering of positive relationships with local communities.
invaluable and more cost-effective than doing it on their own.
Overall, our award programme assists in enhancing our corporate and brand reputation, and forms an integral element The water recycling plant installed at our Long Sutton factory of successfully managing our brand portfolio.
saved over 175 million litres of water, equivalent to 19% of water supplied during 2009.
Premier Foods were delighted to be presented with an award at the 2009 Food and Drinks Federation FDF Community As one of the original signatories to the FDFs Transport Partnership Awards Ceremony in the Environment Business Efficient Commitment we have been active in achieving fewer and friendlier food transport miles, helping to contribute to an absolute target for the food chain to reduce its environmental and social impacts by 20% by 2012, relative to 2002.
The Five Star Environmental Award programme Did you know?
An estimated 8.3 million tonnes of household food waste is Compatible with ISO 14001, our FSEAP was developed produced each year within the UK, most of which could have internally to address the specific needs of our business.
To find out more about what we are doing to It provides the framework through which environmental performance improvement is encouraged, delivered help consumers make a difference visit our Love Food, Hate and managed within Premier Foods.
Waste campaign featured on our website.
Our key aims Our key deliverables in 2010 Energy consumption and efficiency To reduce energy consumption by 3% from a 2009 baseline year Carbon CO e emissions To reduce Carbon CO e emissions by 3% from a 2009 baseline year 2 2 Transport and logistics To reduce delivery miles travelled by 5% from a 2009 baseline year To reduce water usage in production by 2.5% from a 2009 Water consumption and efficiency baseline year To reduce waste sent to landfill by 20% from a 2009 baseline year Waste management and recycling www.
co. uk Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2009 47 Corporate social responsibility continued WORKPLACE Premier Foods is one of the largest employers in the UK food industry.
As a major employer we understand the need to treat all our employees fairly and with respect, ensuring they all have the opportunity to grow and develop.
Our aims Premier Foods is all about iconic British brands but we are also about great people who are given great opportunities to shine.
Link to performance Premier Foods is on an exciting journey and we want to be the best employer in UK food manufacturing.
We have great plans for the business and we recognise that our people are to slip on a shirt, slop on sunscreen, and slap on a hat the key to our ability to successfully deliver on those plans.
when they go out into the sun, in order to protect themselves To support our leaders we have developed the Premier against an increased risk of skin cancer.
Way which highlights what we believe leadership is about at Premier Foods.
The Premier Way will have many benefits A second promotion will raise awareness to alcohol which will and will ultimately support the delivery of our vision and offer advice on the health benefits and risks associated with strategy.
Leadership: Health & Safety Over the past twelve months Our Workplace Health and Safety Corporate Plan sets out a we have rolled out a full-scale range of strategic initiatives and leading and lagging indicators occupational health programme which drive the ongoing improvement in our health and that is available to all our safety performance.
In 2009 we achieved a 35% year on year employees to help meet their improvement in a RIDDOR rate of 0.26 reportable accidents ongoing and future health per 100,000 hours worked.
In 2010, our dedicated Other plans in 2010 include: Occupational Health To carry out occupational health training workshops for our practitioners will HR department carry out the two key To undertake occupational health training for our factory Group-wide health supervisors and line managers promotion activities: To deliver management guidance on the use of the new UK Slip-Slop-Slap will Government Fit Note scheme encourage employees Our key aims Our key deliverables in 2010 To achieve a Group RIDDOR rate of 0.23 of Reportable Accidents Health and Safety per 100,000 hours worked in 2010.
To embed the Premier Way leadership framework throughout the business Our People To embed the talent identification and succession planning process To complete a Group-wide occupational health surveillance programme.
Occupational Health To undertake Group-wide workplace health screening programme 48 Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Stock code: PFD Our business Business review Governance Financial statements Other information COMMUNITY encourage and motivate employees to continue their fundraising activities in order to meet this new and challenging target?
Charitable giving It was agreed that the senior management team would rise In 2009, our employees ran, to a Directors Challenge, and lead from the front, in order to walked, cycled and even keep up the momentum and show their personal support and paddled their way to raise commitment for our corporate charity.
194,000 in support of our corporate charity Cancer Did you know?
We not only provide essential store cupboard heroes for our consumers we also help develop and support local community heroes.
During the year a community involvement project was undertaken by a team of 60 employees from Premier Foods head office, based in St Albans.
The Jubilee Community Centre Project provides a venue for local residents Our aims to hold events, take part in activities and receive advice and Our community and charitable efforts share common traits guidance from local community groups.
including celebrating all that is good about being British, capable of National Reach and focused on Service Provision Fundraising highlights from 2009 these are key factors that we look for when identifying which All Premier Foods sites, up and down the UK, have been community and charitable initiatives to support.
getting involved and raising vital funds for our corporate charity Cancer Research UK managing to raise an amazing Link to performance 194,000 in 2009.
Charitable and community involvement provides Premier Foods with the opportunity to give something back and say Fund raising events included: Brookes Avana in Wales thank you for the contribution that local communities make raised 2,500 through Wear It Pink activities: Branston in to the Groups success, whether as our consumers, our Lincolnshire raised 370 with a factory Fun Day: Ambrosia producers, our workforce or our neighbours.
in Devon held a golf tournament which raised 645: and Corporate staff in St Albans raised over 1,000 with a Get Leadership Pampered event.
At the October meeting of the CSR Steering Group, chaired by Robert Schofield our Chief Executive, it was decided to extend Finally, the ladies at Premier Foods donned their trainers our partnership with CRUK up until the end of 2010, and to and took part in numerous Race for Life events, raising an increase our fundraising target accordingly to 300,000. astonishing 15,000 for Cancer Research UK.
Our people are truly amazing.
Whilst our employees have really got behind fundraising for our corporate charity, the question we asked was how do we Our key aims Our key deliverables in 2010 To raise 300k for our corporate partner Cancer Research UK by the time our partnership comes to an end in December 2010 Charitable giving To support the Royal British Legions 2010 Poppy Appeal at all our sites Community Involvement To ensure that a minimum of 20% of our manufacturing, distribution Community Involvement and head office sites complete a local community project in 2010 To support the redistribution of aged stock to those in social need Food donations within the UK and abroad in 2010 www.
co. uk Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2009 49
