People at Premier PEOPLE AT PREMIER FOODS The success that we have experienced in recent years is in no small way attributable to the people who work within our business, and their ability to deal with significant change whilst at the same time, delivering against challenging commercial objectives.
Premier Foods is one of the largest employers in the UK food arrangements, and good annual leave entitlement.
However, industry and as such we understand the need to treat our in addition there are benefits such as childcare vouchers, employees fairly, with respect, and give them opportunities to an Employee Assistance Programme, and an employee grow and develop.
sharesave scheme, which allows employees to save over a three year period to purchase shares in the Company at a discounted rate.
Around 30% of our employees take the Since the acquisitions of Campbells and RHM, we have opportunity to participate in our sharesave scheme.
initiated a number of significant programmes to drive the development of our people practices.
Development and training We are committed to providing high quality training and Leading Premier Foods to a Great Future development initiatives to ensure we are equipped to deliver Helping our people to deliver our plans and objectives is a excellence in all we do.
We provide training and development major responsibility for all our leaders across the business.
solutions through which all employees can maximise the Therefore, to support our leaders we have developed the contribution they can make to the development of the business Premier Way which highlights what we believe leadership is and the achievement of personal goals.
Career progression We believe leadership is about: Premier actively encourages development from within.
Our new Being passionate talent identification and succession planning process is now Delivering on our commitments and accountabilities becoming embedded across the business and our intention Empowering and developing our people is to ensure we develop our internal pool of talent so we can Doing the right thing resource roles internally in the majority of cases.
Focusing on our customers and consumers Striving to be the best However, to anticipate future requirements we will look to bring the right people into the business to satisfy our anticipated In 2010 we will embed the Premier Way framework growth.
As an example, in 2009 we launched our first Finance Graduate Programme, aimed at giving us a pipeline of talented throughout the business.
This will have many benefits and will finance professionals for the future.
ultimately support the delivery of our vision and strategy.
Our rewards and benefits Premier Foods prides itself on being a fair and equitable employer.
All of our people are entitled to join the Company Pension Scheme, benefit from Company sick pay 42 Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Stock code: PFD Our business Business review Governance Financial statements Other information 01 Mr Kipling cake factory, Carlton.
Employee Recognition Awards Employee Assistance Programme In 2008, we launched our first ever Employee Recognition In October 2009, we launched a brand new service for all our employees.
The Employee Assistance Programme EAP is Awards which is aimed at recognising and rewarding employees who have gone the extra mile.
a free, confidential, telephone and online counselling service for all employees which is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a The awards proved that we have no shortage of people and week, across the entire year.
EAP provides life coaching and teams with skill, dedication and creativity.
We received over personal development advice, counsel on issues such as debt 100 entries from across the business and the winners were management, tax matters and health issues.
announced by Robert Schofield at an awards ceremony in June 2009.
Premier Foods sees this as a valuable free service.
We want to support our employees and recognise that expert advice at a The Grand Prix Award went to the Hovis team for their difficult time can make all the difference.
successful relaunch of the Hovis brand with a campaign that included the Go on Lad TV advert as well as new recipes, Occupational Health & Well-being new pack design, new press, TV and online advertising, a Occupational Health & Well-being provides professional, new consumer and trade PR campaign, new truck graphics specialist health advice to employees on the following issues: and communication with customers and employees all The effects of work on health and of health on work pulled off in just four months!
Ways to improve physical and psychological well-being within the workplace The individual award went to Steve Finn, Plant Manager at Strategies to prevent illness and injury arising from Belasis, whose process innovation led to a 25% increase work activity in productivity from the Belasis fermenters, which provide mycoprotein paste, the main ingredient in all Quorn products.
Premier Foods encourages employees to discuss any problems they are having at work with their line manager.
Our in-house The Employee Recognition Awards were run again in 2009 Occupational Health & Wellbeing Advisers will put forward and winners will be announced later this year.
proposals to management if they feel that any adjustments to work need to be considered.
co. uk Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2009 43
