Corporate responsibility Environment All forms of modern transport have environmental impacts.
Well run public transport has much to offer in limiting and reducing those impacts.
Arriva promotes the benefits of efficient public transport solutions to governments and transport authorities across Europe.
We generate power from wind turbines at TST s Moita depot in Portugal and the Arriva Trains Wales depot at Machynlleth 73 Harnessing solar power at Udine, Italy Electric buses recharging in Sweden.
To help reduce dependence on fossil fuels, the Arriva Skandinavien fleet includes biogas, ethanol and electric-powered buses Corporate responsibility continued As an operator of large fleets of vehicles, we Our environmental management system sets out cannot be complacent about the comparative framework policies for all the companies in the environmental advantages of surface public group.
These include self-audit and self-certification transport over alternatives such as private car use policies that require a senior manager within each and airline travel.
We have a responsibility to business to take personal accountability for mitigate the environmental impact of our consistent management of environmental standards own operations.
Given the scale of our transport operations it is Many factors affecting our environmental impact inevitable that the highest profile aspects of our are outside our immediate control.
We work to environmental impact relate to greenhouse gas influence authorities who determine the operating production and air quality from tailpipe emissions environment for our services, including bus lanes of our vehicle fleet.
Fuel efficiency measures, and traffic signal prioritisation.
These enable us to alternative fuels and the composition of our fleets deliver more attractive passenger offers and are some of the largest factors.
The virtuous circle of public transport is driven by modal shift whereby optimal Our other environmental impacts have a lower loading delivers better emissions productivity.
In profile, but we do not neglect them.
We are the case of car to bus substitution, it also frees up working actively to make small improvements, for congestion and further improves fuel economy example through energy saving measures at our and environmental performance of public transport.
depot and office sites, water conservation, waste recycling, and reducing business travel through We have recently noted an increase in the better use of communications technology.
significance being placed on environmental considerations in competitive tendering processes.
For example, in the major Dutch integrated bus and rail contract we won in December 2009, environmental factors and a CO reduction plan 2 accounted for 15 per cent of the tender assessment.
Our plan to introduce new buses meeting Euro V and Enhanced Environmental Vehicle EEV emissions standards helped us to win the contract.
74 | Arriva plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Installing an EcoManager fuel economy system at Arriva Scotland West Corporate responsibility Corporate responsibility Greenhouse gas reduction Total GHG Emissions millions of tonnes of CO E 2 In 2008 we set a target to reduce our like-for-like greenhouse gas GHG footprint by 15 per cent 2009 measured from 2006 to 2012, and are well on 1.54 track to achieve that through a combination 2008 of improved operating techniques, the use of 1.49 alternative fuels and alternative vehicle technologies.
2007 1.05 Arrivas performance against its GHG reduction 2006 target has been reported annually since 2006 1.05 through returns to the Carbon Disclosure Project CDP which enables benchmarking against peer Normalised GHG Emissions group companies.
Arrivas returns can be viewed at Tonnes per m turnover www.
net 650 The GHG emissions attributable to Arrivas 600 business operations during 2009 were 1,535,867 550 500 tonnes CO E, an increase in absolute terms of 2 450 46,809 tonnes CO E. This reflects the increased 2 400 350 services run by Arriva, including a full year of 300 fide Blas operations in Madrid, and Eurobus 250 operations in Hungary and Slovakia.
200 150 100 One of the challenges of reporting greenhouse 50 gas emissions is finding a consistently workable 0 2008 2009 2006 2007 means of normalising the absolute figure for Nominal terms Real terms emissions, enabling stakeholders to compare changes in the absolute CO E figure against 2 The Office of Rail Regulations Control Period 4 changes in the overall scale of the business.
review reduced both revenue and costs for our The chart to the right shows Arrivas GHG footprint CrossCountry and Arriva Trains Wales franchises normalised against group revenue for the past by approximately 150 million in 2009, with a four years.
In order to strip out the effects of broadly neutral economic impact.
To enable inflation, which tend to flatter the rate of progress, like-for-like comparisons, revenue for the years 2006 to 2008 in the table above has been adjusted the right-hand bar for each reported year depicts to strip out the equivalent revenues from a real terms comparison, with greenhouse gas CrossCountry and ATW in the relevant years.
emissions divided by group revenue adjusted by changes in the sterling retail price index.
Emissions by source Our continued investment in modernisation of % our fleet has seen a reduction in the proportion of buses which meet the older Euro I and Euro II environmental standards and resultant decrease in the mileage operated by such engine types.
The younger fleet profile reflects an increased proportion of vehicles meeting the more stringent Train fleet 33.9 Euro IV, Euro V and EEV engine standards, and Bus fleet 61.2 mileage operated by them.
Drivers are encouraged to bus fleet in Sweden and Denmark during 2009 with adopt a more progressive driving style, adopting the target of reducing consumption by five per cent more gentle acceleration and braking and in 2010 anticipating changes in traffic conditions to In Spain, we expect to install similar systems in optimise fuel consumption.
We have played an more than 200 buses during 2010, concentrating on active role in developing and adopting driver aid the vehicles with the highest annual mileage technology to support this change in driving style.
Equivalent technology is in use on Arriva trains in During 2009 we accelerated the roll-out of the Bavaria, in many of our buses in Portugal, and trials EcoManager driver aid system.
More than 3,000 are under way in our Italian bus business buses, 49 per cent of our UK fleet, have now been equipped and drivers trained accordingly.
The system is due to be deployed in all our UK bus operations during 2010.
Fuel savings of between five and 10 per cent have been achieved consistently 76 | Arriva plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Corporate responsibility Corporate responsibility Energy and water management Environmental considerations were at the core of the design brief for our new headquarters and depot in Guimares, Portugal.
The site has solar powered water heating, a wind turbine and water recycling facilities We also generate power from wind turbines at TSTs Moita depot in Portugal and the Arriva Trains Wales depot at Machynlleth In Madrid, Spain, our Esfera depot has 220 solar panels on its roof and sells electricity back into the power grid In Udine, Italy, our SAF business is cutting energy consumption at offices and workshops with photovoltaic cells to produce electricity, solar panels for hot water, and lighting controls that adjust for the presence of people and the level of natural light 77 Recycled water is used in bus washes at Arriva Portugal Corporate responsibility continued Alternative fuels Working with our suppliers and manufacturers Arriva has gained a wide range of experience in the application of biofuels in differing operating Working with suppliers, we aim to influence future environments with varied climatic and network vehicle designs by investing in innovation and helping conditions.
with trials of new technology.
A significant increase in the deployment of biofuels One of our long standing aims has been to reverse would be dependent on consistently supportive the trend for successive generations of buses to be public policy regimes.
Where the supporting heavier, and less economical.
Increased weight has infrastructure and commercial frameworks are in often come about for good reasons including higher place we continue to appraise the suitability of safety and comfort specifications, and improved alternative fuels or traction technologies, often in accessibility, but makes it harder to save fuel.
partnership with contracting authorities for Alongside other operators we have encouraged deployment on specific services.
vehicle manufacturers to examine alternative engineering solutions.
In March 2009 Arriva introduced 43 new buses These efforts have been partially rewarded with fuelled by E95 bio-ethanol, derived from sugar new lighter buses from a number of manufacturers cane, other crops and waste wood cellulose, to entering Arrivas UK fleet in 2009 and 2010, but our fleet in Stockholm there is more that needs to be done In northern Portugal a quarter of the fuel used by Hybrid diesel-electric vehicles continue to interest our fleet of 230 buses was B30, a blend of 30 per us, and we operate them in Denmark and the UK cent biodiesel Since the introduction of the first hybrid buses into To help reduce our dependence on fossil fuels, London, Arriva has played an active role in their Arriva operates biogas, ethanol, and electric assessment and deployment, and introduced powered vehicles within Scandinavia 11 new hybrid buses, from two suppliers, into the city during 2009.
We believe that as the technology During 2009 biodiesel was widely used across matures, capital costs will reduce and reliability will our German business.
Government policy in improve to make hybrids increasingly attractive relation to biofuels has changed, with cost implications for Arriva, and we expect to use a greater proportion of mineral-based diesel fuel during 2010 as a result We are involved in an innovative electric bus project in the Netherlands.
For three years from 2010 we will operate three electric buses in the historic city centre of Hertogenbosch 78 | Arriva plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Corporate responsibility Corporate responsibility Waste disposal Across Arriva we are working to decrease the Greener Journeys amount of waste created by our operations and Arriva and other UK bus operators have come increase the proportion of waste which is recycled.
together to launch a marketing and lobbying Recycling schemes are widespread in our offices.
campaign to encourage people to get out of their Specialist waste contractors are used for the cars and onto buses and coaches.
The Greener disposal of waste from engineering workshops Journeys campaign promotes bus travel as a and depots.
quick and cost-effective way to reduce carbon A large proportion of the waste we have to dispose emissions and its aim is to take one billion car of is that left by passengers on our buses and trains.
journeys off UK roads in three years.
Cleaning contractors are employed to remove Greener Journeys is calling on the government to: such waste and encouraged to recycle as much as is practicable.
Set targets for local authorities to encourage modal shift Drive investment in low carbon buses Promote bus priority, park and ride and other measures to cut car commuting Encourage bus travel to reduce school run trafc Priority measures to promote coach travel This combined approach to promoting modal change complements Arrivas existing marketing campaigns which have encouraged car users to switch to public transport with messages including Go Greener - Go Cheaper and Bus travel that wont cost the earth.
For further information visit: www.
com 79 Recycling in Arriva Nederland In the Netherlands we have a national contract with one waste management supplier which: Collects and sorts office rubbish Recycles and processes waste and is responsible for recycling all usable material Incinerates domestic and corporate waste with energy recovery Advises on waste reduction Notes 80 | Arriva plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Directors statements Directors statements Board of directors 82 Directors report 84 Directors remuneration report 88 Corporate governance 97 81
