Business review Corporate social responsibility Responsible alcohol retailing The vast majority of pubs throughout the UK provide a safe, well run and properly regulated environment for adults to enjoy alcohol responsibly.
Like all responsible pub operators, we are concerned about the misuse of alcohol and do all we can to ensure that our pubs are not operating irresponsible drinks promotions, serving underage The shoulder of the drinkers or allowing members of the public to get inebriated whilst on our premises.
community Since its inception, our pubs have supported Challenge 21.
Pubs within our managed business record the number of sales they refuse due to a guest not being able to prove their age and Award winning Partners, David and Kate Deacon, the number of leased pubs displaying posters is captured in our have always been determined that their pub, annual due diligence check.
Our managed pubs refused 17,902 The Shoulder of Mutton, Kirby Overblow, would be sales last year due to a guest not being able to prove their age the centre of community life and have just affirmed when challenged.
that with the launch of their own village farm shop.
The Licensing Act 2003 and the Licensing Act Scotland 2004 laid the foundations for a much closer working relationship between the on trade and Local Authorities.
Our operations teams have grasped this opportunity and where there are any issues or concerns, it is always our intention to work constructively to address them.
We are the Premises Licence Holder for the vast majority of our sites and are therefore committed to their responsible operation.
As Portman Group signatories and supporters of Drinkaware, we do not condone irresponsible drinks promotions.
This year, we joined forces with other leading members of the industry to launch the Why Let Good Times Go Bad campaign to tackle binge drinking amongst 18-25 year olds.
In addition to providing campaign funding we will be promoting the campaign in our managed pubs in the coming year and offering our leased Partners the opportunity to get involved.
The Shoulder of Mutton, Kirby Overblow.
In its unique position of providing the venue in which alcohol is consumed, the on trade is able to monitor both the sale and consumption of alcohol and therefore provides one of the safest and best controlled environments for adults to enjoy good food, drink and entertainment.
com Guest health and wellbeing We are committed to the safety and care of any member of the public visiting a Punch pub, whether they are a guest within our managed business or are visiting a leased pub operated by one of our Partners.
Guests demand the highest levels of service and should receive quality products in well managed, comfortable and safe Thats Fayre & Square surroundings.
All elements of customer care are outlined to our leased Partners when they join our estate during our induction training The first of our new concepts, Fayre & Square, was programme which also delivers food hygiene and health and safety successfully trialed as our financial year drew to a qualifications.
Our BRMs perform regular cellar checks and retail close.
Ruyan and his team who opened the first standard assessments and can provide advice on further training Fayre & Square pub restaurant at The Rising Sun, should our Partners need to improve in any area.
Macclesfield in July, achieved outstanding guest feedback.
Within the first few days of taking on their pub, our Partners receive a RISK pack which outlines all the responsibilities associated with the safe operation of their business and the services that we offer to support them.
This includes a fire risk assessment, a fire safety logbook and information on how to limit risk throughout their pub including details on kitchen safety, flood protection, employing contractors and electrical safety.
A key element of the Operational Excellence programme within the managed business this year, was a complete review of our health and safety policy and procedures.
We have reset the bar for operating and maintaining the very best standards with regard to food hygiene, fire safety and risk and all of our General Managers have had their responsibilities clarified.
Health and safety is now one of our biggest commitments and external auditors will review our estate, on an ongoing basis, to ensure we deliver consistently high standards.
The new Fayre & Square menu.
We have also raised the bar on food quality and healthy eating within our managed business.
Having already eradicated genetically modified ingredients from our menus and reduced the levels of salt and hydrogenated vegetable fat to below Food Standard Agency FSA levels, we have been reviewing the nutritional content of all of our dishes.
17,902 17 Punch Taverns plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 sales refused in the year due to guests not being able to prove their age.
Business review Business review Corporate social responsibility continued We are committed to providing healthy, balanced meals with We have been encouraging our pubs to register their charitable the right proportions of vegetables, carbohydrate and protein.
com which launched earlier this year We have worked closely with our suppliers to ensure that we are in an attempt to track the massive contribution that the industry delivering a better quality product to our guests, which has resulted makes to good causes.
Our managed pubs throughout West in higher quality ingredients being used in a number of dishes.
Yorkshire helped to raise over 40,000 for Help for Heroes this year and one of our Partners, Mick Waddington at the Windsor Our childrens menu continues to remain free from artificial Hotel, Bridlington, raised 30,000 to purchase a new lifeboat for flavours and colours and parents can see a full nutritional the Royal National Lifeboat Institute.
breakdown to help them make informed choices.
At our support centre in Burton upon Trent, we generate and Community donate from our own charitable fund.
The Punch Community The great British pub is one of the cornerstones of our heritage Spirit Project is now in its second year and has supported a and plays an important role in many local communities.
The pub total of 39 local charities and good causes.
This year, we raised provides a meeting place for the local community, a focus for 49,396 through a number of initiatives and donated 20,349 fundraising and invaluable sponsorship for grass roots sports.
to organisations within a 15 mile radius.
Our beneficiaries do not all hold charitable status, but they all dedicate their efforts In much the same way as local post offices and shops, a village to improving the quality of life of local young people.
pub provides a valuable community facility which is truly missed if it is forced to close.
As more and more rural communities lose shops and services, the local pub is often the last such facility and many licensees are taking the opportunity to fill some of the gaps by opening post office counters or grocery stores.
We actively encourage our Partners to diversify their businesses and provide additional services.
In addition to providing a meeting place for clubs and societies, the local pub is also the obvious choice to coordinate fundraising activities for local sports teams, community groups and charities.
We estimate that our pubs are responsible for raising hundreds of thousands of pounds every year.
com Environment In 2005, the managed business engaged the Carbon Trust to develop a programme of carbon reduction within its estate.
After purchasing Spirit Group, Punch was determined to realise the benefits of these plans and transfer the knowledge to our Partners to help them reduce operating costs and improve their green credentials.
The perfect partnership Our goal is to reduce our energy consumption by 17% by 2010.
Through a combination of Automated Meter Reading equipment, which has made our General Managers more aware of energy consumption, and energy efficient lighting we have already With the support of Punch, former HR Manager reduced the amount of electricity and gas used within our Natalie and her accountant husband Steve Middleton, managed estate by 11.5% and 12.8% respectively.
have got their new pub, The Black Bull in Lincoln off to a Flying Start.
Business Relationship Manager, The results from the trial and rollout of our carbon reduction Sean Gifford has been visiting every four weeks to plans within our managed estate have enabled us to develop ensure they get all the support they need.
Natalie a one day workshop for our leased Partners.
We have been said: We have a strong relationship with Sean offering this course since July 2009 and 93 Partners have attended and its been great having him here every step of our first nine sessions.
Our aim is for 1,000 Partners to attend this the way as a sounding board.
workshop by the end of 2010 and enjoy the associated benefits of cheaper overheads.
The topping out of our new support centre building in February 2009 marked the completion of an 8m project which has resulted in a landmark building with a minimal carbon footprint.
Solar panels on the roof heat water for the building and its design and construction have been managed to deliver a high BRE Environmental Assessment Method BREEAM rating and mitigate its environmental impact.
The Punch Pub Pack featuring Flying Start.
17% 19 Punch Taverns plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 goal for reduction of energy consumption by 2010. Business review Business review Building and retaining a high calibre team We understand the importance and contribution of our people.
com From the pub teams in our managed business, to the entrepreneurs who take on our leased pubs and the individuals in our support centre and field operations teams, our business relies on great people.
Here is how were recruiting, developing and retaining our high quality team.
Recruiting a high calibre team Motivating and retaining a high calibre team We aim to recruit the best quality team in the industry, from We provide competitive reward packages which we regularly our pub and operations teams to our central support teams.
benchmark externally and a number of great benefits to help us retain the people we invest in.
The current recruitment market and our attractive reward package mean that we never compromise on quality.
We encourage skilled Every member of the team has the opportunity to earn bonuses and talented individuals to join our leased estate as Partners and for through a number of different recognition and incentive crucial roles within our field operations and central support teams.
Support team members have two Performance Development Reviews every year to set clear objectives and Here are some examples of how we support great recruitment: discuss development opportunities.
A combination of benefits complete the package for our employees.
A recruitment toolkit is extending professional recruitment techniques into our managed pubs providing General Here are some examples of how we retain our high calibre team: Managers with the tools that they need to recruit great team members.
All of our 17,625 employees receive two 50% and third off vouchers every month to use within our managed pubs.
We encourage succession planning at all levels designed to move up talented people throughout the business.
We are paying a final year bonus in recognition of our Over 35% of the General Managers appointed within employees efforts.
our pub teams are internal promotions.
During the year, we held regular listening groups and lunches We have recruited 1,268 quality new Partners into our with the executive team to improve employee engagement leased business.
com enables 97 members of the support centre team have opted in to candidates to search for employment opportunities across our Flexi-Holidays scheme to add up to three further days the business and be alerted when potential positions of annual leave to their entitlement.
Every quarter, our top performing General Managers have been recognised through the Stars Awards programme and Developing a high calibre team prizes included trips to Dublin and Prague.
We are determined that when people join our team they have Our PROUD scheme recognised 306 members of our team the opportunity to progress their career and develop as individuals.
with a Silver Award of 100: 173 members of our team with Our training, team structures and succession planning help a Gold Award of 500 and four members of the team with our employees to perform their roles better, achieve industry a Platinum Award of 1,000 in recognition of delivering recognised qualifications and progress.
Bespoke training for our excellence in their roles.
7,230 employees also received Partners, developed around their needs and requirements, helps a PROUD Award scratch card this year with prizes ranging them to maximise the potential of their businesses and to reap from vouchers to use in our pubs to 1,500 holiday vouchers.
Karen Caddick, Group HR Director: We pride ourselves on Here are some examples of our commitment to developing a high the high level of commitment and satisfaction of our people.
calibre team: We want people to be proud to work in the pub industry and Over 11,000 Team Players complete our e learning programme to view this as a career with real potential.
We are taking the every year.
opportunity to benchmark ourselves by entering the Sunday Times During 2009, we have been laying the foundations for Top 100 Companies to Work For as a commitment to providing a new Apprenticeship scheme and the opportunity for a great place to work.
employees within our pubs and support teams to work towards a Diploma and ultimately a degree level qualification.
The Foundation For Success replaced our award winning Modern Licensed Retailing course for new Partners entering our leased businesses.
This has achieved an 87% success rate.
During the year 100 members of our management team attended our Authentic Leadership course to further develop strong leadership skills and build strong engagement and commitment in their teams.
We ran a total of 440 courses for our team, with a high level of satisfaction.
We continually refine our learning and Development programmes as the business evolves.
21 Punch Taverns plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 Business review
