Corporate Social Responsibilty Statement the environment The Group is a major producer of silicon wafers for incorporation into solar cells that will ultimately be used for the production of electricity from sunlight.
A silicon solar system will produce renewable electricity with a lifetime of in excess of 25 years.
It is passive, silent, visually unobtrusive and generates emission free renewable energy from the sun.
As technology increases the efficiency of solar cells, it is expected that the lifespan of the solar modules will also lengthen, providing electricity for a known starting cost and little maintenance.
It has been estimated that all the energy used in the production of a silicon solar system will be repaid within two to three years of use when situated in a relatively sunny location.
As the Group produces silicon wafers as the core component in devices for the generation of carbon free renewable power, its focus on its environmental responsibilities is evident.
It is the Groups policy to seek continually to eliminate and, where this is not practicable, to minimise negative environmental impacts from the pursuit of its various business interests while continuing to produce high quality products to its customers requirements.
During the year the Group has been working on its process for treating ingots before wafering.
The new process involves grinding rather than acid etching thus reducing the negative environmental impact of producing wafers.
The etching facility located in Erfurt, Germany will be closed during 2010.
It is the Groups policy to comply with all statutory environmental legislation as a minimum and to aim to improve upon the standards set by the local regulatory authorities.
Furthermore, it is the Groups policy to foster an informed and responsible approach to all environmental concerns and it encourages the involvement of employees, customers and suppliers.
Regulatory authorities are consulted and informed at all appropriate times.
The Group has effective Environmental Management and Health and Safety systems in place in support of, and to complement, its quality assurance system.
Across all its sites in the United Kingdom and Germany a proactive approach is taken to the Pretreatment of Waste as required by the EU Landfill Directive.
The purpose of the treatment requirement is to reduce the impact of waste that has to be land filled and to increase the amount of waste that is recycled.
Direct silicon waste generated by the processes of ingot production, blocking and wafering are recycled in a way to ensure zero loss of silicon.
Thus, for example, all carbide used in the sawing of blocks and wafers is continually toP AND BottoM Community scheme treated and recovered for reuse.
Crystalox Limited in the in Erfurt, Germany United Kingdom is a member of compliance schemes which demonstrating the use of solar electricity fulfil local legislation requirements such as The Producer Responsibility Obligations Packaging Waste Regulations 2007.
This scheme sets targets for British industry for the recovery and recycling of packaging waste seeking to ensure that discarded products are environmentally treated through recycling and recovery rather than being disposed of to landfill.
A similar scheme exists in Germany called koprofit, which requires external environmental audits to be carried out annually, with the aim of ensuring highest standards are achieved in minimising waste to landfill, utilisation of water, electricity, etc.
Thus all plastics, wood, paper, polythene, cardboard, metals, etc.
are recycled, either by being sold to recycling companies for them to recycle or under local council arrangements removed for recycling.
The Group does all it can to recycle all recyclable packaging materials to conform to current packaging legislation, and thereby minimise waste to landfill across all its sites.
26 PV Crystalox Solar PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Review of the year Corporate governance Consolidated financial statements Company financial statements We recognise the need to establish, formalise and apply technologies and new and efficient working methods, have an environmental management system at each of our resulted in personnel being trained to both develop and hone manufacturing sites.
Therefore, in order to further enhance their knowledge and skills.
A flexible work environment and its already effective environmental and health and safety work opportunities has meant that personnel are given the management systems, the UK subsidiary company Crystalox chance to work in different departments, thereby helping Limited has made a good start on its programme to achieve them maximise their potential and sense of fulfilment.
environment and health and safety accreditations through health and safety DIN EN ISO 14001 and DIN EN ISO 18001 respectively.
These The Group recognises its responsibilities under the Health and standards will not only complement, but also consolidate the Safety at Work Act 1974 for ensuring, so far as it is reasonably Companys DIN EN ISO 9001 status and enable fulfilment of practicable, the health, safety and welfare of all its employees.
our responsibilities to the environment, and health and safety, with even greater effect.
In Germany projects are planned to The Group attaches the greatest importance to health and safety apply for ISO 14001 International Environmental Management considering this to be a management responsibility ranking System at the Bitterfeld site in Germany.
The site in Erfurt, equally with other management functions within the organisation.
Germany, has been carrying out an environmental audit for It is the policy of the Group to take all reasonable practicable the last five years focusing on the consumption of water, precautions for the prevention of accidents and dangerous electricity and on the emission of waste materials.
occurrences and for the creation of working conditions which For the construction and commencement of operation at the safeguard employees.
To this end the Group will allocate the Bitterfeld plant the requirements of the German Emissions necessary resources and enlist the active support of all Control Act had to be fulfilled.
The consequence with regard employees upon whom duties are also imposed by the to the environmental impact means that every emission source Health and Safety at Work Act.
has to be identified and the emissions will be controlled The Group regards the standards set by the various relevant periodically by the authorities.
Waste, energy and water statutory provisions as the minimum standard which must be consumption has to be minimised: waste is recycled or achieved and will endeavour to improve upon these standards recovered, the excess energy from the production process where reasonably practicable.
is used for heating and warm water in the office building, cooling water is reused in the process.
An environmental Requirements concerning health and safety follow as a result compatibility study was performed.
of the construction and commencement of operation at the solargrade silicon plant in Bitterfeld.
Before the production The Group supports longterm strategies to minimise, reuse could start Hazard and Operability Studies HAZOP were and recycle packaging wherever possible thereby enhancing performed and a safety report was written.
For continuous its environmental credentials.
improvement regular HAZOP meetings are organised by the management: together with an external safety expert, where our staff safety issues are discussed and improvements defined.
training The Group recognises that a key factor in its successful A special web based training tool for health and safety has operations is its personnel.
The continued expansion of been installed for continuous training of operators with respect operations and the parallel increase in the workforce, has to physical or chemical hazards.
meant that managements top priority has been to provide our community a safe and secure work environment for its personnel.
The new plant in Bitterfeld had directly created 103 new To this end health and safety training has been of jobs by the year end.
A large number of these personnel were paramount importance.
In addition to those directly employed Initial inhouse health and safety induction training for all by the company a number of new jobs have been created personnel joining is supported by external specialist trainers in our suppliers companies.
being invited in to undertake occupation specific training.
For several years at Erfurt in Germany the company has During 2009 Crystalox Limited undertook companywide engaged in a joint programme with a local utility company Fire Safety training for all staff and in addition comprehensive working with local high schools to carry out a competition using Fire Marshall training for selected staff at each site.
Every student participating gets two solar cells of its ongoing responsibility to comply with Lifting Operations and a small electric motor.
The student then participates in the and Lifting Equipment Regulations 1998 and Provision and solar car race where the goal is to build a vehicle, using the solar Use of Work Equipment Regulations 1998 Health and Safety cells on a movable platform.
The aim is to cover the distance legislation, refresher training was provided to all company as quickly as possible to the finish line.
In addition the company forklift operators.
A number of staff were externally trained sponsors a sun and movement competition.
as First Aiders thereby helping the company in its aim to ensure maximum first aid cover to all its staff.
Financing of these projects is done through the money we received from our solar modules in front of the building in The Group is committed to the ongoing training and development Erfurt 30 KW that are feeding electricity into the local grid.
of its personnel in general.
Particular skills based training is provided to individuals when identified and seen as beneficial to the overall operation of the Group.
Introduction of new Annual Report and Accounts 2009 PV Crystalox Solar PLC 27
