8 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 9 Overview Our strategy explained 3 4 World class supply chain G reat team of people We operate world class supply chain networks that enable We recruit, develop and retain a great team of people who are us to deliver our brands quickly and efficiently to our local aligned to our values and who can drive our plans for growth.
Our distribution systems vary by market type, from Our aim is to create a high performance culture offering career traditional supply chain models in mature markets to extensive experiences and development.
We work together as a true nationwide depot networks in emerging markets.
We continually meritocracy where leadership is determined by talent.
adapt our methods of distribution to suit our local markets and to changing market needs.
We take pride in our flexible distribution capability which is tailored specifically for the local market.
Africa Africa Asia Europe In Nigeria the supply chain and distribution operations continue to be a major strength.
A new national distribution centre, the first of its kind in Nigeria, is almost complete.
This will enable finished goods stocks to be held centrally, lowering overall finished goods levels and allowing more efficient replenishment of the 26 depots.
Asia The supply chain and distribution operation in Indonesia enables the business to distribute its wide range of products to the widespread depots to satisfy the needs of the customers.
In Thailand, the Groups world class bar soap manufacturing facility supplies Europe and the rest of Asia with Imperial Leather and other bar soaps.
Europe Accountability Drive Values The new Personal Wash Centre of We are all champions of our company.
We are relentless in our pursuit of success.
Excellence in Manchester became As part of our long-term people development Together we approach each day with the energy, fully operational in February 2009. plan, we have identified the core values that we We take personal responsibility for achieving our passion and persistence to exceed expectations.
This state-of-the-art factory will believe are embedded in our culture.
We do what we say we shall do.
We enable the business to respond can be found across the Group in every operation.
do what is right, not merely what is expected.
Oneness more quickly and efficiently to We are all PZ Cussons people.
We treat each additional demand from the These values provide a framework for staff and We act with openness, integrity and trust.
We other with respect regardless of status.
The co-location of the ultimately for the Group to develop and succeed.
ask for help, admit to our mistakes and put professionally and together we celebrate our liquids manufacture, research things right.
We are and development and perfumery Courage quiet achievers.
businesses on one site is already We challenge convention, ourselves and Networking benefiting the UK business.
We are one company across all functions and geographies.
We work towards a common We have the strength, willingness and goal through co-operation and teamwork.
determination to initiate, make things happen and to carry them through.
Accounts Report of the Directors Overview
