34 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 35 Report of the Directors Business review Corporate social responsibility report continued Product safety and design that all legal, regulatory and environmental our business in Nigeria has reformulated In addition, PZ Cussons is proud to provide As an ethical and responsible supplier requirements are understood and met.
premium detergent laundry powders to a range of nutritional milk products in Africa, of consumer products, it is imperative PLM has been implemented across most reduce phosphate levels and thereby through its Nutricima joint venture with Glanbia for the Group that our products are of the Group and it is envisaged that it will reduce consumption of chemicals and plc.
The first products were launched three safe for use by our customers, for our be established in all operations by 2010. emissions into the environment without years ago since when the product range has employees and for the environment.
compromising product performance been significantly expanded.
With a view to The PZ Cussons World Class Manufacturing in Poland, the entire washing powder the World Health Organisation findings on In the design of its products, by qualified programme is applied to our own production portfolio was re-engineered to remove the nutritional well being of most Nigerians, and experienced chemists, microbiologists facilities and this sets specified targets phosphates completely and replace them Nutricima continues to expand its offerings and packaging experts, we ensure that the for good manufacturing practices to with zeolite, a more environmentallyinto affordable nutritional solutions, particularly in the area of body and immune development, materials which we use meet or exceed all internationally recognised levels such as ISO friendly alternative.
In this region, helping to provide the essential daily applicable legal requirements including EU 22716.
Comprehensive quality assurance the Helcom Baltic Sea action plan nutritional requirement of the local population and ASEAN cosmetics directives and other and quality control programmes are in place and the EU Baltic Sea strategy both which is key to the fight against child and local regulatory requirements specified by in our manufacturing operations to ensure have a long-term aim to phase out other mortality rates within the country.
bodies such as NAFDAC in Nigeria.
We also compliance with set and safe standards phosphate use in detergents to combat conform to guidelines and good practice as specified within the PLM process.
We eutrophication artificial enrichment of Financial performance benefiting recommendations from various cosmetic also audit our suppliers to ensure that the seas nutrients which may lead to shareholders, employees and the industry trade associations such as the their production facilities, procedures and algal blooms.
PZ Cussons proactively wider community UK Cosmetics Toiletries and Perfumery products are of a consistent and appropriate implemented this initiative to fulfil its The financial performance of PZ Cussons has Association CTPA.
In addition, the Group quality and meet our Group standards.
environmental commitments well in a positive impact in all territories in which applies internal and self-imposed restrictions advance of any potential regulation it operates, particularly in the developing on the use of certain materials above and In the highly unlikely event of a quality the Minerva business in Greece has World.
During 2009 revenue, operating beyond legislative requirements as an problem being identified externally to our redesigned its plastic bottles for edible profit before exceptional items and adjusted additional measure to ensure product safety.
supply chain, we have established material oil products, reducing the amount of PET basic earnings per share for PZ Cussons traceability and Group specified product material used by up to 15% depending on rose by 27%, 19% and 15% respectively, Product safety and risk assessments are recall procedures to ensure that any issue bottle size.
This has reduced environmental generating benefits for our shareholders, conducted by appropriately qualified external can be promptly and safely addressed.
impact at the same time as delivering employees and wider stakeholders.
toxicologists and, when considered necessary substantial cost savings to the business.
and with the appropriate safeguards such as PZ Cussons monitors the world regulatory Specifically, in 2009 we: ethical committee approval, human safety environment to ensure that we take Animal testing paid our employees 85.7 million in testing is conducted.
Human toxicological appropriate action at the correct time to The Group does not conduct any animal salaries plus 4.7 million to provide and safety aspects of raw materials are taken maintain product and process compliance.
testing or commission others to conduct post-employment benefits, all of which into consideration in the design process.
We have assigned considerable resource any animal testing.
We continue to support supports the local communities in which to ensuring that we fully comply with the the development and acceptance of alternative they live and in which we operate In all cases, the potential environmental impact requirements of EU regulations such as REACh methods which reduce or replace the use of distributed 21.5 million as dividends, of products, raw materials and packaging the Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation animals in product safety evaluation and we of which a significant proportion is considered in the design process.
Where and Restriction of Chemicals which seeks work with our suppliers to ensure that our was then gifted to charity from practical, products are designed to reduce to provide an improved level of protection values on this subject are shared and, where the Zochonis Charitable Trust the use of energy and water and to utilise of human health and the environment feasible, that they work to similar standards.
supported local economies with 24.2 materials which have feed stocks from through the responsible use of chemicals.
million paid to governments in taxes and natural renewable sources.
Use of packaging Everyday, good quality, affordable products social security, excluding sales and value which is recyclable or which has reduced In addition to the initiatives set out above, One of the Groups core strategic principles added taxes generated on our products environmental impact is also encouraged.
during 2009: is to develop leading brands which are provided worldwide income of more PZ Cussons UK developed and launched particularly suited to local needs and than 462.8 million to suppliers of raw In particular, PZ Cussons has worked with a Morning Fresh Optima which has been tastes.
The introduction of everyday, good materials an increasing proportion of world leading provider of Project Lifecycle reformulated to remove petroleum based quality, affordable products enhances which were local suppliers helping Management PLM software to develop an detergents and use materials which the quality of the lives of consumers, to sustain their businesses.
integrated solution which manages product are derived from renewable resources.
development from initial concept, through Additionally and without adversely product launch in the marketplace and to the affecting performance, the levels of The provision of soaps and cleaning products end of its lifecycle.
This structured approach active substances have been significantly in countries such as Nigeria, Kenya, Ghana and ensures timely completion of projects, reduced resulting in reductions in Indonesia has significant benefits in terms of minimises costs and, importantly, ensures chemical usage by over 1,600 tonnes the hygiene and health of the local population.
Accounts Report of the Directors Overview
