26 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 27 Report of the Directors Business review Corporate social responsibility report At PZ Cussons, we are committed to conducting our business with integrity and with care insofar as the social and environmental impact of our activities is concerned.
Introduction of environmental issues, and that the pursuit The CSR Committee members are Mr S limit the potentially damaging effects of Corporate social responsibility of a proactive and positive CSR policy reduces J N Heale Chairman, Mr A J Green, Mr climate change.
The Group also continues CSR comprises: the risk of adverse regulatory action.
G A Kanellis, Mr C G Davis, Mr B H Leigh to benefit from previous initiatives such as the recognition by a business of how and Mr J Pantelireis.
The Chairman of gas powered self-generation of electricity in its activities affect its stakeholders The PZ Cussons Plc Corporate Social the CSR Committee reports to the Board Nigeria which significantly reduces greenhouse including its shareholders, customers, Responsibility Committee on the Committees proceedings after gas emissions.
The carbon footprint of each suppliers and employees, the wider The Board is responsible for overseeing each meeting on all matters within the operation is now routinely monitored and community and the environment: and CSR within the Company, supported scope of its duties and responsibilities.
reported using internationally recognised the regulation of those activities to by a Corporate Social Responsibility protocols.
The Group is also a participant in ensure that, consistent with sustainable Committee CSR Committee which was The terms of reference of the CSR the Carbon Disclosure Project the CDP is business and development, they established by the Board during the year.
Committee and further details regarding its an independent not-for-profit organisation have a positive impact on society.
members are available on the Companys which holds one of the largest databases of The constitution of the CSR Committee website www.
corporate climate change information in the At PZ Cussons, we are committed to reflects the Boards recognition that the ways world and is considered the gold standard for conducting our business with integrity in which the Group monitors and manages Corporate social responsibility during 2009 carbon disclosure methodology and process.
and with care insofar as the social and the impact of its activities are evolving and This report sets out how PZ Cussons environmental impact of our activities is is indicative of its commitment to continuing has demonstrated CSR in 2009 in the We will: concerned.
We aim to make a positive impact to improve the Groups procedures in this following areas: develop, implement and maintain effective on society through the products which we respect.
In particular, the CSR Committee was the environment procedures in order to set and review produce and sell, through the way in which established to ensure that the principles of health and safety environmental objectives and targets: such products are manufactured and packaged CSR remain at the core of the Groups business the development of staff and continue to review innovative approaches and through the contributions which we make activities.
Its principal responsibilities include: employment practices to reducing environmental impact to the communities in which we operate.
review of the Companys corporate local community and charitable activities from our products and processes: strategy to ensure that CSR is and product safety and design.
continue to minimise the consumption We consider the principles of CSR to be remains an integral part of the strategy of energy and water, as well as integral to how the Group conducts its and its implementation in practice and The report also addresses our future minimising the production of trade operations and key to the results which that the Groups social, environmental aspirations in respect of CSR, including waste and waste to landfill, through the Group has delivered in the past and to and economic activities are aligned: the further development of CSR reporting, efficient practices in the office, factory its continued success and development development of policies on all key areas and includes a review of the wider CSR and warehouse environments: in the future.
In particular, we believe that of CSR including the environment, benefits of the Groups activities and its continue to ensure, as a minimum the principles of CSR are closely aligned health and safety, product testing financial performance during the year.
standard, compliance with all with our own Group values and culture, as and customer safety, standards of environmental laws and regulations: and embodied in CANDO: Courage Accountability business conduct, ethics, employees Environment communicate environmental policy Networking Drive Oneness.
Our and employee development, charitable We take due account of the potential to employees, contractors and policies and principles apply to every activities and community initiatives: environmental impact of the Groups interested parties in order to establish director, manager and employee in all our development and support of a operations across the world and an environmentally responsible businesses across our global operations.
Group programme of CSR activities we are committed to protecting the attitude within our organisation.
and focus for each financial year, environment, for the benefit of our An example of chemical and packaging reduction in Australia.
Our commitment to the principles of CSR supported by appropriate targets employees and the wider community.
reflects our view that it is incumbent on leading and key performance indicators: companies to make a positive contribution in conjunction with management and We believe that the identification, effective to society through their activities.
We also other committees of the Board, the control and reduction of the environmental believe, however, that socially responsible identification of material environmental, impact of business activities are integral conduct is value enhancing for shareholders social and health and safety risk areas elements of well-managed operations and we and other stakeholders.
In particular, PZ and the implementation of appropriate are committed to continuous measurement Cussons recognises the potential benefits measures to mitigate any such risks: and improvement of environmental which may be derived where CSR activities ongoing evaluation and development of performance, through appropriate product are aligned to the concerns and demands the content and integrity of any reporting design, the minimisation of waste, efficient of customers and we listen to and take to external stakeholders concerning CSR use of resources, the prevention of pollution account of those concerns in shaping our matters including this CSR report: and and the protection of the environment.
We also development of effective two-way recognise that companies are subject to communication concerning CSR All PZ Cussons manufacturing facilities increasing regulation, particularly in respect issues within the Group.
have ongoing energy reduction initiatives which reduce carbon dioxide output and Accounts Report of the Directors Overview
