32 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 33 Report of the Directors Business review Corporate social responsibility report continued Local community and charitable activities Nigeria Foundation was founded in November and the creation and ongoing maintenance PZ Cussons has operations in over 12 countries 2007 to bring greater focus to those activities.
of a recreational park in Illupeju.
Future plans and employs around 9,000 people worldwide.
include the erection of classrooms in six other We seek to support the local communities in The Foundation was mandated to support locations in Nigeria and the commissioning which our employees live and work by making projects in Nigeria in respect of transport of water boreholes in five locations.
donations to, and working with, local charities and roads and other infrastructural During the year PZ Cussons Nigeria Plc and investing the time and skills of our improvements relating to the provision donated approximately 285,000 to the employees.
We are committed to establishing of fresh water, sanitation, health and Foundation and PZ Cussons Plc donated a and maintaining strong relationships with education.
The Foundation funds further 125,000. community groups, building goodwill and a and implements projects which: reputation as a good employer.
The Group focus on people and community Outside Nigeria, community and charitable also ensures that decisions in respect of development in locations where activities included: its operations take due account of their the Group operates over the last 12 months we have worked potential effects on the wider community.
promote the well being of local people with the Seashell Trust, a registered charity are sustainable which provides education and residential In particular, throughout our long involvement produce innovative solutions which can be care for people with communication in Nigeria the Group has always taken very easily replicated throughout the country.
difficulties from across the UK.
The complex seriously its responsibilities as one of the needs of their students may arise from a countrys leading companies and employers Recent projects have included the combination of multi-sensory impairments and we have supported a wide range of commissioning of fresh water boreholes and PZ Cussons has provided expertise initiatives and projects over the years to assist and storage tanks in Ikorodu and Obudu, the by working with students to devise a the countrys development and to improve the building of new classroom blocks in Ikorodu range of smells and fragrances to help quality of life of its citizens.
The PZ Cussons and Obudu, the repair of the Minna market road develop their communication skills.
On a The Family Day, held as part of practical basis, PZ Cussons also provides PZ Cussons 125 year celebration.
a range of personal care products for those students who live on site as well as providing financial support for the Trust PZ Cussons Australia introduced a volunteering policy which provides for one additional day of annual leave for all employees to work on a PZ Cussons sponsored community project PZ Cussons Plc and our Australian business supported the Victorian Bushfire Appeal through donations and staff time our business in Kenya made donations to the victims of the fires in Nakumatt and Molo and to the Kenyan community at large following the elections crisis in 2008 PZ Cussons UK has increased its involvement in local educational institutions through its membership of Business in the Community the Group continues to be involved in a wide range of local community activities including providing work experience placements, factory visits and the support of local charities.
PZ Cussons has worked with the Seashell Trust to develop a range of smells and fragrances to help students with their communication skills.
The PZ Cussons Nigeria Foundation working with children in the community.
Accounts Report of the Directors Overview
