28 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 29 Report of the Directors Business review Corporate social responsibility report continued Throughout the year, we have undertaken a traditional plastics, such as polyethylene, healthy working environment in which significant health and safety capital investment number of projects and initiatives in order to with PET which is highly recyclable.
PZ accidents and ill health can be avoided, programme throughout the Group with reduce the impact of the Groups operations Cussons UK also became a member of our Group Health & Safety Policy has major focus on reduction in manual handling on the environment.
For example: Business in the Community, an organisation established arrangements to ensure we: requirements and exposure to chemicals.
in the UK, the Groups 26 million Personal which works with all companies which comply with all local laws and Wash Centre of Excellence locating liquids make a commitment to social issues and regulations relating to health and The Board regards health and safety as manufacturing, research and development responsible business practice.
As part of safety as well as our internal standards a fundamental business responsibility and perfumery capability on one site was this, the UK business participates in the in all areas of our activities and reviews health and safety matters completed in February and is a flagship for Princes May Day Network which is the UKs promote the participation of our employees on a regular basis.
Health and safety is a the Group in respect of environmentally largest group of businesses committed in developing, promoting, maintaining and standing item for review by the Group Risk sensitive manufacturing processes to taking action on climate change improving health and safety so that they: Committee which ensures that any related in February, PZ Cussons Australia in Nigeria, Project Unity, a 39 million acquire the necessary skills risks are properly identified, assessed and successfully launched to the market investment in manufacturing and supply and behaviours prioritised and that appropriate action is new super-concentrate laundry powders chain, is well under way and involves understand their responsibility to taken to manage and mitigate those risks resulting in significant reductions in significant investment in plant and themselves and their colleagues effectively.
The Chief Executive Officer the use of chemicals, plastics and machinery to enable power generation for health and safety packaging with total estimated savings from gas rather than oil resulting in are empowered and encouraged to over a twelve month period of: a reduction in energy usage and the report accidents, incidents and lapses over 12,000 tonnes of chemicals move to a greener fossil fuel.
in best practice and to participate approximately 850,000kg of cardboard in improvement activities approximately 18,400kg of plastics The Group Risk Committee, which was measure and monitor our health through reduction in scoop size established as a standing committee of the and safety performance and target in Thailand we have implemented Board during the course of the year and in continuous improvement modifications to our soap manufacturing respect of which further details are provided conduct risk assessments to identify process which have significantly reduced at page 49, ensures that any environmental significant health and safety related risks steam consumption.
Together with a risks which the Group may face are properly which arise from all activities undertaken series of other energy improvements, identified, assessed and prioritised and that including periodic reviews to ensure new this has reduced energy consumption per appropriate arrangements are in place to activities and processes are covered.
tonne of soap manufactured by over 40%.
manage and mitigate those risks effectively.
This initiative is now being shared with At operating unit level, Group Health & Safety other Group soap manufacturing units Health and Safety Policy is implemented to be consistent with our business in Kenya continued its PZ Cussons is committed to maintaining a the business operating conditions and any successful implementation of energy safe and healthy working environment at all specific local legal requirements.
Regular efficiency measures and for the third year of our operations for employees, visitors and audits are conducted, by internal and external running has gained an award from the the public and to ensuring the safety and specialist auditors, at business unit and Kenya Association of Manufacturers in health of our employees and all others who departmental level to ensure compliance with recognition of its attainment of savings may be affected by our activities.
As such, Group standards and continuous improvement.
through optimisation of energy use health and safety is an integral part of the There is a strong focus within the Group within its manufacturing processes business and is given equal priority with all on using key performance indicators in Poland, we implemented a pallet other aspects of business management.
and achieving external health and safety utilisation project resulting in a 14% accreditation.
The Group employs health and reduction in the number of vehicles The Board has endorsed and established a safety specialists in all of our operating units required to transport products between Group Health & Safety Policy which sets out and health and safety committees with cross the production facility and distribution detailed guidelines for all operations across functional and cross hierarchical representation centres with consequential reductions the Group.
Its principles support the PZ exist at all sites.
Where appropriate, PZ in the number of journeys, mileage Cussons Group World Class Manufacturing Cussons provides on-site medical facilities and thus carbon emissions system which seeks over time to bring all and health monitoring programmes for in the UK we have continued our packaging operations across the Group in line with employees.
Training is provided to all minimisation programme.
In our Original ISO9001 and OHSAS 18001.
All operations employees to ensure compliance with PZ Source range we have changed from are audited against these standards, any Cussons standards and we continue to build plastic bottles to a pouch format for some shortfall is identified and assessed and, on our traditional programmes, which focus on shower products delivering a reduction where appropriate, continuous improvement workplace behaviours, coupled with helping of over 75% in packaging materials.
For actions are agreed and implemented.
employees understand any personal health other products, we continue to substitute Specifically and to achieve a safe and risks.
During the year, we have also pursued a Accounts Report of the Directors Overview
