Business Review Governance Financial Statements DirectorsReport Business Review Corporate Responsibility report Delivering a responsible and sustainable business Highlights Successful extension of ISO14001 certification 200 STEM Ambassadors within the business RoSPA Gold awards for health and safety practice in the UK AUS$35,000 raised by QinetiQ Australia for the bush fire appeal.
CR performance overview What we said What we did Where to next Marketplace Introduce responsible purchasing criteria We worked with our supply chain to Achieve Level 3 of the Governments into our key procurement activities make improvements in environmental Flexible Framework for Sustainable and social issues Procurement by 2010 Our people Retain our status as top-quartile Over the last three years we provided Investigate Learning and Development investor in employee learning on average five days training per UK effectiveness measures for future years and development person per year Continue to maintain UK RIDDOR RIDDOR rates were 2.82 per 1,000 Continue to drive performance in health rates at better than the HSE employees compared with the HSE and safety.
Maintain UK RIDDOR rates benchmark rate benchmark of 5.19 per 1,000 better than the HSE benchmark rate See page 39 Environment Extend ISO14001 certification to Successful extension of ISO14001 Maintain our ISO14001 certification all significant sites certification Introduce an enhanced carbon footprint Carbon footprint programme Achieve certification to the Carbon management programme introduced in the UK with plans for Trust Standard further data gathering in 2010 Increase our recycling rates by 3% in 2009 Target exceeded, with recycling for Extend data capture to all minor sites our major UK sites at 49%, up by 19% and continue to increase recycling target is 70% by 2014 Contribution to biodiversity through the effective maintenance of our conservation sites Community 9,000 students to experience Lab Over 9,000 students have been A further tour of Lab in a Lorry planned in a Lorry by the end of 2009 visited by Lab in a Lorry to date for 2009 10 Focus and deliver our Science, Technology, Management and data capture Continue to focus and deliver our Engineering and Mathematics STEM improved STEM outreach programmes educational outreach programmes QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 43 DirectorsReport Business Review Corporate Responsibility report Our approach Our vision is to be a successful and responsible company that is fully In 2008, we benchmarked our CR activity against the Business in accountable for our performance and open in our reporting.
This the Community BITC CR Index, the leading CR index in the UK.
We overview updates where we are with progress against our goals and received a score of 58.5% which BITC said was a strong performance our plans for the future.
It can be read in conjunction with our CR for a company doing the index for the first time the responses website, which provides more detail.
showed a sophisticated level of activity and good understanding of Corporate Responsibility.
We will be using the results to feed into our Following a review by the QinetiQ Board, a CR Committee has been strategic planning and to inform our priorities.
Going forward we are established to address strategy and delivery of CR across the QinetiQ looking to increase our reporting on activities in QNA.
The Committee is chaired by the CEO with membership from the Executive Team and the Group CR Manager.
Underpinning the committee is the CR Taskforce, with experts from key business functions, including heath and safety, environment, human resources HR, learning and development and procurement.
QinetiQ Board QinetiQ Executive Team CR Committee chaired by CEO CR Taskforce chaired by EMEA QNA Group CR Manager Marketplace Mission Statement: To be a responsible and sustainable business What is important for us in the Marketplace?
We are looking at areas that are important for our success, Our UK purchasing team have put CR at the heart of the supplier including business ethics, responsible purchasing and listening to selection and service replacement process for key contracts.
Following our customers as well as the positive contribution we can make to consultation with internal stakeholders and our preferred travel service solving global issues such as climate change, through our developing providers, we have introduced a new employee travel policy to reduce environmental business.
CO2 emissions by using more fuel-efficient hire cars where possible.
As a business we continue to look at environmental issues and our Progress scientists have developed a new approach for waste management at Our code of conduct underpins how we do business and this year we sea.
The system uses a thermal degradation technique called pyrolysis, published our revised Group Code of Business Ethics on our Group which is a highly energy-efficient method of waste destruction, with website.
We recognise the need for continual improvement and will the potential to generate reusable heat and electrical power in the provide ongoing training and guidance for employees see page 51 future.
This technology is currently being trialled on HMS Ocean and is for more details.
also being developed for the future aircraft carrier CVF but has wider military and commercial applications.
MOD Sustainable Procurement Customers increasingly expect their suppliers to be integrating expertise of environmental management, community, purchasing sustainability into their business practices.
The MOD has and customer requirements.
Members of the Forum are part of introduced its Sustainable Procurement Charter and is using industry working groups to share best practice.
the UK Government Flexible Framework which requires reporting We have already been applying sustainability principles to MOD and improvements across the areas of people, policy, strategy, projects, for example, developing a sustainable fuels roadmap to communication, procurement process, engaging suppliers, look at how petroleum-based fuels can be replaced by sustainable measurement and results.
We signed the Charter in June 2008 options, within the framework of international legislation and and subsequently identified a Sustainable Procurement Champion government protocols on emissions.
who has put together a cross-disciplinary forum to capture the 44 www.
com Business Review Governance Financial Statements Our people Mission Statement: To create the environment which attracts great people and enables them to deliver high levels of performance How do we attract and develop our people?
We believe in attracting, recruiting and retaining talented people to undertook an employee survey to understand their view on safety continually enhance our expertise.
We offer opportunities for both in order to inform future programmes.
We also introduced new personal and professional development.
programmes to support safer driving at work.
In 2009, the Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations Progress RIDDOR rate for QinetiQs UK employees was 2.82 accidents per We continue to be one of the leading recruiters of graduates and 1,000 employees, compared with the Health and Safety Executive have in recent years strengthened our presence at key universities and HSE RIDDOR rate of 5.19 for the all industries category.
improved our position in the Times Top 100 Graduate Recruiters.
Our graduate campaigns have won a number of national awards from the advertising industry and professional bodies such as the CIPD.
UK Accidents per 1,000 employees We have successfully been re-accredited as an Investor in People, an 8 important external assessment of our commitment to good practice in people management and development.
We continue to invest 6 significantly in training and development aligned to our business objectives.
We have an Accredited Initial Professional Development 4 Scheme, a Graduate Development Programme, enhanced leadership assessment and development and have introduced a talent programme 2 which identifies exceptional individuals across the business with the potential to reach senior technical and managerial positions.
02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 Over 60% of our employees responded to this years annual employee engagement survey and we have seen an increase in engagement across QinetiQ RIDDOR rate HSE industries rate the business.
A significant number of employees are shareholders.
In EMEA, 6,219 UK employees participate in the Share Incentive Plan, and Work at QNA is generally low-risk and so there is no formal requirement 232 employees in Australia took up shares.
In QNA, 2,458 employees to report accidents according to the Occupational Safety and Health have received shares.
Our North American business monitors We are dedicated to providing a safe environment for our employees.
accidents and recorded 0.78 lost days per 1,000 employees in 2009 In the UK we have increased training for all appropriate managers and see page 39.
Initial Professional Development of UK graduate opinions consistently show that they place learning and development opportunities high on their agenda when it comes to choosing their first employer.
We address this through our Accredited Initial Professional Development IPD Scheme, which offers a framework for graduate entrants to work towards chartered status with the professional body of their choice.
The scheme is the largest of its type in the UK and is accredited or recognised by 12 professional bodies: offering a route to chartership for accountants, chemists, engineers, HR professionals, mathematicians, physicists and scientists.
We have 360 trainees and 320 mentors on the scheme.
The scheme produces 70% of all QinetiQs chartered employees each year and is held in high regard externally by stakeholders.
We are also able to demonstrate that our chartered employees attract additional income for the Company.
Meera Galoria is a Systems Engineer: Professional Development is actively supported by QinetiQ as an organisation and is strongly encouraged by its Technical Managers and Capability Team Leads.
The IPD scheme enabled me to find a suitable mentor and also provides an excellent Chartership and Mentoring course.
To date, Meera Galoria receiving her Chartered Engineer Award my development as an engineer has been a true team effort.
I owe Attracting, engaging, and developing the cream of graduate talent thanks to my mentor, my managers and all of the other engineers is key to our success and one of our strategic goals.
National surveys I have worked with.
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 45 DirectorsReport Business Review Corporate Responsibility report Environment Mission Statement: To be an excellent environmental steward How do we demonstrate our commitment to UK Energy use the environment?
We recognise that, in operating our business, we generate an 500 120 environmental footprint but we also know we can reduce it by 450 100 400 improving our energy efficiency, decreasing our waste and delivering 350 80 our conservation programmes.
300 60 250 Progress 200 40 150 We have made progress on our waste management programmes and 100 20 recycled 49% on major UK sites, compared to 30% last year.
Our UK 50 energy use this year was equivalent to 71.8 ktonnes of CO, a reduction 2 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 of 5.9 ktonnes of CO compared with last year.
This is underpinned by 2 Energy Use GWh CO tonnes our recent successfully extended ISO14001:2004 certification covering 2 the provision of activities associated with aircraft test and evaluation, Notes: weapons and system testing, test and evaluation ranges, knowledge CO for 2002 to 2007 calculated with conversion factor 2 and technology-based research and services, including small scale and for electric of 0.43kgCO kWh 2 prototype production, whole life support and asset management.
In CO for 2008 and 2009 calculated with conversion factor 2 QNA, selected employees are preparing to move to new offices, designed for electric of 0.523kgCO kWh 2 specifically to include a range of energy and environmental solutions.
2006 2007 2008 2009 UK Energy use GWh 247.3 229.1 203.6 191.2 UK GHG ktonnes CO equivalent 81.4 77.7 77.8 71.8 2 UK Waste tonnes from major sites 3,131 2,330 1,551 1,140.0 UK Recycled waste tonnes from major sites 680 761 932 1,094.0 Excludes Green Waste composted Carbon Footprinting We need to know where our carbon emissions originate so we can ISO14064, an internationally recognised standard and we will formulate an effective reduction strategy.
A carbon footprint is a use 2009 as a baseline, based on use of electricity, gas and oil, recognised measure of the amount of greenhouse gases GHGs refrigerant gas losses and vehicle usage.
Next year we will put for which an organisation is responsible expressed in tonnes of processes in place to capture data from air travel and further equivalent CO2.
This can encompass a wide range of emissions sources can be added later, when our GHG accounting methods sources, from direct use of fuels to indirect impacts such as mature.
The Project Team is currently developing the necessary employee travel, waste disposal or emissions from the supply business processes and data collection tools for accurate GHG chain.
This year we launched our UK Carbon Footprinting Project reporting.
Realistic carbon reduction targets for applicable areas to determine our approach.
We are working towards attaining of the business will follow.
com Energy Use Gwh CO2 emissions 000 tonne Business Review Governance Financial Statements Community Mission Statement: To make a positive contribution to the community What are we doing to make sure we are contributing to the community?
In addition, an online resource has been developed A core part of our strategy is education outreach and we also see local community engagement, our science for society programme and for them to network and share tips and ideas.
QNA employees supporting our employees in their charitable giving, as important.
undertook a range of volunteering activities in the community.
Total charitable giving from the business across the Group was 133,500 Progress see page 62.
In addition our UK employees raised 50,500 for our In 2009 we had almost 200 employee volunteers across the UK priority charities through a range of events attracting matched working with local schools through the STEMNET STEM Ambassador funding.
They also raised 58,000, through our payroll giving scheme.
Scheme previously Science and Engineering Ambassador Scheme.
In Australia, employees raised AUS$8,000 for the Victoria bush fire Our STEM Ambassadors were involved in science clubs, careers events appeal: including a donation from the business.
The total raised for and manned tours of Lab in a Lorry in Wales and Portsmouth.
This year this cause was AUS$35,000.
our STEM Outreach Manager coordinated programmes and supported Team QinetiQ race to the South Pole their race to the South Pole in January 2009.
QinetiQ used its scientific expertise to prepare the team for the race and worked with teachers and experts from national bodies to design a package of online teaching resources, bringing the excitement of the race to the classroom.
By accessing QinetiQs Learning Zone online, teachers could find stimulating resources and a suite of six downloadable teaching packs to deliver lessons on nutrition, teamwork, physical fitness, sleep, communication and portable power.
The aim was for teachers and pupils to explore the science behind the race e. g. developing ration packs or working in teams that was relevant to the curriculum.
As many teachers also deliver careers advice, we also developed profiles of key support personnel to illustrate career paths and what they enjoy about life as a scientist.
The initiative attracted nearly 400 teachers from all over the UK and as far away as Australia.
We partnered with the British Science Association through their well established CREST CREativity in Science and Technology award scheme, to design the Wrap up Warm project for 11-14 year old students to design a jacket suitable for Antarctica.
Over 600 pupils completed the project and the winning team were from Ben Fogle with the winning team from Hagley Catholic High School Hagley Catholic High School.
A core part of QinetiQs Community Strategy is working with This project has reinforced our strategy to partner with national secondary education specifically inspiring the next generation bodies, ensuring our programmes are specifically targeted, and of scientists and engineers.
This strategy was an integral part of demonstrating that our community programmes can be embedded the sponsorship of Ben Fogle, Ed Coats and James Cracknell in within our business projects to the mutual enhancement of both.
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 47
