84-89Social, Sustainable R 3 25 10 8:41 AM Page 1 C M Y CM MY CY CMY K PEOPLE AND PARTNERSHIPS We believe that a successful mining company is one which is profitable while meeting its social responsibilities in the countries and communities in which it operates.
Strong local relationships are one of the foundation stones on which the company has been built.
For each new development, a process of assessment and engagement is undertaken to ensure that the positive impacts of the operation are maximised and the negative impacts minimised.
SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY Our general approach is guided by the IFC Guidelines on Environmental, Safety and Health and specifically on IFC Guidelines related to Mining and Performance Standards on Social and Environmental Sustainability.
OHSAS 18001, the Occupational Health and Safety Advisory Services occupational health and safety standards, and ISO 14001, the international environmental standards, guide health, safety and environmental management practices on our operations.
All social and environmental assessments are reviewed by an independent party to ensure compliance to these codes.
During the early exploration stage our aim is to make as small a social impact as possible.
Once a target progresses to feasibility, full social, medical and environmental baseline studies are conducted, which define the pre-mining conditions and are used as benchmarks while the project develops and when it moves into production.
Full environmental and social impact assessments are generated including public participation programmes with the local communities where the impacts, both negative and positive, are communicated and considered.
During the past year social, economic and environmental baseline studies were completed on Massawa and Gounkoto, while previous studies completed at Kibali were reviewed with the completion of gap analyses and implementation of programmes to ensure compliance to our standards.
Community liaison committees, consisting of a broad spectrum of community representatives, are set up prior to production and provide a forum for regular, open dialogue where problems can be tabled and mutually acceptable solutions found.
Randgold has now started its fifth such process at Gounkoto by initiating dialogue between our exploration team and the surrounding villages.
Our exploration team represents our first interface with the community and it is instrumental in allaying suspicions and conflicts, while building relationships based on trust between future mines and the community.
To keep environmental and social issues in the forefront of our business, an executive committee was formed during the year that meets quarterly to review all environmental and social action plans.
A summary of this review is presented at each group board meeting.
Policy Our integrated social and environmental management process identifies potentially negative and positive impacts.
The implementation of sustainable environmental RANDGOLD RESOURCES | ANNUAL REPORT 2009 84 Composite 84-89Social, Sustainable R 3 25 10 8:41 AM Page 2 C M Y CM MY CY CMY K A solemn moment as truck 11 prepares to remove its last load from the Morila pit, marking the end of mining at the multi-million ounce gold producing mine.
and social responsibility strategies aim to minimise negative impacts and maximise the positive impacts of our activities, commensurate with our business strategy and with national environment.
The committee met three times last year and and IFC standards.
The implementation and effectiveness will meet quarterly or more often as required.
of these strategies is audited by independent external consultants Digby Wells Associates DWA and monitored During 2009, topics considered by the committee included internally on a quarterly basis by the groups environmental the following: and social oversight committee.
The report on the internal and external environmental audits on the Loulo and Morila operations and the To achieve the aims of our policy, we: Tongon project.
Encourage and reward the use of integrated Phase 1 of the resettlement action plan RAP at Tongon.
environmental management to ensure that management The building of schools and town planning at Loulo, decision making processes include a sensitive and Tongon and Poungbe.
holistic consideration of environmental issues.
To Quarterly environmental, community development and facilitate this, all projects must include a comprehensive other social reports from operations.
environmental and social impact assessment.
Where Community development work at Tenkhoto - including appropriate, specialist consultants are employed.
disaster relief in the form of providing medicine and Maintain positive relationships with neighbouring blankets after a fire, repairing the road and installing communities, local and national government authorities, two boreholes for potable water supply.
NGOs and aid agencies, and the public.
Rehabilitation and closure plans for Morila and Loulo.
Respect and consult with the communities in the areas All environmental incidents.
affected by our operations so that these communities Social unrest experienced in July 2009 in the Loulo receive fair treatment and where possible benefit from area.
Loulo, Kibali and group social and environmental Budget a percentage of profit for sustainable community strategic workshops outputs.
The projects are selected and Initial meeting with USAID on Morila agribusiness prioritised in consultation with communities and carried initiative.
out in cooperation with community members.
Community development budgets and the integrated Aim to forge a pact with employees by demonstrating development action plans submitted by the community respect for fundamental human rights, including development committees from the most affected villages workplace rights, employee development and the need surrounding the companys operations.
for a healthy and safe workplace.
Review of ISO 14001, International Standards Strive for the highest quality of rehabilitation, waste Organisations environmental standards, implementation management and environmental protection in the most progress in the group.
NGOs Doc to Dock and CURE hospital equipment Strive to optimise the consumption of energy, water approvals.
Through the introduction of new alternative, The environmental management environmentally friendly products and processes, as Monthly monitoring programmes incorporating dust fallout they become available, avoid the use or release of levels, physiochemical, cyanide, oil, grease and bacteriological substances which, by themselves or through their levels of surface and groundwater across the mine sites and manufacturing process, may damage the environment.
tailings storage facilities as well as surrounding water courses Practice responsible environmental stewardship to meet continued throughout the year.
No pollution or breach of the demands of local communities, host country World Bank guidelines occurred.
government requirements and international standards, and strive for continuous improvement of environmental A Notice of Environmental and Social Impact Assessment performance.
NESIA was approved by the National Director of Sanitation and Control of Pollution and Nuisances for the mining of the Group environmental and social oversight Loulo 1, 2 and 3 areas on the Loulo permit as required by national legislation.
committee As highlighted above, a new group environmental and social oversight committee was set up during the year in order to Morila is ISO 14001 certified and Loulo continues to proceed oversee and drive the companys policies in this regard, towards certification.
As part of recognising the importance of this area to our business.
All this procedure dust suppression has been improved by the the members are drawn from the groups executive committee, installation of a dust extractor at the screening plant and telescopic chutes on the crushed stockpiles.
including the CEO and the general manager: evaluation and RANDGOLD RESOURCES | ANNUAL REPORT 2009 85 Composite 84-89Social, Sustainable R 3 25 10 8:41 AM Page 3 C M Y CM MY CY CMY K Environmental management plans will be implemented in awareness training, voluntary HIV testing for all and Tongon on start up of production which will be in line with specifically among high risk individuals such as sex ISO 14001 to allow for the rapid accreditation of the mine.
workers and heavy vehicle drivers.
Provision of potable water, including in 2009 the Closure studies of the Morila Tailings Storage Facility have rehabilitation of dams, the provision of 16 potable water concentrated on looking at various options available including wells and pumps to villages surrounding our mines mostly to the Tongon project.
In addition, villagers a sampling exercise over the dam with full environmental were assisted in or trained to repair and refurbish pumps leach testwork.
Based on results the optimum closure design will be identified.
Closure plans at Loulo continue to be that had stopped functioning.
updated with the changing mining environment to ensure Provision of primary medical care to people living in appropriate reclamation costs are allocated.
villages close to our mines and projects, including construction of a pharmacy in Finkola, the fencing of the Morila village maternity clinic and donations to the Community development Guenoubanta village clinic.
To survive and prosper, Randgold must be an integral part Morila and Loulo mines combined to initiate a relationship of and benefit the communities of which it is a corporate with a United States based NGO Doc to Dock that will citizen.
Establishing and maintaining good relations with the deliver a container holding US$350 000 worth of medical communities requires constant and effective two-way equipment and supplies to clinics and hospitals near communication and in pursuit of such relationships we have Morila and Loulo.
The needs of these hospitals and a sustainable community development strategy backed by clinics were assessed during 2009 by our mine medical a budget and community development departments.
The mines will pay for the packing and shipping believe we have been more successful in community of the container.
endeavours than most other mining companies operating in It is planned to extend this relationship to Tongon and Africa.
However, the need to stay focused and continually Kibali in 2010 through Doc to Dock and its affiliated improve was brought home to us when we suffered a setback NGO in the USA CURE.
The latter NGO operates in in July 2009 in community relations at our Loulo mine.
the DRC and has already identified the needs of clinics Members of the community - mainly but not exclusively young and hospitals in the Watsa and Durba area where Kibali job seekers newly arrived in the area - became upset about is situated and where there is a great need for medical the method of recruitment of the new surface mining equipment.
CURE was assisted in its study by the contractor, which had brought its mining team with it from Catholic Church at Doko and the Kibali project.
The group disrupted operations which were suspended was authorised for two containers for Kibali and one for 36 hours, allowing the authorities to restore the situation for Tongon.
We have had an independent audit carried out and have implemented its recommendations, such as Education intensifying our interaction with the communities surrounding The following activities centred on improving education levels our operations.
within the local communities: One new school, 12 school classrooms, related school Projects furniture and learning resources were delivered to During the year community development spending on projects villages surrounding our operations in Mali and at villages identified by the representatives of the communities situated surrounding the Tongon project in Cte dIvoire.
close to our operations was in excess of US$2 million.
This Technical scholarships for young African students are excludes the direct community and social work undertaken being funded at universities in Senegal, Algeria Julian by the group, including the RAP at Tongon, the provision of Baring Scholarship and Cte dIvoire.
medical care to villagers living close to our operations, the excellent community work done on our exploration sites and Agriculture food security the work at Kibali to carry out medical and other baseline Seeds were supplied to farmers and gardeners at Loulo studies and social economic human rights and other impact and Morila.
Vegetables seeds were supplied to gardeners associations and womens associations in the The focus areas for our community development efforts have surrounding villages.
remained the creation of sustainable employment One tractor, equipped with a plough and trailer, was opportunities, primary health care, education, food security, acquired by Loulo mine and handed over to the local and potable water provision.
15 kilometres of road was completed from the Tongon The projects recommended by the community committees project to Flassoungovogo to facilitate the movement and completed during the year included the following: of residents between villages and markets.
At Morila the establishment of the agribusiness activities Health and the provision of potable water Implementation of malaria control programmes which started with a soil sampling campaign and mapping include entomological studies, the provision of treated activities.
A mapping programme was completed in mosquito nets to vulnerable people in villages, and the December and a total of 3 268 samples were collected.
A partnership has been established with USAID through HIV Aids interventions by the mines medical officers its technical branch - Integrated Initiatives for Economic in co-operation with local NGOs in the local villages Growth in Mali IICEM.
With this new entity, Morila and the work site.
These include education and management conducted an information forum among RANDGOLD RESOURCES | ANNUAL REPORT 2009 86 Composite
