84-89Social, Sustainable R 3 25 10 8:41 AM Page 1 C M Y CM MY CY CMY K PEOPLE AND PARTNERSHIPS We believe that a successful mining company is one which is profitable while meeting its social responsibilities in the countries and communities in which it operates.
Strong local relationships are one of the foundation stones on which the company has been built.
For each new development, a process of assessment and engagement is undertaken to ensure that the positive impacts of the operation are maximised and the negative impacts minimised.
SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY Our general approach is guided by the IFC Guidelines on Environmental, Safety and Health and specifically on IFC Guidelines related to Mining and Performance Standards on Social and Environmental Sustainability.
OHSAS 18001, the Occupational Health and Safety Advisory Services occupational health and safety standards, and ISO 14001, the international environmental standards, guide health, safety and environmental management practices on our operations.
All social and environmental assessments are reviewed by an independent party to ensure compliance to these codes.
During the early exploration stage our aim is to make as small a social impact as possible.
Once a target progresses to feasibility, full social, medical and environmental baseline studies are conducted, which define the pre-mining conditions and are used as benchmarks while the project develops and when it moves into production.
Full environmental and social impact assessments are generated including public participation programmes with the local communities where the impacts, both negative and positive, are communicated and considered.
During the past year social, economic and environmental baseline studies were completed on Massawa and Gounkoto, while previous studies completed at Kibali were reviewed with the completion of gap analyses and implementation of programmes to ensure compliance to our standards.
Community liaison committees, consisting of a broad spectrum of community representatives, are set up prior to production and provide a forum for regular, open dialogue where problems can be tabled and mutually acceptable solutions found.
Randgold has now started its fifth such process at Gounkoto by initiating dialogue between our exploration team and the surrounding villages.
Our exploration team represents our first interface with the community and it is instrumental in allaying suspicions and conflicts, while building relationships based on trust between future mines and the community.
To keep environmental and social issues in the forefront of our business, an executive committee was formed during the year that meets quarterly to review all environmental and social action plans.
A summary of this review is presented at each group board meeting.
Policy Our integrated social and environmental management process identifies potentially negative and positive impacts.
The implementation of sustainable environmental RANDGOLD RESOURCES | ANNUAL REPORT 2009 84 Composite
