Corporate Responsibility Corporate responsibility Focus on Society We focus on areas where we can make an important contribution CR ensures good management to society through our knowledge, resources and skills: universal, of non-financial risk and sustainable access to information, advance of science and health, promotion of the rule of law and justice, and anti-crime.
opportunities, helps us attract Elsevier has an important role to play in advancing human welfare and retain the best people, and economic progress in the developing world, where information resources are often scarce.
Through information philanthropy and strengthens our corporate Elsevier, as the worlds largest scientific publisher, ensures leading reputation.
It means performing research is available to the countries that need it most.
Among key programmes is Research4Life, in partnership with United Nations to the highest commercial and agencies and other publishers, which encompasses the Health InterNetwork Access to Research Initiative HINARI.
HINARI provides ethical standards and channelling health workers and researchers in over 100 developing countries access to both core and cutting-edge health sciences information.
our knowledge and strengths, In 2009, there were 2 million articles from nearly 1,600 Elsevier as global leaders in our industries, journals downloaded through HINARI, a 30% increase over 2008.
Also in 2009, the Elsevier Foundation made grants including to the to make a difference to society.
Third World Organization for Women in Science TWOWS to support twelve $5,000 awards to young women scientists working in the fields of biological, physical, chemical and mathematical science across Constant engagement with stakeholders, including the developing world.
The awards will help further the organisations shareholders, employees, communities, governments, mission to advance the participation, recognition and contributions and members of civil society, help us determine of women scientists in less developed countries.
Our CR Forum, LexisNexis has a strong focus on the rule of law.
Its Rule of Law chaired by the CEO, sets corresponding objectives Resource Center is one of the largest free online sources of rule of encompassing governance, people, health and safety, law and human rights information.
In 2009, the Centers resources customers, supply chain, environment and community were expanded to include a comprehensive report on health and and measures performance against them.
human rights compiled by the World Justice Project, supported by LexisNexis.
As a founder of the UKs International Law Book Facility, The complete 2009 Reed Elsevier Corporate Responsibility Report in 2009 LexisNexis provided 2,000 legal texts to assist legal professional will be available online in April 2010 at www.
com cr09 bodies, advice centres, pro bono groups, law schools, and other institutions involved in access to justice across common law jurisdictions in Africa, Asia and the Caribbean.
In addition, through its Risk Solutions business, LexisNexis supports organisations serving children like Boys & Girls Clubs of America and Court Appointed Special Advocates for youth.
Since 2002, LexisNexis Volunteer Screening has completed more that 4 million volunteer background checks for these organisations, identifying over 200,000 individuals with criminal convictions, including more than 3,000 registered sex offenders.
Reed Exhibitions provides platforms at its trade shows to organisations supporting our corporate responsibility focus areas.
Over the last five years, Reed Exhibitions has given free space at the London Book Fair to BookAid International, which annually provides 500,000 books including those donated from across Reed Elsevier to readers in the developing world, enabling the charity to engage with a wide range of potential book and financial donors.
At 2009 World Travel Market, the global event for the travel industry organised by Reed Exhibitions, World Responsible Tourism Day was marked by the Responsible Tourism Awards, which recognised sector initiatives in areas like poverty reduction, low carbon transport and technology, and conservation.
52 Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2009 Overview Our business Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Reed Business Information RBI uses the power of its brands to aid People communities.
Variety, the leading entertainment industry news source, published by RBI, has established Power of Youth to spur young 2009 Objectives entertainers to support philanthropic and humanitarian causes, Reach all employees with 2009 Employee Opinion Survey and to encourage their fans to do so as well.
Since its inception Communicate to all staff on new Diversity and Inclusion in 2007, Power of Youth has raised more than $1.25 million to aid Statement: advance Diversity and Inclusion Working Group children.
In 2009, RBI held a major event and auction which yielded $250,000 to benefit Starlight Childrens Foundation, which helps Our 32,000 people are our strength.
In 2009, we disseminated a seriously ill children and their families through entertainment and global Employee Opinion Survey EOS to employees, with 72% of staff education, and LAs BEST, which provides after-school activities taking part.
Overall, employees rate Reed Elsevier as a good place to and education for more than 28,000 economically disadvantaged work with improved scores since the last survey in 2006 in valuing our young people.
people, being receptive to their ideas, and encouraging teamwork and collaboration.
We are prioritising areas identified in the EOS for attention, including additional ways to support work life balance.
Governance The Reed Elsevier Diversity and Inclusion statement articulates our 2009 Objectives commitment to a diverse workforce and a work environment that 80% trained in Code of Ethics respects individuals and their contributions, regardless of their gender, 50% of US employees completing second round online Code race or other characteristic.
To better communicate on the issues of Ethics training we created a diversity and inclusion intranet site.
Our cross-divisional Diversity and Inclusion Working Group, which draws on internal and The Reed Elsevier Code of Ethics and Business Conduct Code, external expertise, promoted best practice in areas ranging from updated in 2009 to improve the clarity of its provisions and to ensure training to recruitment.
Growing numbers of affinity groups, like it reflects best practice, is disseminated to every employee as a guide womens forums, focused on support, mentoring and community to our corporate and individual conduct.
Encompassing topics such involvement, allow diversity to be expressed in meaningful ways as fair competition, anti-bribery and human rights, it encourages across Reed Elsevier.
80% of current employees completed online Code training by year end 2009, with 63% of all US employees 2010 Objectives completing second round Code training in the year.
Advance divisional EOS action plans Develop a diversity and inclusion strategy for key locations In addition, we offered advanced ethics courses to relevant staff, including on anti-harassment completed by 2,400 employees, fair competition completed by 4,500 employees, and data privacy Health and Safety and security completed by nearly 12,000 US employees.
2009 Objectives In 2009, we actively promoted the United Nations Global Compact, Develop targeted and effective global wellness campaign to which we are a signatory an initiative for businesses willing to 10% reduction in severity rate by 2010 from 2008 baseline align their operations and strategies with ten principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption providing Our employees have the right to a healthy and safe workplace webinars to help fellow signatories communicate about the Compact, as outlined in the Reed Elsevier Health and Safety Policy.
and serving on the steering group for the United Kingdom.
To reduce our severity rate lost days per 200,000 hours worked 2010 Objectives we are conducting risk assessments, and working with a third party Code of Ethics and Business Conduct course completion resource in the US to assign a nurse case manager to each complex by 90% of all employees or severe claim.
We focused on wellness in the workplace during Data Privacy and Security course completion by 60% of our 2009 annual Health & Safety Month with activities ranging from all employees stress awareness training and flu vaccinations to fitness classes Anti-Bribery training for 80% of relevant employees in higher and biometric screening.
In 2010, we will introduce weight loss and risk roles and geographies smoking cessation support to further promote employee wellness and help reduce absenteeism and workplace-related illnesses.
LexisNexis Risk Solutions supports ADAM, a tool which provides geographically targeted automated alerts on missing children.
It has helped in the recovery of more than 100 children.
Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2009 Reed Elsevier 53 Corporate responsibility continued In the year, we launched RE:Fit2Win, a global competition which environment.
In 2009, we expanded our Socially Responsible Supplier recognised employees for walking, cycling, and running, with winners SRS database to 589 suppliers, encompassing critical, preferred, receiving $1,000 for the charity of their choice.
Over 117 locations and strategic suppliers, and those we deem high risk according to participated logging 878,890 miles 1.4 million kilometres.
criteria from the Corporate Executive Boards Global Country Analysis Support Tool and human trafficking data from the US State Department.
2010 Objectives We overestimated our target for signatories to the Supplier Code due to 10% reduction in severity rate by 2010 from 2008 baseline the fragmented nature of the supplier base and the introduction of new Advance collection of absenteeism data data gathering tools late in 2009.
However, 50% of all suppliers were signatories by year end.
Of the 40 external audits of high risk suppliers by specialists ITS planned for 2009, 39 were completed and one was Customers postponed until 2010.
Any incidence of Supplier Code non-compliance identified in the audit process triggers a corrective action plan with 2009 Objectives tracked supplier remediation of all issues.
In the future, we expect to Improve customer satisfaction as measured by Net Promoter see an increase in our SRS database and will be engaging more people Scores and dashboard programmes within the business to reach a higher Supplier Code return rate: over the Increase access for underserved users, expanding developing last two years, all new suppliers are required to sign our Supplier Code world programmes as a condition of doing business with us.
Improve website accessibility across Reed Elsevier We provide tools for employees to undertake internal audits when Through the Net Promoter Score NPS programme we surveyed visiting high risk suppliers: 12 were completed in 2009.
We also 100,000 customers to determine their willingness to recommend us.
provided supplier training to increase reporting on the Reed Elsevier NPS tracks overall customer loyalty, deepening customer understanding portion of their CO emissions.
and driving forward a customer centric culture.
Results, reviewed by the 2 CEO and senior managers and communicated to staff, illuminate where 2010 Objectives we are doing well and where we must do better.
60% of suppliers as Supplier Code of Conduct signatories 40 external audits of high risk suppliers We are committed to improving access to our products and services Ask key suppliers to become UN Global Compact signatories for all users, regardless of physical ability.
In the year, Elsevier helped launch AccessText.
org which streamlines electronic book file requests from university disability services, processing over 2,500 requests.
Environment Upgrades to core LexisNexis products launching in 2010 will incorporate WCAG 2.0, the most recent web accessibility guidelines.
2009 Objectives Our Accessibility Working Group held four educational webinars for Launch new environmental targets colleagues in the year, including one hosted by the blind website Key Performance Indicators Target Baseline Target date editor of one of our leading journals.
CO emissions -10% 2006 2015 2 2010 Objectives Total energy -5% 2008 2015 Improve customer loyalty as measured by Net Promoter Travel emissions -5% 2008 2015 Scores: advance dashboard programmes Water -10% 2008 2015 Continue to improve website accessibility Waste recycled 70% n a 2015 Supply Chain Introduce environmental standards programme across Reed Elsevier 2009 Objectives Expand Socially Responsible Supplier database to 550 entries To achieve our 2015 targets, we are working with our Environmental 85% of suppliers as Supplier Code of Conduct signatories Champions network, employee-led Green Teams, and engineering, 40 external audits of high risk suppliers design and construction specialists.
We have also introduced an We require our suppliers to meet the same high standards we set for environmental standards programme.
Standard levels are those ourselves.
Our Supplier Code of Conduct stipulates adherence to all needed to achieve our targets, based on our environmental laws and best practice in areas such as human rights, labour and the performance as well as internal and external good practice.
Advancing environmental science Current Opinion in Environmental Sustainability, launched in 2009, keeps specialists up to date on current environmental research.
54 Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2009 Overview Our business Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Locations that achieve five of eight environmental standards in any Our internal focus on corporate year gain green status.
The standards set usage levels per person e. g. energy consumption of 5,400 kWh per person and carbon responsibility is recognised emissions of 2 t CO per person to engage employees and inspire 2 green competition among offices.
In 2009, ten locations across externally.
In 2009 we achieved our four divisions turned green.
the following recognition: Full details of our environmental performance will be available Global 100 Most Sustainable Corporations in the World in the 2009 Corporate Responsibility Report from April 2010 at Platinum, Business in the Communitys Corporate www.
com cr09 Responsibility Index We promote good environmental performance through our leading Dow Jones Sustainability Index and SAM Sustainability environmental science print and online publications and trade Yearbook, scoring in top 15% of companies shows, such as Current Opinion in Environmental Sustainability, Member FTSE4Good the Journal of Cleaner Production, the Environmental Law and Climate Change Center, and Pollutec, the worlds largest Finalist for VBDO Supply Chain Award environmental engineering show.
CR Finalist, UK National Business Awards 2010 Objectives AAA rating from Innovest Strategic Value Advisors 20 key sites to achieve five Reed Elsevier Environmental 4th place in sector group, Carbon Disclosure Projects Global 500 Standards Climate Leaders Index: 2nd place in sector group FTSE 350 Management plans to achieve environmental targets Map Reed Elsevier and supplier water stress locations Goldman Sachs Sustain Fund as a best managed sustainable company Community One of 50 companies in Global Challenges Index for substantial contributions to surmounting global challenges 2009 Objectives 10% increase in group-wide volunteering over 2008 Full data will be available in our 2009 Corporate Responsibility Report Through our Reed Elsevier Cares programme we promote education in April 2010 at www.
com cr09 for disadvantaged young people.
We saw an 11% rise in volunteering and donated 2.5 million in cash donations including matching gift programmes and the equivalent of 4.4 million in gifts of products, services and staff time in 2009.
Our Two Days programme allows all staff up to two days off per year for their own community work.
Reed Elsevier Cares Champions engage colleagues in activities throughout the year such as the RE Cares Challenge, which rewards business sponsored community engagement, and Reed Elsevier Cares Month, with hundreds of events around the globe.
During the Month we held a 37,000 fundraising drive for Save the Childrens REwrite the Future programme in Afghanistan, supporting access to education for children affected by conflict.
Our annual global book drive yielded some 14,000 employee books for local and developing world readers.
2010 Objectives Closer alignment of RE Cares donations with corporate responsibility focus areas Increase in-kind contributions RE Cares Working with key charity partner Book Aid International, we support development of community libraries in Cameroon: overall in 2009, we donated 34,750 books to Book Aids programmes across Sub-Saharan Africa.
Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2009 Reed Elsevier 55
