Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information For more information visit regus.
com Corporate responsibility Responsive to our stakeholders standards of health and safety whilst encouraging our employees to enjoy a As a responsible global company and leader in its eld healthy and active lifestyle.
Regus offers Regus wants to be best in its class for corporate generous holiday packages in all countries responsibility and this year has brought it to the top of our and encourages its team members to take agenda.
We have established clearly where we are and time off in order to rejuvenate and create where we want to be as well as what we are good at and a balance between work and home life.
In the Americas we provide a 2 week what we need to do better.
sabbatical for team members who reach their 10 year anniversary.
In our facilities with gyms in the building our team members are encouraged to utilise the facilities.
In November 2009 a wellness road show was held in our Dallas Corporate ofce where free biometric Our approach to Corporate Responsibility Diversity and inclusion Regus is committed to providing a work screenings were provided and where team CR has never been about writing big cheques and planting trees: we are well environment in which all individuals are members could get advice on nutrition, preventative care and other medical issues.
aware of the plethora of evidence that treated with respect and dignity.
Each individual has the right to work in a demonstrates a companys long term Skills and talent professional atmosphere that promotes performance will benefit from a broad, Our goal has always been to create an equal employment opportunities and planned and sustained CR programme.
environment in which our people can prohibits discriminatory practices, There are four elements to our CR plan: develop their talents, realise their ambitions including harassment.
Therefore, the Workforce and achieve their best work.
In 2009 we Company expects that all relationships radically overhauled the quality and Marketplace among persons in the workplace are quantity of training provided to team Environment business-like and free of bias, prejudice members.
We doubled the amount of and harassment.
Community face-to-face training we provided to more It is the policy of Regus to ensure equal than 8,500 training sessions and team As the table overleaf shows we have employment opportunity without members took part in more than 37,000 established a number of Key Performance discrimination or harassment on the basis online training sessions on subjects as Indicators for Corporate Responsibility of race, colour, religion, gender, marital diverse as Sales Techniques, Leading and and over the coming years we will report status, age, national origin, disability, or Managing the Team and The Perfect Tour.
our performance against these at each any other protected characteristic as full results announcement.
Recruiting and training school and established by law.
The Company university leavers remains a high priority Regus has always had a good track prohibits and does not tolerate any such for the business around the world.
record when it comes to social discrimination or harassment.
Indeed on Examples include: responsibility and community a number of metrics Regus can be seen involvement as some of the examples as best practice and industry leading: In India and East Asia 14 graduate overleaf bear out.
But we are now putting more than 60% of our workforce and trainees were hired from the Institute greater emphasis on our response to 50% of our middle and senior managers of Hotel Management.
climate change as well as putting a more are female.
In all markets our workforce is In Greater China 10 graduate trainees coherent structure around the other broadly representative of the ethnic make were recruited from Fudan University elements of our CR strategy.
up of the wider community.
Shanghai, Polytechnic University Hong Kong and Chinese University, Workforce Health and wellbeing Hong Kong.
Our long term success depends on Protecting and promoting the wellbeing attracting and retaining the most talented of our employees is an integral part of the In France we have a close relationship people to work for us across 78 countries.
We demand the highest with Paris based cole Franaise Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 19 Directors Report: Business Review Corporate Responsibility continued dhtesse et fide tourisme school which regular feedback on all aspects of our 2.
Integrating our planned and reactive results in students spending half of product portfolio and service delivery maintenance strategies to include their time working at our centres whilst both in centre and from our regional better energy saving and carbon they study.
Such feedback is regularly reduction measures: acted upon to enhance what we do.
In the Netherlands we work with 3.
Reviewing our new centre Rotterdam based ROC Zadkine College opening strategy to accommodate Suppliers which provides us with some 15-20 better energy saving and carbon Regus only selects products and workplace students for four month long reduction principles: solutions from suppliers which take an placements each year.
active role within their community and 4.
Working with our clients as We have had a traineeship programme look to minimise the environmental necessary to help them reduce running in Germany for many years.
All new their carbon footprints: The annual intake is two and the suppliers are asked to comment on how 5.
Engaging and involving our staff trainees spend on average three years they address each of the following areas: and suppliers in the formation and with the business working across maintaining a healthy and safe operation of carbon reduction policies: different functions before being placed environment for staff: 6.
Training as appropriate all our staff in a permanent position.
work with and support for local charities involved in our carbon reduction and groups: implementation: We are also driven to progress the careers of our team members, more energy efficiency and the use of low 7.
Communicating our strategy to all our than 10% received a promotion in 2009. carbon assets: and, staff and clients and supporting them Regus also encourages cross border in its implementation: waste minimisation and recycling.
Moving towards more renewable energy Environment have happened between Brazil and the sources as soon as practicable: and, As a responsible company we want to US, UK to Germany, US to Australia 9.
Measuring, reviewing, acting quickly signicantly reduce our environmental amongst many others.
impact and support our clients in doing Marketplace the same.
In 2010 in the UK we are Community Customers consequently putting in place a robust Our centres are visible landmarks within Like any prudent company we know programme of measures to reduce our the communities in which they reside.
that without customers we dont have carbon footprint by 50% by 2020 using As such we strive to play a positive a business: treating them with respect is our 2007 baseline which will then be community based role as well as part and parcel of what we do.
At Regus rolled out to other geographies in supporting those in need further aeld.
we define respect as being mindful of subsequent years.
To show our rm From competing in triathlons and other specic and unique needs, allowing them commitment we will be making every sports activities to raise money for charity absolute choice in what they want and effort to achieve 20% of this target by 31 to recycling waste paper to help a local when they want it: providing the right December 2010.
This will be achieved by: hospital and donating redundant ofce level of accessible information in the right 1.
Liaising and working together with our furniture to local schools our community form, always selling with honesty and property stakeholders to implement a activity is not a directed corporate edict integrity, and nally ensuring at all times prioritised and visible carbon reducing but a bottom up desire by our team the safety of our customers.
energy saving plan in all our ofces members to make a difference.
Just a With more than 500,000 individual whilst complying fully with the few of our many examples from around customers we take great effort to solicit requirements of the CRC: the world are highlighted on this page.
Regus CR Key Performance Indicators in the UK Activity 2010 target Reduction in carbon footprint 20% reduction on 2007 levels.
Water usage 5% reduction on 2007 levels.
Transport Reduce air miles by 20% and increase rail travel by 20% on 2007 levels.
Corporate charity Enable employees to select in-country corporate charity on an annual basis.
Employee volunteer days 500 days available to employees globally to partake in community based activities.
Suppliers All major suppliers signed up to Regus CR policy.
Recruitment and training Implement a formal graduate training programme in US, UK, France, the Netherlands, China and India.
Team member career Implement a global group training certication process for all customer facing development and training role holders.
com Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information For more information visit regus.
com Using our success to make a difference Macmillan Cancer Support South Florida Team Lends a Hand Katie Piper Foundation For many years Regus employees in for Local Charity Katie Piper is a 26 year old woman the UK have competed in the London Former Miami Dolphins star and who was the victim of a vicious acid Triathlon and with the help of their Regus client, OJ McDufe, is an active attack in 2008 which destroyed her colleagues raised many tens of leader in South Florida.
His charity, the face, her life and her career as she thousands of pounds.
2009 was no Catch 81 Foundation is committed to knew it.
In October 2009 she told her exception and 25 brave souls took helping the less fortunate throughout story in a tv documentary, this resulted to the streets and waters of London the region.
in a huge response from the public.
As a result, Katie set up the Katie McDufe recently organised his first Piper Foundation to help other burns Macmillan Cancer Support would like annual charity softball event and victims like herself.
Regus is providing to say a big thank you to all the Regus invited Regus team members from the foundation with its ofce space.
staff in the UK for their support and of South Florida to participate in the course to those that took part in the tournament.
Although team Regus Since October 2009 when the Triathlon itself!
lasted only two games in the documentary went out I have been tournament, they managed to raise overwhelmed by the amount of offers Helen Rogers, $1,000 to help children in need.
Regus were one Macmillan Fundraising Manager of the first organisations to contact me Team members recently put their and I wouldnt have been able to set endurance to the test at the Toyota up my charity without them.
They have US Open Triathlon in Dallas raising been instrumental in allowing me to money to benefit the Make-A-Wish register the charity.
Twenty team members competed and two of our teams took Katie Piper first and second place in the sprint relay, raising US$28,000 It was great to see Regus come Centre Recycling in Argentina funds together and help in supporting my local hospital Warran Autism Training Center, foundation.
I will continue to build Since opening two years ago, the Giant Steps Illinois, Chicago on our relationship with Regus and team at Regus Olivos Libertador in A recent downsize at the Warrenville always mention their great services Buenos Aires has been doing its part centre in suburban Chicago left the to my colleagues and people in to help clean up the environment.
Their recycling efforts also benefit a donated the furniture to the Autism OJ McDufe, Catch 81 Foundation local hospital.
Every week the centre Training Center at Giant Steps Illinois.
donates its cardboard and plastic The organization had just leased a items to the Garrahan Foundation.
70,000 square foot facility in nearby The foundation collects recyclables Lisle and had no budget to furnish from businesses, schools and the space.
households throughout Buenos Aires I cant begin to express our gratitude and sells them to a recycling for the furniture donated by Regus.
So far, more than 42,000 You have made an enormous impact tons of paper items have been on our ability to reach out and train recycled.
The money collected from the greater autism community.
Your the programme is allocated to various contribution has made us look like local social service organisations, a real school.
including Casa Garrahan, a home for Bridget OConnor, Executive Director, children receiving medical treatment.
Warran Autism Training Center Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 21
