Corporate social responsibility 15 In a difficult year for many of our customers, the ability of protecting both staff and the local community against the potential Renishaws products to reduce their energy costs and material impact of a major earthquake on this building.
consumption by increasing manufacturing efficiency and reducing Despite the difficult economic environment, Renishaw has wasted resources has been especially welcome.
Our products help continued its UK apprenticeship and industrial placement customers reduce their use of raw materials, natural resources and programme.
There are 28 apprentices currently in training, and energy, with many examples published in the news section of our 10 new starters confirmed for September 2009, plus 7 industrial website, www.
At the same time, the Board has long recognised the need for ThE ENvIRONMENT the effective management of the social and environmental factors affecting the business and, in turn, their impact on its reputation Renishaw takes its responsibilities to the environment very seriously, and profitability.
The Company has worked closely with the local as befits a company that has many of its manufacturing facilities community since its formation and there has been a Renishaw based in a rural setting.
Energy consumption, water usage, Charities Committee RCC since 1987. emissions to air and water, and disposal of waste materials are all taken into consideration.
Renishaw is continuing to formalise the process of managing these factors further by evaluating measures to analyse the Companys The Company has continued to prove its commitment to reducing performance in the following key areas: its impact on the environment through a number of energy monitoring and reduction schemes currently being implemented.
It Staff is also continuing an ongoing programme to reduce the amount of The environment waste sent to landfill.
The community All new investment in information technology is made with power consumption in mind, ensuring the most energy efficient equipment This will include the continuing development of systems to identify is purchased where possible.
This will also ensure that as and report on non-financial key performance indicators, whilst at the equipment is replaced, energy consumption will continue to reduce.
same time ensuring the quality of the indicators reported.
Energy STAFF During the past year the Company has significantly improved its Renishaw is an equal opportunities employer operating a strict ability to monitor energy usage, and monthly executive reports are policy of non-discriminatory behaviour.
It has a diverse mix of age now produced that analyse the consumption of electricity and gas ranges, gender and ethnicity.
As at the end of June 2009 some at the four main sites in Gloucestershire.
Such data is helping the 18.6% of UK staff are aged over 50 with 9.2% below 25, and business to make better informed decisions about areas where some 29.3% of employees are female.
Within the UK workforce energy efficiency gains can be made, driven by both environmental based at our Gloucestershire sites, non-white ethnic groups have and cost considerations.
a representation of circa 5%, which is much higher than that of the Stroud District in which these sites are situated, which in its 2001 At the main Gloucestershire sites, the Company has recently Census totalled just 0.7%.
Worldwide staff turnover excluding improved its building management system to allow better central redundancies has remained stable compared to last year at around control of its heating, ventilation and air conditioning HVAC systems.
7%, which compares favourably with the 2008 average in the UK The system is designed to optimise start times of the HVAC manufacturing sector of 15.3% source: CIPD.
This ensures that a building is at the correct Long service is rewarded at every five years of service and can temperature for the start of the working day by taking into account include small gifts, extra holiday allowance and a cash sum, with actual temperatures and switching on the equipment as late as over 300 staff benefitting this calendar year.
possible, whilst still ensuring that there is enough time for the building to reach the required temperature.
Despite a difficult year in which there were reductions in staffing numbers and voluntary salary reductions, close communication was At the end of each working day all unnecessary HVAC equipment is maintained with employees, both direct and through newly formed turned off to reduce energy consumption.
It is estimated that these work forums.
The latter were established to represent the interests changes will lower Renishaws annual electricity consumption by of staff at all eight UK sites, with representatives elected through a some 2.1 million kilowatt hours kWh and reduce carbon dioxide fully democratic ballot.
During this difficult period, the Chairman & CO emissions by approximately 1200 tonnes.
2 Chief Executive and Assistant Chief Executive hosted 24 one-hour During the year new roof cladding and insulation was applied to one meetings at the main Gloucestershire sites, where all 1,450 staff of the older buildings at New Mills.
The roof on the historic former then based in the county were able to hear presentations and ask weaving shed now has a low thermal transmittance U-value of questions about the Groups difficult trading conditions, and the just 0.2, significantly reducing heat loss and saving on the energy reasons for redundancies and requested salary reductions.
All consumption required for heating cooling the building.
presentations and responses to questions raised at these meetings were made available on the Groups intranet which is available to Renishaws employees are regularly reminded that where possible staff worldwide.
they should switch off power to all their standard equipment at the end of each working day and the Company is currently A new electronic version of the in-house journal Probity is considering investments for data collection systems that will help being introduced in Autumn 2009, in line with both company further improve the control of small power systems, such as PCs, and employee suggestions to reduce print costs and reduce laboratory equipment and office printers.
A small number of printed copies will be made available for staff without access to email.
The Companys ongoing programme to reduce the amount of electricity consumed by lighting has seen new investments in In August 2008 a variable working-time trial began, which proved passive infra-red detectors to switch lighting off when areas are not a great success, and has now been adopted as standard practice occupied, for example, changing rooms and toilet facilities at the for all UK staff.
This is allowing staff members to create a better Stonehouse factory.
work-life balance, whilst at the same time maintaining full support to Renishaws worldwide customer base.
Emissions Other benefits that staff receive include the use of gymnasiums at Renishaw is extremely conscious of the environmental impact of its the New Mills, Stonehouse, Ireland and Woodchester sites and operations.
subsidised restaurants at the most populous UK locations.
There Detailed analysis of the Groups carbon footprint for the 2008-2009 are also discounts for sports and social activities.
financial year indicates that electricity represented around 67% of In Tokyo, Renishaw KK's head office building was strengthened to the Companys total CO emissions, followed by approximately 16% 2 meet the Japanese Seismic Index of Structure recommendations, attributable to emissions generated by staff travelling to work.
Annual report and accounts 2009 16 Corporate social responsibility continued As already noted, a focus on energy consumption is already Charity reducing CO emissions, and it is estimated that over the past 2 2 Together, the Renishaw Charities Committee and staff support years, there has been a reduction of some 2,200 tonnes 18% a number of charitable institutions on an international basis, due to lower electricity usage.
particularly those that help enrich the lives of children and adults, There is very limited public transportation serving Renishaws from toddler groups and sports clubs, through to organisations sites in Gloucestershire, where the majority of the Groups staff supporting the disabled and victims of domestic violence.
Therefore the Company actively tries to reduce the In Pune, India, the RCC and local staff donated monies to enable impact of CO caused by travel, encouraging staff to car share 2 the elderly residents of Matoshree Old Age Home to undergo a by hosting a specific area on the company intranet, facilitating liftcomprehensive health check at a special camp, and also supported share notices on notice boards at the various company sites and the work of Seva Sahyog, an NGO that works with children from circulating regular email reminders of the benefits of car sharing.
disadvantaged backgrounds, to supply school equipment.
To reduce the need for business travel, video conferencing The Bath Institute of Medical Engineering BIME is a design and facilities have also been implemented at three sites in development charity working in the fields of medicine, healthcare Gloucestershire, at the Scottish research facility, and subsidiary and assistive technology for disabled people.
Its team of engineers operations in India, Ireland, Germany, Japan and the USA.
works on a large number of projects, ranging from technology for One particular focus has been on reducing the number of people living with dementia to very practical items of daily living products purchased in aerosol form.
The RCC chose to support a project which uses achieved in recent years, with the remainder still purchased due bed sensors to detect when a person has left his or her bed, to the lack of current alternatives.
However, this situation will be automatically switching on a bedside lamp the product is now constantly monitored and alternatives procured as soon as they available from the BIME.
The Woodfield Youth and Community Centre in Cam, The analysis of the Groups carbon footprint is very complex, Gloucestershire, is an important part of the local community, and given its geographic spread, employment profile and varied home to various youth groups, playgroups and clubs.
However, comparing the 2008-2009 it sought the support of the RCC to help improve the fabric and financial year to that of 2006-2007 no analysis was made in security of its building, after suffering vandalism which threatened 2007-2008, it is conservatively estimated that there has been the future of many of the groups that used the facilities.
a 20% reduction in overall CO emissions, primarily due to 2 Disabled Travel Service DTS aims to provide physically and reductions in electricity consumption and air freight, attributable to financially accessible door-to-door transport for disabled and both improved operating efficiencies and lower activity levels.
vulnerable people from within a 50-mile catchment area of the Waste city of Bristol.
Its members are able to access the service on a 24:7 basis to any destination in the UK.
The RCC helped fund the Renishaw continues to analyse its waste streams and is purchase of a new custom-designed minibus.
forming a strategy to deal with its waste to the highest environmental standards.
In Reutlingen, Germany, the Renishaw GmbH charities committee funded catering equipment for Lobbyrestaurant, an organisation The Company has increased the amount of its waste that is that supplies heavily subsidised meals to the homeless and people recycled instead of sent to landfill, including paper, cardboard, receiving welfare benefits.
plastic cups, toner cartridges and batteries.
It is also seen as important to reduce waste at source, and all Throughout the year, Renishaw also supported numerous staff are encouraged to reduce printing where possible and charitable events by allowing its boundary fences at New Mills and Woodchester to be used for promotional banners, and also use double-sided printing to reduce the volumes of paper disseminates event information to staff via notice boards and used.
Increasingly, technical documentation is distributed to internal communication bulletins.
customers in electronic format, and during the year an enhanced Resource Centre was introduced that makes it easier to Education source documentation through the Renishaw website.
Regular Nurturing the next generation of engineering excellence and a desire marketing communications with customers in many markets is to present a positive image of engineering is a fundamental part of now solely by email, eliminating the need for printed newsletters the Companys involvement with education.
Although none of the Companys products currently falls During the year Renishaw hosted two organisations that are within the scope of the requirements of the European Directive producing materials to support lecturers, teachers and pupils for the 2002 95 EC on the Restriction of the use of certain Hazardous UKs new Diploma in Engineering, which is targeted at pupils aged 14 to 16.
The Technology Enhancement Programme and Pearson Substances RoHS, the Company has undertaken to develop and implement processes to the meet these requirements, Education, spent a total of eight days at Renishaws Gloucestershire wherever possible.
All new position encoder products are now sites, where they were given full access to film various staff during introduced as RoHS compliant.
their normal working day and to capture their thoughts about a career in engineering.
The first materials are expected during ThE COMMuNITy Autumn 2009.
As in previous years Renishaw has developed close links with the Renishaw has also become a long-term partner of Cardiff University, community through its involvement with a number of local and supporting the refurbishment of its Trevithick Library, which caters national charities and schools.
for students and researchers studying engineering, physics, computer science and manufacturing engineering.
The new stateFor many years Renishaw has supported the efforts of The of-the-art learning facility includes the Renishaw Room, a group National Blood Service which now visits the New Mills site three study facility that provides an inspirational learning environment for times per year, on each occasion taking blood donations from the next generation of high-class graduate engineers and physicists.
around 70 employees over a four-day period.
The Company is proud to support this vital service which relies entirely on The Company also continues to foster relationships with primary voluntary support.
and secondary schools, at both a corporate and individual staff The Companys sites in Gloucestershire are often made available member level, providing support for work experience, school visits, to local organisations.
During the year the Old Town and careers evenings and access to manufacturing equipment for Woodchester car parks were used for the I Love Wotton town school project work.
An example of the latter saw Renishaws rapid fair and a Rolls-Royce Enthusiasts Club event in Nailsworth, prototyping facilities at New Mills being made available to children plus an older building at our Woodchester site was used for a from St Roses special needs school in Stroud, who, mentored Gloucestershire Fire and Rescue Service fire simulation exercise, by teachers from the local Marling School, produced bodies for involving some 35 fire fighters.
