20 Governance Corporate responsibility Corporate responsibility Colleague engagement 20 Governance 21 Health and Safety 22 Marketplace In 2009, for the first time, the group undertook the colleague 20 Workplace 21 Environment 22 Community engagement survey Your Voice Counts across every division and country in which it operates.
Over 30,000 colleagues responded During the past year we have focused on ensuring that our values a 63% response rate.
The overall colleague engagement score for are embedded worldwide.
They have now been built into the the group of 71% puts Rentokil Initial on par with the respected performance development review programme and Your Voice General Industry Norm of Hay Group the independent company Counts, the groups colleague engagement survey.
Embedding which delivered the con dential survey.
Action plans, owing values is not an instantaneous process, but we are con dent that from this survey, are now in place across the group.
Our colleague it is well underway.
Seventy-nine per cent of colleagues who enablement score of 68% is 1% above the General Industry Norm responded said they had a good understanding of our values and on par with the Hays High Performance Companies Norm.
in the colleague survey undertaken in September 2009.
In the survey colleagues were asked to respond to a standard 30 questions or statements.
The table below shows the survey results This is important because the companys strategic plan is based on issues relating particularly to corporate responsibility matters.
By mobilising colleagues behind the core service, relationships, % % % teamwork ethos we will enhance performance for the bene t of Question Favourable Neutral Unfavourable all stakeholders and ensure we work together more effectively I feel proud to work for the company 74 20 6 and responsibly.
The company is customer focused 74 17 9 Finding better ways to meet Governance customer needs is a high priority 78 16 6 The chief executive is the board director responsible for corporate Company places high priority on health and safety 75 15 10 social responsibility matters, which are reviewed at least once a Colleagues know what is expected of them 89 8 3 year: executive authority lies with the Company Executive Board.
Poor performance is not accepted 74 17 9 Colleagues are treated with respect 72 16 12 A major overhaul of corporate responsibility related policies was undertaken in 2009 and new policies, including a new Code of Conduct, are available on www.
In addition, The survey also showed a number of speci c areas for improvement.
training continued of managers and sales specialists in respect of These included: developing a breadth of management styles i. e. competition antitrust law.
To date, almost 3,000 employees have feedback, coaching, appropriate empowerment: greater focus on completed this training which is now part of induction programmes.
learning and development: and overall engagement levels in City Link and group functional roles.
In 2009 Rentokil Initial continued to be placed in Business in the Communitys 100 Companies that Count corporate responsibility Skills development index and within the Dow Jones Sustainability Index.
Its Carbon The companys commitment to skills development enhances the Disclosure Project submission also achieved an above sector capability of colleagues and supports the delivery of customer service.
For example, Initial Facilities Services IFS programmes deliver Key nonfinancial performance indicators reviewed by the board are accredited training for its employees as part of Train to Gain across as follows: a wide range of training requirements.
These include numeracy and literacy skills, customer service and administration as well as Key Performance Indicators 2009 2008 developing English language skills for Speakers of Other Languages ESOL.
These programmes are assessed by Ofsted, the UKs education i CO2 emissions tonnes 293,574 323,330 regulator.
Its 2009 report said that the overall effectiveness of the Emissions in tonnes per m turnover provision is satisfactory, with key strengths being good development on a total company basis 116.04 134.16 of work skills and personal effectiveness.
The business has established ii Water consumption units 12.37 14.02 a Learning Champions network, which focuses on building awareness Colleague engagement score 71% n a and understanding of the businesss commitment to the UK Sales colleague retention 63.5% 54.6% governments Skills Pledge initiative launched in 2008.
Service colleague retention 74.4% 74.2% iii Lost Time Accident Rate LTAR 1.53 1.8 In 2009 IFSs Learning and Development team delivered 4,661 days of training across the businesses, an increase of 55% on the previous i Total CO2 emissions reported on a total company basis.
Under the Train to Gain initiative, 419 employees achieved a ii Wa ter consumed litres per kilogramme of textiles processed in continental National Vocational Quali cation, an increase of 25% on the European plants.
iii L TA equals accidents per 100,000 hours worked.
LTAR equals six-monthly moving average for LTAs.
The team has also been working with Asset Skills, the Sector Skills Council for facilities management, housing, property, planning, Workplace cleaning and parking.
In 2009, one of Asset Skills projects was the Women and Work project, an initiative to help women across nine In 2009 we continued implementing the groups OneHR strategy sectors secure better training to ful l their potential.
Over a two-year to deliver greater consistency of approach, systems and sharing period this scheme aims to give up to 10,000 women across the best practice across the group.
sector the chance to train for a new job or progress within their company into higher-skilled, better paid jobs.
IFS participated in this matched funding project to provide women in the business with Governance 21 Corporate responsibility in reportable accident rates.
The programme provides an early further development opportunities.
This gave more women access reporting and management action process together with colleague to courses, for example its First Line Manager course, in order to rehabilitation programmes.
develop the individual for potential promotion in the future.
Other businesses have also developed formal skills development Environment frameworks.
Rentokil has introduced its own Academy a virtually based programme underpinning the businesss Experts in Pest In 2009 Rentokil Initial improved on its environmental performance Control positioning.
Ambius has established its Ambius University, showing reductions in water usage and CO2 emissions.
The which has developed six major programmes, with training company has improved its performance every year for the last communications in nine languages.
As most service delivery takes place on customers premises Health and safety our overall property environmental impact is relatively limited.
The companys health and safety approach focuses on colleagues, Nevertheless, we are active in areas of signi cant potential customers and those individuals who may be affected by the environmental impact such as energy and water in washroom companys operational activities.
During 2009 there were nine major processing plants: energy consumed by vehicles: and chemicals incidents reported and, for the first time in several years, we have to used in our services.
regrettably report fatalities two colleagues and one member of the In compiling this years environmental data the company has public for which we have conducted full investigations.
continued its use of an information system linked to its accounting system.
This has continued the improvement of the quality of The companys approach to health and safety is backed by internal collection of energy usage data across the group.
In 2009 the health and safety management requirements, based around OHSAS commitment to providing this data has increased signi cantly, and 18001.
The company also developed and communicated a new our total emissions data is based upon operations representing health and safety policy statement during the year.
In common almost 100% of the companys operations.
with the groups drive to use a more standard approach to business processes, the group is developing measurable approaches to In addition, for this year, we have modi ed the normalised reporting critical elements of workplace health and safety, such as over of CO2 emissions.
Previously this was based on kilogrammes per working at height and conducting risk assessments.
This has been changed to tonnes per million of Health and safety is a regular item on the companys board agenda.
turnover, so that it is in line with the proposed Carbon Reduction Businesses report to the main board on their lost time accident Commitment Energy Ef ciency Scheme that is being introduced rate LTA against individual targets.
LTA performance improved by the UK government from April 2010, and with the normalised signi cantly in 2009 with European Textiles and Washrooms, measures used in the Carbon Disclosure Project.
Rentokil, Initial Facilities Services, Asia and the group all exceeding In addition we have updated our emissions conversion factors, in their 2009 LTA rate targets.
The company also measures Working line with the latest guidance from DEFRA which includes all forms Days Lost Rate, a measure of severity.
Our performance against of greenhouse gases in the factor previously only CO2 in its own these KPIs is shown below.
This has resulted in revised gures for 2008.
2009 2009 Target Performance achieved Health and Safety: Improvement S not 2008 Greenhouse gas emissions Key Performance Indicators Deterioration T achieved performance In 2009 Rentokil Initials total CO2 emissions were 293,574 tonnes Number of Lost Time Accidents injuries compared with 323,330 tonnes in 2008, reported on a total and illnesses 100,000 hours worked 1.53S 1.60 1.82 company basis.
In the previous years, the data had not covered Working Days Lost because of Lost Time 100% of the operations for example, the 2007 data had covered Accidents 100,000 hours worked 39.68T n a 39.26 about 82% of operations.
In 2009 Rentokil Initial decreased its emissions per million The company has identi ed the 21 priority businesses that turnover from 134.16 tonnes in 2008 to 116.04 tonnes in 2009 accounted for approximately 75% of the total lost time accidents an improvement of 13.5% year-on-year.
and working days lost across the group in 2008.
These businesses Our textiles laundry plants are responsible for 65% of the have been included in the group and divisional health and safety companys CO2 property and process emissions 2008 63%.
plans and were targeted for improvements in 2009.
As a result, LTA performance improved signi cantly in 2009 in the majority of the UK and continental European processing plants priority businesses with 17 of the 21 businesses achieving their 2009 LTA rate targets.
All continental European processing plants UK processing plants An alternative perspective is provided by the external health and 400 safety awards gained in this area.
Rentokil won the UKs Royal 350 Society for the Prevention of Accidents RoSPA Gold Award.
300 City Link two awards, Rentokil Specialist Hygiene and Initial 250 Facilities Services were also RoSPA Gold Award winners.
200 150 In addition the Success Is No Accident programme, which 100 originated in the UK, is now being rolled out in key overseas 50 territories.
In the UK it signi cantly improved the effectiveness of 2006 2007 2008 2008 2009 2009 the accident reporting processes and led to signi cant reductions 22 Governance Corporate responsibility Eden Services one of the UKs largest school catering providers Water consumption working in partnership with Croydon Council, received the Food for Our main source of water consumption arises in our European Life catering mark for 96 primary and special schools within the textiles laundry businesses.
In 2009 the water consumption, Croydon area.
More recently the catering business has received based on kilogrammes of product processed in all the companys the Red Tractor award for local sustainable ingredient sourcing.
continental European processing plants, fell by 5.9% to 12.93 litres 2008 13.74 litres.
Future regulatory developments that may affect our services for The company has also introduced new processing plants into the customers are monitored by the company.
One example relevant UK Washrooms business for roller towels and mats which operates to Rentokil is the EU Biocidal Products Directive.
In 2009 the at a far higher level of ef ciency for water consumption.
In 2009, company was the first in Europe to achieve a product registration its first full year of operation, its performance indicator of tonnes under the Directive for its RADAR mouse control unit which stands per kilogramme of laundry washed was 6.32. for Rodent Activated Detection and Riddance, after five years of effort.
This ensures that across the EU customers can continue to Water consumed: litres per kilogramme of textiles processed have an effective regulated product to tackle rodent infestations.
in continental European and UK processing plants Product stewardship All continental European processing plants UK processing plants Much of our work in this area is undertaken by Rentokil, developing new products to minimise potential impacts, such as the mouse 16.00 monitoring unit, which helps reduce the amounts of pesticide to 14.00 be applied.
Similarly it undertakes comparative product evaluation, 12.00 such as on y killers which are tested against competitors products 10.00 to ensure they are maximising their effectiveness for customers.
8.00 6.00 Public health is an important customer issue for Rentokil around the 4.00 world.
Its contract to improve public health in Libya through control 2.00 of the rat population involved placing 150,000 rodenticide bait 2006 2007 2008 2009 2009 boxes in three cities.
To help further improve Libyan public health, the business has been working with national and local government Reducing waste to address key public health issues, as well as supporting a public Many of our businesses have proactive waste management awareness campaign.
The local team also responded within hours to procedures both for themselves and for their customers.
support the local population in Tobruk when an outbreak of bubonic At an individual business level, there are several examples of plague, carried by rodents and insects, had been identi ed.
our businesses taking initiatives that directly related to their operational environments.
Supply chain The result of these initiatives has been a signi cant increase in Our procurement policies are developed at a divisional and local the focus on waste recycling.
Out of a total of 1,810 tonnes of level.
Where supply categories represent a high risk we adopt waste generated by City Link in 2009, 17% was recycled, with the more stringent approaches to address key issues.
remainder being sent to land ll.
This level is being steadily improved For instance, textiles purchased for our laundry business often upon.
Rentokil Pest Control in the UK generated 412 tonnes of emanate from at risk countries principally in Asia.
The waste, of which 32% was recycled, and Initial Facilities Services procurement department in our textile business in France and waste recovery services on behalf of its client, Aviva, resulted in a elsewhere in Europe ensure that their suppliers meet stringent recycling rate of 74% based on waste generated of 4,904 tonnes.
ethical, environmental and labour standards.
Procurement in In 2009 the company launched Be a Hero Waste Zero across European Textiles is an area of signi cant focus for the company the group to promote good practice, including posters, stickers, in 2010. lea ets, newsletters and a website to provide ideas for waste The company also recognises that fragrances used in air fresheners reduction and recycling.
and odour control can require close scrutiny.
Suppliers are required On a larger scale, a ground-breaking waste picking facility, believed to adhere to guidelines that were developed in conjunction with the to be one of only two in operation in the UK, was introduced at companys toxicological consultants, specifying constituents for use Nissans plant in Sunderland by Initial Industrial Services.
Annual in areas of short-term exposure and for those for continual or recyclable materials has increased by 30% and reduced waste long-term exposure.
disposal cost by 70,000 per year.
Community Marketplace Rentokil Initials community engagement consists of three separate Improving customer service remains a signi cant priority.
approaches: charitable cash donations often linked to employees In addition to other customer service measures the Net Promoter initiatives : community support: and community investment.
Score system was rolled out as a group measure of customer Community support and investment is locally rather than centrally satisfaction across all divisions during 2009. driven.
Charitable cash donations amounted to 150,000 142,000 in 2008.
This excludes value in kind donations or management Direction and management of our marketplace activity is time.
A full breakdown of community initiatives can be found in determined by individual businesses.
Rentokils and Initial Facilities the corporate responsibility report 2009.
Services quality management systems are certi ed to ISO 9001.
